{"id": "39802716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39802716", "title": "(511002) 2013 MZ5", "text": "(511002) 2013 MZ5\n\n is an Amor asteroid – a subgroup of near-Earth asteroids that approach the orbit of Earth from beyond, but do not cross it. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 1.3–1.8 AU once every 23 months (707 days; semi-major axis of 1.55 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.18 and an inclination of 29° with respect to the ecliptic. The body's observation arc begins with its official discovery observation at Haleakala in June 2013.\n\nThe asteroid has an Earth minimum orbital intersection distance of , which translates into 179 lunar distances. It also makes close approaches to Mars. On 28 August 2125, it is projected to pass the Red Planet at a nominal distance of . With an aphelion of 1.83 AU, it is also a Mars-crossing asteroid. \n\n was the 10,000th near-Earth object (NEO) ever discovered and considered a significant milestone in exploring the NEO population.\n\nBased on a generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion, measures approximately 290 meters in diameter for a measures absolute magnitude of 20.1 and an assumed albedo 0.20, typical for stony asteroids.\n\nAs of 2018, no rotational lightcurve of has been obtained from photometric observations. The object's rotation period, pole and shape remain unknown.\n\nThis minor planet was numbered by the Minor Planet Center on 31 January 2018. It has not been named yet.\n\n"}
{"id": "35969262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35969262", "title": "2012 KT42", "text": "2012 KT42\n\nThe asteroid had a close approach to the Earth on 29 May 2012, approaching to only ~8950 miles / ~14,440 km above the planet's surface. This means came inside the Clarke Belt of geosynchronous satellites. In May 2012, the estimated 5 to 10 meter wide asteroid ranked #6 on the top 20 list of closest-approaches to Earth. There was no danger of a collision during the close approach. passed roughly from Venus on 8 July 2012.\n\nIt is estimated that an impact would produce an upper atmosphere air burst equivalent to 11 kt TNT, roughly equal to Hiroshima's Little Boy. The asteroid would be vaporized as these small impacts occur approximately once per year. A comparable-sized object caused the Sutter's Mill meteorite in California on 2 April 2012. It was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 30 May 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "16564749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16564749", "title": "A Aquarii", "text": "A Aquarii\n\nThe Bayer designation A Aquarii is shared by two stars in the constellation Aquarius:\n\n\nα Aquarii (Sadalmelik)\n"}
{"id": "1384005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1384005", "title": "Absorption (electromagnetic radiation)", "text": "Absorption (electromagnetic radiation)\n\nIn physics, absorption of electromagnetic radiation is the way in which the energy of a photon is taken up by matter, typically the electrons of an atom. Thus, the electromagnetic energy is transformed into internal energy of the absorber, for example thermal energy. The reduction in intensity of a light wave propagating through a medium by absorption of a part of its photons is often called attenuation. Usually, the absorption of waves does not depend on their intensity (linear absorption), although in certain conditions (usually, in optics), the medium changes its transparency dependently on the intensity of waves going through, and saturable absorption (or nonlinear absorption) occurs.\n\nThere are a number of ways to quantify how quickly and effectively radiation is absorbed in a certain medium, for example the absorption coefficient, and some closely related derived quantities.\n\nThe attenuation coefficient, which is sometimes but not always synonymous with the absorption coefficient.\n\nMolar absorptivity is called \"molar extinction coefficient\", which is the absorption coefficient divided by molarity (see also Beer–Lambert law).\n\nThe mass attenuation coefficient is also called \"mass extinction coefficient\", which is the absorption coefficient divided by density.\n\nThe absorption cross section and scattering cross-section are closely related to the absorption and attenuation coefficients, respectively.\n\n\"Extinction\" in astronomy is equivalent to the attenuation coefficient.\n\nOther measures of radiation absorption are penetration depth and skin effect, propagation constant, attenuation constant, phase constant, and complex wavenumber,\ncomplex refractive index and extinction coefficient, complex dielectric constant, electrical resistivity and conductivity.\n\nAbsorbance (also called \"optical density\") and optical depth (also called \"optical thickness\") are two related measures.\n\nAll these quantities measure, at least to some extent, how well a medium absorbs radiation. However, practitioners of different fields and techniques tend to conventionally use different quantities drawn from the list above.\n\nThe absorbance of an object quantifies how much of the incident light is absorbed by it (instead of being reflected or refracted). This may be related to other properties of the object through the Beer–Lambert law.\n\nPrecise measurements of the absorbance at many wavelengths allow the identification of a substance via absorption spectroscopy, where a sample is illuminated from one side, and the intensity of the light that exits from the sample in every direction is measured. A few examples of absorption are ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, and X-ray absorption spectroscopy.\n\nUnderstanding and measuring the absorption of electromagnetic radiation has a variety of applications.\n\nIn Radio propagation it is represented in Non-line-of-sight propagation. \n\nIn meteorology and climatology, global and local temperatures depend in part on the absorption of radiation by atmospheric gases (such as in the greenhouse effect) and land and ocean surfaces (see albedo).\n\nIn medicine, X-rays are absorbed to different extents by different tissues (bone in particular), which is the basis for X-ray imaging. For example, see computation of radiowave attenuation in the atmosphere used in satellite link design.\n\nIn chemistry and materials science, because different materials and molecules will absorb radiation to different extents at different frequencies, which allows for material identification.\n\nIn optics, sunglasses, colored filters, dyes, and other such materials are designed specifically with respect to which visible wavelengths they absorb, and in what proportions.\n\nIn biology, photosynthetic organisms require that light of the appropriate wavelengths be absorbed within the active area of chloroplasts, so that the light energy can be converted into chemical energy within sugars and other molecules.\n\nIn physics, the D-region of Earth's ionosphere is known to significantly absorb radio signals that fall within the high-frequency electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nIn nuclear physics, absorption of nuclear radiations can be used for measuring the fluid levels, densitometry or thickness measurements .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22847685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847685", "title": "Alkaline copper quaternary", "text": "Alkaline copper quaternary\n\nAlkaline Copper Quaternary (also known as ACQ) is a water based wood preservative method recently introduced in countries where there is a demand for alternatives to Chromated copper arsenate (CCA). The treatment is made up of copper, a bactericide and fungicide which makes the wood resistant to biological attack, and a quaternary ammonium compound (quat) which acts as biocide, increasing the tolerance of treated timber to copper-resistant bacteria and fungi, and also acting as an insecticide.\n\nACQ has come into wide use in the USA, Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia following restrictions on CCA, as ACQ is seen as a “greener” preservative and a more sustainable option. Its use is governed by national and international standards which determine the volume of preservative uptake required for a specific timber end use. It is applied by industrial vacuum-pressure impregnation at a timber treatment plant.\n\nAs it is an alternative to CCA, ACQ can be used for wood with low to extremely high exposure to the elements and weathering. The concentrations used increase with the corresponding expected levels of exposure of the timber. The treatment lends a distinctive green tint to the timber, although pigment can be introduced during the treatment process to stain the wood in shades of brown and green. ACQ-treated timber can be painted, but this is not necessary.\n\nIn the US and other countries, ACQ is registered for use on: lumber, timbers, landscape ties, fence posts, building and utility poles, land, freshwater and marine pilings, sea walls, decking, wood shingles, and other wood structures.\n\nAll ACQ treatments accelerate corrosion of metal fasteners relative to untreated wood. Hot-dipped galvanized,\ncopper or stainless steel fasteners must be used.\n\nChemical Specialties, Inc (CSI, now Viance) received U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award in 2002 for commercial introduction of ACQ. The widespread use of this wood preservative in some countries has eliminated the requirement for the arsenic and chromium contained in CCA.\n\n"}
{"id": "20821460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20821460", "title": "Bajo Barreal Formation", "text": "Bajo Barreal Formation\n\nThe Bajo Barreal Formation is a geological formation in the Golfo San Jorge Basin of Chubut and Santa Cruz, Argentina whose strata date back to the Middle Cenomanian to Late Turonian. The sandstones, claystones, mudstones, conglomerates and tuff were deposited in a fluvial environment. The upper part of formation is laterally equivalent to the Yacimiento El Trébol and Meseta Espinosa Formation and the lower part to the Laguna Palacios, Cañadón Seco and Comodoro Rivadavia Formations. The Bajo Barreal Formation is a reservoir rock in the Golfo San Jorge Basin.\n\nDinosaur remains are among the fossils that have been recovered from the formation. Dinosaur remains include the abelisaurid theropod \"Xenotarsosaurus bonapartei\", as well as indeterminate teeth belonging to carcharodontosaurids and dromaeosaurids.\n\nOther fossils found in the formation include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1810023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810023", "title": "Biggest ball of twine", "text": "Biggest ball of twine\n\nThere are multiple claims to the world's biggest ball of twine record in the United States. As of 2014, the ball of twine with the largest circumference is located in Cawker City, Kansas.\n\nIn Cawker City, Kansas, Frank Stoeber created a ball that had 1.6 million feet (490,000 m) of twine and when he died in 1974. Cawker City built an open-air gazebo over Stoeber's ball where every August a \"Twine-a-thon\" is held and more twine is added to the ball. By 2006, the twine ball had reached 17,886 pounds (8,111 kg, 8.9 US tons), a circumference of , and a length of . In 2013, its weight was estimated at 19,973 pounds. In August 2014, the ball measures in circumference, in diameter and in height, and is still growing.\n\nDarwin, Minnesota, is the home of a ball of baler twine rolled by Francis A. Johnson. It is in diameter and weighs . Johnson began rolling the twine in March 1950, and wrapped four hours every day for 29 years. It is currently housed in an enclosed gazebo across from the town park on Main Street at () to prevent the public from touching it. The town celebrates \"Twine Ball Day\" on the second Saturday in August every year. An adjacent volunteer-run, free to visit museum and gift shop has information on the history of the ball, as well as selling a variety of souvenirs. It was the long-standing holder of the \"biggest ball of twine\" title in the Guinness Book of World Records, holding the title from its completion in 1979 until 1994, and was referenced by \"Weird Al\" Yankovic in his 1989 song \"The Biggest Ball of Twine in Minnesota.\"\n\nIn Lake Nebagamon, Wisconsin, James Frank Kotera claims to have made the heaviest ball of twine ever built. He started it in 1979 and is still working. Kotera estimates, by measuring the weight of each bag of twine that he winds on, that the ball weighs 8,770 kg (19,336 pounds), making it the heaviest ball of twine ever built. The ball is housed in an open-air enclosure in Kotera's lawn. The ball has a smaller companion, \"Junior\", that is made of string.\n\nIn Branson, Missouri, a ball of nylon twine built by J. C. Payne of Valley View, Texas, is on display in Ripley's Believe It or Not museum. The ball, which measures 41.5 feet (12.6 m) in circumference, was certified as the world's largest ball of twine by the Guinness Book of World Records in 1993. It is, however, the lightest of the four contenders, weighing 12,000 pounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6945419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6945419", "title": "Blondel's theorem", "text": "Blondel's theorem\n\nBlondel's theorem, named after its discoverer, French electrical engineer André Blondel, is the result of his attempt to simplify both the measurement of electrical energy and the validation of such measurements. \n\nThe result is a simple rule that specifies the minimum number of watt-hour meters required to measure the consumption of energy in any system of electrical conductors.\n\nThe theorem states that the power provided to a system of N conductors is equal to the algebraic sum of the power measured by N watt-meters. The N watt-meters are separately connected such that each one measures the current level in one of the N conductors and the potential level between that conductor and a common point. In a further simplification, if that common point is located on one of the conductors, that conductor's meter can be removed and only N-1 meters are required. An electrical energy meter is a watt-meter whose measurements are integrated over time, thus the theorem applies to watt-hour meters as well. Blondel wrote a paper on his results that was delivered to the International Electric Congress held in Chicago in 1893. Although he was not present at the Congress, his paper is included in the published Proceedings.\n\nInstead of using N-1 separate meters, the meters are combined into a single housing for commercial purposes such as measuring energy delivered to homes and businesses. Each pairing of a current measuring unit plus a potential measuring unit is then termed a stator or element. Thus, for example, a meter for a four wire service will include three elements. Blondel's Theorem simplifies the work of an electrical utility worker by specifying that an N wire service will be correctly measured by a N-1 element meter. Unfortunately, confusion arises for such workers due to the existence of meters that don't contain tidy pairings of single potential measuring units with single current measuring units. For example, a meter was previously used for four wire services containing two potential coils and three current coils and called a 2.5 element meter.\n\nElectric energy meters that meet the requirement of N-1 elements for an N wire service are often said to be \"Blondel Compliant\". This label identifies the meter as one that will measure correctly under all conditions when correctly installed. However, a meter doesn't have to be Blondel compliant in order to provide suitably accurate measurements and industry practice often includes the use of such non compliant meters. The form 2S meter is extensively used in the metering of residential three wire services, despite being non compliant in such services. This common residential service consists of two 120 volt wires and one neutral wire. A Blondel compliant meter for such a service would need two elements (and a five jaw socket to accept such a meter), but the 2S meter is a single element meter. The 2S meter includes one potential measuring device (a coil or a voltmeter) and two current measuring devices. The current measuring devices provide a measurement equal to one half of the actual current value. The combination of a single potential coil and two so called half coils provides highly accurate metering under most conditions. The meter has been used since the early days of the electrical industry. The advantages were the lower cost of a single potential coil and the avoidance of interference between two elements driving a single disc in an induction meter. For line to line loads, the meter is Blondel compliant. Such loads are two wire loads and a single element meter suffices. The non compliance of the meter occurs in measuring line to neutral loads. The meter design approximates a two element measurement by combining a half current value with the potential value of the line to line connection. The line to line potential is exactly twice the line to neutral connection if the two line to neutral connections are exactly balanced. Twice the potential times half the current then approximates the actual power value with equality under balanced potential. In the case of line to line loads, two times the half current value times the potential value equals the actual power. Error is introduced if the two line to line potentials are not balanced and if the line to neutral loads are not equally distributed. That error is given by 0.5(V1-V2)(I1-I2) where V1 and I1 are the potential and current connected between one line and neutral and V2 and I2 are those connected between the other line and neutral. Since the industry typically maintains five percent accuracy in potential, the error will be acceptably low if the loads aren't heavily unbalanced.\n\nThis same meter has been modified or installed in modified sockets and used for two wire, 120 volt services (relabeled as 2W on the meter face). The modification places the two half coils in series such that a full coil is created. In such installations, the single element meter is Blondel compliant. There is also a three wire 240/480 volt version that is not Blondel compliant. Also in use are three phase meters that are not Blondel compliant, such as forms 14S and 15S, but they can be easily replaced by modern meters and can be considered obsolete.\n"}
{"id": "26319217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26319217", "title": "EMT-7", "text": "EMT-7\n\nEMT-7 is a Russian electromagnetic countermine system for clearing minefields and defense against magnetic mines and enemy armor. It projects an electromagnetic pulse to detonate antitank mines and disrupt electronics before the tank reaches them.\n\nThe EMT-7 system has been tested on the T-72 and T-90 main battle tanks.\n"}
{"id": "24669837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24669837", "title": "Early Pleistocene", "text": "Early Pleistocene\n\nThe Early Pleistocene (also known as the Lower Pleistocene) is a subepoch in the international geologic timescale or a subseries in chronostratigraphy, being the earliest or lowest subdivision of the Quaternary period/system and Pleistocene epoch/series. It spans the time between 2.588 ± 0.005 Ma (million years ago) and 0.781 ± 0.005 Ma. The Early Pleistocene consists of the Gelasian and the Calabrian ages.\n"}
{"id": "20114268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20114268", "title": "Electrical contractor", "text": "Electrical contractor\n\nAn electrical contractor is a business person or firm that performs specialized construction work related to the design, installation, and maintenance of electrical systems.\n\nAn electrical contractor is different from an electrician; an electrician is an individual tradesman and an electrical contractor is a business person or company that employs electricians. Both usually hold licenses and insurances to properly and safely operate a business, protecting the employees and home owners/business owners from insurance liabilities. These requirements vary from state to state. Electricians may work for an electrical contractor, or directly for individuals or companies.\n\nElectrical contractors are generally classified by three major types of work performed.\n\nElectrical contractors employ workers in many capacities, determined by their level of training and experience. Some common jobs include:\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the three main trade associations are the National Inspection Council for Electrical Installation Contracting and Electrical Contractors' Association, covering England, Northern Ireland and Wales, and SELECT - the Electrical Contractors' Association for Scotland.\n\nThe National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) is the largest trade association in the electrical contracting industry, with about 4500 members. NECA publishes an industry magazine, and sponsors an annual convention and trade show. Independent Electrical Contractors (IEC) is another trade association for electrical contractors with 70 chapters across the U.S. They provide education and training via a U.S. Department of Labor recognized apprenticeship program.\n\nThe International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers organizes and represents over 700,000 members, and provides training and apprenticeship programs.\n\nElectrical contractors in the United States are required to follow National Electrical Code (NEC) to ensure systems work in a safe manner. The NEC is a widely adopted model code for the installation of electrical components and systems, designed to safeguard persons and property from hazards arising from the use of electricity. While these are the default minimum requirements and guidelines, some states modify selected areas of the NEC code to suit their specific circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "20699904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20699904", "title": "Energy policy of Morocco", "text": "Energy policy of Morocco\n\nMorocco's energy policy is set independently by two agencies the government, the Office of Hydrocarbons and Mining (ONHYM) which sets domestic oil policy and the Office National de l'Electricité (ONE) which sets policy with regard to electricity. The two major weaknesses of the energy policy of Morocco are the lack of coordination between these two agencies and the lack of development of domestic energy sources. Oil exploration has been disappointing, although the country possesses some natural gas reserves that have been exploited. Its hydroelectric potential is considerable and now being tapped. Morocco covers the bulk of its growing energy needs through imports, principally of crude petroleum, which is then refined domestically. Thermal power plants produce much of the country's electricity.\n\nAccording to January 2006 estimates by the \"Oil and Gas Journal\", Morocco has proven oil reserves of and natural gas reserves of . Morocco may have additional hydrocarbon reserves, as many of the country's sedimentary basins have not yet been fully explored.\n\nThe Moroccan Office of Hydrocarbons and Mining (ONHYM) has become optimistic about finding additional reserves – particularly offshore – following discoveries in neighboring Mauritania. At the end of 2005, 19 foreign companies were operating in Morocco, with an estimated total investment of $56 million per year. In May 2004, China Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) received a license to drill near Agadir. In April 2004, Norway's Norsk Hydro signed a 12-month exploration contract for the Safi Offshore Northwest zone, while Denmark's Maersk signed an eight-year agreement for eight blocks near Tarfaya. In March 2004, Calgary-based Stratic Energy committed to a three-year exploration program in two onshore blocks in northwest Morocco. The two concessions cover approximately . Other foreign firms engaged in exploration include Petronas, Cooper Energy NL, Shell, Total, and Tullow Oil.\n\nMorocco produces small volumes of oil and natural gas from the Essaouira Basin and small amounts of natural gas from the Gharb Basin. Consequently, Morocco is the largest energy importer in northern Africa. Costs have been rising rapidly. High oil prices in 2005 increased import costs to approximately $2 billion for the year. In 2008, total costs related to energy imports reached $8 billion. In 2003, the Moroccan government announced that foreign companies could import oil without paying import tariffs. This followed a 2000 decision, in which, Morocco modified its hydrocarbons law in order to offer a 10-year tax break to offshore oil production firms, and to reduce the government's stake in future oil concessions to a maximum of 25 percent. The entire energy sector was due to be liberalized by 2007.\n\nRecent activity in Western Sahara, which is believed to contain viable hydrocarbon reserves, has been controversial. In 2001, Morocco granted exploration contracts to Total and Kerr-McGee, angering Premier Oil and Sterling Energy, which previously had obtained licenses from the Polisario government. In 2005, the government-in-exile of the Western Sahara invited foreign companies to bid on 12 contracts for offshore exploration, with hopes of awarding production sharing contracts by the end of 2005. Both Premier Oil and Sterling Energy received conditional exploration rights. Foreign companies operating under Moroccan concession in Western Sahara have become targets of international protest campaigns. These companies include Total, Wessex Exploration, Svitzer (the British subsidiary of the Dutch company Fugro), Wales' Robertson Research International and Norway's TGS Nopec. All have ended their operations in Western Sahara, with the exception of Kerr-McGee. As of November 2005, the company was the last to be drilling in Western Sahara, although the Polisario government has pressured it to pull out.\n\nMorocco is a transit center for Algerian gas exports to Spain and Portugal. These are transported across the Strait of Gibraltar via the 300–350 Bcf/year Maghreb-Europe Gas (MEG) pipeline. Natural gas from the MEG pipeline will be used to power Morocco's power project in Al Wahda.\n\nMorocco has two refineries that are owned by Saudi-company Corral Holdings Societe Marocaine d’Industrie de Raffinage (Samir). The refineries are located at Mohammedia and Sidi Kacem and have a combined capacity of . In 2004, the Mohammedia plant returned to near full-capacity output levels, following the completion of repairs needed after a severe flood and massive fire in November 2002. Because of the completed repairs, refinery output surged 49 percent in 2004. The Mohammedia plant currently produces 80 – 90 percent of the country's refined petroleum products. In June 2005, Samir awarded a $628 million contract to modernize the Mohammedia refinery to a consortium led by Italy's Snamprogetti SpA and Turkey's Tekefen Company. Morocco hopes the refinery upgrade will prepare the refinery for competing with foreign producers when the market is liberalized in 2009. The upgrade is expected to be complete in 2008.\n\nTen known oil shale deposits in Morocco account more than of shale oil. Although Moroccan oil shale is studied since the 1930s, and there have been several pilot facilities for shale oil production, there is no commercial shale oil production yet. The most important deposits are Timahdit (Middle Atlas Mountains) and Tarfaya (south-westernmost part of Morocco).\n\nMorocco's electrical sector traditionally has been controlled by the state-owned Office National de l'Electricité (ONE), which the government reorganized in 1995 in order to regain profitability. Due to a growing population and economic development, Morocco's electricity demand is increasing rapidly. Power shortages and a desire to control public spending have led the Moroccan government to make more use of the private sector to meet the country's power needs. The state's share of electricity generation likely will decline to 40 percent by 2020. However, ONE will continue to be solely responsible for distribution and transmission of electricity in Morocco.\n\nIn 2003, Morocco had an installed generating capacity of 4.8 GW. The country's two largest electricity power stations at Mohammedia and Jorf Lasfar are both coal fired. Most of the coal is imported from South Africa, although Morocco purchased Polish coal for the Jorf Lasfar power plant in April 2005. Morocco stopped coal production in 2000, when Jerada coal mine was closed. Jorf Lasfar became Morocco's first privately operated power station in 1997, when it was taken over by a U.S.-Swiss consortium. The consortium expanded the plant’s capacity to 1,400 MW in 2001.\n\nThe expansion at Jorf Lasfar is consistent with a wider campaign to increase generating capacity in Morocco. In 2005, as part of the Moroccan government's plan, a $500 million, 350 – 400-MW combined-cycle power plant began operation in Tahaddart. The plant is owned by ONE (48%), Endesa (32%) and Siemens (20%). In addition to the Tahaddart plant, ONE awarded Endesa the development rights of a two-unit, 800-MW gas-fired power station in the Sidi Kacem Province, with a completion date set for 2008 [still not completed in 2010]. ONE is also considering another pumped storage plant in the Azilal region south of Rabat.\n\nRenewable energy plays a key role in ONE's $3.4 billion energy development plan, announced in January 2004. The goal is to provide 80 percent of rural areas with electricity by 2008, while increasing the share of renewable energy from 0.24 percent in 2003 to 10 percent in 2011. The framework of regulation in Morocco generally supports the use of renewable energy in the electricity sector, as law 13-09 (“renewable energy law”) was announced in 2010. In 2015, Morocco further elevated their renewable energy target by announcing that they will attain 52 percent renewable energy portion in electricity by 2050. In order to achieve the target, Morocco generates its electricity through renewable sources like wind and solar power.\nAs of 2016, Morocco has eight wind farms (Torres, Amogdoul, Lafarge, Akhfennir, Laayue, Tangier I, Cimar, and Haouma) with the total operational capacity of 487 MW, furthermore another six wind farms are anticipated to be installed by 2020 with total capacity of 1000 MW. Morocco has set a goal to have 2 GW production capacity from wind power; it is part of the Moroccan Integrated Wind Energy Project which began in 2010.\nIn November 2009 Morocco announced a solar energy project worth $9 billion which officials said will account for 38 percent of the North African country's installed power generation by 2020. Funding would be from a mix of private and state capital. The ceremony was attended by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Moroccan king. The project will involve five solar power generation sites across Morocco and will produce 2,000 MW of electricity by 2020.\nThe project would add in terms of power generation the equivalent of the current electricity consumption of the country's commercial capital Casablanca. Germany has expressed its willingness to participate in the development of Morocco's solar energy project which the country has decided to carry out. Germany will also take part in the development of a water-desalination plant.\n\nThe solar project focuses on developing Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) and Photovoltaic (PV) facilities; both facilities are managed by Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy (MASEN). Morocco pioneered solar energy technology by investing in Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) program in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. This project is one of the actions to reduce Morocco’s dependency on fossil fuels and to reach the goal of 52% power generation from renewables by 2030.\n\nThe biggest CSP project in Morocco is Noor Solar, situated in city Ouarzazate, on the edge of Sahara desert. The project comprises 3 phases: Noor I, Noor II and Noor III. This Noor project is supported by a BOOT (build, own, operate and transfer) basis of ACWA Power Ouarzazate, MASEN, Aries, and TSK. The first phase of the program - Noor I - was inaugurated in February 2016. Noor I employs 500,000 parabolic mirrors to eventually generate up to 160 MW electricity, which makes it one of the largest solar power plants in the world. The program has two following phases - Noor II and Noor III - which are scheduled to operate by 2018. Beside CSP project, Morocco is also developing Noor PV 1 program and Noor Midelt phase 1, which essentially use photovoltaics to further increase the electricity generation from solar. The whole complex of Noor Plant are scheduled to come online in 2018. The complex would have 582 MW of capacity, which could be utilized to provide electricity for 1.1 million houses. From 2010 until 2015, electricity generated by solar and wind has increased almost four times.\n\nMorocco has additional renewable resources that could be developed, which the countries four perennial rivers and many dams with hydroelectric potential. In May 2005, ONE selected Temsol for a $27.6 million project to supply solar power to 37,000 rural homes by 2007. Similar contracts were awarded in May 2002 to a consortium led by Total Energie and in January 2004 to Apex-BP. Currently, only 55 percent of outlying villages have access to electricity.\n\nBiomass is also one of renewable sources that the country possesses in abundance with 12,568 GW h/year and 13,055 GWh/year potential in solid bioenergy and combination of biogas and biofuels. However, the country has only utilized less than 1% of the potentials due to high cost of investment and insufficient production process knowledge.\n\nMorocco has expressed interest in nuclear power for desalination and other purposes. In September 2001, the government signed an agreement with the United States establishing the legal basis for constructing a 2-MW research reactor. Morocco signed an agreement with the U.S. company, General Atomics, to construct the research reactor east of Rabat.\n\nMorocco is gradually integrating its electrical grid with those of its neighbours in Africa and Europe. Maghreb integration has been spearheaded by the Maghreb Electricity Committee, with physical integration initiatives that began in the 1990s. In May 2003, Moroccan representatives met with the Energy ministers from other European and Mediterranean countries to discuss the feasibility of electricity market integration. In December 2005, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and the European Union signed a funding agreement that will pay for costs related to studying the electricity market within the three countries and how they might integrate into the European electricity market.\n\nTunisia, Algeria, and Morocco networks are already connected to the European Network managed by the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity which allowed these three countries to link their electricity systems to the E.U.’s single energy market and be at the heart of the dialogue within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean Energy Partnership.\n\n"}
{"id": "4339310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4339310", "title": "Expulsion from the Garden of Eden", "text": "Expulsion from the Garden of Eden\n\nThe Expulsion from the Garden of Eden () is a fresco by the Italian Early Renaissance artist Masaccio. The fresco is a single scene from the cycle painted around 1425 by Masaccio, Masolino and others on the walls of the Brancacci Chapel in the church of Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence. It depicts the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the garden of Eden, from the biblical Book of Genesis chapter 3, albeit with a few differences from the canonical account.\n\nMany possible sources of inspiration have been pointed out that Masaccio may have drawn from. For Adam, possible references include numerous sculptures of Marsyas (from Greek Mythology) and certain crucifix done by Donatello.\n\nFor Eve, art analysts usually point to different versions of Venus Pudica, such as \"Prudence\" by Giovanni Pisano.\n\nThree centuries after the fresco was painted, Cosimo III de' Medici, in line with contemporary ideas of decorum, ordered that fig leaves be added to conceal the genitals of the figures. These were eventually removed in the 1980s when the painting was fully restored and cleaned.\nMasaccio provided a large inspiration to the more famous Renaissance painter Michelangelo, due to the fact that Michelangelo's teacher, Domenico Ghirlandaio, looked almost exclusively to him for inspiration for his religious scenes. Ghirlandaio also imitated various designs done by Masaccio. This influence is most visible in Michelangelo's \"The Fall of Man and the Expulsion from the Garden of Eden\" on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.\n\nThe main points in this painting that deviate from the account as it appears in Genesis:\n\n\nHowever, since artists often followed the studio tradition, painting from previous versions of a scene--and so learning from and absorbing other artists' expressive inventions into their own work--any responsible iconographic study would founder in the shallows of literal expectation if the painting were only judged by its adherence to these details and therefore seen to be successful only if it functioned as a simple illustration for the scene. \n\nMasaccio's evocation of Eve's howling, deeply felt pain in particular explores the meaning of the expulsion on a previously unexamined, more personal level.\n\nIn 2nd Temple Jewish texts, however, Adam is described as glorious (\"Sirach\" 49, \"&c.\"), and in both some Rabbinic and Christian Patristic sources, there is a long tradition of reading the Hebrew word for \"skin\" as \"light\" (there is only one slight difference in the vowels between the two words), and taking the Genesis 3:21 words about God clothing the pair in the Pluperfect sense, such as Sebastian Brock has shown is done in the Syriac tradition. In Rabbinic sources there are several times when Adam is compared and contrasted with Moses, particularly in terms of Moses' luminosity after ascending the mountain, and at least one text where Moses claims that his glory is greater than Adam's, because he did not lose his glory (Deuteronomy Rabbah 11:3); Genesis Rabbah 20:12 notes that Rabbi Meir had a scroll that had \"light\" instead of skin. The same tradition is found in Ephrem the Syrian, who, in his \"Hymns on Paradise\" 6, talks about Christ clothing the faithful in the robe that Adam lost with the transgression. The Canon of St. Andrew of Crete has the cantor liken himself to Adam, and say \"I have found myself stripped naked of God\". The Venerable Bede, in his commentary \"On Genesis\", has similar comments: \"having lost the glory of innocence by their transgression, they claimed for themselves the garment of an excuse\". The \"stripped of divinity/glory/innocence/honor motif is thus found in the Latin, Greek, and Syriac traditions of the Church. It seems quite possible that these artists were working within this very old tradition that stretches across traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "47351576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47351576", "title": "Flisom", "text": "Flisom\n\nFlisom is a developer and manufacturer of photovoltaic (PV) thin film solar cells, located near Zurich, Switzerland. The company produces high-efficiency CIGS thin film solar modules on flexible plastic foil using proprietary roll-to-roll manufacturing techniques.\n\nThe innovative manufacturing technology enables price competition with established c-si PV manufacturing systems at a comparatively smaller production scale. Furthermore the lightweight, flexible, jet-black and thin solar panels potentially can bring down the overall costs for fully installed solar PV systems. This is about half the cost of conventional PV technology based on crystalline silicon.\n\nPotential applications for flexible lightweight CIGS modules include building integrated photovoltaics (BIPV), applied photovoltaics (BAPV), as well as customized solar panels for Transportation & Mobility and portable rollable power systems.\n\nFlisom AG was founded in 2005 as a spin-off company of ETH Zurich, and has a long-standing research partnership with Empa – the \"Swiss Federal Laboratories for Material Science and Technology\", which has been developing this type of flexible solar cell to world record efficiencies of 20.4%. The world record for CIGS cells based in laboratory conditions has since been further increased by ZSW () and stands at 21.7% as of July 2015. Since this record was achieved on glass substrate, Flisom`s research partner Empa is still the holder of the world record with 20.4% cell efficiency on a polymeric substrate.\n\nThe company's production technology is based on a roll-to-roll manufacturing process of flexible solar modules, involving deposition of thin films of CIGS absorber material onto a polymer foil substrate made of polyimide. The key processes of depositing the absorber material in this manner has been proprietarily developed by the company itself. As of 2015, a 15 MW pilot production line is being commissioned in a new facility in Niederhasli, near Zurich, Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48695146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48695146", "title": "Flood Mythology of China", "text": "Flood Mythology of China\n\nThe Flood Mythology of China, or Great Flood of China (; also known as ) is a deluge theme which happened in China. Derk Bodde (1961) stated that \"from all mythological themes in ancient Chinese, the earliest and so far most pervasive is about flood.\" The mythology also has shared characteristics with other Great Floods all over the world, although it also has unique characteristics or different focuses. Lu Yilu (2002) groups all versions of great flood into three themes: \"the heroes controls the flood; \"brother-sister marriage to repopulating the world\"; and \"the flood which is drowning the whole city along with its citizens\".\n\nThe history of China as a continuously recorded literary tradition begins with the ancient documents transmitted to posterity through the \"Records of the Grand Historian\". According to these, the great-grandson (or fourth successor) of the Yellow Emperor was Yao. Beginning with the reign of Yao, additional literary sources become available, including the \"Book of Documents\" (collected and edited by Confucius), which begins with the \"Canon of Yao\" (), describing the events of Yao's reign. Although, the \"Canon of Yao\" is problematic in regards to textual transmission (at best it seems to represent an early textual reconstruction and at worst a fabrication based on available knowledge or sources from the 3rd or 4th centuries CE). \"The Counsels of Great Yu\" 大禹謨 is considered to be one of the reliably transmitted pre-Qin texts. In any case, these and other texts of the preserved literature mark the beginnings of the Chinese historical tradition. Other important texts include the poem \"Heavenly Questions\" collected in the \"Chu Ci\" which is attributed to Qu Yuan and the famous mythological compendium \"Classic of Mountains and Seas\" (\"Shanhaijing\"). Furthermore, centuries of scholarship have gone into piecing together a narrative from the bits, pieces, and occasionally longer sections found in these and other early sources, sometimes being subjected to heavy editorial handling in terms of viewpoint.\n\nMythological stories besides having been preserved both in various literary forms, have also been collected from various oral traditions, some of these folktales are still told. Some of these sources are from people of the Han ethnicity and some from other ethnic groups.\n\nThe Zhou sources narrated the struggles of the heroes or deities to control the floods. From all of these stories, the struggle of Yao, Gun, and Yu is the most obvious in describing the hardness of human effort to control the flood. Much later works from the Warring States period (\"Shiben\") and \"Diwang Shiji\" (3rd century) were pairing Yu and Nuwa as a couple and their previously uncorrelated stories were then completing each other.\n\nThis theme is based on the efforts of Great Yu (and Gun) to control the flood, sometimes is also associated with Emperor Yao and Shun, and the initial efforts of human to domesticated wild animals as pack animals and livestock. The theme outline narrates Gun stole xirang to stop the flood while Great Yu channeled the flood into the sea and succeeded to subsided the water level, and so the earth can be cultivated. There are so many mythologies which are correlated to this theme, one of which is \"Dragon Gate\" -a canal through the mountains which was dug by Yu. While he was digging the canal, many of the carps were swept away and fell, they were so disappointed because they couldn't swim back into the upper level. Yu promised them, if any of the carp could leap through his dam, it would transform into a dragon, thus the place inherited its name.\n\nGun-Yu theme is also have political background. Huainanzi stated that the great flood was caused by Gong Gong who was use the water to make havoc on the realm of Emperor Yao. Shan Hai Jing narrated another version that the flood was caused by Xiangliu, one of Gong Gong's minister, and was not Gong Gong himself.\n\nThe story happened after Goddess Nüwa created (molded) humanity from yellow clay, brought them into life, and gave them the ability to reproduce. Gonggong was banging his head into Mount Buzhou, which actually was the pillar to support the heaven. Nüwa then patched the sky with five-colored pebbles and piled up reeds ashes to stop the flood.\n\nChen Jianxian (1996) said that this theme was one of some popular legends which was still being told by more than 40 ethnics in China. There is a possibility that the myth is rather new because the oldest recorded sources about this myth were from Six Dynasties, save that the oral tradition maybe much older.\n\nThe theme was made into several versions, but the outline is about a great flood which was destroyed all the humans all over the world except a pair of brother and sister, or aunt and nephew. Both were forced to married in order to repopulated the world. One version stated that their children were ordinary humans, while the others said it was a lump of meat, squash, melon, or grindstone; after they opened, cut, or destroyed it, humans emerged.\n\nThis theme have some specific characteristics: one or two people were survived, the statue which was crying blood, and the whole city along with its citizens were sinking. The survivor(s) was being saved by the gods because of his/her benevolent acts; may be an old lady or a devoted son. The blood crying statue was often a stone lion statue, or sometimes tortoise statue.\n\nA less widespread flood myth involves the goddess Magu: this myth involves the cyclic rise and fall of the ocean level over the eons: sometimes the sea floor is under water; at other times, it turns into mulberry fields. However, the material about Magu seems to be distinct from the idea of a great flood upon the land of China.\n\nOne tradition narrates Magu, a benevolent Taoist lady who lived on the second century. She was reclaiming a very wide seashore water bodies on Kiangsu and changing it into mulberry fields.\n\nShan Hai Jing mentions a pig-like creature with human face, yellow-colored and red-tailed, and it sounds like human singing. The creature is known as \"Heyu\"; it preys on human, reptiles, and snakes. It appearance is a sign that there will be a great deluge all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "31497981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31497981", "title": "GA Drilling", "text": "GA Drilling\n\nGA Drilling (former Geothermal Anywhere) is a high technology company headquartered in Bratislava (Slovakia) with branches in London (UK) and Houston (USA). The company was founded in 1994 and rebranded as GA Drilling in August 2013. GA Drilling is developing and commercializing PLASMABIT technology platform which provides drilling and milling tool for challenging the most comprehensive industry issues. PLASMABIT is based on high-energy electric plasma enabling to operate at a constant speed with no need for changing tool. PLASMABIT applications are primarily addressed to oil and gas, geothermal energy and mining industries. Technology development is assisted by companies operating in oil and gas business. Main actors are identified as O&G Operators, Oilfield Service Providers, Energy Utilities and companies providing decommissioning of oil and gas structures. GA Drilling is also active within drilling community through participation at several industry events.\n\nGA Drilling is applying for grants from public sources in order to create complementary environment for solving industrial challenges. Company is active in Horizon 2020, Framework Programme 7 (FP7) Integrated projects, Cross-border, National projects and Structural funds of the European Union.\n\nGA Drilling owns 16 intellectual property rights (IPR‘s) for technologies in the deep drilling and material disintegration in distinct patent zones (Patents were issued by US Patent and Trademark Office, European Patent Office, Intellectual Property Office of Slovak Republic)\n\nGA Drilling has created or is a co-founder of the network of technology organizations in European Union, mainly in the Central European region. Its partner network consists of Slovak (Slovak University of Technology, University of Zilina, Comenius University, institutes of the Slovak Academy of Sciences) and European organisations (Weatherford UK Ltd, Imerys, EGS Energy, Altus Intervention UK). GA Drilling is also a member of European Geothermal Energy Council (EGEC), European Technology Platform on Renewable Heating and Cooling (ETP-RHC), Decom North Sea (DNS), as well as European Technology Platform on Sustainable Mineral Resources (ETP-SMR).\n\nFor O&G industry partners, GA Drilling have created an platform – PLASMABIT Joint Industry Project, in order to share acquired knowledge and technology in mutual partnership. PLASMABIT JIP´s goal is the development of the core technology focused on steel milling and hard rock drilling with enhanced ROP.\n\nIn July 2013, GA Drilling announced that it has concluded a technology development and strategic investment agreement with Schoeller-Bleckmann Oilfield Equipment, the global market leader for high-precision components for the oil service industry. The partnership is focused on development of PLASMABIT technology and to meet major challenges of the drilling industry. This partnership ensures component supplies manufactured by SBO and allows GA Drilling to further develop its patented PLASMABIT technology. Investment supports the completion of 3rd generation of plasma disintegration device and test-rig construction for drilling at deeper depths.\n\nOn 11 October 2012 GA Drilling established GA Drilling Technology Center in Bratislava, Slovakia. The previous laboratory - Research Centre for Deep Drilling - was established On November 10, 2010 by Geothermal Anywhere in the premises of the Slovak Academy of Sciences.\n\n2017:\n\nOur technology was an integral part of permanent exhibition of the Slovak Olympic House in Rio de Janeiro 2016 as one of the flagships of hi-tech innovations with global potential. \nSlovak Presidency in the Council of European Union unveiled the visual presentation of 4 country’s technology inventions in the Justus Lipsius building, Brussels, GA Drilling's PLASMABIT included. \nNational Champion in the United Kingdom Trade & Investment Award for Innovation, European Business Awards 2014/15.\nTop 8 Cleantech companies at the European Venture Contest 2012 \nPrize for outstanding presentation of the results of research in 2012 by Minister of Education, Science, Research and Sport of Slovakia, Dusan Caplovic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12929", "title": "Gallipoli", "text": "Gallipoli\n\nThe Gallipoli peninsula (; ; , \"Chersónisos tis Kallípolis\") is located in the southern part of East Thrace, the European part of Turkey, with the Aegean Sea to the west and the Dardanelles strait to the east.\n\nGallipoli is the Italian form of the Greek name \"Καλλίπολις\" (\"Kallípolis\"), meaning \"Beautiful City\", the original name of the modern town of Gelibolu. In antiquity, the peninsula was known as the Thracian Chersonese (, \"Thrakiké Chersónesos\"; ).\n\nThe peninsula runs in a south-westerly direction into the Aegean Sea, between the Dardanelles (formally known as the Hellespont), and the Gulf of Saros (formally the bay of Melas). In antiquity, it was protected by the Long Wall, a defensive structure built across the narrowest part of the peninsula near the ancient city of Agora. The isthmus traversed by the wall was only 36 stadia in breadth (about 6.5 km), but the length of the peninsula from this wall to its southern extremity, Cape Mastusia, was 420 stadia (about 77.5 km).\n\nIn ancient times, the Gallipoli Peninsula was known as the Thracian Chersonesus (from Greek \"χερσόνησος\", \"peninsula\") to the Greeks and later the Romans. It was the location of several prominent towns, including Cardia, Pactya, Callipolis (Gallipoli), Alopeconnesus (), Sestos, Madytos, and Elaeus. The peninsula was renowned for its wheat. It also benefited from its strategic importance on the main route between Europe and Asia, as well as from its control of the shipping route from Crimea. The city of Sestos was the main crossing-point on the Hellespont.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, the Thracian tribe of Dolonci () (or \"barbarians\" according to Cornelius Nepos) held possession of Chersonesus before the Greek colonization. Then, settlers from Ancient Greece, mainly of Ionian and Aeolian stock, founded about 12 cities on the peninsula in the 7th century BC. The Athenian statesman Miltiades the Elder founded a major Athenian colony there around 560 BC. He took authority over the entire peninsula, building up its defences against incursions from the mainland. It eventually passed to his nephew, the more famous Miltiades the Younger, around 524 BC. The peninsula was abandoned to the Persians in 493 BC after the outbreak of the Greco-Persian Wars (499–478 BC).\n\nThe Persians were eventually expelled, after which the peninsula was for a time ruled over by Athens, which enrolled it into the Delian League in 478 BC. The Athenians established a number of cleruchies on the Thracian Chersonese and sent an additional 1,000 settlers around 448 BC. Sparta gained control after the decisive battle of Aegospotami in 404 BC, but the peninsula subsequently reverted to the Athenians. In the 4th century BC, the Thracian Chersonese became the focus of a bitter territorial dispute between Athens and Macedon, whose king Philip II sought possession. It was eventually ceded to Philip in 338 BC.\n\nAfter the death of Philip's son Alexander the Great in 323 BC, the Thracian Chersonese became the object of contention among Alexander's successors. Lysimachus established his capital Lysimachia here. In 278 BC, Celtic tribes from Galatia in Asia Minor settled in the area. In 196 BC, the Seleucid king Antiochus III seized the peninsula. This alarmed the Greeks and prompted them to seek the aid of the Romans, who conquered the Thracian Chersonese, which they gave to their ally Eumenes II of Pergamon in 188 BC. At the extinction of the Attalid dynasty in 133 BC it passed again to the Romans, who from 129 BC administered it in the Roman province of Asia. It was subsequently made a state-owned territory (\"ager publicus\") and during the reign of the emperor Augustus it was imperial property.\n\nThe Thracian Chersonese was part of the Eastern Roman Empire from its foundation in 330 AD. In 443 AD, Attila the Hun invaded the Gallipoli Peninsula during one of the last stages of his grand campaign that year. He captured both Callipolis and Sestus. Aside from a brief period from 1204 to 1235, when it was controlled by the Republic of Venice, the Byzantine Empire ruled the territory until 1356. During the night between 1 and 2 March 1354, a strong earthquake destroyed the city of Gallipoli and its city walls, weakening its defenses.\n\nAfter the devastating 1354 earthquake, the town of Gallipoli was besieged and captured by the Ottomans, making Gallipoli the first Ottoman stronghold in Europe, and the staging area for their expansion across the Balkans. It was recaptured for Byzantium by the Savoyard Crusade in 1366, but the beleaguered Byzantines were forced to hand it back in September 1376. The Greeks living there were allowed to continue their everyday life. In the 19th century, Gallipoli () was a district (kaymakamlik) in the Vilayet of Adrianople, with about thirty thousand inhabitants: comprising Greeks, Turks, Armenians and Jews.\n\nGallipoli became a major encampment for British and French forces in 1854 during the Crimean War, and the harbour was also a stopping-off point on the way to Istanbul (formerly Constantinople.)\n\nBritish and French engineers constructed, in March 1854, a 11.5 km line of defence to protect the peninsula from a possible Russian attack and so keep control of the route to the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nGallipoli did not experience any more wars until the First Balkan War, when the 1913 Battle of Bulair and several minor skirmishes took place here.\nA dispatch on 7 July 1913 reported that Ottoman troops treated Gallipoli’s Greeks ‘with marked depravity’ as they ‘destroyed, looted, and burned all the Greek villages near Gallipoli’. Many villages were sacked and destroyed completely and also, some Greeks killed. The cause of this savagery of the Turks was their fear that if Thrace was declared autonomous the Greek population may be found numerically superior to the Muslims.\n\nThe Turkish Government, under pre-text that a village was within the firing line, ordered its evacuation within three hours. The residents abandoned everything they possessed, left their village and went to Gallipoli. Seven of the Greek villagers who were two minutes late behind the three hours limit allowed for the evacuation were shot by the soldiers. After the Balkan War was over, the exiles were allowed to return. But as the Government allowed only the Turks to rebuild their houses and furnished them, the exiled Greeks were compelled to remain in Gallipoli.\n\nDuring World War I, British and colonial forces attacked the peninsula in 1915, seeking to secure a route to relieve their eastern ally, Russia. The Ottomans set up defensive fortifications along the peninsula and the attackers were eventually repulsed.\n\nIn early 1915, attempting to seize a strategic advantage in World War I by capturing Istanbul (formerly Constantinople), the British authorised an attack on the peninsula. The first Australian troops landed at ANZAC Cove on early morning 25 April 1915, and after eight months of heavy fighting the survivors were withdrawn around the end of the year.\n\nThe campaign was one of the greatest Ottoman victories during the war and is considered a major Allied failure. In Turkey, it is regarded as a defining moment in the nation's history: a final surge in the defence of the motherland as the Ottoman Empire crumbled. The struggle formed the basis for the Turkish War of Independence and the founding of the Republic of Turkey eight years later under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, who first rose to prominence as a commander at Gallipoli.\n\nThe Gallipoli Star was a military decoration created by the Ottoman Empire in 1915 and awarded for the duration of World War I.\n\nThe campaign was the first major military action of Australia and New Zealand as independent dominions, and is often considered to mark the birth of national consciousness in those nations. The date of the landing, 25 April, is known as \"Anzac Day\". It remains the most significant commemoration of military casualties and veterans in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nOn the Allied side one of Ryder's promoters of the expedition was Britain's First Lord of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill, whose reputation took years to recover.\n\nPrior to the Allied landings in April 1915, Ottoman Empire deported Greek residents from Gallipoli and surrounding region and from the islands in the sea of Marmara, to the interior where they were at the mercy of hostile Turks. The Greeks had little time to pack and the Ottoman authorities permitted them to take only some bedding and the rest was handed over to the Government. Also, Greek houses and properties were plundered by the Turks. A testimony of a deportee described how the deportees were forced onto crowded steamers, standing room only; how, on disembarking, men of military age were removed (for forced labour in the labour battalions of the Ottoman army) and how the rest were ‘scattered… among the farms like ownerless cattle’.\n\nThe Metropolitan of Gallipoli on 17 July 1915, wrote that the extermination of the Christian refugees was methodical. It also mentions that: \"The Turks, like beasts of prey, immediately plundered all the Christians' property and carried it off. The inhabitants and refugees of my district are entirely without shelter, awaiting to be sent no one knows where ...\". In addition many Greeks died from hunger and there were frequent cases of rape among women and young girls, as well as their conversion to Islam.\n\nGallipoli was occupied by Greek troops on 4 August 1920 during the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–22, considered part of the Turkish War of Independence, and after the Armistice of Mudros it became a Greek prefecture centre as \"Kallipolis\". However, Greece was forced to withdraw from Eastern Thrace after the Armistice of Mudanya. Gallipoli was briefly handed over to British troops on 20 October 1922, but was finally returned to Turkish rule on 26 November 1922.\n\nIn 1920, after the defeat of the Russian White army of General Pyotr Wrangel, a significant number of emigre soldiers and their families evacuated to Gallipoli from the Crimean Peninsula. From there, many went to European countries, such as Yugoslavia, where they found refuge. A stone monument was erected and a special \"Gallipoli cross\" was created to commemorate the soldiers, who stayed in Gallipoli. The stone monument was destroyed during an earthquake, but in January 2008 reconstruction of the monument had begun with the consent of the Turkish government.\n\nBetween 1923 and 1926 Gallipoli became the centre of Gelibolu Province, comprising the districts of Gelibolu, Eceabat, Keşan and Şarköy. After the dissolution of the province, it became a district centre in Çanakkale Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12696436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12696436", "title": "Interior radiation control coating", "text": "Interior radiation control coating\n\nInterior Radiation Control Coating Systems (IRCCS), sometimes referred to as radiant barrier coatings, are paints designed to provide thermal insulation to buildings. \n\nThe American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and the Reflective Insulation Manufacturer's Association (RIMA) have established an industry standard for evaluating paints claiming to have insulating characteristics. The energy conserving property has been defined as thermal emittance (the ability of a surface to release radiant energy that it has absorbed). Those coatings qualified as Interior Radiation Control Coatings must show a thermal emittance of 0.25 or less. This means that an IRCCS will block 75% or more of the radiant heat transfer. \nThese low \"E\" coatings were originally developed in 1978 at the Solar Energy Corporation (SOLEC) in Princeton, New Jersey for use in tubular evacuated solar collectors. The developer, Robert Aresty, designed them to be used as low emissivity surfaces \non glass to replace vacuum deposited surfaces. While SOLEC was doing collaborative work with the Florida Solar Energy Center (FSEC), Phillip Fairey, research director at FSEC and world-renowned researcher in radiant barriers discovered the availability of these coatings in the SOLEC labs. He immediately grasped that they might be used as a replacement for foil radiant barriers, and proceeded to perform experiments verifying their viability for this use. In 1986 these coatings were applied for the first commercial application in homes built by Centex Corporation.\n\nUses of IRCCS includes residential and commercial building insulation, as well as industrial and automotive applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "44621018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44621018", "title": "Lapis Lacedaemonius", "text": "Lapis Lacedaemonius\n\nLapis Lacedaemonius (), also known as Spartan basalt, is a form of andesite or volcanic rock known today only from a single source in the village of Krokees on the Peloponnese in Greece. In addition, ancient sources mention a quarry of lapis Lacedaemonius in Taygetus. The stone has a dark green colour, speckled with elements shifting from yellow to light green. Occasionally, the speckles have crystallised in a way that creates rosette-like patterns. It is rated as having a hardness of six or higher on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness. It appears in comparatively small blocks. It is known in Italian as \"porfido verde antico\" and in German as \"Krokeischer Stein\".\n\nThe stone is known to have been processed by Neanderthals. In slightly more recent times, lapis Lacedaemonius has been used for making Minoan sealstones and vases, both Minoan and Mycenean. It also was used as an element in decorative elements created with opus sectile technique (with examples known from Ostia Antica and Nemi) during Roman times, as well as in several churches in Rome (e.g. Santa Prassede) and in the pavement of St. Peter's Square. Its use is mentioned by Pausanias. During the Middle Ages it was employed in mosaics in e.g. Palermo, Constantinople, and Santiago de Compostela. Furthermore, Roman and Byzantine decorative stones frequently were reused up until the eighteenth century. For example, in St. Mark's Basilica, Venice and also as far away from the Mediterranean Sea as in Westminster Abbey, London.\n\nThe stone from Krokees comes from a lava dome approximately 230 million years old. Its light spots are plagioclase, which over time has turned into albite and epidote. In places, iron minerals have oxidized into hematite, giving it a reddish tone. Geologically similar rock, equally exploited during antiquity, may be found on Samothrace.\n\n"}
{"id": "2942303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2942303", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on beets", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on beets\n\nBeets (\"Beta vulgaris\") are used as a food plant by the larvae of several Lepidoptera species including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21047036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21047036", "title": "List of earthquakes in Iceland", "text": "List of earthquakes in Iceland\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "23909927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23909927", "title": "List of earthquakes in Taiwan", "text": "List of earthquakes in Taiwan\n\nThis list of earthquakes in Taiwan charts significant earthquakes which have affected the island of Taiwan.\n\nTaiwan is in a seismically active zone, on the Pacific Ring of Fire, and at the western edge of the Philippine Sea Plate. Geologists have identified 42 active faults on the island, but most of the earthquakes detected in Taiwan are due to the convergence of the Philippine Sea plate and the Eurasian Plate to the east of the island. Most of the earthquakes registered in Taiwan actually occur off the east coast and cause little damage, whereas smaller quakes beneath the island itself have historically proven more destructive. The first recorded earthquake in Taiwan was in 1624, the founding year of Dutch Formosa. Between 1901 and the year 2000 there were 91 major earthquakes in Taiwan, 48 of them resulting in loss of life. The most recent major earthquake was the 921 earthquake, which struck on 21 September 1999, and claimed 2,415 lives.\n\nMany modern buildings in Taiwan are constructed with earthquake safety in mind, including Taipei 101, which had to cope with the dual challenges of being flexible enough to withstand earthquakes, yet rigid enough to resist wind shear. The High Speed Rail system incorporates an automatic safety device to safely bring all trains to a halt when a significant earthquake is detected. Nevertheless, poor construction standards have been blamed for casualties in a number of major earthquakes, including the 1906 Meishan earthquake and the 921 earthquake. Inside Taiwan the Central Weather Bureau is the organisation responsible for monitoring and reporting on earthquakes. Large earthquakes are also assessed by the United States Geological Survey. Scientific studies of the seismology of the island started in the Japanese era, when the first seismograph was installed in Taipei by Fusakichi Omori's company.\n\nSignificant earthquakes are listed here from 1736 to the present. Starting with the Japanese era in 1895 there were major improvements in detection technology, allowing more detailed gathering of data.\n\nSources:\n\n"}
{"id": "45695770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45695770", "title": "List of earthquakes in the Netherlands", "text": "List of earthquakes in the Netherlands\n\nEarthquakes in the Netherlands occur mostly in the southeast and northeast of the country, with mostly tectonic earthquakes in the southeast and induced earthquakes in the northeast. The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute started with seismic registrations in 1904. The heaviest earthquake was the 1992 Roermond earthquake with a magnitude of 5.8.\n\nThe first time that seismic activity in the Netherlands was registered by the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI) in De Bilt was on 26 June 1904.\n\nThe natural earthquakes that occur in the southeast of the Netherlands are caused by active rifts of the European Cenozoic Rift System. The 1992 Roermond earthquake in the southeastern province of Limburg was the heaviest registered earthquake in the Netherlands. It had a magnitude of 5.8 and occurred in Roermond on 13 April 1992.\n\nSince 1986, there have been around 1,000 induced earthquakes in the northeast of the Netherlands caused by the exploitation of the Groningen gas field near Slochteren. The heaviest registered earthquake in the northeastern province of Groningen had a magnitude of 3.6 and occurred in Huizinge on 16 August 2013.\nThis event count shows a remarkable exponential growth in time, pointing to one event per day in 2025. While moderate in magnitude, the sheer number of events acts as a physical stressor to living conditions and gives an adverse outlook long term on structural integrity of homes and buildings.\n\nSince 1904, there were seven earthquakes in the Netherlands with a magnitude of 4.0 or higher. All were noninduced earthquakes in the southeastern provinces of Limburg and North Brabant.\n"}
{"id": "17526258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17526258", "title": "List of forests in Israel", "text": "List of forests in Israel\n\nThe forests of contemporary Israel are mainly the result of a massive afforestation campaign by the Jewish National Fund (JNF). This article is a list of these forests.\n\nIn the 19th Century and up to World War I, the Ottoman empire cleared the land of Israel of its natural reserves of pine and oak trees, in order to build railways across the empire. Since it was founded the JNF has planted in Israel more than 185 million trees creating 280 forests, and still operates today.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9018375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018375", "title": "List of pearl millet diseases", "text": "List of pearl millet diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of pearl millet (\"Pennisetum glaucum\"). \n\n"}
{"id": "8591677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591677", "title": "List of stars in Grus", "text": "List of stars in Grus\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Grus, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57278967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57278967", "title": "List of transcontinental canals", "text": "List of transcontinental canals\n\nThe following is a list of transcontinental canals and waterways, that is, \"canals\" or \"canal proposals\", which allows waterway traffic to span across a continent or subcontinent.\n\n"}
{"id": "2839593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839593", "title": "Mangzhong", "text": "Mangzhong\n\nThe traditional East Asian calendars divide a year into 24 solar terms.\n\nMángzhòng, \"Bōshu\", \"Mangjong\", or \"Mang chủng\" is the ninth solar term. It begins when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 75° and ends when it reaches the longitude of 90°. It more often refers in particular to the day when the Sun is exactly at the celestial longitude of 75°. In the Gregorian calendar, it usually begins around June 5 (June 6 East Asia time) and ends around June 21. \n\nIntroduction of Grain in Ear (芒种)\n“grain in ear” means the grains are mature. It happens around June 5 every year when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 75 degrees. During this period, crops like barley and wheat all get mature and are waiting to be harvested. In Chinese, “Grain in Ear” is called Mang Zhong. \"Mang\" means grains at the same time busy. It forecasts the farmer is getting back to the busy field work. \n\nIt is the busiest time to seed millet and the deadline for sowing activities. During this period, areas around the middle stream and downstream of the Yangtze River enter the rainy season. Sensing the wetness, the mantis comes out, the shrike starts to sing and the mockingbird stops tweet.\n\nThe arrival of Grain in Ear signifies the ripening of awny crops such as wheat and it is also a busy period for farmers. That can be seen from many farm sayings. One of the sayings is, “Getting busy with farm work in Grain in Ear,” prevailing in many provinces. Grain in Ear is especially critical for planting rice. There is a saying in Guizhou that goes, “If you don’t plant rice in Grain in Ear, planting will be in vain.”\n\nAs the flowers withered away, people in old times used to hold the ceremony to sacrifice for the “God of Flowers”, showing their gratitude and their eagerness to see the flowers again next year. This custom is already long gone and people can only read the scene in some of the ancient novels. In China’s south Anhui province, people steam dumplings with new fresh wheat flour after seeding the paddy rice. They make the flour into different shapes such as cereals, animals, vegetables, and fruits, color them and pray for villagers’ safety.\n\nThe best food to eat during “Grain in Ear” period, as suggested by Chinese doctors, is mulberry. Around two thousand years ago, mulberry had already been considered as royal food and among the folk, it was called the “holy fruit”. It has abundant glucose, cane sugar, Vitamin A, B and C and many mineral substances and is very good for humans' heart, liver, and kidney.\n"}
{"id": "4129264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129264", "title": "Meghalaya subtropical forests", "text": "Meghalaya subtropical forests\n\nThe Meghalaya subtropical forests is a montane subtropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of eastern India. The ecoregion covers an area of , encompassing the Khasi Hills, Garo Hills, and Jaintia Hills of India's Meghalaya state, and adjacent portions of Assam state. The ecoregion is one of the most species-rich in India with a rich diversity of birds, mammals, and plants.\n\nThe ecoregion covers those portions of the Khasi, Garo, and Jaintia hills lying above 1000 meters elevation. The subtropical forests lies between the tropical lowlands of the Lower Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests to the south and west, and the Brahmaputra Valley semi-evergreen forests to the north.\n\nIt is one of the wettest ecoregions in the world, with some places, notably Mawsynram and Cherrapunji, receiving up to eleven meters of rain in a year.\n\nIt is a center of diversity for the tree genera \"Magnolia\" and \"Michelia\", and the families Elaeocarpaceae and Elaeagnaceae. Over 320 species of orchids are native to Meghalaya. The endemic pitcher plant (\"Nepenthes khasiana\") is now an endangered species. About 3,128 flowering plant species have been reported from the state, of which 1,236 are endemic. Joseph Dalton Hooker, a British botanist and explorer, made a huge taxonomic collection for the Kew Herbarium from Khasi and Jaintia Hills and remarked the place as one of the richest biodiversity spot in India, perhaps in all of Asia as well. The state is rich in medicinal plant species as well, but the natural occurrence of most medicinal plants has decreased due to habitat loss. A total of 131 RET (Rare, Endemic and Threatened) medicinal plant species, including 36 endemic and 113 species under different threat categories, are found within the state.\n\nThe ecoregion is home to 110 species of mammals, none of which are endemic. Species include the tiger (\"Panthera tigris\"), clouded leopard (\"Pardofelis nebulosa\"), Asian elephant (\"Elephas maximus\"), dhole or Asiatic wild dog (\"Cuon alpinus\"), sun bear (\"Ursus malayanus\"), sloth bear (\"Melursus ursinus\"), smooth-coated otter (\"Lutrogale perspicillata\"), Indian civet (\"Viverra zibetha\"), Chinese pangolin (\"Manis pentadactyla\"), Indian pangolin (\"Manis crassicaudata\"), Assamese macaque (\"Macaca assamensis\"), bear macaque (\"Macaca arctoides\"), capped leaf monkey (\"Semnopithecus pileatus\"), and hoolock gibbon (\"Hylobates hoolock\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "616351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=616351", "title": "Molniya orbit", "text": "Molniya orbit\n\nA Molniya orbit (, \"Lightning\") is a type of satellite orbit. It is a highly elliptical orbit with an inclination of 63.4 degrees, an argument of perigee of 270 degrees and an orbital period of approximately half a sidereal day. The name comes from a series of Soviet/Russian \"Molniya\" communications satellites which have been using this type of orbit since the mid-1960s.\n\nThe high inclination of Molniya orbits provides a high angle of view to communications and monitoring satellites covering high latitudes. The high eccentricity provides a longer dwell time over the hemisphere of interest, compared to a more circular orbit. Geostationary orbits, which are necessarily inclined over the equator, can only view these regions from a low angle, and are unable to view latitudes above 81 degrees.\n\nThe first use of the Molniya orbit was by the communications satellite series of the same name. After two launch failures in 1964, the first successful satellite to use this orbit, Molniya 1-01, launched on April 23, 1965. The early Molniya-1 satellites were primarily used for long-range military communications, but were also fitted with cameras used for weather monitoring and/or assessing clear areas for spy satellites. The original Molniya satellites had a lifespan of approximately 1.5 years, as their orbits were disrupted by perturbations, and they had to be constantly replaced.\n\nIts successor, the Molniya-2, provided both military and civilian broadcasting, and was used to create the Orbita television network, spanning the Soviet Union. These were in turn replaced by the Molniya-3 design, followed by the Mayak and Meridian satellites in 1997 and 2002 respectively.\n\nThe Russian US-K early-warning satellites, which watch for US missile launches were launched in Molniya orbits from 1967, as part of the Oko system.\n\nFrom 1971, the American Jumpseat and Trumpet satellites were launched into Molniya orbits, and possibly used to strategically intercept Soviet communications from the Molniya satellites. Detailed information about both projects remains classified as of 2018.\n\nThis was followed by the American SDS constellation, which operates with a mix of Molniya and geostationary orbits. These satellites are used to relay imagery from lower flying satellites back to ground stations in the United States and have been active in some capacity since 1976. A single classified communication satellite launch in 1998 may be related to this constellation.\n\nA Russian satellite constellation called Nord (and later, Tyulpan) was designed to support mobile communications at high latitudes, in a similar manner to the Iridium constellation, but it did not progress past the planning phase.\n\nMuch of the area of the former Soviet Union, and Russia in particular, is located at high latitudes. To broadcast to these latitudes from a geostationary orbit (above the Earth's equator) would require considerable power due to the low elevation angles. A satellite in a Molniya orbit is better suited to communications in these regions because it looks directly down on them during large portions of its orbit. With an apogee altitude as high as 40,000 km, and a sub-satellite point of 63.4 degrees north, it spends a considerable portion of its orbit with excellent visibility of the Northern Hemisphere, from the Russian Federation but also from Northern Europe, Greenland and Canada.\n\nWhile Molniya orbits require considerably less launch energy than geostationary orbits (especially from Russia), the ground station needs a steerable antenna to track the spacecraft, links must be switched between satellites, the range is varying, there is a greater need for station keeping, and the spacecraft will pass through the Van Allen radiation belt four times per day.\n\nA typical Molniya orbit, has:\n\n\nIt is necessary to have a constellation of at least three spacecraft for permanent high elevation coverage of a large area, like the whole of Russia where some parts are as far south as 45°N. If three spacecraft are used, each spacecraft is active for periods of eight hours per orbit centered at apogee as illustrated in figure 9. \n\nThe Earth completes half a rotation in 12 hours, so the apogees of successive Molniya orbits will alternate between one half of the northern hemisphere and the other. For the original Molniya orbit, this places the apogees over Russia and Canada, but by changing the right ascension of the ascending node this could be varied. For example, if the apogee longitudes are 90° E and 90°W, the apogees will alternately serve Europe and Asia (see figures 3 to 5) and next North America (see figures 6 to 8).\n\nThe orbits of the three spacecraft should then have the same orbital parameters, but different right ascension of the ascending nodes, with their passes over the apogees (for example 90°W and 90°E) separated by 7.97 hours. Since each satellite has an operational period of 8 hours, when one spacecraft travels four hours after its apogee passage (see figure 5 or figure 8), the next satellite will enter its operational period. The next satellite will have a view of the earth shown in figure 3 (or figure 6) and the switch-over can take place. Note that the two spacecraft at the time of switch-over are separated about 1500 km, so that the ground stations only have to move the antennas a few degrees to acquire the new spacecraft.\n\nIn general, the oblateness of the Earth perturbs the argument of perigee (formula_1), so that even if the apogee started near the north pole, it would gradually move, according to equation , unless constantly corrected with station-keeping thruster burns. \n\nwhere formula_2 is the gravitational constant, formula_3 is the perturbing factor, and formula_4 is the semi-latus rectum. \n\nTo avoid this expenditure of fuel, the Molniya orbit uses an inclination of 63.4°, for which these perturbations are zero. At this inclination the factor formula_5 is zero, so there is no change in perigee over time.\n\nTo ensure the geometry relative to the ground stations repeats every 24 hours the nodal period should be about half a sidereal day, keeping the longitudes of the apogees passages constant. \n\nHowever, the oblateness of the Earth also perturbs the right ascension of the ascending node (formula_6), which would cause the ground track to drift over time at the rate shown in equation . \n\nSince the inclination of a Molniya orbit is set, this perturbation is formula_7 degrees per orbit. To compensate, the orbital period is adjusted so that the longitude of the apogee changes enough to cancel out this effect.\n\nThe eccentricity of the orbit is based on the differences in altitudes of its apogee and perigee. To maximise the amount of time that the satellite spends over the apogee the eccentricity should be as high as possible.\n\nHowever, the perigee needs to be high enough to keep the satellite above the atmosphere to avoid drag, and the orbital period needs to be approximately half a sidereal day. These two factors constrain the eccentricity, which becomes approximately 0.737.\n\nTo track satellites using Molniya orbits, scientists use the SDP4 simplified perturbations model, which calculates the location of a satellite based on orbital shape, drag, radiation, gravitation effects from the sun and moon, and earth resonance terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412074", "title": "Mount Abu", "text": "Mount Abu\n\nMount Abu () is a popular hill station in the Aravalli Range in Sirohi district of Rajasthan state in western India, near the border with Gujarat. The mountain forms a distinct rocky plateau 22 km long by 9 km wide. The highest peak on the mountain is Guru Shikhar at above sea level. It is referred to as 'an oasis in the desert' as its heights are home to rivers, lakes, waterfalls and evergreen forests. The nearest train station is Abu Road railway station: 28 km away.\n\nThe ancient name of Mount Abu is Arbudaanchal. In the Puranas, the region has been referred to as \"Arbudaranya\" (\"forest of \"Arbhuda\"\") and 'Abu' is a diminutive of this ancient name. It is believed that sage Vashistha retired to the southern spur at Mount Abu following his differences with sage Vishvamitra. There is another mythology according to which a serpent named \"Arbuda\" saved the life of Nandi (Lord Shiva's bull). The incident happened on the mountain that is currently known as Mount Abu and so the mountain is named \"Arbudaranya\" after that incident which gradually became Abu.\n\nThe conquest of Mount Abu in 1311 CE by Rao Lumba of Deora-Chauhan dynasty brought to an end the reign of the Parmars and marked the decline of Mount Abu. He shifted the capital city to Chandravati in the plains. After the destruction of Chandravati in 1405, Rao Shasmal made Sirohi his headquarters. Later it was leased by the British government from the then Maharaja of Sirohi for use as the headquarters.\n\nThe Arbuda Mountains (Abu Parvat ' Mount Abu) region is said to be original abode of the famous Gurjars. The association of the Gurjars with the mountain is noticed in many inscriptions and epigraphs including \"Tilakamanjari of Dhanpala\". These Gurjars (Gujars or Gujjars) migrated from the Arbuda mountain region. As early as sixth century CE, they set up one or more principalities in Rajasthan and Gujarat. Almost all or a larger part of Rajasthan and Gujarat had been known as \"Gurjaratra\" (country ruled or protected by the Gurjars) or \"Gurjarabhumi\" (land of the Gurjars) for centuries before the Mughal period.\n\nAccording to a legend, sage Vashistha performed a great yajna at the peak of Mount Abu, to seek from the gods a provision for the defense of righteousness on earth. In answer to his prayer, a youth arose from the Agnikunda (fire-altar) — the first Agnivansha Rajput. Achalgarh Fort is one of more attracting place which was built by Parmar Rajput kings. Dilwara temple built by mahipala Soalanki (Chalukyu).\n\nMount Abu town, the only hill station in Rajasthan, is at an elevation of . It has been a popular retreat from the heat of Rajasthan and neighbouring Gujarat for centuries. The Mount Abu Wildlife Sanctuary was established in 1960 and covers 290 km² of the mountain.\n\nThe mountain is home to several Hindu temples, including the Adhar Devi Temple (also known as Arbuda Devi Temple), carved out of solid rock; the Shri Raghunathji Temple; and a shrine and temple to Dattatreya built atop the Guru Shikhar peak and a number of Jain temples including Dilwara Temples, a complex of temples carved of white marble built between the 11th and 13th centuries CE. The oldest of these is the Vimal Vasahi temple, built in 1021 CE by Vimal Shah and dedicated to the first of the Jain Tirthankaras. They include the Achaleswar Mahadev Temple (1412) and the Kantinath Temple (1513). It is the location of the headquarters of the Brahma Kumaris.\n\nThe Achalgarh Fort, built in the 14th century by Kumbha of Mewar, is nearby and at its center is the popular visitor attraction of the Nakki Lake. The Toad Rock is on a hill near the lake. Close to the fort is the Achaleshwar Mahadev Temple, a popular Shiva temple.\n\nThe Durga Ambika Mata Temple lies in a cleft of rock in Jagat, just outside Mount Abu town.\n\nIn Mount Abu, the faith community of Brahma Kumaris has its spiritual headquarters, which are represented by its own account in 110 countries. Every year about 2.5 million visitors are supposed to visit the sprawling campus of that spiritual movement.\n\nWhile there are hundreds of hotels for tourists, some Dharamshalas can be found for as low as Rs.700 per night. \n\nIn summer thousands of people come here. To reach Mount Abu, the nearest approach by road is from Abu Road which is 27 km.\n\nThe setting sun scene on Mount Abu is a notable tourist attraction, and depicted in the film \"Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak\".\n\nSummer prevails from mid-April to mid-June, when the average maximum temperature remains around 36 °C. It is suited for light cotton clothes.\n\nDue to its relief and geographical conditions, it rains in Mount Abu during the monsoons. During the rainy season the temperature falls. Normal summer clothing works. It is wise to carry an umbrella to avoid being caught in the rain.\n\nWinters are cool in Mount Abu, with mercury hovering around 16 °C to 22 °C. Nights are chilly, and the average night temperature is around 4 to 12 °C. The temperature has dipped to as low as −2 to −3 °C. Heavy winter clothing is preferable. In the daytime, light pullovers are sufficient.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census of India, Mount Abu has a population of 22,943 out of which 54.7% are males and 45.3% are females. It has an average literacy rate of 81.15%, higher than the national average of 74.04%: male literacy is 90.12%, and female literacy is 70.23%. In Mount Abu, 12.34% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\n89.31% of people are Hindus, 7.69% are Muslims while 1.45% are Christians.\n\n"}
{"id": "86619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86619", "title": "Nantosuelta", "text": "Nantosuelta\n\nIn Celtic mythology, Nantosuelta is the goddess of nature, the earth, fire and fertility.\n\nPseudo-historical texts explain how there is an uncanny resemblance between Nantosuelta and what we know of the Irish goddess The Morrígan who was associated with death and war. Evidence suggests that Nantosuelta was the name given to the goddess The Morrígan after a transformation or joining of new alliances.\n\nThe Mediomatrici (Alsace, Lorraine) depicted her in art as holding a round house on a pole and with a crow. Other likely depictions show her with a pot or bee hive. Nantosuelta's round house was a symbol of her connection to the faery habitation of her Irish counterpart and may have symbolized abundance. It was believed that Nantosuelta transformed into a crow on the battlefield, which was an appropriate transformation for the goddess or may have been a metaphor for her ability to powerfully navigate a battlefield.\n\nNantosuelta is often associated with water and depicted as being surrounded by water. The goddess's name literally translates as 'of winding stream' or 'sun-drenched valley'. \nNantosuelta is attested by statues, and by inscriptions.\n\nIn this relief from Sarrebourg, near Metz, Nantosuelta, wearing a long gown is standing to the left. In her left hand she holds a small house-shaped object with two circular holes and a peaked roof. Her right hand holds a patera which she is tipping onto a cylindrical altar. \nTo the right Sucellus stands, bearded, in a tunic with a cloak on his right shoulder. He holds his mallet in his right hand and an olla in his left. \nAbove the figures is a dedicatory inscription and below them in very low relief is bird, of a raven. This sculpture was dated by Reinach, from the form of the letters, to the end of the first century or start of the second century.\n\nAn altar from Metz has a carving of a woman with similar dress to the Sarrebourg example, also holding a small house on a pole, thus presumed to be Nantosuelta. Sucellus is not shown on this example.\n\nShe was associated with the cornucopia.\n\nThe inscription on the Sarrebourg altar reads:\n\nThe inscription on the Metz altar says:\n\nHere the dedication is to the Imperial house, and Nantosuelta is not explicitly mentioned. The visual depiction makes the identification secure.\n\nDelamarre asserts that the name means 'sun-warmed valley'. Roux in 1952, Olmstead in 1994, and Polomé in 1997 maintained that the proto-Indo-European root \"*swel-\" 'swelter', found in Indo-European words denoting 'sun', was inherited into Gaulish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14712165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14712165", "title": "Nationalization of oil supplies", "text": "Nationalization of oil supplies\n\nThe nationalization of oil supplies refers to the process of confiscation of oil production operations and private property, generally in the purpose of obtaining more revenue from oil for oil-producing countries' governments. This process, which should not be confused with restrictions on crude oil exports, represents a significant turning point in the development of oil policy. Nationalization eliminates private business operations—in which private international companies control oil resources within oil-producing countries—and allows oil-producing countries to gain control of private property. Once these countries become the sole owners of these confiscated resources in violation of contract law, they have to decide how to maximize the net present value of their known stock of oil in the ground.\nSeveral key implications can be observed as a result of oil nationalization. \"On the home front, national oil companies are often torn between national expectations that they should 'carry the flag' and their own ambitions for commercial success, which might mean a degree of emancipation from the confines of a national agenda.\" \n\nAccording to consulting firm PFC Energy, only 7% of the world's estimated oil and gas reserves are in countries that allow private international companies free rein. Fully 65% are in the hands of state-owned companies such as Saudi Aramco, with the rest in countries such as Russia and Venezuela, where access by Western companies is difficult. The PFC study implies political groups unfavorable to capitalism in some countries tend to limit oil production increases in Mexico, Venezuela, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Russia. Saudi Arabia is also limiting capacity expansion, but because of a self-imposed cap, unlike the other countries. \n\nThis nationalization (reclamation) of previously privately owned oil supplies where it has occurred, has been a gradual process. Before the discovery of oil, some Middle Eastern countries such as Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait were all poor and underdeveloped. They were desert kingdoms that had few natural resources and were without adequate financial resources to maintain the state. Poor peasants made up a majority of the population.\n\nWhen oil was discovered in these developing nations during the early twentieth century, the countries did not have enough knowledge of the oil industry to make use of the newly discovered natural resources. The countries were therefore not able to mine or market their petroleum. \n\nMajor oil companies saw this as an opportunity for profit and they negotiated concession agreements with the developing countries; the companies were given exclusive rights to explore and develop the production of oil within the country. The concession agreements made between the oil-producing country and the oil company specified a limited area the company could utilize, lasted a limited amount of time, and required the company to take all the financial and commercial risks as well as pay the host governments surface taxes, royalties, and production taxes. Despite all of this, however, the companies were able to claim any of the oil they mined. As a result, the world’s oil was largely in the hands of seven corporations based in the United States and Europe, often called the Seven Sisters. Five of the companies were American (Chevron, Exxon, Gulf, Mobil, and Texaco), one was British (British Petroleum), and one was Anglo-Dutch (Royal Dutch/Shell). These companies have since merged into four: Shell, ExxonMobil, Chevron, and BP. \n\nThe established contracts between oil companies and nations with oil reserves gave the oil companies an advantageous position, leading to the inclusion of choice-of-law clauses. In other words, disputes over contract details would be settled by a third party instead of the host country. The only way for host countries to alter their contracts was through nationalization. Most of the countries, with the exception of Venezuela, even signed away their right to tax the companies in exchange for one-time royalty payments.\n\nAlthough undeveloped nations originally welcomed concession agreements, some nationalists began to argue that the oil companies were exploiting them. Led by Venezuela, oil-producing countries realized that they could control the price of oil by limiting the supply. The countries joined together as OPEC and gradually governments took control of oil supplies.\n\nBefore the 1970s there were only two major incidents of successful oil nationalization—the first following the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 in Russia and the second in 1938 in Mexico. Due to the swift growth of the energy economy, natural resource industries shifted to becoming nationalized to protect themselves from adjustments in demand worldwide.\n\nDue to the presence of oil, the Middle East has been the center of international tension even before the nationalization of oil supplies. Britain was the first country that took interest in Middle Eastern oil. In 1908, oil was discovered in Persia by the Anglo-Persian oil company under the stimulus of the British government. Britain maintained strategic and military domination of areas of the Middle East outside Turkish control until after World War I when the former Turkish Empire was divided between the British and the French. It turned out that many of the areas controlled by the French had little oil potential.\n\nOn the other hand, Britain continued to expand oil interests into other parts of the Persian Gulf. Although oil resources were found in Kuwait, there was not enough demand for oil at the time to develop in this area.\n\nDue to political and commercial pressure, it did not take long before the United States secured an entry into Middle Eastern oil supplies. The British government was forced to allow the US into Iraq and the Persian Gulf states. Iraq became dominated by US oil companies while Kuwait consisted of a 50/50 split between British and American companies.\n\nUp until 1939, Middle Eastern oil remained relatively unimportant in world markets. According to “The Significance of Oil,” the Middle East at the time “was contributing only 5 percent of total world oil production and its exports were limited to countries within the immediate region and, via the Suez Canal, in western Europe.” The real significance of pre-1939 developments in the Middle East is that they established the framework for the post-1945 oil expansion.\n\nAfter WWII, the demand for oil increased significantly. Due to war-time oil development, which proved the great potential for oil discovery in the Middle East, there was little hesitation in investing capital in Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia.\n\nHuge investments were made to improve the infrastructure needed to transport Middle Eastern oil. For example, investment was made on the Suez Canal to ensure that larger tankers could utilize it. There was also an increased construction of oil pipelines. The expansion of infrastructure to produce and transport Middle East oil was mainly under the operation of the seven major international oil companies.\n\nPrior to 1970, there were ten countries that nationalized oil production: the Soviet Union in 1918, Bolivia in 1937 and 1969, Mexico in 1938, Iran in 1951, Iraq in 1961, Burma and Egypt in 1962, Argentina in 1963, Indonesia in 1963, and Peru in 1968. Although these countries were nationalized by 1971, all of the “important” industries that existed in developing countries were still held by foreign firms. In addition, only Mexico and Iran were significant exporters at the time of nationalization.\n\nThe government of Brazil, under Getúlio Vargas, nationalized the oil industry in 1953, thereby creating Petrobras.\n\nProponents of nationalization asserted that the original contracts held between an oil-producing country and an oil company were unfair to the producing country. Yet without the knowledge and skill brought into the country by the international oil companies, the countries would not have been able to even get the oil. Contracts, which could not be altered or ended in advance of the true end date, covered huge expanses of land and lasted for long durations. Nationalist ideas began once producing countries realized that the oil companies were exploiting them. Many times these countries did not even pay the companies for their loss of assets or only paid nominal amounts. \n\nThe first country to act was Venezuela, which had the most favorable concession agreement. In 1943, the country increased the total royalties and tax paid by the companies to 50% of their total profits. However, true equal profit sharing was not accomplished until 1948. Because oil companies were able to deduct the tax from their income tax, profits acquired by the oil companies did not change significantly and, as a result, the oil companies did not have any major problems with the change imposed by Venezuela. Even with increased oil prices, the companies still held a dominant position over Venezuela.\n\nThe posted price of oil was originally the determinant factor of the taxes that oil companies had to pay. This concept was beneficial to the oil companies because they were the ones who controlled the posted prices. Companies could increase the actual price of oil without changing the posted price, thus avoiding an increase in taxes paid to the producing country.\nOil-producing countries did not realize that the companies were adjusting oil prices until the cost of oil dropped in the late 1950s and companies started reducing posted prices very frequently. The main reason for the reduction in oil prices was the change in the world’s energy situation after 1957 that led to competition between energy sources. Efforts to find markets led to price cuts. Price cutting was first achieved by shaving profit margins, but soon prices were reduced to levels far lower than posted prices as companies producing oil in the Middle East started to offer crude to independent and state-owned refineries. \n\nProducing countries became aggravated when the companies would reduce the prices without warning. According to “The Significance of Oil,” “small reductions in posted prices in 1958 and 1959 produced some indications of disapproval from certain Middle East governments, but it was not until major cuts—of the order of 10 to 15 percent—were announced in 1960 that a storm broke over the heads of the companies whose decisions would reduce the oil revenues of the countries by 5 to 7 ½ percent.”\n\nHigh oil prices, on the other hand, raise the bargaining power of oil-producing countries. As a result, some say that countries are more likely to nationalize their oil supplies during times of high oil prices. However, nationalization can come with various costs and it is often questioned why a government would respond to an oil price increase with nationalization rather than by imposing higher taxes. Contract theory provides reasoning against nationalization.\n\nThe Third World went through dramatic structural change in the decades after oil was first discovered. Rising nationalism and the emergence of shared group consciousness among developing countries accompanied the end of the formal colonial relationships in the 1950s and 1960s. Shared group consciousness among the oil-exporting countries was expressed through the formation of OPEC, increased contact and communication between countries, and attempts of common action among countries during the 1960s. The structure of the industry, which led to increased nationalistic mentality, was affected by the following important changes:\n\nOriginally, oil-producing countries were poor and needed oil companies to help them produce the oil and manage the oil reserves located within the country. However, as the countries began to develop, their demands for revenue increased. The industry became integrated into a local economy that required strategic control by the host country over pricing and the rate of production. Gradually, foreign investors lost the trust of oil-producing countries to develop resources in the national interest. Oil-producing countries demanded participation in the control of the oil within their country.\n\nFurthermore, technological innovation and managerial expertise increased dramatically after World War II, which increased the bargaining power of producing countries. Increased bargaining power allowed the companies to change their mode of operation.\n\nStephen J. Kobrin states that “During the interwar period and through the 1950s, international petroleum was a very tight oligopoly dominated by seven major international oil companies (Exxon, Shell, BP, Gulf, Texaco, Mobil and Chevron—as they are known today). However, between 1953 and 1972 more than three hundred private firms and fifty state-owned firms entered the industry, drawn by the explosion in oil consumption and substantially diminished barriers to entry.”\n\nThe new, independent companies disturbed the equilibrium between the major companies and the producing countries. Countries became aware of their options as these companies offered better agreement terms.\n\nThe shortage of oil in the 1970s increased the value of oil from previous decades. The bargaining power of producing countries increased as both the country governments and the oil companies became increasingly concerned about the continued access to crude oil.\n\nRogers defines diffusion as, “the process by which (1) an innovation (2) is communicated through certain channels (3) over time (4) among members of a social system.” Innovations may consist of technology, philosophy, or managerial techniques. Examples of communication channels include the mass media, organizations such as OPEC or the U.N., or educational institutions. Due to diffusion, attempts at oil nationalization from producing countries, and whether or not these attempts were successful, affected decisions to nationalize oil supplies.\n\nTwo attempts of nationalization that had clear inhibiting effects on other producing countries were the nationalizations of Mexico in 1938 and of Iran in 1951, which occurred prior to the important structural change in the oil industry. The Mexican nationalization proved that although it was possible to accomplish nationalization, it came at the cost of isolation from the international industry, which was dominated by the major companies at the time. The Iranian nationalization also failed due to the lack of cooperation with international oil companies. These two incidences proved to other oil-producing countries that, until the structure of the oil industry changed to rely less upon international oil companies, any attempts to nationalize would be a great risk and would likely be unsuccessful. \n\nOnce the oil industry structure changed, oil-producing countries were more likely to succeed in nationalizing their oil supplies. The development of OPEC provided the medium in which producing countries could communicate and diffusion could occur rapidly. \n\nThe first country to successfully nationalize after the structural change of the industry was Algeria, which nationalized 51% of the French companies only ten days after the 1971 Tehran agreement and later was able to nationalize 100% of their companies. The nationalization of Algerian oil influenced Libya to nationalize British Petroleum in 1971 and the rest of its foreign companies by 1974. A ripple effect quickly occurred, spreading first to the more-militant oil producers like Iraq and then followed by more-conservative oil producers like Saudi Arabia. Stephen J. Kobrin states that “By 1976 virtually every other major producer in the mid-East, Africa, Asia, and Latin America had followed nationalizing at least some of its producers to gain either a share of participation or to take over the entire industry and employ the international companies on a contractual basis.”\n\nDue to the overall instability of supply, oil became an instrument of foreign policy for oil-exporting countries. Nationalization increased the stability in the oil markets and broke the vertical integration within the system. Vertical integration was replaced with a dual system where OPEC countries controlled upstream activities such as the production and marketing of crude oil while oil companies controlled downstream activities such as transportation, refining, distribution, and sale of oil products. \n\nUnder the new dual structure, OPEC was neither vertically or horizontally integrated and was not able to take over the entire oil sector from the oil companies. The temporary fear of an oil shortage during the 1970s helped to hide this consequence. In addition, relations between producing countries of the Persian Gulf and previous concessionary companies induced an “artificial” vertical integration. These relations included long-term contracts, discount of official prices, and phase-out clauses. Free markets started to become prevalent in 1981 after the trade in oil switched from being a sellers’ to a buyers’ market.\n\nAccording to the \"Energy Studies Review\", \"between 1973 and 1982, companies lost around 50% of their share of the crude oil market, from 30 million barrels per day (MMbbl/d) to around 15.2 MMbbl/d, while 'free world' demand decreased only 15% over the same time period. Even more significant, in 1982 the major (oil companies) could rely on 6.7 MMbbl/d of production from the reserves under their control, while the corresponding number in 1973 was 25.5 MMbbl/d—a decrease of 74% in less than 10 years.\" As a result, important oil companies became important net buyers of crude oil after a long time of being vertically integrated sellers to their own refineries.\n\nThe increase in oil prices of the 70s attracted non-OPEC producers—Norway, Mexico, Great Britain, Egypt, and some African and Asian countries—to explore within their country. In 1965, the Herfindahl index of horizontal integration for the crude oil production industry was 1600 and the horizontal integration for the exploration industry was 1250. By 1986, it decreased to around 930 for the crude oil production industry and 600 for the exploration industry. This created a further destabilizing factor for OPEC.\n\nThe world refining capacity of the major oil companies in 1973 was . However, by 1982, their world refining capacity had decreased to . This decrease was a result of their decreased access to the oil reserves of OPEC countries and, subsequently, the rationalization of their world refining and distribution network to decrease their dependence on OPEC countries. The increase in the refining capacity of OPEC countries that wanted to sell not only crude oil but also refined products further reinforced this trend towards rationalization.\n\nThe nationalization of oil supplies and the emergence of the OPEC market caused the spot market to change in both orientation and size. The spot market changed in orientation because it started to deal not only with crude oil but also with refined products. The spot market changed in size because as the OPEC market declined the number of spot market transactions increased. \nThe development of the spot market made oil prices volatile. The risks involving oil investment increased. To protect against these potential risks, parallel markets such as the forward market developed. As these new markets developed, price control became more difficult for OPEC. In addition, oil was transformed from a strategic product to a commodity. \nChanges in the spot market favored competition and made it more difficult for oligopolistic agreements. The development of many free markets impacted OPEC in two different ways:\n\nEcuador has had one of the most volatile oil policies in the region, partly a reflection of the high political volatility in the country. Petroecuador accounts for over half of oil production, however, as a result of financial setbacks combined with a drop in oil price, private companies increased oil investments in Ecuador. In the early 1990s annual foreign investment in oil was below US$ 200 million, by the early 2000s it had surpassed US $1 billion (Campodónico, 2004). Changes in political power led to an increase in government control over oil extraction. In particular, the election of President Rafael Correa, on a resource-nationalism platform, prompted increases in government control and the approval of a windfall profits tax.\n\nSince its beginning, Iran's oil industry has experienced expansion and contraction. Rapid growth at the time of World War I declined soon after the start of World War II. Recovery began in 1943 with the reopening of supply routes to the United Kingdom. The oil was produced by what became the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, but political difficulties arose with the Iranian government in the postwar period.\n\nIran sought to rid itself of British political influence and the exploitation by AIOC. Negotiations between Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and the government failed and in 1951 the oil industry was nationalized. As a result of Britain's boycott and the Abadan Crisis, Iranian production dropped to virtually zero. On British initiative the CIA\noverthrew Prime Minister of Iran Mosaddegh in Operation Ajax. Formally the nationalization remained effective, but in practice a consortium of oil companies was allowed in under a by then standard 50/50 profit-sharing deal.\n\nThe whole process had left the British a major share in what had been their single most valuable foreign asset. It had stopped the democratic transition in Iran however, leaving its mark for decades to come. The coup is widely believed to have significantly contributed to the 1979 Iranian Revolution after which the oil industry would be nationalized again.\nThe properties of the majors were nationalized totally in Iraq, in 1972. Worldwide oil shortages in the 1970s forced major oil suppliers to look elsewhere for ways to acquire the resource. Under these circumstances, NOCs often came forward as alternative suppliers of oil. Nationalization of the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC) in 1972 after years of rancor, together with restrictions on oil liftings by all but one of the IPC's former partners, put Iraq at the forefront of direct marketing. Iraq's oil production suffered major damage in the aftermath of the Gulf War. In spite of United Nations sanctions, has been rebuilding war-damaged oil facilities and export terminals. Iraq plans to increase its oil productive capacity to in 2000 and in 2010.\n\nLibya, in particular, sought out independent oil firms to develop its oilfields; in 1970, the Libyan government used its leverage to restructure radically the terms of its agreements with these independent companies, precipitating a rash of contract renegotiations throughout the oil-exporting world.\n\nThe discovery of oil in Nigeria caused conflict within the state. The emergence of commercial oil production from the region in 1958 and thereafter raised the stakes and generated a struggle by the indigenes for control of the oil resources. The northern hegemony, ruled by Hausa and Fulani, took a military dictatorship and seized control of oil production. To meet popular demands for cheaper food during the inflationary period just after the civil war, government created a new state corporation, the National Nigerian Supply Company (NNSC). While oil production proceeded, the region by the 1990s was one of the least developed and most poor. The local communities responded with protests and successful efforts to stop oil production in the area if they did not receive any benefit. By September 1999, about 50 Shell workers had been kidnapped and released. Not only are the people of Nigeria affected, but the environment in the area is also affected by deforestation and improper waste treatment. Nigerian oil production also faces problems with illegal trade of the refined product on the black market. This is undertaken by authorized marketers in collusion with smuggling syndicates.\nActivities such as these severely affect the oil industries of both the state and MNCs. Oil production deferments arising from community disturbances and sabotage was 45mm barrels in 2000 and 35mm barrels in 2001. The state has not been a very effective means of controlling incursions such as these. The illegal oil economy in such a circumstance may continue to exist for a long time, albeit in\ncurtailed and small scales.\n\nBy 1950, Saudi Arabia had become a very successful producing area, with an even greater undeveloped oil production potential. Because of favorable geological conditions and the close proximity of oil fields to the coast, Saudi Arabia operations were low cost. American companies therefore heavily valued the oil. The joint concessionary company, ARAMCO, agreed to the government’s demand to use the introduced posted price as a way to calculate profits. Profit-sharing between ARAMCO and Saudi Arabia was established as a 50/50 split.Eventually the Saudi Government fully purchased Aramco in 1980 renaming it as Saudi Aramco.\n\nIn 1958 a revolution in Venezuela brought an end to their military dictatorship. The newly elected Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons, Juan Pablo Pérez Alfonso, acted to raise the income tax on oil companies and introduced the key aspect of supply and demand to the oil trade. Nationalization of oil supplies was achieved in 1976. Major oil companies operating in Venezuela have had difficulty with the spreading resource nationalism. After decades of high investment, in the 1960s and 1970s oil taxation of the IOCs (international oil companies) was significantly increased and oil concessions were not renewed. Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhilips have said they would walk away from their large investment in the Orinoco heavy-oil belt rather than accept tough new contract terms that raise taxes and oblige all foreign companies to accept minority shares in joint ventures with the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA). Projects offered to foreign investors were often those that entailed high costs for extraction, leading to lower implicit tax rates. In the late 1990s, private investment substantially increased, adding 1.2 million BD of production by 2005. While private investors were producing more oil and PDSVA decreased oil production, Venezuela still managed to increase its oil fiscal take for each barrel. Continued shortcomings for PDSVA spurred an effort to eliminate the company, leading to a strike that severely reduced investment and production. This gave to government opportunity to seize control and, as a result, in the last two years the contractual framework of the oil opening has been significantly changed, considerably increasing the government-take and control over private investments.\n\nNationalization of oil resources in Argentina began in 1907, when upon the discovery of the nation's first sizable oil field near Comodoro Rivadavia, President José Figueroa Alcorta declared the area around the oil field public property. YPF, the first oil company in the world established as a state enterprise, was established by President Hipólito Yrigoyen and General Enrique Mosconi in 1922. The nation's mineral resources were nationalized \"in toto\" with Article 40 of the Argentine Constitution of 1949 promulgated by President Juan Perón. The latter was abrogated in 1956, but oil and natural gas were renationalized in 1958 during President Arturo Frondizi's self-described \"oil battle\" for self-sufficiency in the staple, and private firms operated afterward via leases. YPF was privatized in 1993, and Madrid-based Repsol acquired a majority stake in 1999. Oil and gas production subsequently weakened while demand increased, and in 2011 Argentina recorded the first energy trade deficit since 1987.\n\nIn April 2010, Argentina's president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner introduced a bill on April 16, 2012, for the expropriation of YPF, the nation's largest energy firm. The state would purchase a 51% share, with the national government controlling 51% of this package and ten provincial governments receiving the remaining 49%.\n\nInvestment in exploration at YPF as a percentage of profits had been far below those in most other Repsol subsidiaries, and declines in output at the firm represented 54% of the nation's lost oil production and 97% in the case of natural gas. Market analysts and Repsol blamed the decline in exploration and production on government controls on exports and prospecting leases, as well as price controls on domestic oil and gas. YPF increased its estimates of oil reserves in Argentina in 2012, but warned that government policies would have to change to allow investment in new production. The government announced instead that it would acquire a majority stake in YPF. Argentine Economy Minister Hernán Lorenzino claimed that asset stripping at YPF had financed Repsol's expansion in other parts of the world, while Repsol officials denied charges of underinvestment in its YPF operations. \n\nArgentine Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof rejected Repsol's initial demands for payment of US$10.5 billion for a controlling stake in YPF, citing debts of nearly US$9 billion. The book value of YPF was US$4.4 billion at the end of 2011; its total market capitalization on the day of the announcement was US$10.4 billion. The bill was overwhelmingly approved by both houses of Congress, and was signed by the president on May 5. \n\nThe government of Argentina eventually agreed to pay $ billion compensation to Repsol, which had previously owned YPF.\n\nIn 2010 Canada was the United States' leading oil supplier, exporting some of oil per year (), 99 percent of its annual oil exports, according to the EIA. Following the OPEC oil embargo in the early 1970s, Canada took initiative to control its oil supplies. The result of these initiatives was Petro-Canada, a state-owned oil company. Petro-Canada put forth national goals including, increased domestic ownership of the industry, development of reserves not located in the western provinces, that is to say, the promotion of the Canada Lands in the north and offshore, better information about the petroleum industry, security of supply, decrease dependence on the large multinational oil corporations, especially the Big Four, and increase revenues flowing to the federal treasury from the oil and gas sector.\n\nPetro-Canada has been met with opposition mainly from Alberta, home to one of the main oil patches in Canada. After negotiating a royalty increase on oil and price increases for natural gas, Lougheed asserted Alberta’s position as the centre of Canada’s petroleum industry. Alberta had since been the main source of oil in Canada since the 1970s. The clashing viewpoints of resource control has resulted in conflict over the direction of Canada's oil industry, and as a result, the vast majority of Canada's oil ownership and profits continue to lay in foreign hands.\n\nMexico nationalized its oil industry in 1938, and has never privatized, restricting foreign investment. Important reserve additions in the 1970s allowed a significant increase in production and exports, financed by the high oil prices. Despite producing more oil than any other country in Latin America, oil does not carry a relevant proportion of Mexico's exports. Since the giant Cantarell Field in Mexico is now in decline, the state oil company Pemex has faced intense political opposition to opening up the country's oil and gas sector to foreign participation. The lack of financial autonomy has limited Pemex’s own investment capacity, inducing the company to become highly indebted and to use an out of budget mechanism of deferred payment of projects (PIDIREGAS) to finance the expansion of production. Some feel that the state oil company Pemex does not have the capacity to develop deep water assets by itself, but needs to do so if it is to stem the decline in the country's crude production.\n\nSince Putin assumed the Russian Presidency in January 2000, there has been what\namounts to a creeping re-nationalization of the Russian oil industry. In Russia, Vladimir Putin's government has pressured Royal Dutch Shell to hand over control of one major project on Sakhalin Island, to the publicly traded company Gazprom in December. The founder of formerly private Yukos has also been jailed, and the company absorbed by state-owned Rosneft. Such moves strain the confidence of international oil companies in forming partnerships with Russia. Russia has taken notice of their increasing foreign oil investment improving politics with other countries, especially former states of the Soviet Union. Oil industry in Russia is one of the top producers in the world, however, the proven reserves in Russia are not as prevalent as in other areas. Furthermore, previously accessible oil fields have been lost since the Cold War. With the collapse of the USSR, Russia has lost the rich Caspian Basin off-shore and on-shore oil fields in the Central Asian states and Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "38316029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38316029", "title": "Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research", "text": "Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research\n\nThe Oeschger Centre for Climate and Climate Change Research (OCCR), is the interdisciplinary centre of excellence for climate research of the University of Bern.\n\nThe centre was established in 2007 and was named after Hans Oeschger (1927-1998), a pioneer of modern climate research, who worked in Bern. The OCCR brings together researchers from nine institutes and four faculties. It has more than 200 members working in 26 research groups. The OCCR is at the forefront of international research in a number of different fields. Researchers from the University of Bern have participated as co-chair, coordinating lead authors or lead authors in all the assessment reports so far published by the IPCC. Many of them are still working today at the OCCR. In addition to research within disciplines, the OCCR puts special emphasis on interdisciplinary projects. Regionally rooted and globally linked, the OCCR hopes to find ways to meet the challenge of global climate change at many different levels through the collaboration of experts in the natural, human and social sciences, in economics and law. The OCCR is active not only in research; it is also involved in teaching and runs the Graduate School of Climate Sciences.\n\nThe Oeschger Centre (OCCR) conducts research on the one hand into the long-term development and dynamics of the climate system and the climate of the present and the future. On the other hand, it investigates the impact of climate change on important land ecosystems as well as on the economy and society. In particular it works on strategies to adapt to the changing climate and to slow down climate change. At the centre of the OCCR's research is the climate system and its interaction with society and the economy.\n\nSpecific areas of research include:\n\nThe Oeschger Centre uses models of varying kinds and complexity, and also takes measurements and carries out reconstructions of important climate variables (e.g. natural and man-made radiative forcing).\n\nThe Oeschger Centre runs the University of Bern's Graduate School of Climate Sciences and offers academic training to MSc and PhD level. For the specialist \"MSc in Climate Sciences\" (120 ECTS), applicants have to pass through a selection process. Students put together their own curriculum by selecting courses from a range of topics offered by several different faculties. The selection can lead to any one of five specialisations. The OCCR's main areas of research are reflected in the curriculum of the courses offered by the Graduate School of Climate Sciences.\n\nThe Oeschger Centre has a decidedly international outlook in its teaching, and works closely with the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zürich. More than a third of its students come from abroad, and all teaching is conducted in English. The PhD programme is strongly research-orientated, and lasts for three to four years. Students with a degree from the Graduate School of Climate Sciences may take up academic careers, work in the private sector – for example in banks or in insurance – or in the environmental sector for the government or with non-governmental organisations.\n\nThe Oeschger Centre for Climate Research (OCCR) is an interdisciplinary centre at the University of Bern, made up of research groups from the participating institutes. Administratively it is part of the Faculty of Science. The OCCR received its mandate from the university's governing body. The president, director and a scientific committee made up of representatives of the participating faculties and institutes are responsible for the strategic management of the OCCR. The OCCR is run by a management centre which encourages collaboration between the research groups, provides services for the researchers and publicises the work of the OCCR.\n\nThe Oeschger Centre includes the following research groups:\n\n"}
{"id": "298028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298028", "title": "Panaji", "text": "Panaji\n\nPanaji also known as Panjim, () is the capital of the Indian state of Goa and the headquarters of North Goa district. It lies on the banks of the Mandovi River estuary in the Ilhas de Goa sub-district (taluka). With a population of 114,759 in the metropolitan area, Panjim is Goa's largest Urban agglomeration, ahead of Margão and Vasco da Gama.\n\nPanjim has terraced hills, concrete buildings with balconies and red-tiled roofs, churches, and a riverside promenade. There are avenues lined with gulmohar, acacia and other trees. The Baroque Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Church is located overlooking the main square known as Praça da Igreja. Panjim has been selected as one of hundred Indian cities to be developed as a smart city under the Smart Cities Mission.\n\nThis city of stepped streets and a seven kilometre long promenade was built on a planned grid system after the Portuguese relocated the capital form Velha Goa in the 17th century. It was elevated from a town to a city on March 22, 1843 making it the oldest civic institution in Asia (175 years).\n\nThe city's present official name is \"Panaji\". The Portuguese name was \"Pangim\", although officially named Nova Goa. The city is popularly also called Panjim (in English). It has been renamed \"Panjim\" since the 1960s after the Indian administration – in an effort to wipe out all Portuguese influence from the State. The city is called \"Ponnjé\" in Konkani.\n\nEarlier a small village on the river front, in 1843 the city had been renamed \"Nova Goa\" (Portuguese for \"New Goa\") when it officially replaced the city of Goa (now Old Goa) as the capital of Portuguese India, though the Viceroy had already moved there in 1759.\n\nThe justification of the modern word \"Panaji\" is derived from the words \"panjani\" and \"khali\", which mean \"a boat\" and \"a small creek\" respectively, in Sanskrit. Thus the modern word Panjim is believed to be a corruption of the old word \"Panjanakhani\" as inscribed on the discovered Panjim copper-plates dated 1059 CE, belonging to the rule of Kadamba king Jayakesi I. According to legend, this northern capital city was mentioned in a stone inscription of Kadamba king Jayakesi I dated 1054 CE as 'Panjanakhani', giving him the epithet of \"Padavalendra\" which is Kannada for \"lord of the western ocean\".\n\nSome historians state that it was named after a Shia Muslim shrine also called a \"Panja\" on one of the coastal hill tops.\n\nPanjim was annexed by India with the rest of Goa and the former Portuguese territories after the Indian invasion of Portuguese India in 1961. It became a state-capital on Goa's elevation to statehood in 1987. Between 1961 and 1987, it was the capital of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. A new Legislative Assembly complex was inaugurated in March 2000, across the Mandovi River, in Alto Porvorim. Panjim is also the administrative headquarters of North Goa district.\n\nPanjim is located at . It has an average elevation of .\n\nDuring the 2011 census of India, Panjim had a population of 114,405. Males constituted 52% of the population and females 48%. It had an average literacy rate of 90.9%; male literacy was 94.6% and female literacy 86.9%. In Panjim, 9.6% of the population was under 7 years of age.\n\nPanjim features a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen climate classification \"Am\"). The climate in Panjim is hot in summer and equable in winter. During summers (from March to May) the temperature reaches up to and in winters (from December to February) it is usually between and .\n\nThe monsoon period is from June to September with heavy rainfall and gusty winds. The annual average rainfall is .\n\nThe heart of the city is the \"Praça da Igreja\" (Church Square) where the Jardim Garcia de Orta (municipal garden) with the Portuguese Baroque \"Igreja da Nossa Senhora da Imaculada Conceição\", originally built in 1541. Other tourist attractions include the old and rebuilt Adilshahi Palace (or \"Idalç\"ão Palace), dating from the sixteenth century, the Institute Menezes Braganza, the \"Mahalaxmi\" Temple, the \"Jama Masjid\" Mosque, the Chapel of St. Sebastian and the Fontainhas area—which is considered to be the old Latin Quarter—as well as the nearby beach of Miramar. Hanuman Mandir at Malā on the hill top (Altinho) and its annual zatrā in February are a major attraction of Panjim. Panjim hosted the relics of Saint John Bosco (also known as Don Bosco) till 21 August 2011 at the Don Bosco Oratory.\n\nThe carnival celebrations in February include a colourful parade on the streets. This is followed by the Shigmo/xigmo, or Holi. The Narkāsūr parade on the night before Diwali in the city is very colourful.\n\nWell-known places in Panjim are the 18th June Road (a busy thoroughfare in the heart of the town and a shopping area for tourists and locals), Mala area, Miramar beach and the Kala Academy (a cultural centre known for its structure built by architect Charles Correa). Kala Academy is a place where Goa showcases its art and culture.\n\nSituated on the banks of Mandovi River in the heart of Panjim is ‘Old Secretariat’ building popularly known as ‘Adil Shah’s Palace’. In 1500’s the Portuguese conquerors renamed it as ‘Idalcao’s Palace’ and was the temporary residence of the first ‘Viceroy of Goa’.\nIn 1963 this ancient structure was renovated by Goa Government to house Goa Legislative Assembly. This Structure today is 'The Goa State Museum'.\n\nSalim Ali Bird Sanctuary is a bird sanctuary named after the ornithologist Dr Salim Ali. The sanctuary, located in the village of Chorão, near Panjim, plays host to rare and endangered bird species—both migratory and resident.\n\nGoa is famous for its beaches, and Miramar, Bambolim, and Dona Paula are three popular beaches located near Panjim.\n\nDona Paula is the meeting point for two of Goa’s famous rivers, Zuari and Mandovi. These two rivers meet at the Arabian Sea. The official residence of the Governor of Goa, known as Cabo Raj Bhavan, is situated on the westernmost tip of Dona Paula.\n\nMiramar Beach is one of the more crowded beaches in Goa, which remains full with local and international tourists throughout the year.\n\nAlso located near Panjim, is the Goa Science Centre which was opened to the public in December 2001. The Caculo Mall is also located in St. Inez near Panjim. Also Madhuban Complex, at St.inez is very popular among Panjimites.\n\nThere is only one university in Goa, the Goa University, which is situated at Taleigão on the outskirts of Panjim.\n\nThe National Institute of Oceanography (CSIR-NIO) is situated at Dona Paula, on the outskirts of Panjim city. It specialises in marine science research.\n\nThe nearest airport is Dabolim Airport which is away.\n\nState-owned All India Radio has a local station in Panjim which transmits various programs of mass interest.\n\nThe Goa government, as well as the Indian government, has its major offices in Goa.\n\nThe Goa Legislative Assembly is situated at Alto Porvorim, about from Panjim. The hillock called Altinho houses some major central government offices and the residences of prominent officials and politicians.\n\nThe Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Panjim is Manohar Parrikar of the BJP is also the Chief Minister of Goa. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) administers the city and its Mayor is Vithal Dayanand Chopdekar. Asmita Kerkar is the Deputy Mayor.\n\nThe Governor of Goa stays at the Cabo Raj Bhavan at Dona Paula, about from Panjim. The Governor is Mridula Sinha.\n\nTwo of Goa's premier clubs Dempo S.C. and Sporting Clube de Goa are based in Panjim and they both compete in India's top tier league I-League. Clube Tennis de Gaspar Dias in Miramar was founded in the year 1926 and remains among the most sought after Tennis clubs in Goa. The multipurpose Campal Indoor Complex is planned in Campal besides the existing football ground. The Don Bosco college football grounds on General Bernardo Guedes road has been long a long established sports field in the city.\n\nPanjim is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157774", "title": "Permafrost", "text": "Permafrost\n\nIn geology, permafrost is ground, including rock or (cryotic) soil, at or below the freezing point of water for two or more years. Most permafrost is located in high latitudes (in and around the Arctic and Antarctic regions), but at lower latitudes alpine permafrost occurs at higher elevations. Ground ice is not always present, as may be in the case of non-porous bedrock, but it frequently occurs and it may be in amounts exceeding the potential hydraulic saturation of the ground material. Permafrost accounts for 0.022% of total water on Earth and exists in 24% of exposed land in the Northern Hemisphere. It also occurs subsea on the continental shelves of the continents surrounding the Arctic Ocean, portions of which were exposed during the last glacial period, with global weather implications.\n\nA global temperature rise of above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of permafrost in Siberia, according to one group of scientists.\n\n\"In contrast to the relative dearth of reports on frozen ground in north America prior to World War II, a vast literature on the engineering aspects of permafrost was available in Russian. Beginning in 1942, Siemon William Muller delved into the relevant Russian literature held by the Library of Congress and the U.S. Geological Survey Library so that he was able to furnish the government an engineering field guide and a technical report about permafrost by 1943\", year in which he coined the term as a contraction of permamently frozen ground. Although originally classified (as U.S. Army. Office of the Chief of Engineers, \"Strategic Engineering Study\", no. 62, 1943), in 1947 a revised report was released publicly, which is regarded as the first North American treatise on the subject.\n\nPermafrost is soil, rock or sediment that is frozen for more than two consecutive years. In areas not overlain by ice, it exists beneath a layer of soil, rock or sediment, which freezes and thaws annually and is called the \"active layer\". In practice, this means that permafrost occurs at an mean annual temperature of or colder. Active layer thickness varies with the season, but is 0.3 to 4 meters thick (shallow along the Arctic coast; deep in southern Siberia and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau). The extent of permafrost varies with the climate: in the Northern Hemisphere today, 24% of the ice-free land area, equivalent to 19 million square kilometers, is more or less influenced by permafrost. Of this area slightly more than half is underlain by continuous permafrost, around 20 percent by discontinuous permafrost, and a little less than 30 percent by sporadic permafrost. Most of this area is found in Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland. Beneath the active layer annual temperature swings of permafrost become smaller with depth. The deepest depth of permafrost occurs where geothermal heat maintains a temperature above freezing. Above that bottom limit there may be permafrost, whose temperature doesn't change annually—\"isothermal permafrost\".\n\nPermafrost typically forms in any climate where the mean annual air temperature is less than the freezing point of water. Exceptions are found in moist-wintered forest climates, such as in Northern Scandinavia and the North-Eastern part of European Russia west of the Urals, where snow acts as an insulating blanket. Glaciated areas may be exceptions. Since all glaciers are warmed at their base by geothermal heat, temperate glaciers, which are near the pressure-melting point throughout, may have liquid water at the interface with the ground and are therefore free of underlying permafrost. \"Fossil\" cold anomalies in the Geothermal gradient in areas where deep permafrost developed during the Pleistocene persist down to several hundred metres. This is evident from temperature measurements in boreholes in North America and Europe.\n\nTypically, the below-ground temperature varies less from season to season than the air temperature, with mean annual temperatures tending to increase with depth as a result of the geothermal crustal gradient. Thus, if the mean annual air temperature is only slightly below , permafrost will form only in spots that are sheltered—usually with a northerly aspect—creating \"discontinuous permafrost\". Usually, permafrost will remain discontinuous in a climate where the mean annual soil surface temperature is between . In the moist-wintered areas mentioned before, there may not be even discontinuous permafrost down to . Discontinuous permafrost is often further divided into \"extensive discontinuous permafrost\", where permafrost covers between 50 and 90 percent of the landscape and is usually found in areas with mean annual temperatures between , and \"sporadic permafrost\", where permafrost cover is less than 50 percent of the landscape and typically occurs at mean annual temperatures between .\nIn soil science, the sporadic permafrost zone is abbreviated SPZ and the extensive discontinuous permafrost zone DPZ. Exceptions occur in \"un-glaciated\" Siberia and Alaska where the present depth of permafrost is a relic of climatic conditions during glacial ages where winters were up to colder than those of today.\n\nAt mean annual soil surface temperatures below the influence of aspect can never be sufficient to thaw permafrost and a zone of \"continuous permafrost\" (abbreviated to CPZ) forms. A \"line of continuous permafrost\" in the Northern Hemisphere represents the most southerly border where land is covered by continuous permafrost or glacial ice. The line of continuous permafrost varies around the world northward or southward due to regional climatic changes. In the southern hemisphere, most of the equivalent line would fall within the Southern Ocean if there were land there. Most of the Antarctic continent is overlain by glaciers, under which much of the terrain is subject to basal melting. The exposed land of Antarctica is substantially underlain with permafrost, some of which is subject to warming and thawing along the coastline.\n\nEstimates of the total area of alpine permafrost vary. Bockheim and Munroe combined three sources and made the tabulated estimates by region, totaling .\n\nAlpine permafrost in the Andes has not been mapped. Its extent has been modeled to assess the amount of water bound up in these areas. In 2009, a researcher from Alaska found permafrost at the level on Africa's highest peak, Mount Kilimanjaro, approximately 3° north of the equator.\n\nSubsea permafrost occurs beneath the seabed and exists in the continental shelves of the polar regions. These areas formed during the last ice age, when a larger portion of Earth's water was bound up in ice sheets on land and when sea levels were low. As the ice sheets melted to again become seawater, the permafrost became submerged shelves under relatively warm and salty boundary conditions, compared to surface permafrost. Therefore, subsea permafrost exists in conditions that lead to its diminishment. According to Osterkamp, subsea permafrost is a factor in the \"design, construction, and operation of coastal facilities, structures founded on the seabed, artificial islands, sub-sea pipelines, and wells drilled for exploration and production.\" It also contains gas hydrates in places, which are both a \"potential abundant source of energy\", but also may destabilize, as subsea permafrost warms and thaws, producing large amounts of methane gas, which is a potent green-house gas.\n\nPermafrost extends to a base depth where geothermal heat from the Earth and the mean annual temperature at the surface achieve an equilibrium temperature of 0 °C. The base depth of permafrost reaches in the northern Lena and Yana River basins in Siberia. The geothermal gradient is the rate of increasing temperature with respect to increasing depth in the Earth's interior. Away from tectonic plate boundaries, it is about 25–30 °C/km (72–87 °F/mi) near the surface in most of the world. It varies with the thermal conductivity of geologic material and is less for permafrost in soil than in bedrock.\n\nCalculations indicate that the time required to form the deep permafrost underlying Prudhoe Bay, Alaska was over a half-million years. This extended over several glacial and interglacial cycles of the Pleistocene and suggests that the present climate of Prudhoe Bay is probably considerably warmer than it has been on average over that period. Such warming over the past 15,000 years is widely accepted. The table to the right shows that the first hundred metres of permafrost forms relatively quickly but that deeper levels take progressively longer.\n\nWhen the ice content of a permafrost exceeds 250 percent (ice to dry soil by mass) it is classified as \"massive\" ice. Massive ice bodies can range in composition, in every conceivable gradation from icy mud to pure ice. Massive icy beds have a minimum thickness of at least 2 m, a short diameter of at least 10 m. First recorded North American observations were by European scientists at Canning River, Alaska in 1919. Russian literature provides an earlier date of 1735 and 1739 during the Great North Expedition by P. Lassinius and Kh. P. Laptev, respectively. Two categories of massive ground ice are \"buried surface ice\" and \"intrasedimental ice\" (also called \"constitutional ice\").\n\nBuried surface ice may derive from snow, frozen lake or sea ice, aufeis (stranded river ice) and—probably the most prevalent—buried glacial ice.\n\nIntrasedimental ice forms by in-place freezing of subterranean waters and is dominated by segregational ice which results from the crystallizational differentiation taking place during the freezing of wet sediments, accompanied by water migrating to the freezing front.\n\nIntrasedimental or constitutional ice has been widely observed and studied across Canada and also includes intrusive and injection ice.\n\nAdditionally, ice wedges—a separate type of ground ice—produce recognizable patterned ground or tundra polygons. Ice wedges form in a pre-existing geological substrate and were first described in 1919.\n\nPermafrost processes manifest themselves in large-scale land forms, such as palsas and pingos and smaller-scale phenomena, such as patterned ground found in arctic, periglacial and alpine areas.\n\nThe permafrost carbon cycle (Arctic Carbon Cycle) deals with the transfer of carbon from permafrost soils to terrestrial vegetation and microbes, to the atmosphere, back to vegetation, and finally back to permafrost soils through burial and sedimentation due to cryogenic processes. Some of this carbon is transferred to the ocean and other portions of the globe through the global carbon cycle. The cycle includes the exchange of carbon dioxide and methane between terrestrial components and the atmosphere, as well as the transfer of carbon between land and water as methane, dissolved organic carbon, dissolved inorganic carbon, particulate inorganic carbon and particulate organic carbon.\n\nArctic permafrost has been diminishing for many centuries. The consequence is thawing soil, which may be weaker, and release of methane, which contributes to an increased rate of global warming as part of a feedback loop.\n\nAt the Last Glacial Maximum, continuous permafrost covered a much greater area than it does today, covering all of ice-free Europe south to about Szeged (southeastern Hungary) and the Sea of Azov (then dry land) and East Asia south to present-day Changchun and Abashiri. In North America, only an extremely narrow belt of permafrost existed south of the ice sheet at about the latitude of New Jersey through southern Iowa and northern Missouri, but permafrost was more extensive in the drier western regions where it extended to the southern border of Idaho and Oregon. In the southern hemisphere, there is some evidence for former permafrost from this period in central Otago and Argentine Patagonia, but was probably discontinuous, and is related to the tundra. Alpine permafrost also occurred in the Drakensberg during glacial maxima above about .\n\nThe ground can consist of many substrate materials, including bedrock, sediment, organic matter, water or ice. Frozen ground is that which is below the freezing point of water, whether or not water is present in the substrate. Ground ice is not always present, as may be the case with nonporous bedrock, but it frequently occurs and may be present in amounts exceeding the potential hydraulic saturation of the thawed substrate.\n\nBy definition, permafrost is ground that remains frozen for two or more years. Since frozen soil, including permafrost, comprises a large percentage of substrate materials other than ice, it thaws rather than melts even as any ice content melts. An analogy is when a freezer door is left open, although the ice in the freezer may change phase to a liquid, the food solids will not experience a phase change. In aggregate, the food \"thaws\" but does not \"melt\". \"Melting\" implies the phase change of all solids to liquid. One visible sign of permafrost degradation is the random displacement of trees from their vertical orientation in permafrost areas.\n\nAs a consequence, precipitation has increased which in turn results in the weakening and eventual collapse of buildings in areas such as Norilsk in northern Russia, which lies upon the permafrost.\n\nOver the past century, an increasing number of alpine rock slope failure events in mountain ranges around the world have been recorded. It is expected that the high number of structural failures is due to permafrost thawing, which is thought to be linked to climate change. Permafrost thawing is thought to have contributed to the 1987 Val Pola landslide that killed 22 people in the Italian Alps. In mountain ranges, much of the structural stability can be attributed to glaciers and permafrost. As climate warms, permafrost thaws, which results in a less stable mountain structure, and ultimately more slope failures. \nIncreasing temperatures allow deeper active layer depths, resulting in increased water infiltration. Ice within the soil melts, causing loss of soil strength, accelerated movement, and potential debris flows.\nMcSaveney reported massive rock and ice falls (up to 11.8 million m), earthquakes (up to 3.9 Richter), floods (up to 7.8 million m water), and rapid rock-ice flow to long distances (up to 7.5 km at 60 m/s) caused by “instability of slopes” in high mountain permafrost. Instability of slopes in permafrost at elevated temperatures near freezing point in warming permafrost is related to effective stress and buildup of pore-water pressure in these soils. Kia and his co-inventors invented a new filter-less rigid piezometer (FRP) for measuring pore-water pressure in partially frozen soils such as warming permafrost soils. They extended the use of effective stress concept to partially frozen soils for use in slope stability analysis of warming permafrost slopes. The use of effective stress concept has many advantages such as ability to extend the concepts of \"Critical State Soil Mechanics\" into frozen ground engineering.\n\nIn the northern circumpolar region, permafrost contains 1700 billion tons of organic material equaling almost half of all organic material in all soils. This pool was built up over thousands of years and is only slowly degraded under the cold conditions in the Arctic. The amount of carbon sequestered in permafrost is four times the carbon that has been released to the atmosphere due to human activities in modern time. One manifestation of this is yedoma, which is an organic-rich (about 2% carbon by mass) Pleistocene-age loess permafrost with ice content of 50–90% by volume.\n\nFormation of permafrost has significant consequences for ecological systems, primarily due to constraints imposed upon rooting zones, but also due to limitations on den and burrow geometries for fauna requiring subsurface homes. Secondary effects impact species dependent on plants and animals whose habitat is constrained by the permafrost. One of the most widespread examples is the dominance of Black Spruce in extensive permafrost areas, since this species can tolerate rooting pattern constrained to the near surface.\n\nOne gram of soil from the active layer may include more than one billion bacteria cells. If placed along each other, bacteria from one kilogram of active layer soil will form a 1000 km long chain. The number of bacteria in permafrost soil varies widely, typically from 1 to 1000 million per gram of soil. Most of these bacteria and fungi in permafrost soil can not be cultured in the laboratory, but the identity of the microorganisms can be revealed by DNA-based techniques.\n\nThe Arctic region is one of the many natural sources of the greenhouse gas methane. Global warming accelerates its release, due to both release of methane from existing stores, and from methanogenesis in rotting biomass. Large quantities of methane are stored in the Arctic in natural gas deposits, permafrost, and as submarine clathrates. Permafrost and clathrates degrade on warming, thus large releases of methane from these sources may arise as a result of global warming. Other sources of methane include submarine taliks, river transport, ice complex retreat, submarine permafrost and decaying gas hydrate deposits. Preliminary computer analyses suggest that permafrost could produce carbon equal to 15 percent or so of today’s emissions from human activities.\n\nA hypothesis forwarded by Sergey Zimov is that the reduction of herds of large herbivores has increased the ratio of energy emission and energy absorption tundra (energy balance) in a manner that increases the tendency for net thawing of permafrost. He is testing this hypothesis in an experiment at Pleistocene Park, a nature reserve in northeastern Siberia.\nAccording to IPCC Fifth Assessment Report there is high confidence that permafrost temperatures have increased in most regions since the early 1980s. Observed warming was up to 3 °C in parts of Northern Alaska (early 1980s to mid-2000s) and up to 2 °C in parts of the Russian European North (1971–2010). In Yukon, the zone of continuous permafrost might have moved poleward since 1899, but accurate records only go back 30 years. It is thought that permafrost thawing could exacerbate global warming by releasing methane and other hydrocarbons, which are powerful greenhouse gases. It also could encourage erosion because permafrost lends stability to barren Arctic slopes.\n\nArctic temperatures are expected to increase at roughly twice the global rate. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will in their fifth report establish scenarios for the future, where the temperature in the Arctic will rise between 1.5 and 2.5 °C by 2040 and with 2 to 7.5 °C by 2100. Estimates vary on how many tons of greenhouse gases are emitted from thawed permafrost soils. One estimate suggests that 110–231 billion tons of CO equivalents (about half from carbon dioxide and the other half from methane) will be emitted by 2040, and 850–1400 billion tons by 2100. This corresponds to an average annual emission rate of 4–8 billion tons of CO equivalents in the period 2011–2040 and annually 10–16 billion tons of CO equivalents in the period 2011–2100 as a result of thawing permafrost. For comparison, the anthropogenic emission of all greenhouse gases in 2010 is approximately 48 billion tons of CO equivalents. Release of greenhouse gases from thawed permafrost to the atmosphere may increase global warming.\n\nThe International Permafrost Association (IPA) is an integrator of issues regarding permafrost. It convenes International Permafrost Conferences, undertakes special projects such as preparing databases, maps, bibliographies, and glossaries, and coordinates international field programmes and networks. Among other issues addressed by the IPA are: Problems for construction on permafrost owing to the change of soil properties of the ground on which structures are placed and the biological processes in permafrost, e.g. the preservation of organisms frozen \"in situ\".\n\nBuilding on permafrost is difficult because the heat of the building (or pipeline) can thaw the permafrost and destabilize the structure. Three common solutions include: using foundations on wood piles; building on a thick gravel pad (usually 1–2 metres/3.3–6.6 feet thick); or using anhydrous ammonia heat pipes. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System uses heat pipes built into vertical supports to prevent the pipeline from sinking and the Qingzang railway in Tibet employs a variety of methods to keep the ground cool, both in areas with frost-susceptible soil. Permafrost may necessitate special enclosures for buried utilities, called \"utilidors\".\n\nThe \"Permafrost Research Institute\" in Yakutsk, found that the sinking of large buildings into the ground can be prevented by using pile foundations extending down to or more. At this depth the temperature does not change with the seasons, remaining at about .\n\nIn 2012, Russian researchers proved that permafrost can serve as a natural repository for ancient life forms by reviving of \"Silene stenophylla\" from 30,000 year old tissue found in an Ice Age squirrel burrow in the Siberian permafrost. This is the oldest plant tissue ever revived. The plant was fertile, producing white flowers and viable seeds. The study demonstrated that tissue can survive ice preservation for tens of thousands of years. A 2016 outbreak of anthrax in the Yamal Peninsula is believed to be due to thawing permafrost.\n\n"}
{"id": "58664232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58664232", "title": "Phakalane power station", "text": "Phakalane power station\n\nPhakalane Power Station is a photovoltaic pilot power plant located in Phakalane, Botswana. The power station was funded through a Japanese grant which was part of Prime Minister Hatoyama's initiative strategy called Cool Earth Partnership aimed at supporting developing countries in their efforts to combat global warming. The Cool Earth Partnership is part of the initiatives which saw Hatoyama win the Sustainable Development Leadership Award in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "271121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271121", "title": "Robert FitzRoy", "text": "Robert FitzRoy\n\nVice-Admiral Robert FitzRoy RN, FRS (5 July 1805 – 30 April 1865) was an English officer of the Royal Navy and a scientist. He achieved lasting fame as the captain of during Charles Darwin's famous voyage, FitzRoy's second expedition to Tierra del Fuego and the Southern Cone.\n\nFitzRoy was a pioneering meteorologist who made accurate daily weather predictions, which he called by a new name of his own invention: \"forecasts\". In 1854 he established what would later be called the Met Office, and created systems to get weather information to sailors and fishermen for their safety. He was an able surveyor and hydrographer. As Governor of New Zealand, serving from 1843 to 1845, he tried to protect the Māori from illegal land sales claimed by British settlers.\n\nRobert FitzRoy was born at Ampton Hall, Ampton, Suffolk, England, into the upper echelons of the British aristocracy and a tradition of public service. Through his father, General Lord Charles FitzRoy, Robert was a fourth great-grandson of Charles II of England; his paternal grandfather was Augustus Henry FitzRoy, 3rd Duke of Grafton. His mother, Lady Frances Stewart, was the daughter of the first Marquess of Londonderry and the half-sister of Viscount Castlereagh, who became Foreign Secretary. From the age of four, Robert FitzRoy lived with his family at Wakefield Lodge, their Palladian mansion in Northamptonshire.\n\nRobert's half-brother Sir Charles FitzRoy later served as Governor of New South Wales, Governor of Prince Edward Island and Governor of Antigua.\n\nIn February 1818 at the age of 12, FitzRoy entered the Royal Naval College, Portsmouth, and in the following year he entered the Royal Navy. At the age of 14, he embarked as a voluntary student aboard the frigate , which sailed to South America in the middle of 1820, and returned in January 1822. He was promoted to midshipman while on the vessel. FitzRoy served on as a midshipman.\n\nHe completed his course with distinction and was promoted lieutenant on 7 September 1824, having passed the examination with 'full numbers' (100%), the first to achieve this result. After serving on , in 1828 he was appointed flag lieutenant to Rear-Admiral Sir Robert Waller Otway, commander-in-chief of the South American station, aboard .\n\nAt that time \"Beagle\", under Captain Pringle Stokes, was carrying out a hydrographic survey of Tierra del Fuego, under the overall command of Captain Phillip Parker King in HMS \"Adventure\". Pringle Stokes became severely depressed and fatally shot himself. Under Lieutenant Skyring, the ship sailed to Rio de Janeiro, where Otway appointed FitzRoy as (temporary) captain of the \"Beagle\" on 15 December 1828. By the ship's return to England on 14 October 1830, FitzRoy had established his reputation as a surveyor and commander.\n\nDuring the survey, some of his men were camping onshore when a group of Fuegian natives made off with their boat. His ship gave chase and, after a scuffle, the culprits' families were brought on board as hostages. Eventually FitzRoy held two boys, a girl and two men (one man escaped.) As it was not possible to put them ashore conveniently, he decided to \"civilise the savages\", teaching them \"English ... the plainer truths of Christianity ... and the use of common tools\" before returning them as missionaries.\n\nThe sailors gave them names: the girl was called Fuegia Basket (so named because the replacement for the stolen boat was an improvised coracle that resembled a basket), the boy Jemmy Button (FitzRoy purchased him with buttons), and the man he named York Minster (after the large rock near which he was captured). The second boy was called Boat Memory. FitzRoy brought the four back with the ship to England. Boat Memory died following a smallpox vaccination. The others were cared for and taught by the trainee missionary Richard Matthews; they were considered civilised enough to be presented at Court to King William IV and Queen Adelaide in the summer of 1831.\n\nIn early May 1831 FitzRoy stood as Tory candidate for Ipswich in the General Election, but was defeated. His hopes of obtaining a new posting and organising a missionary project to Tierra del Fuego appeared to be failing. He was arranging for the charter of a ship at his own expense to return the Fuegians with Matthews when his friend Francis Beaufort, Hydrographer to the British Admiralty, and his \"kind uncle\", the Duke of Grafton, interceded on his behalf at the Admiralty. On 25 June 1831 FitzRoy was re-appointed commander of the \"Beagle\". He spared no expense in fitting out the ship.\n\nHe was conscious of the stressful loneliness of command. He knew of the suicides both of Captain Stokes and of his uncle Viscount Castlereagh, who had cut his own throat in 1822 while in government office. FitzRoy talked to Beaufort in August 1831, asking him to find a suitable gentleman companion for the voyage. Such a companion should share his scientific tastes, make good use of the expedition's opportunities for researching natural history, dine with him as an equal, and provide a semblance of normal human friendship. While those Beaufort first approached (including Professor J. S. Henslow of the University of Cambridge) turned the opportunity down, FitzRoy eventually approved Charles Darwin for the position. Before they left England, FitzRoy gave Darwin a copy of the first volume of Charles Lyell's \"Principles of Geology\", a book the captain had read that explained terrestrial features as the outcome of a gradual process taking place over extremely long periods. FitzRoy took a request from Lyell to record observations on geological features, such as erratic boulders.\n\nFitzRoy and Darwin got on well together, but there were inevitable strains during the five-year survey voyage. The captain had a violent temper, his outbursts had gained him the nickname \"Hot Coffee\", which resulted in quarrels sometimes \"bordering on insanity\", as Darwin later recalled. On a memorable occasion in March 1832 at Bahia, Brazil, Darwin was horrified at tales of the treatment of slaves. FitzRoy, while not endorsing brutality, recounted how an \"estancia\" owner once asked his slaves if they wished to be free and was told they did not. Darwin asked FitzRoy if he thought slaves could answer such a question honestly when it was posed by their master, at which the captain lost his temper and, before storming out, told Darwin that if he doubted his word they could no longer live together; effectively he banished Darwin from his table. Before nightfall FitzRoy's temper cooled and he sent an apology, with the request that Darwin \"continue to live with him.\" They avoided the subject of slavery from that time on. None of their quarrels were over religious or doctrinal issues; such disagreements came after the voyage.\n\nAt the island of \"Buttons Land\" in Tierra del Fuego they set up a mission post, but when they returned nine days later, the possessions had been looted. Matthews gave up, rejoining the ship. He left the three \"westernised\" Fuegians to continue the missionary work.\n\nWhile in the Falkland Islands, FitzRoy bought a schooner out of his own funds to assist with the surveying tasks he had been asked to complete. He had it refitted and renamed \"Adventure\", hoping that the cost would be reimbursed by the Admiralty. They returned to the mission post but found only Jemmy Button. He had returned to native ways and refused the offer to go with them back to England.\n\nAt Valparaiso in 1834, while Charles Darwin was away from the ship exploring the Andes, the Admiralty reprimanded FitzRoy for buying the \"Adventure\". He took the criticism badly, selling the schooner and announcing they would go back to recheck his survey, then resigning his command with doubts about his sanity. The ship's officers persuaded him to withdraw his resignation and continue as planned once Darwin returned to the ship. FitzRoy continued his voyage, sailing on to the Galapagos, Tahiti, New Zealand, Australia and South Africa. He detoured to Bahia in Brazil on the return voyage so that he could carry out an additional check, to ensure the accuracy of his longitude measurements before returning to England.\n\nSoon after the \"Beagle\"'s return on 2 October 1836, FitzRoy married Mary Henrietta O'Brien, a young woman to whom he had long been engaged. Darwin was amazed, as not once during the entire five years of the trip had FitzRoy spoken about being engaged.\n\nFitzRoy was awarded a gold medal by the Royal Geographical Society in 1837. Extracts from his diary read to the society on 8 May 1837 included the observation:\n\nFitzRoy wrote his account of the voyage, including editing the notes of the previous captain of the \"Beagle.\" It was published in May 1839 as the \"Narrative of the Surveying Voyages of H.M.S. Adventure and Beagle,\" in four volumes, including Darwin's \"Journal and Remarks, 1832—1836\" as the third volume. FitzRoy's account includes a section of \"Remarks with reference to the Deluge\" in which he admits that, having read works \"by geologists who contradict, by implication, if not in plain terms, the authenticity of the Scriptures\" and \"while led away by sceptical ideas,\" he had remarked to a friend that the vast plain of sedimentary material they were crossing \"could never have been effected by a forty days' flood.\" He wrote that in his \"turn of mind and ignorance of scripture,\" he was willing to disbelieve the Biblical account. Concerned that such ideas might \"reach the eyes of young sailors,\" he explains in detail his renewed commitment to a literal reading of the Bible, with arguments that rock layers high in the mountains containing sea shells are proof of Noah's Flood and that the six days of creation could not have extended over aeons because the grass, herbs and trees would have died out during the long nights.\n\nR.D. Keynes, in his introduction to the 2001 edition of Darwin's diary, suggests that FitzRoy had undergone a religious conversion. He was dissociating himself from the new ideas of Charles Lyell, which he had accepted during the voyage, and from Darwin's account which embraced these ideas. Under the influence of his very religious wife, he asserted a new commitment to the doctrine of the established Church of England.\n\nIn 1841 FitzRoy was elected the Tory Member of Parliament for Durham. He was appointed Acting Conservator of the River Mersey in 1842.\n\nThe first Governor of New Zealand, Captain William Hobson, R.N., died in late 1842. The Church Missionary Society, which had a strong New Zealand presence, suggested FitzRoy as his successor and he was appointed by the government. He took up his new task in December 1843. On the journey to New Zealand, he met William John Warburton Hamilton and made him his private secretary.\n\nHis instructions were to maintain order and protect the Māori, while satisfying the land hunger of the settlers pouring into the country. He was given very few military resources. Government revenue, mainly from customs duties, was woefully inadequate for his responsibilities.\n\nOne of his first tasks was to enquire into the circumstances surrounding the Wairau Affray, in which there had been violent conflict between settlers and the Maori. He found the actions of the colonists to have been illegal and declined to take any action against Te Rauparaha. He did not have the troops to meet him on anything like equal terms. But the New Zealand Company and the settlers felt betrayed and angry. He appointed a Government Superintendent for the area, to establish a ruling presence. Fitzroy also insisted that the New Zealand Company pay the Māori a realistic price for the land they claimed to have purchased. These moves made him very unpopular.\n\nLand sales were a continuing vexatious issue. The settlers were eager to buy land and some Māori were willing to sell, but under the provisions of the Treaty of Waitangi, land sales required the Government as an intermediary, and were thus extremely slow. FitzRoy changed the rules to allow settlers to purchase Māori land directly, subject to a duty of ten shillings per acre. But land sales proved slower than expected.\n\nTo meet the financial shortfall, FitzRoy raised the customs duties, then replaced them with property and income taxes. All these expedients failed. Before long the Colony was faced with bankruptcy, and FitzRoy was forced to begin issuing promissory notes, paper money without backing.\n\nMeanwhile, the Māori in the far North, around the Bay of Islands, who had been the first to sign the Treaty of Waitangi, were feeling increasingly sidelined and resentful of the changes that had taken place in New Zealand. To signal their resentment, Hone Heke cut down the flagpole at Kororareka. Rather than address the problems, FitzRoy had the flagpole re-erected. Hone Heke cut it down again, four times altogether; by the fourth occasion the First New Zealand War, sometimes called the Flagstaff War or the Northern War, was well under way.\n\nFitzRoy quickly realized that he did not have the resources to bring about a quick end to the war. Meanwhile, the spokesmen for the New Zealand Company were active back in the United Kingdom, lobbying against FitzRoy's Governorship, which they presented to the House of Commons in a very poor light. As a result, he was shortly afterwards recalled and replaced by George Grey, then Governor of South Australia. Grey was given the backing and financial support that FitzRoy had needed but was denied.\n\nFitzRoy returned to Britain in September 1848 and was made superintendent of the Royal Naval Dockyards at Woolwich. In March 1849 he was given his final sea command, the screw frigate .\n\nIn 1850, FitzRoy retired from active service, partly due to ill health. The following year, in 1851, he was elected to the Royal Society with the support of 13 fellows, including Charles Darwin.\n\nIn 1854, on the recommendation of the President of the Royal Society, FitzRoy was appointed as chief of a new department to deal with the collection of weather data at sea. His title was \"Meteorological Statist to the Board of Trade\", and he had a staff of three. This was the forerunner of the modern Meteorological Office. He arranged for captains of ships to provide information, with tested instruments being loaned for this purpose, and for computation of the data collected.\nFitzRoy soon began to work on strategies to make weather information more widely available for the safety of shipping and fishermen. He directed the design and distribution of a type of barometer which, on his recommendation, was fixed at every port to be available to crews for consultation before setting out to sea. Stone housings for such barometers are still visible at many fishing harbours. The invention of several different types of barometers was attributed to him. These became popular and continued in production into the 20th century, characteristically engraved with \"Admiral FitzRoy's special remarks\" on interpretation, such as: \"When rising: In winter the rise of the barometer presages frost.\"\n\nA storm in 1859 that caused the loss of the \"Royal Charter\" inspired FitzRoy to develop charts to allow predictions to be made in which he coined the term \"weather forecast\". Fifteen land stations were established to use the new telegraph to transmit to him daily reports of weather at set times. The first daily weather forecasts were published in \"The Times\" in 1861. The 1859 storm resulted in the Crown distributing storm glasses, then known as \"FitzRoy's storm barometers\", to many small fishing communities around the British Isles.\n\nIn 1860, FitzRoy introduced a system of hoisting storm warning cones at the principal ports when a gale was expected. He ordered fleets to stay in port under these conditions. The \"Weather Book,\" which he published in 1863, was far in advance of the scientific opinion of the time. Queen Victoria once sent messengers to FitzRoy's home requesting a weather forecast for a crossing she was about to make to the Isle of Wight.\n\nMany fishing fleet owners objected to the posting of gale warnings, which required that fleets not leave the ports. Under this pressure, FitzRoy's system was abandoned for a short time after his death. The fishing fleet owners reckoned without the pressure of the fishermen, for whom FitzRoy had been a hero responsible for saving many lives. The system would was eventually reinstated in simplified form in 1874.\n\nWhen \"The Origin of Species\" was published FitzRoy was dismayed and apparently felt guilty for his part in the theory's development. He was in Oxford on 30 June 1860 to present a paper on storms and attended the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at which Samuel Wilberforce attacked Darwin's theory. During the debate FitzRoy, seen as \"a grey haired Roman nosed elderly gentleman\", stood in the centre of the audience and \"lifting an immense Bible first with both and afterwards with one hand over his head, solemnly implored the audience to believe God rather than man\". As he admitted that \"The Origin of Species\" had given him \"acutest pain\", the crowd shouted him down.\n\nFitzRoy debunked Lieutenant Stephen Martin Saxby's lunar weather forecasting method as pseudoscience. Saxby tried to counter FitzRoy's arguments in the second edition of his book \"Saxby Weather System\" (1864).\n\nIn 1863 FitzRoy was promoted to Vice-Admiral due to seniority, but in the coming years internal and external troubles at the Meteorological Office, financial concerns as well as failing health, and his struggle with depression took their toll. On 30 April 1865, Vice-Admiral FitzRoy died by suicide by cutting his throat with a razor. FitzRoy died having exhausted his entire fortune (£6,000, the equivalent of £400,000 today) on public expenditure.\n\nWhen this came to light, in order to prevent his wife and daughter living in destitution, his friend and colleague Bartholomew Sulivan began an Admiral FitzRoy Testimonial Fund, which succeeded in getting the government to pay back £3,000 of this sum. (Charles Darwin contributed £100). Queen Victoria gave the special favour of allowing his widow and daughter the use of grace and favour apartments at Hampton Court Palace.\n\nFitzRoy is buried in the front churchyard of All Saints' Church in Upper Norwood, south London. His memorial was restored by the Meteorological Office in 1981.\n\nFitzRoy's book \"Sailing Directions for South America\" led Chilean hydrographer Francisco Hudson to investigate the possible existence of a sailing route through internal waters from the Chiloé Archipelago to the Straits of Magellan. Hudson was the first to realise that the Isthmus of Ofqui made this route impossible.\n\nRobert FitzRoy was married twice. In 1836 he married Mary Henrietta O'Brien. They had four children: Emily-Unah, Fanny, Katherine and Robert O'Brien. In 1854, after the death of his first wife, he married Maria Isabella Smyth in London. They had one daughter, Laura Elizabeth.\n\nA memorial to FitzRoy is erected atop a metamorphic outcrop beside the Bahia Wulaia dome middens on Isla Navarino, in the Chilean part of Tierra del Fuego archipelago, South America. It was presented in his bicentenary (2005) and commemorates his 23 January 1833 landing on Wulaia Cove. Another memorial, presented also in FitzRoy's bicentenary, commemorates his Cape Horn landing on 19 April 1830.\n\nMount Fitz Roy (Argentina–Chile, at the extreme south of the continent), was named after him by the Argentine scientist and explorer Francisco Moreno. It is high. The aboriginals had not named it, and used the word \"chaltén\" (meaning smoking mountain) for this and other peaks. Fitzroy River, in northern Western Australia, was named after him by Lieutenant John Lort Stokes who, at the time, commanded HMS \"Beagle\" (previously commanded by FitzRoy). The South American conifer \"Fitzroya cupressoides\" is named after him, as well as the \"Delphinus fitzroyi\", a species of dolphin discovered by Darwin during his voyage aboard the \"Beagle\". Fitzroy, Falkland Islands and Port Fitzroy, New Zealand are also named after him.\n\nThe World War II Captain class frigate was named after him, as was the weather ship \"Admiral Fitzroy\" (formerly ). In 2010 New Zealand's National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (NIWA) named its new IBM supercomputer \"FitzRoy\" in honour of him.\n\nOn 4 February 2002, when the shipping forecast sea area Finisterre was renamed to avoid confusion with the (smaller) French and Spanish forecast area of the same name, the new name chosen by the UK's Meteorological Office was \"FitzRoy\", in honour of their founder.\n\nFitzRoy has been commemorated by the Fitzroy Building at the University of Plymouth, used by the School of Earth, Ocean and Environmental Science.\n\nThere is blue plaque on FitzRoy's house at 38 Onslow Square, London.\n\nVice-Admiral Robert FitzRoy was commemorated on two stamps issued by the Royal Mail for the Falkland Islands and St Helena.\n\nFitzroy Island in Queensland, Australia is named after FitzRoy, as are the Fitzroy River and subsequently Fitzroy Crossing in Western Australia.\n\nThe BBC made a BAFTA award-winning television series in 1978 titled The Voyage of Charles Darwin where Captain Robert Fitzroy was played by actor Andrew Burt with Malcolm Stoddard as Charles Darwin with a storyline that followed the historic interaction between Darwin and FizRoy before and after their time together on HMS Beagle.\nIn 1997, the play \"FitzRoy\" by Juliet Aykroyd was first performed at the University of Reading. It has since been performed under the title \"The Ostrich and the Dolphin\" – alluding to Darwin's rhea and the Dusky dolphin, named \"Delphinus fitzroyi\" by Charles Darwin – before being published as \"Darwin & FitzRoy\" in October 2013.\n\nA novel by Argentinian writer, Sylvia Iparraguirre, entitled \"Tierra del Fuego\", was published in 2000. It retells the story of Fitzroy's experiment with \"civilizing\" the Yamaná from the perspective of a fictional narrator, British-Argentinian Jack Guevarra. The novel received the Sor Juana de la Cruz prize and was translated into English by Hardie St. Martin. \n\nA novel entitled \"This Thing of Darkness\" by Harry Thompson was published in 2005 (it was published in the U.S. in 2006 under the title \"To the Edge of the World\"). The novel's plot followed the lives of FitzRoy, Darwin and others connected with the Beagle expeditions, following them between the years of 1828 and 1865. It was a nominee on the long list for the 2005 Man Booker Prize (although Thompson died in November 2005).\n\nThe novel \"Darwin's Dreams\" by Sean Hoade was published in 2008 and republished in a new edition in 2016. The novel begins with the first meeting of Darwin and FitzRoy and ends with Darwin receiving notice of FitzRoy's suicide. The plot is interlaced with fictional ″dreams″ that imagine how the world would be if the ideas of evolutionary thinkers over the millennia had been literally true. The dreams also show how Darwin's subconscious dealt with major themes in his life such as the death of his beloved daughter Annie and his lifelong friendship and rivalry with FitzRoy.\n\nThe play \"Darwins Kapten\" was published by Henning Mankell in 2009, and had its world premiere in 2010 at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in Stockholm. It is about Charles Darwin and his journey with the \"Beagle\": many years after the five-year long voyage, Darwin receives a message that his captain on the ship, FitzRoy, has committed suicide. The play portrays the reception of Darwin's discoveries, as well as the consequences of taking a stand against existing ideas in a world that is built on belief in God as the only creator of life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2651861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2651861", "title": "Saline seep", "text": "Saline seep\n\nA saline seep is seep of saline water, with an area of alkali salt crystals that form when the salty water reaches the surface and evaporates. Various types of water movement form saline seeps, including capillary action from a water table under the surface, and a water table being brought to the surface in a flow.\n\nBiota adapted to saline conditions, often endemic, thrive in the specialized habitat.\n\nSaline seeps are considered detrimental for agriculture, as they may reduce yields and restrict growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "4968799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4968799", "title": "Sky brightness", "text": "Sky brightness\n\nSky brightness refers to the visual perception of the sky and how it scatters and diffuses light. The fact that the sky is not completely dark at night is easily visible. If light sources (e.g. the Moon and light pollution) were removed from the night sky, it would appear absolutely dark. Silhouettes of objects against the sky itself would not be visible.\n\nThe sky's brightness varies greatly over the day, and the primary cause differs as well. During daytime, when the Sun is above the horizon, the direct scattering of sunlight is the overwhelmingly dominant source of light. During twilight (the duration after sunset or before sunrise until or since, respectively, the full darkness of night), the situation is more complicated, and a further differentiation is required.\n\nTwilight (both dusk and dawn) is divided into three 6° segments that mark the Sun's position below the horizon. At civil twilight, the center of the Sun's disk appears to be between 1/4° and 6° below the horizon. At nautical twilight, the Sun's altitude is between –6° and –12°. At astronomical twilight, the Sun is between –12° and –18°. When the Sun's depth is more than 18°, the sky generally attains its maximum darkness.\n\nSources of the night sky's intrinsic brightness include airglow, indirect scattering of sunlight, scattering of starlight, and light pollution.\n\nWhen physicist Anders Ångström examined the spectrum of the aurora borealis, he discovered that even on nights when the aurora was absent, its characteristic green line was still present. It was not until the 1920s that scientists were beginning to identify and understand the emission lines in aurorae and of the sky itself, and what was causing them. The green line Angstrom observed is in fact an emission line with a wavelength of 557.7 nm, caused by the recombination of oxygen in the upper atmosphere.\n\nAirglow is the collective name of the various processes in the upper atmosphere that result in the emission of photons, with the driving force being primarily UV radiation from the Sun. Several emission lines are dominant: a green line from oxygen at 557.7 nm, a yellow doublet from sodium at 589.0 and 589.6 nm, and red lines from oxygen at 630.0 and 636.4 nm.\n\nThe sodium emissions come from a thin sodium layer approximately 10 km thick at an altitude of 90–100 km, above the mesopause and in the D-layer of the ionosphere. The red oxygen lines originate at altitudes of about 300 km, in the F-layer. The green oxygen emissions are more spatially distributed. How sodium gets to mesospheric heights is not yet well understood, but it is believed to be a combination of upward transport of sea salt and meteoritic dust.\n\nIn daytime, sodium and red oxygen emissions are dominant and roughly 1,000 times as bright as nighttime emissions because in daytime, the upper atmosphere is fully exposed to solar UV radiation. The effect is however not noticeable to the human eye, since the glare of directly scattered sunlight outshines and obscures it.\n\nIndirectly scattered sunlight comes from two directions. From the atmosphere itself, and from outer space. In the first case, the sun has just set but still illuminates the upper atmosphere directly. Because the amount of scattered sunlight is proportional to the number of scatterers (i.e. air molecules) in the line of sight, the intensity of this light decreases rapidly as the sun drops further below the horizon and illuminates less of the atmosphere.\n\nWhen the sun's altitude is < -6° 99% of the atmosphere in zenith is in the Earth's shadow and second order scattering takes over. At the horizon, however, 35% of the atmosphere along the line of sight is still directly illuminated, and continues to be until the sun reaches -12°. From -12° to -18° only the uppermost parts of the atmosphere along the horizon, directly above the spot where the sun is, is still illuminated. After that, all direct illumination ceases and astronomical darkness sets in.\n\nA second source sunlight is the zodiacal light, which is caused by reflection and scattering of sunlight on interplanetary dust. Zodiacal light varies quite a lot in intensity depending on the position of the earth, location of the observer, time of year, and composition and distribution of the reflecting dust.\n\nNot only sunlight is scattered by the molecules in the air. Starlight and the diffuse light of the milky way are also scattered by the air, and it is found that stars up to V magnitude 16 contribute to the diffuse scattered starlight.\n\nOther sources such as galaxies and nebulae don't contribute significantly.\n\nThe total brightness of all the stars was first measured by Burns in 1899, with a calculated result that the total brightness reaching earth was equivalent to that of 2,000 first-magnitude stars with subsequent measurements by others.\n\nLight pollution is an ever-increasing source of sky brightness in urbanized areas. In densely populated areas that do not have stringent light pollution control, the entire night sky is regularly 5 to 50 times brighter than it would be if all lights were switched off, and very often the influence of light pollution is far greater than natural sources (including moonlight). With urbanization and light pollution, one third of humanity, and the majority of those in developed countries, cannot see the Milky Way.\n\nWhen the sun has just set, the brightness of the sky decreases rapidly, thereby enabling us to see the airglow that is caused from such high altitudes that they are still fully sunlit until the sun drops more than about 12° below the horizon. During this time, yellow emissions from the sodium layer and red emissions from the 630 nm oxygen lines are dominant, and contribute to the purplish color sometimes seen during civil and nautical twilight.\n\nAfter the sun has also set for these altitudes at the end of nautical twilight, the intensity of light emanating from earlier mentioned lines decreases, until the oxygen-green remains as the dominant source.\n\nWhen astronomical darkness has set in, the green 557.7 nm oxygen line is dominant, and atmospheric scattering of starlight occurs.\n\nDifferential refraction causes different parts of the spectrum to dominate, producing a golden hour and a blue hour.\n\nThe following table gives the relative and absolute contributions to night sky brightness at zenith on a perfectly dark night at middle latitudes without moonlight and in the absence of any light pollution.\n\nThe total sky brightness in zenith is therefore ~220 S or 21.9 mag/arcsec² in the V-band. Note that the contributions from Airglow and Zodiacal light vary with the time of year, the solar cycle, and the observer's latitude roughly as follows:\n\nwhere \"S\" is the solar 10.7 cm flux in MJy, and various sinusoidally between 0.8 and 2.0 with the 11-year solar cycle, yielding an upper contribution of ~270 S at solar maximum.\n\nThe intensity of zodiacal light depends on the ecliptic latitude and longitude of the point in the sky being observed relative to that of the sun. At ecliptic longitudes differing from the sun's by > 90 degrees, the relation is \nwhere \"β\" is the ecliptic latitude and is smaller than 60°, when larger than 60 degrees the contribution is that given in the table. Along the ecliptic plane there are enhancements in the zodiacal light where it is much brighter near the sun and with a secondary maximum opposite the sun at 180 degrees longitude (the gegenschein).\n\nIn extreme cases natural zenith sky brightness can be as high as ~21.0 mag/arcsec², roughly twice as bright as nominal conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20650838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20650838", "title": "Superglass", "text": "Superglass\n\nA superglass is a phase of matter which is characterized (at the same time) by superfluidity and a frozen amorphous structure.\n\nJ.C. Séamus Davis theorised that frozen helium-4 (at 0.2 K and 50 Atm) may be a superglass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43576732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43576732", "title": "Synthetic fuel commercialization", "text": "Synthetic fuel commercialization\n\nWorldwide commercial synthetic fuels plant capacity is over , including indirect conversion Fischer-Tropsch plants in South Africa (Mossgas, Secunda CTL), Qatar (Oryx GTL), and Malaysia (Shell Bintulu), and a Mobil process (Methanol to Gasoline) plant in New Zealand.\n\nNumerous large projects are under construction in China and Qatar. Some analysts believe that Chinese CTL production will exceed that of South Africa by 2015, and new and existing GTL capacity in Qatar should also exceed the July 2009 South African production level some time in 2011.\n\nThe leading company in the commercialization of synthetic fuel is Sasol, a company based in South Africa. Sasol operates the world's only commercial Fischer Tropsch coal-to-liquids facility, Secunda CTL, with a capacity of .\n\nSasol's Oryx Fischer Tropsch gas-to-liquids plant in Ras Laffan Industrial City, Qatar is running at capacity, near its anticipated nameplate capacity.\n\nRoyal Dutch Shell operates a Fischer Tropsch gas-to-liquids plant in Bintulu, Malaysia.\n\nThe Mossgas gas to liquids plant in South Africa produces of Fischer Tropsch synthetic fuels.\n\nShenhua Group completed a trial run in mid-2009, and achieved stable operation in November 2010 of their 1.08 million ton per year (roughly ) direct coal liquefaction plant (Erdos CTL) in Ejin Horo Banner in north China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region. Shenhua eventually intends to expand the facility to 5 million tons per year (roughly ). The Shenhua also expects to complete a 6 Million ton per year (3 Million TPY first phase) coal-to-fuel project using its own Fischer Tropsch indirect conversion technology next to the Inner Mongolia plant in the third quarter of 2009. In September 2011, Shenhua reported profitable operation of its new CTL plant during the first half of the year 2011. The total production of the liquid fuel during that period was 470,000 t and the cost was equivalent to ~60 USD per barrel of crude oil.\n\nOther companies that have developed coal- or gas-to-liquids processes (at the pilot plant or commercial stage) include ExxonMobil, StatoilHydro, Rentech, and Syntroleum.\n\nSeveral companies have commercially viable plastics-to-liquid-fuel plants, including Cynar PLC (UK) and Agilyx Corp. (Oregon, USA).\n\nThe Pearl GTL project, a joint venture of Shell and Qatar Petroleum, is under construction in Ras Laffan, Qatar, and will produce of Fischer Tropsch petroleum liquids starting in 2011 (first train) and 2012 (second train).\n\nThe Escravos GTL project in Nigeria is expected to produce of Fischer Tropsch synthetic fuel in 2013.\n\nYankuang expects to break ground shortly on a (1 million ton per year) indirect synthetic fuels project. Final products will include 780,800 tons of diesel, 258,400 of naphtha, 56,480 of LPG.\n\nIn the United States, a number of different synthetic fuels projects are moving forward, with the first expected to enter commercial operation starting in 2015.\n\nBaard Energy, in its Ohio River Clean Fuels project, is developing a Fischer Tropsch gas and biomass to liquids project with the carbon capture and sequestration. Pending close of a financing package, Baard hopes to begin on site preparation work before the end of 2009, with plant construction starting in 2010. Initial project startup is anticipated in 2013, with full production capacity targeted in 2015.\n\nDKRW Advanced Fuels LLC is developing a methanol to gasoline (Mobil process) coal to liquids plant with carbon capture and sequestration (through carbon dioxide enhanced oil recovery) in Medicine Bow, Wyoming. The project is expected to begin operation in 2015.\n\nChoren Industries in Freiberg, Germany has the only operational Biomass to Liquids (BTL) demonstration plant that produces 300 barrels of Fischer Tropsch fuels per day.\n\nBioleum Resources is building India's first Biomass to Liquids plant near Pune, India.\n\nAn effort has been undertaken to certify various synthetic fuels for use in US and international aviation fleets. This is being led by an industry coalition known as the Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative(CAAFI), also supported by a parallel initiative under way in the US Air Force to certify synthetic fuels for use in all aviation platforms. The US Air Force has certified 99% of it fleet for use with a 50/50 blend of conventional and FT Synthetic Fuel.\n\nThe CAAFI initiative has also succeeded in achieving full ASTM certification for a 50/50 blend of both FT-SPK and HEFA synthetic fuels for use in civilian aviation platforms.\nOn 1 February 2008, a three-hour Airbus A380 test flight operated between Britain and France, with one of four engines using a mix of 60% standard jet fuel and 40% GTL fuel supplied by Shell.\nThe aircraft needed no modifications, Airbus said the GTL used has the same CO emmissions but contains no sulphur for better air quality.\n\nIn April 2008, Sasol announced that they have achieved the first approval for 100% synthetic jet fuel use sanctioned by global aviation fuel specification authorities.\n\nOn 12 October 2009, a Qatar Airways Airbus A340-600 conducted the world's first commercial passenger flight using a mixture of kerosene and synthetic Gas-to-Liquid fuel in its flight from London's Gatwick Airport to Doha.\n\nOn 15 July 2011 Lufthansa has launched a 6-month biofuel trial on regular scheduled flights. The route selected for the test flights is Hamburg-Frankfurt-Hamburg and it will be covered by an Airbus 321 with the registration D-AIDG.\n\nFuture blends and fuel formulations may result in a JBUFF (Joint Battlespace Use Fuel of the Future) or a single battlespace fuel that can be used in both diesel and jet fuel application. A JBUFF fuel will allow for rapid deployment and logistic enhancement for military and emergency aid environments where various types of equipment can be operated with one fuel in place of several types of fuel.\n\nISFuel Incorporated received a patent for the formulation of fully synthetic joint fuel.\n\nIn addition to their certification efforts, the United States Air Force has publicly stated their intention to fuel half of their domestic US flights with synthetic fuel by 2016. The commercial aviation industry, working with potential suppliers via CAAFI, is also pushing hard to secure sources of fuel.\n\nThe United States Department of Energy projects that domestic consumption of synthetic fuel made from coal and natural gas will rise to in 2030 based on a price of $57 per barrel of high sulfur crude.\n\nNumerous American companies (TECO, Progress Energy, DTE Energy, Marriott) have also taken advantage of coal-based synfuel tax credits established in the 1970s, although many of the products qualifying for the subsidy are not true synthetic fuels.\n\nThe coal industry uses the credit to increase profits on coal-burning powerplants by introducing a \"pre-treatment\" process that satisfies the technical requirements, then burns the result the same as it would burn coal. Sometimes the amount gained in the tax credit is a major factor in the economic operation of the plant. The synfuel tax credit has been used primarily in this manner since the cheap gas prices of the 1980s stopped any major efforts to create a transportation fuel with the credit, and its continuation is seen as a major \"pork project\" win for coal industry lobbyists, costing $9 billion per annum. The total production of such synfuels in the United States was an estimated 73 million tons in 2002.\n\nThe synthetic fuel tax credit, Section 45K, under which these activities occurred, expired 31 December 2007.\n"}
{"id": "46400407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46400407", "title": "The Cave of the Storm Nymphs", "text": "The Cave of the Storm Nymphs\n\nThe Cave of the Storm Nymphs is a painting by British artist Edward Poynter, depicting three nude sirens or nymphs from Greek mythology that lure sailors to their deaths. Poynter painted two versions, one in 1902 and the other in 1903, with minor differences. The former is housed in the Norfolk's Hermitage Museum, and the latter is in the private collection of Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber. One of the depicted sirens is playing a golden stringed, tortoise-shell lyre, while the other two sirens rejoice amid the foundering ship, expecting to add to the cave’s treasure.\n\nIn 1901, Poynter drew a preparatory study for the painting, housed in the National Gallery of Canada. The study was donated to the National Gallery of Canada by Dennis T. Lanigan Collection in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "66680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66680", "title": "Tropic of Capricorn", "text": "Tropic of Capricorn\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn (or the Southern Tropic) is the circle of latitude that contains the subsolar point on the December (or southern) solstice. It is thus the southernmost latitude where the Sun can be directly overhead. Its northern equivalent is the Tropic of Cancer.\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of Earth. As of , its latitude is south of the Equator, but it is very gradually moving northward, currently at the rate of 0.47 arcseconds, or 15 metres, per year.\n\nWhen this line of latitude was named in the last centuries BC, the Sun was in the constellation Capricornus (Latin for \"goat horn\") at the December solstice, the time each year that the Sun reaches its zenith at this latitude. Due to the precession of the equinoxes, this is no longer the case; today the Sun is in Sagittarius at the December solstice. The word \"tropic\" itself comes from the Greek \"trope (τροπή)\", meaning to turn or change direction, referring to the fact that the Sun appears to \"turn back\" at the solstices.\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn is the dividing line between the Southern Temperate Zone to the south and the tropics to the north. The Northern Hemisphere equivalent of the Tropic of Capricorn is the Tropic of Cancer.\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn's position is not fixed, but constantly changes because of a slight wobble in the Earth's longitudinal alignment relative to its orbit around the Sun. Earth's axial tilt varies over a 41,000 year period from 22.1 to 24.5 degrees and currently resides at about 23.4 degrees. This wobble means that the Tropic of Capricorn is currently drifting northward at a rate of almost half an arcsecond (0.468″) of latitude, or 15 metres, per year (it was at exactly 23° 27′S in 1917 and will be at 23° 26'S in 2045). See under circles of latitude for information.\n\nThere are approximately 13 hours, 35 minutes of daylight during the summer solstice. During the winter solstice, there are 10 hours, 41 minutes of daylight.\n\nIn Australia, areas on the Tropic have some of the most variable rainfall in the world and thus even the wetter areas cannot be generally farmed, since irrigation sources invariably dry up in drought years. In southern Africa, where rainfall is more reliable, farming is possible, though yields are low even with fertilisers.\n\nIn South America, whilst in the continental cratons soils are almost as old as in Australia and Southern Africa, the presence of the geologically young and evolving Andes means that this region is on the western side of the subtropical anticyclones and thus receives warm and humid air from the Atlantic Ocean. As a result, areas in Brazil adjacent to the Tropic are extremely important agricultural regions, producing large quantities of crops such as sugarcane, and the natural rainforest vegetation has been almost entirely cleared, except for a few remaining patches of Atlantic Forest. Further south in Argentina, the temperate grasslands of the Pampas region is one of the most productive agricultural regions in the world, producing of wheat, soybeans, maize, and beef, making the country one of the largest worldwide agricultural exporters, similar to the role played by the Prairies region in Canada.\n\nWest of the Andes, however, the Humboldt Current makes conditions extremely arid, creating the Atacama Desert, one of the driest in the world, so that no glaciers exist between Volcán Sajama at 18˚30'S and Cerro Tres Cruces at 27˚S. Vegetation here is almost non-existent, though on the eastern slopes of the Andes rainfall is adequate for rainfed agriculture.\n\nFurther south in the region of Patagonia, shared between Argentina and Chile, climate becomes colder, with heavy snowfall in the winter months and throughout the year. On the Western portion of Patagonia, climate is more humid, and dominated by fjords, coniferous forests and lakes owing to the presence of thawing currents from the permafrost in the peaks of the Andes mountains which divide the region. This makes the region a popular destination for ski and winter sports, particularly on the Argentine city of Bariloche and surrounding area. On the Eastern portion of Patagonia climate is generally cold and dry steppe, with high mesas and strong wind conditions.\n\nThe southern tip of the island of Tierra del Fuego and other islands of the South Atlantic have Sub-Antarctic climate conditions.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the Tropic of Capricorn passes through 10 countries:\n\nThe following cities and landmarks are either located near the Tropic of Capricorn, or the tropic passes through them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs the major portion of earth's land is located in the Northern Hemisphere there are only four countries entirely south of the Tropic of Capricorn (there are 74 countries entirely north of the Tropic of Cancer):\n\nLength of the Tropic on 11 June 2015, at 23°26′14″S is .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93529", "title": "Untunktahe", "text": "Untunktahe\n\nIn Lakota mythology, Untunktahe is a water spirit.\n\nDue to his pride, he constantly challenges against Waukheon.\n\nHe is rumoured to be associated with the destructive serpent demon Unhcegila.\n"}
{"id": "17728011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17728011", "title": "Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis", "text": "Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis\n\nThe Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis, also known as the Morley–Vine–Matthews hypothesis, was the first key scientific test of the seafloor spreading theory of continental drift and plate tectonics.\n\nHarry Hess proposed the sea-floor spreading hypothesis in 1960 (published in 1962 ); the term \"spreading of the seafloor\" was introduced by geophysicist Robert S. Dietz in 1961 . According to Hess, seafloor was created at mid-oceanic ridges by the convection of the earth's mantle, pushing and spreading the older crust away from the ridge. Geophysicist Frederick John Vine and the Canadian geologist Lawrence W. Morley independently realized that if Hess’s seafloor spreading theory was correct, then the rocks surrounding the mid-oceanic ridges should show symmetric patterns of magnetization reversals using newly collected magnetic surveys. Both of Morley's letters to \"Nature\" (February 1963) and \"Journal of Geophysical Research\" (April 1963) were rejected, hence Vine and his PhD adviser at Cambridge University, Drummond Hoyle Matthews, were first to publish the theory in 1963. Some colleagues were skeptical of the hypothesis because of the numerous assumptions made—seafloor spreading, geomagnetic reversals, and remnant magnetism—all hypotheses that were still not widely accepted. The Vine-Matthews-Morley hypothesis describes the magnetic reversals of oceanic crust. Further evidence for this hypothesis came from Cox et al. (1967) when he measured the remnant magnetization of lavas from land sites. Walter C. Pitman offered further evidence with a remarkably symmetric profile from the Pacific-Antarctic Ridge.\n\nThe Vine-Matthews hypothesis correlates the symmetric magnetic patterns seen on the seafloor with geomagnetic field reversals. At mid-ocean ridges, new crust is created by the injection, extrusion, and solidification of magma. After the magma has cooled through the Curie point, ferromagnetism becomes possible and the magnetic minerals in the newly formed crust orient themselves with the current background geomagnetic field. Lithospheric creation at the ridge is considered continuous and symmetrical as the new crust pushes the old crust laterally and equally on either side of the ridge. Therefore, as geomagnetic reversal occur, the crust on either side of the ridge will contain a record of remnant magnetizations of normal or reversed magnetizations in comparison to the current geomagnetic field. The ridge crest is analogous to “twin-headed tape recorder”, recording the Earth’s magnetic history.\n\nThe intensity of the remnant magnetization is greater than the induced magnetization. The shape of the magnetic anomaly is controlled by the combination of the orientation of its total magnetization, the summation of the induced magnetization and remnant magnetization. Consequently, the shape of the magnetic anomaly is controlled predominately by the primary remnant vector. Blocks of crust at high latitudes have magnetic vectors that dip steeply downward in a normal magnetic field. However, close to the magnetic south pole, the magnetic vectors dip steeply downward in a reversed magnetic field and inclined steeply upwards in a normal magnetic field. There are positive magnetic anomalies over normally magnetized blocks and negative anomalies over reversed blocks. Local anomalies with a short period also exist, but are considered to be correlated with bathymetry. In low latitudes, the vectors are shallowly dipping and dipolar. This confuses the positive and negative anomalies. At the magnetic equator, the magnetic field is horizontal; negative anomalies are related to normally magnetized blocks and positive anomalies with reversed. The amplitude of the anomaly, magnetic field strength, and the magnitude of the remanence all decrease from the poles to the equator.\n\nThe orientation of the ridge affects the anomaly shape and amplitude. The component of the vector that effects the anomaly is at a maximum when the ridge is east-west and the magnetic profile is north-south. The anomalies are most apparent at high magnetic latitudes, north-south trending ridges at all latitudes, and east-west trending ridges at the magnetic equator.\n\n"}
{"id": "5235216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5235216", "title": "Wehnelt cylinder", "text": "Wehnelt cylinder\n\nA Wehnelt cylinder (also known as \"Wehnelt cap\", \"grid cap\" or simply \"Wehnelt\") is an electrode in the electron gun assembly of some thermionic devices, used for focusing and control of the electron beam. It is named after Arthur Rudolph Berthold Wehnelt, a German physicist, who invented it during the years 1902 and 1903. Wehnelt cylinders are found in the electron guns of cathode ray tubes and electron microscopes, and in other applications where a thin, well-focused electron beam is required.\n\nA Wehnelt cap has the shape of a topless, hollow cylinder. The bottom side of the cylinder has an aperture (through hole) located at its center, with a diameter that typically ranges from 200 to 1200 µm. The bottom face of the cylinder is often made from platinum or tantalum foil.\n\nA Wehnelt acts as a control grid and it also serves as a convergent electrostatic lens. An electron emitter is positioned directly above the Wehnelt aperture, and an anode is located below the Wehnelt. The anode is biased to a high positive voltage (typically +1 to +30 kV) relative to the emitter so as to accelerate electrons from the emitter towards the anode, thus creating an electron beam that passes through the Wehnelt aperture.\n\nThe Wehnelt is biased to a negative voltage (typically −200V to −300V) relative to the emitter, which is usually a tungsten filament or Lanthanum hexaboride (LaB) hot cathode with a \"V\" shaped (or otherwise pointed) tip. This bias voltage creates a repulsive electrostatic field that suppresses emission of electrons from most areas of the cathode.\n\nThe emitter tip is positioned near the Wehnelt aperture so that, when appropriate bias voltage is applied to the Wehnelt, a small region of the tip has a net electric field (due to both anode attraction and Wehnelt repulsion) that allows emission from only that area of the tip. The Wehnelt bias voltage determines the tip's emission area, which in turn determines both the beam current and effective size of the beam's electron source.\n\nAs the Wehnelt bias voltage increases, the tip's emitting area (and along with it, the beam diameter and beam current) will decrease until it becomes so small that the beam is \"pinched\" off. In normal operation, the bias is typically set slightly more positive than the pinch bias, and determined by a balance between desired beam quality and beam current.\n\nThe Wehnelt bias controls beam focusing as well as the effective size of the electron source, which is essential for creating an electron beam that is to be focussed into a very small spot (for scanning electron microscopy) or a very parallel beam (for diffraction). Although a smaller source can be imaged to a smaller spot, or a more parallel beam, one obvious trade off is a smaller total beam current.\n"}
