{"id": "22203380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22203380", "title": "2009 Arab League summit", "text": "2009 Arab League summit\n\nThe 2009 Arab League summit was held in Doha, Qatar on March 30, 2009. The Arab League defied the International Criminal Court by giving a \"warm welcome\" to Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, whom the Court placed a warrant on for war crimes in the Darfur genocide.\n\nEgyptian President Hosni Mubarak boycotted the summit amid differences with Qatar stemming from the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict. Other Arab countries like Saudi Arabia were also hesitant to come to the summit if Iran or Hamas were in attendance (neither of the parties came while the Saudis did).\n\nAfter Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani speech, Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia a liar, accusing him of \"bringing the Americans to occupy Iraq\" and of being \"made by Britain and protected by the US.\", while stating: \"I am an international leader, the dean of the Arab rulers, the king of kings of Africa and the imam (leader) of Muslims, and my international status does not allow me to descend to a lower level\". He then invited the King to visit him to solve the issues between the two.\n"}
{"id": "766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766", "title": "Abstract (law)", "text": "Abstract (law)\n\nIn law, an abstract is a brief statement that contains the most important points of a long legal document or of several related legal papers.\n\nThe Abstract of Title, used in real estate transactions, is the more common form of abstract. An abstract of title lists all the owners of a piece of land, a house, or a building before it came into possession of the present owner. The abstract also records all deeds, wills, mortgages, and other documents that affect ownership of the property. An abstract describes a chain of transfers from owner to owner and any agreements by former owners that are binding on later owners.\n\nA clear title to property is one that clearly states any obligation in the deed to the property. It reveals no breaksin the chain of legal ownership. After the records of the property have been traced and the title has been found clear, it is sometimes guaranteed, or insured. In a few states, a different system of insuring title of real properties provides for registration of a clear title with public authorities. After this is accomplished, no abstract of title is necessary.\n\nIn the context of patent law and specifically in prior art searches, searching through abstracts is a common way to find relevant prior art document to question to novelty or inventive step (or non-obviousness in United States patent law) of an invention. Under United States patent law, the abstract may be called \"Abstract of the Disclosure\".\n\nCertain government bureaucracies, such as a \"department of motor vehicles\" will issue an abstract of a completed transaction or an updated record intended to serve as a proof of compliance with some administrative requirement. This is often done in advance of the update of reporting databases and/or the issuance of official documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14025036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14025036", "title": "American Jewish Congress v. Bost", "text": "American Jewish Congress v. Bost\n\nAmerican Jewish Congress v. Bost is an establishment clause lawsuit concerning the separation of church and state in Brenham, Texas. The case is the first constitutional challenge to a charitable choice contract.\n\nIn the community of Brenham, Texas, the American Jewish Congress and the Texas Civil Rights Project filed a lawsuit against a social services program who they believe used a tax funded jobs program to support religious practices which violated the separation of church and state. Other accusations include; use of funds to proselytize, purchase bibles, and coerce participants to \"accept Jesus.\" On May 21, 2002, the Houston Chronicle reported that the case would be sent to federal district court.\n\nThe Rockefeller Institute of Government reported that the lawsuit is a response to the 1996 gathering of a number of churches and businesses in Brenham, Texas, that formed the \"Jobs Partnership of Washington County,\" a program which has come under legal scrutiny. \n\nThe Texas Freedom Network, a nonpartisan organization, reports that, \"The religious message seemed to have a coercive impact on clients. About one-third of the participants said in the program evaluation that they felt pressure to join the host church, Grace Fellowship Baptist Church.\"\n\nThe lawsuit went back and forth between state and federal courts and was twice appealed. In January 2003, the lawsuit that is believed to the first constitutional challenge to a “charitable choice” contract, came to a conclusion. The case was finally dismissed, \"on the ground that there was no live controversy.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "3227806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3227806", "title": "Amicable Grant", "text": "Amicable Grant\n\nThe Amicable Grant was a tax imposed on England in 1525 by the Lord Chancellor Thomas Wolsey. Called at the time \"a benevolence\", it was essentially a forced loan, a levy of between one sixth and one tenth on the goods of the laity and on one-third of the goods of the clergy. The Amicable Grant should have been levied with Parliamentary authority, but was not, and so the legal framework for its collection was extremely weak. This was partly because it was brought to Parliament by Thomas Wolsey, who was becoming increasingly unpopular. Widespread passive resistance, with a growing threat of armed resistance, meant little money was raised and the project was dropped. King Henry VIII now lacked funds for his war in France and made peace.\n\nIn 1525 Henry VIII of England wanted to mount an invasion of France (the \"Great Enterprise\") since the King of France, Francis I, had been captured by Holy Roman Emperor Charles V at the Battle of Pavia in 1525. Henry required additional funds of £800,000, so to gain said money Wolsey resorted to the Amicable Grant. The English Parliament was at this time unlikely to support war, since it was proving to be expensive. Furthermore, Henry's previous French endeavours, which had occurred in 1522 and 1523, had proved less than successful.\n\nTrouble was inevitable and indeed, even anticipated, for the Commons were financially exhausted; the forced 'loans' of 1522–1523 had not been repaid and the subsidy of 1523 was still being collected. Archbishop Warham reported on 12 April that he found the Kentish clergy 'not inclined to the grant' and that the heads of the religious houses had answered 'that they cannot contribute as required'. At Ely they said they would gladly sell their cattle and goods 'but no man in the country has money to buy or lend'. Discontent reached dangerous levels across England. In Essex, Kent, Norfolk, Warwickshire, and Huntingdonshire, the grant provoked reactions ranging from reluctance to outright refusal. It provoked an open rebellion in Suffolk and a taxpayer strike, which spread to the borders of Essex and Cambridgeshire. In the most serious rebellion in England since 1497, 10,000 men converged on the major trading town of Lavenham. An eyewitness reported that the militants only failed because loyal townsmen led by Sir John Spring had removed the clappers from the bells of Lavenham church, which were to have been rung to signal the start of the uprising. \n\nThe rebellion was eventually crushed by the Dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk, but the rebels had made their point. Wolsey was forced to abandon the Grant and reduce the payments for the 1523 subsidy. Discontent in London prompted Henry to halve demands to save some of the tax, before abandoning it altogether. At the end of May, the rising's ringleaders were brought before the Star Chamber and pardoned. Wolsey led an ostentatious ceremony of reconciliation, begging the king for pardon for his fellow Suffolk men, even supplying them with more than enough cash to cover their time in gold and a piece of silver.\n\nWolsey's climbdown was humiliating, and may have contributed to his fall in 1529 since this was the first occasion in which Wolsey had seriously failed to enact Henry's will. Popular opinion made a significant impact on foreign policy too, reducing considerably the fiscal potential of the Henrician government and forcing Henry to abandon his European schemes; peace with France was the only course, ending significant military endeavours for England until the Scottish campaign of 1542.\n\n"}
{"id": "10624808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10624808", "title": "Assigned risk", "text": "Assigned risk\n\nAssigned risk means a driver of a motor vehicle, or a class of such drivers, who would be denied insurance coverage by insurance companies, but are required to be covered under U.S. state law. The term \"assigned risk\" is also used in Workers' compensation law.\n\nThe state government, usually the Department of Motor Vehicles, assigns the risky motorists to automobile insurance companies.\n\nHigh risk drivers are often undesirable to insurance companies, and may not be able to purchase insurance through conventional means. They are considered high-risk because of numerous speeding or other traffic tickets, or a recent history of motor vehicle accidents, or in states that have a point system, accumulation of so many points. The state DMV point system may be different from the insurance companies' point system.\n\nSeveral states in the U.S. have such assigned risk systems. New York is a typical system. The MVAIC, or Motor Vehicle Accident Indemnity Company, may assign high-risk drivers, and pays for victims of uninsured or underinsured motorists. Uninsured means the driver or owner of a motor vehicle has no insurance at all, while an underinsured person has insurance, but the coverage is insignificant compared to the potential damages accrued from a tort lawsuit.\n\nAssigned Risk systems are also used for workers' compensation, whereby businesses who have had unsatisfactory loss performance or whose employees perform such hazardous functions that voluntary insurance companies will not insure them, can be assigned to an insurer. \n\nA common problem with assigned risk is that some states' assigned risk plans only provide coverage for that state, causing businesses whose employees travel to other states to have various issues, including but not limited to the possibility of an uncovered claim from an employee claiming another state's benefits. If unable to secure a voluntary policy providing multiple state coverage, it is always possible to purchase a separate state's Worker's Compensation fund or NCCI assigned risk to fill the coverage gap, but this can be unfairly cost inefficient as some payroll is inevitably rated for in more than one policy - causing the premium to be much higher than if a voluntary coverage had been obtained. \n\nThis is especially an issue for Truckers or Contractors whose rates are already high and for whom it can be very difficult to obtain voluntary coverage due to the nature of their work. \n\n"}
{"id": "27836566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27836566", "title": "Bank tax", "text": "Bank tax\n\nA bank tax, or a bank levy, is a tax on banks which was discussed in the context of the financial crisis of 2007–08. On 16 April 2010, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) put forward three possible options to deal with the crisis., which were presented in response to an earlier request of the G20 leaders, at the September 2009 G20 Pittsburgh summit, for an investigative report on options to deal with the crisis. The IMF opted in favour of the \"financial stability contribution\" (FSC) option, which many media have referred to as a \"bank tax.\" \n\nBoth before and after that IMF report, there was considerable debate among national leaders as to whether such a \"bank tax\" should be global or semi-global, or whether it should be applied only in certain nations.\n\nIn the context of the financial crisis of 2007–08, in August 2009, British Financial Services Authority chairman Lord Adair Turner said in Prospect magazine that he would be happy to consider a \"tax on banks\" to prevent excessive bonus payments.\n\nAt the 2009 G20 Pittsburgh summit, in September, the G20 national leaders asked the IMF \"to prepare a report for our next meeting with regard to the range of options countries have adopted or are considering as to how the financial sector could make a fair and substantial contribution toward paying for any burdens associated with government interventions to repair the banking system.\"\n\nWhen the IMF presented its interim report for the G20 on April 16, 2010, it set out three options, each of which is distinct from another:\n\nFinancial stability contribution (FSC) – a tax on a financial institution’s balance sheet (most probably on its liabilities or possibly on assets) whose proceeds would most likely be used to create an insurance fund to bail out the industry in any future crisis rather than making taxpayers pay for bailouts.\n\nMuch of the IMF’s report is devoted to the first option of a levy on all major financial institutions balance sheets. Initially it could be imposed at a flat rate and later it could be refined so that the institutions with the most risky portfolios would pay more than those who took on fewer risks. \n\nThe levy could be modeled on US President Obama’s proposed Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee to raise US$90 billion over 10 years from US banks with assets of more than US$50 billion. If Obama’s proposal had passed, the proceeds would have gone into general government revenues. They would have been used to pay the costs of the 2008 crisis rather than gone into an insurance fund in anticipation of the next one.\n\nA financial activities tax (FAT) – a tax on the sum of bank profits and bankers’ remuneration packages with the proceeds going into general government revenues.\n\nA financial transactions tax (FTT) – a tax on a broad range of financial instruments including stocks, bonds, currencies and derivatives.\n\nIn November 2009, two months after the G20 Pittsburgh summit, G20 national Finance Ministers met in Scotland to address the financial crisis of 2007–08, but were unwilling to endorse the German proposal for a financial transactions tax:\n\n\"European Union leaders urged the International Monetary Fund on Friday to consider a global tax on financial transactions in spite of opposition from the US and doubts at the IMF itself. In a communiqué issued after a two-day summit, the EU’s 27 national leaders stopped short of making a formal appeal for the introduction of a so-called \"Tobin tax\" but made clear they regarded it as a potentially useful revenue-raising instrument.\"\n\nWhile the IMF does not endorse an FTT, it concedes that \"The FTT should not be dismissed on grounds of administrative practicality.\"\n\nA \"bank tax\" (\"bank levy\") differs from a financial transaction tax in the following way:\n\nA financial transaction tax is a tax on a specific type (or types) of financial transaction for a specific purpose (or purposes). This term has been most commonly associated with the financial sector, as opposed to consumption taxes paid by consumers. However, it is not a tax on the financial institution itself. Instead, it is charged only on the specific transactions that are designated as taxable. If an institution never carries out the taxable transaction, then it will never be taxed on that transaction. Furthermore, if it carries out only one such transaction, then it will only be taxed for that one transaction. As such, this tax is neither a financial activities tax (FAT), nor a financial stability contribution (FSC) (or \"bank tax\"), for example. This clarification is important in discussions about using a financial transaction tax as a tool to selectively discourage excessive speculation without discouraging any other activity (as Keynes originally envisioned it in 1936. )\n\nOn June 27, 2010 at the 2010 G20 Toronto summit, the G20 leaders declared that a \"global tax\" was no longer \"on the table,\" but that individual countries will be able to decide whether to implement a levy against financial institutions to recoup billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded bailouts.\n\nNevertheless, Britain, France and Germany had already agreed before the summit to impose a \"bank tax.\" On May 20, 2010, German officials were understood to favour a financial transaction tax over a financial activities tax.\n\nOn June 28, 2010, the European Union's executive said it will study whether the European Union should go alone in imposing a tax on financial transactions after G20 leaders failed to agree on the issue.\n\nThe financial transactions tax would be \"separate\" from a bank levy, or a resolution levy, which some governments are \"also\" proposing to impose on banks to insure them against the costs of any future bailouts. EU leaders instructed their finance ministers in May 2010 to work out by the end of October 2010, details for the banking levy, but any financial transaction tax remains much more controversial.\n\nOn August 30, 2009, British Financial Services Authority chairman Lord Adair Turner had said it was \"ridiculous\" to think he would propose a new tax on London and not the rest of the world. However, in May, and June 2010, the government of Canada expressed opposition to the bank tax becoming \"global\" in nature.\n\nIn a detailed analysis of the IMF’s proposals, Stephan Schulmeister of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research finds that, \"the assertion of the IMF paper, that [a financial-transactions tax] ‘is not focused on the core sources of financial instability,’ does not seem to have a solid foundation in the empirical evidence.\" Yet at least one independent commentator has endorsed the IMF's view.\n\nIn an alternative critique of the IMF's stance, Aldo Caliari of U.S. NGO the Center of Concern said, \"the naiveté with which the IMF approaches its preferred mechanism — a bank tax tied to systemic risks — is astonishing for such a knowledgeable institution, unless it is in fact designed to let the financial sector off the hook.\" He argues that the FAT and FSC do not reduce the overall risk in the system, and may increase it if banks are encouraged to feel that the taxes provide a government guarantee of future bailouts. Nonetheless, a 2010 Tulane Law Review article lent lukewarm support to President Obama's Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, which is a \"bank tax\" similar to the FSC. The Tulane article concluded that taxing financial transactions would be \"foolish\", and that a bank tax \"could constitute shrewd regulatory reform if done properly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19848707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19848707", "title": "Bench (law)", "text": "Bench (law)\n\nBench in legal contexts means simply the location in a courtroom where a judge sits. The historical roots of that meaning come from judges formerly having sat on long seats or benches (freestanding or against a wall) when presiding over a court. The bench is usually an elevated desk area that allows a judge to view the entire courtroom.\n\nThe word also has a broader meaning in the law – the term \"bench\" is a metonym used to describe members of the judiciary collectively, or the judges of a particular court, such as the Queen's Bench or the Common Bench in England and Wales, or the federal bench in the United States. The term is also used when all the judges of a certain court sit together to decide a case, as in the phrase \"before the full bench\" (also called \"en banc\"). \n\nThe bench was a typical feature of the courts of the Order of St. John in Malta, such as at the Castellania, where judges and the nominated College of Advocates sat for court cases and review laws.\n\nThe term is used to differentiate judges (\"the bench\") from attorneys or barristers (\"the bar\"). The phrase \"bench and bar\" denotes all judges and lawyers collectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "22231044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22231044", "title": "California Agricultural Labor Relations Act of 1975", "text": "California Agricultural Labor Relations Act of 1975\n\nThe California Agricultural Labor Relations Act (CALRA), also referred to as the Alatorre-Zenovich-Dunlap-Berman Agricultural Labor Relations Act of 1975, is a landmark statute in US labor law enacted by the state of California which became law on June 4, 1975, and which establishes collective bargaining for farmworkers in that state.\n\nThe goal of the Act is to \"ensure peace in the agricultural fields by guaranteeing justice for all agricultural workers and stability in labor relations.\" The Act, part of the California Labor Code, explicitly encourages and protects \"the right of agricultural employees to full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, to negotiate the terms and conditions of their employment, and to be free from the interference, restraint, or coercion of employers of labor, or their agents, in the designation of such representatives or in self-organization or in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection.\"\n\nThe Act established rules and authorized regulations similar to those of National Labor Relations Act, a federal law which formally protected the collective bargaining rights of most American workers except farm and domestic workers. The California Agricultural Labor Relations Board (ALRB) administers the Act. The ALRB has two functions: To conduct, oversee, and certify representation elections, and to investigate unfair labor practice (ULP) charges and pursue remedies. Administrative law judges and agency staff adjudicate most cases, with the five-member Board serving as a final arbiter.\n\nCollective bargaining rights for most hourly workers in the United States were first given legal protection in 1933 by Section 7a of the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA). Although NIRA did not specifically exempt agricultural laborers from the protection of the Act, the Roosevelt administration—eager to win over farm-state members of Congress—argued that farmworkers were excluded. When the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) was enacted in 1935, it, too, specifically exempted agricultural workers due to pressure from the \"farm bloc\" in Congress. Although a number of attempts were made in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s to organize farm laborers, these efforts were unsuccessful.\n\nIn August 1966, the National Farm Workers Association and Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee, two unrecognized and relatively minor labor unions claiming to represent farm workers in California, merged to form the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee (the predecessor organization to the United Farm Workers). Adopting the philosophy of pacifism in the face of often violent reaction to its organizing efforts and engaging in strikes, hunger strikes, boycotts and secondary boycotts (including the particularly successful Delano grape strike), marches, rallies, and cutting-edge public relations campaigns, the United Farm Workers (UFW) began organizing large numbers of agricultural laborers into unions. In some cases, the UFW even won recognition and negotiated contracts.\n\nA series of violent strikes and inter-union jurisdictional battles set the political stage for passage of the California Agricultural Labor Relations Act. By 1969, the UFW was on the verge of winning the four-year-old Delano grape strike. But as the Delano grape strike seemed to be ending, an attempt by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters to organize farm laborers in the Salinas Valley in California led to the costly \"Salad Bowl strike.\" Six thousand drivers and packing workers represented by the Teamsters struck on July 17, 1970, winning a contract on July 23 under which growers gave the Teamsters, not the UFW, access to farms and the right to organize workers into unions. Secret talks between the UFW and the Teamsters led to an agreement to return jurisdiction over the field workers to the farm union, but the agreement collapsed on August 23 and 7,000 UFW workers struck the Salinas Valley growers. Violence, sporadic at first but increasingly widespread, began to occur in the fields. On December 4, federal marshals arrested and jailed Chávez. Two days later, an anti-union mob nearly rioted when former Olympic gold medal-winning decathlete Rafer Johnson and Ethel Kennedy, widow of slain Senator Robert F. Kennedy visited Chávez in jail. The two unions signed a new jurisdictional agreement reaffirming the UFW's right to organize field workers,\n\nThe Teamsters resumed their dispute with the UFW in December 1972, which led to further extensive disruptions in the state agricultural industry, mass picketing, mass arrests, and extensive violence. Many growers signed contracts with the Teamsters on April 15, and thousands of UFW members began picketing in the fields. Mass arrests jailed more than 1,700 UFW members by late July (some county jails had three times the number of detainees they were legally capable of holding), and UFW members accused law enforcement officers of beating detainees. Soon organizing battles between the two unions became violent. \"Flying squads\" of Teamsters began attacking UFW supporters in broad daylight in the Coachella Valley. The violence worsened when the dispute moved into the Delano vineyards. Seventy farm workers were attacked on July 31, a UFW picketer was shot on August 3, five firebombs were thrown at UFW picket lines on August 9, two UFW members were shot on August 11, and a UFW picketer was shot to death on August 16. Finally, a tentative agreement was reached on September 27, 1973; the Teamsters again agreed to leave jurisdiction over farm field workers to the UFW.\n\nThe new agreement did not last long. On November 7, just 41 days later, the Teamsters union said it would not repudiate the contracts it had signed. But the UFW now had too few resources and membership to do much about it. The UFW deployed its best strategic weapon, the boycott, and kept up the push for a national boycott of grapes, wine and lettuce. The Teamsters reiterated their pledge to uphold their contracts in November.\n\nBy late 1974, many observers concluded that the UFW was no longer a viable force. It called a few small strikes, defied court injunctions to stop picketing, and continued pushing its national boycotts. But in July, it was forced to end picketing at some grape fields near Delano. The Teamsters were in no better position to win organizing battles. It had opened a major organizing drive in March 1974 and established a regional farm workers' local in June, but the effort was in chaos by November. Newspaper columnists, however, began wondering in June whether the UFW had any capacity to fight, and by February 1975 had concluded the union had no future.\n\nThe ongoing fight between the Teamsters and UFW and its effect on UFW's organizational viability led César Chávez to seriously consider legal reform as a solution to his union's problems. Chávez had rejected legislative solutions in the past by arguing that a truly successful union movement must be built from the ground up rather than rely on top-down activity. But Chávez began to reconsider this stand in light of the attacks by the Teamsters. Additionally, the time seemed right for a legislative program: Jerry Brown, long an avid supporter of the UFW, had been elected Governor of California in November 1974. Brown had even hired LeRoy Chatfield, a former high-level UFW staffer, as one of his key aides.\n\nOnce in office, however, Brown's support for the UFW cooled. The UFW knew it had to make a strong political showing in order to push Brown and the California State Legislature to act.\n\nThe UFW considered more mass picketing, more rallies, and more boycotts, but the union was worried that it had lost the support of farm workers and the public and that such events would point out the weakness of the union rather than its strength. Instead, the UFW settled on a 110-mile (180 km) march by a small group of UFW leaders from San Francisco to the E & J Gallo Winery in Modesto. The organizers envisioned a small but dramatic march that would not require large numbers of participants. Just a few hundred marchers left San Francisco on February 22, 1975. But more than 15,000 people joined them en route by the time they reached Modesto on March 1.\n\nThe spontaneous, spectacular success of the Modesto march garnered significant media attention, and proved that the UFW still had the support of farm workers.\n\nThe dramatic success of the Modesto march energized the farm labor movement in California. Governor Brown quickly began pushing for labor law reform. Grower resistance never emerged, as many employers were reluctant to continue the fight against the UFW. \"The grape boycott scared the heck out of the farmers, all of us,\" said one major grower, and employers did not want another UFW boycott.\n\nSeveral previous efforts to enact legislation protecting collective bargaining rights for farm workers had emerged in California between 1969 and 1975, but all had failed. César Chávez had briefly supported labor law reform in California in April 1969, and Conservative Republican State Senator George Murphy had sponsored a bill backed by Republicans and growers the same year to guarantee the right to organize, imposed secret-ballot elections, and restricted right to strike and to engage in boycotts. But the Murphy bill, as well as a less restrictive bill in the State Assembly, died. Murphy introduced an even more restrictive bill in 1970, but that too failed.\n\nThe first positive sign for labor law reform came in 1971. An association of major growers agreed to support legislation which provided for recognition of farm worker unions in January 1971. The State Senate narrowly approved a bill opposed by the UFW, but the Assembly killed the measure. Based on the support for the growers in the State Senate, the growers backed a ballot measure, Proposition 22, which would have guaranteed the right to organize but placed heavy restrictions on the right to strike, boycott, and picket. Then-California Attorney General Jerry Brown sued to have Proposition 22 removed from the ballot amid allegations of signature fraud on the approving petition, violation of child labor laws (children as young as six years old were alleged to have been paid to collect signatures), and bribery. The measure went down to defeat.\n\nThe next legislative push came in 1973. The American Farm Bureau Federation, the nation's largest association of farmers and a representative of many California growers, proposed amending the federal National Labor Relations Act to permit agricultural workers to organize. The change led California Governor Ronald Reagan to introduce a bill in the California state legislature that would permit agricultural field workers to unionize under secret ballot elections as well as ban secondary boycotts. But the state Assembly did not pass the bill. However, California's then-Secretary of State, Jerry Brown—declaring that a \"bloody civil war\" existed in the Central Valley—came out in favor of a legislative solution in August 1973. Brown, a longtime labor attorney who had met César Chávez in 1968 and long supported the UFW and helped introduce UFW leaders to Hollywood stars, directors, and studio heads in order to help the union win critical support in the entertainment industry.\n\nBrown's public support and his impending run for governor (which was widely anticipated) led Chávez to make a stronger push for labor law reform in 1974. Chávez and John F. Henning, Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the California Labor Federation (the state body of the AFL-CIO, wrote the bill and first-term Chicano Assemblyman Richard Alatorre (D-Los Angeles) introduced the bill. But Governor Ronald Reagan led opposition which killed the bill.\n\nJerry Brown's election as governor significantly improved the chances of passing a bill in 1975. Two of the 26 paragraphs of Brown's inaugural address were devoted to the need for farm labor legislation, Assembly Speaker Leo T. McCarthy voiced his support for the legislation.\n\nThe bill which would eventually become CALRA was introduced in both chambers of the state legislature on April 10, 1975. Top UFW staff member Dolores Huerta acted as the farm worker union's chief lobbyist. With McCarthy, some growers, and the UFW behind the bill, a key State Senate committee approved the bill on May 7. Key labor unions (including the Teamsters), arguing that card check rather than secret ballot elections should be the bill's preferred method of resolving unionization disputes, opposed the bill. Nonetheless, a key State Assembly committee approved it on May 12, despite attempts by some Teamster members to intimidate legislators into opposing the bill. The opposition was countered by the UFW, which held rallies to support the bill, and agreement was reached on May 19 on a compromise bill.\n\nBy that time, however, the deadline for passing a bill out of its chamber of origination had passed, and Governor Brown was forced to call a special session of the legislature to pass the farm labor bill. A Senate committee approved the bill on May 21, the full Senate passed the bill on May 26, two Assembly committees reported the bill on May 27, and the Assembly passed the bill and set it to Governor Brown for his signature on May 29. Just 50 calendar days were needed to pass the bill. Governor Brown signed the legislation into law on June 4, 1975.\n\nThe Act defines agriculture to include farming (which includes cultivation and tillage of soil; dairy production; cultivation, growing, and harvesting of agricultural or horticultural commodities; raising livestock, bees, furbearing animals, or poultry; and/or forestry or lumbering operations), and includes all activities incidental to or in conjunction with agriculture (such as preparation for market, transportation, or storage). Employees are defined in the Act, but the definition excludes anyone engaged in construction, painting, building repair,or land moving operations unrelated to the preparation of land for cultivation.\n\nThe Act establishes a five-member Agricultural Labor Relations Board (ALRB), whose five-year terms are staggered so that one member's term ends on January 1 of each year. The ALRB must issue a written report on its activities to the Governor and Legislature each year, may establish officers or offices and delegate all or part of its authority to such on an as-needed basis, and has extensive investigatory, subpoena, and enforcement powers.\n\nThe Act defines unfair labor practices for both employers and labor unions. Section 1154 (d) of the Act bans strikes (including recognition strikes) by workers who have not selected an organization as their labor representative through the procedures outlined by the Act, but protects secondary picketing and publicity only if the labor union is the certified bargaining representative or has not lost an election at the worksite in the past 12 months and only if the publicity or picketing does not induce others to engage in strikes. Section 1154.5 explicitly bans hot cargo agreements. The Act also requires bargaining in good faith.\n\nThe Act outlines procedures similar to those of the National Labor Relations Act for electing a representative labor organization. Only secret ballot elections are permitted. The Board has the right to determine the correct bargaining unit, and an election is triggered only when a petition signed by a majority of current workers is presented. There are several bars to holding an election (including the existence of an existing certified labor organization, an election was held and lost within the previous 12 months, and an election was held but no contract executed within the previous 12 months).\n\nTo encourage the adoption of collective bargaining agreements, the Act (as amended) provides for the declaration of an impasse, mandatory and binding 30-day mediation and conciliation, review of the mediator's report, and court review of binding mediation. The Act contains a \"make-whole\" remedy for bad-faith bargaining intended to encourage employers to bargain in good faith. Under this provision, the ALRB can \"take affirmative action including...making employees whole, when the Board deems such relief appropriate, for the loss of pay resulting from the employer's refusal to bargain\".\n\nGovernor Brown nominated the ALRB's first five members (a Catholic bishop, a farmer, a member of La Raza Unida Party, a former UFW official, and a former Teamsters attorney) on June 23, 1975, just 18 days after signing the Act into law. The ALRB had an initial budget of $1.5 million ($6.46 million in 2009 inflation-adjusted dollars).\n\nCALRA went into effect on August 28, 1975. Draft regulations governing the operation of the Board and secret ballot organizing elections were issued 10 days earlier, but did not address the controversial issue of whether union organizers would have access to the workplace (e.g., fields). The ALRB issued rules giving organizers access to fields on August 29, and the UFW filed for the first union elections under the Act on September 1. But a federal district court enjoined the Board from implementing its worksite access rules on September 3—putting a halt to some ballot-counting in several elections. By the end of the first week of elections, the UFW had won 22 bargaining units and the Teamsters 13, while growers had alleged the UFW had committed unfair labor practices in several elections. The California Supreme Court lifted the ban on union organizers in the fields on September 18, and the ALRB issued its first formal ULP complaints (against two growers) the next day.\n\nThe inexperience of the Board and its agents, the large number of court challenges to the new law, the large number of elections held, and the large number of alleged violations of the law led to significant delays in voting, ballot-counting, and enforcement. A special panel of attorneys and investigators was named by Governor Brown on October 4 to help alleviate the backlog, and strengthened penalties for anyone found guilty of committing a ULP were put in place on October 16 to help reduce the number of violations.\n\nBy the end of January 1976, the ALRB had received 604 election petitions, conducted 423 elections involving over 50,000 workers (80 percent of elections had objections filed), received 988 ULP charges, issued 254 citations for violations of the Act, and issued 27 decisions. Between 1975 and 1984, unions won 88 percent of all elections, but between 1984 and 2003 won less than 50 percent of elections. By 1994, however, two-thirds of all elections had been held in the Act's first three years, and since 1978 about half of all elections had been decertification elections.\n\nDespite the large number of union elections, CALRA's effect on union membership seems mixed at best. Much of this evidence focuses on the UFW, assumed to be the prime beneficiary of the Act. Membership in the UFW fell from a high of more than 70,000-60,000 in 1972 to a low of 6,000-5,000 in 1974, but rose to just 18,000 by 1977. The Teamsters, however, had more than 55,000 farm worker members by 1977. The UFW had only six major collective bargaining agreements by 1994 (one vegetable grower, four citrus growers, one mushroom grower, and a host of small nurseries). However, one study concludes that mass importation and use of illegal immigrants—not flaws in CALRA—are holding down additional collective bargaining gains. Others conclude (on the basis of anecdotal evidence) that the Teamsters have signed sweetheart deals with perhaps as many as 375 growers, holding down membership gains for the UFW. Others criticize the ALRB for being politicized. Critics point to the change in the Board in 1980, when George Deukmejian, the new Republican governor of California, replaced the Brown board with allegedly pro-grower members, leading to low union confidence in the Board's impartiality and a severe decline in the number of election petitions brought before the board.\n\nOne positive outcome has been the end of jurisdictional warfare between the UFW and Teamsters. The UFW signed an agreement with the Teamsters in March 1977 in which the UFW agreed to seek to organize only those workers covered by CALRA, while the Teamsters agreed to organize all other agricultural workers. The agreement also led the UFW to end its boycott of lettuce, grapes, and wine in February 1978. Why did the two unions sign the agreement? UFW officials claimed the Teamsters were on the verge of losing a jurisdictional battle for 50,000 workers being decided by the ALRB, but at least one press report indicated that the scandal-scarred union wished to burnish its public image.\n\nIt is also not clear whether CALRA has had a beneficial effect on the Californian economy. One study concluded that the Act actually resulted in a net economic loss: Higher prices were being charged for produce, farm worker earnings and land values had actually dropped. However, another analysis has concluded that these economic effects are minimal compared to the reduction in poverty which has occurred.\n\nThe Act's \"make-whole\" provision has also come under scrutiny. Although the make-whole provision's goal is laudable, it is argued, the Board's decisions have led to litigation that lasts for years and mitigate the impact of any awards.\n\nA number of efforts to revise CALRA have been made over the years. The first significant effort came in 2000, when Democratic Governor Gray Davis vetoed an effort to expand CALRA's reach to stablehands at the state's horse racing tracks.\n\nA major revision was enacted in 2002. A rising number of impasses in collective bargaining appeared to be frustrating the purpose of CALRA. The UFW backed two bills which would impose binding arbitration and mediation on unions and employers if an impasse was declared. The bills passed the state legislature in August 2002, and Governor Davis signed them into law in October. Growers filed suit in state court to have the amendments declared unconstitutional, but a state appeals court upheld the revisions in 2006.\n\nAnother attempt to revise the law in 2007 was also unsuccessful. The UFW backed a bill which would allow card check unionization, arguing that large majorities of workers signed union authorization cards but then were intimidated into voting against the union during the election process. The growers argued that the UFW was either duping or intimidating workers into signing union authorization cards, and that the secret ballot voting revealed the true feelings of workers. But the bill did not pass either chamber.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "134321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=134321", "title": "Central Falls, Rhode Island", "text": "Central Falls, Rhode Island\n\nCentral Falls is a city in Providence County, Rhode Island, United States. The population was 19,376 at the 2010 census. With an area of only , it is the smallest and most densely populated city in the smallest state, and the 27th most densely populated incorporated place in the United States. It is also one of only four incorporated places in New England that have a higher population density than the city of Boston (ranking fourth, behind the Massachusetts cities of Somerville, Chelsea and Cambridge, all inner suburbs of Boston). The city takes its name from a waterfall on the Blackstone River.\n\nIn May 2010, Central Falls went into receivership, then filed for bankruptcy August 1, 2011.\n\nPrior to the arrival of Europeans the area was home to Nipmuc, Wampanoag and Narragansett peoples.\n\nCentral Falls has historic significance as being the site of a major battle during King Philip's War. It was here on March 26, 1676 that Narragansett Indians ambushed Captain Michael Pierce and his Plymouth Colony troops who (with 20 Wampanoag Christian Indians) were pursuing them. Nearly all those ambushed were killed including nine taken prisoner and later tortured to death at nearby Cumberland, Rhode Island. A stone memorial marks the mass grave at the site known as \"Nine Men's Misery\".\n\nIn the 18th century, Captain Stephen Jenks built a trip hammer and blacksmith shop along the Blackstone River, forming the nucleus of what would eventually become Central Falls. Other manufacturers, including a chocolate maker, set up shop in the building and the new village became known as Chocolateville.\n\nIn 1824, Stephen Jenks suggested the name Central Falls, thus giving the village its permanent name.\n\nOriginally, Central Falls was one of the many villages within the town of Smithfield, but in 1871, having experienced a growth spurt, it split into three smaller towns: Smithfield, North Smithfield and Lincoln. Central Falls then became part of the town of Lincoln. Lincoln experienced its own growth spurt, so in 1895 Lincoln split into two towns, giving birth to the city of Central Falls.\n\nWhile Quakers made up the majority of the first European settlers in the area, they were soon followed by a diverse mix of immigrants from Ireland, Scotland and French Canada. By the 20th century, Central Falls had experienced its own population explosion and for a while was the most densely populated city in the United States. In recent decades, a large number of Hispanic immigrants have found a home in Central Falls. Central Falls has always been an extremely diverse city, so much so that when the city celebrated its 100th anniversary with a parade in 1995, more than 100 countries were represented.\n\nCentral Falls is located at (41.889863, -71.392606).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which is land and (6.20%) is water. It is drained by the Blackstone River.\n\nAs of the census[1] of 2000, there were 18,928 people, 6,696 households, and 4,359 families residing in the city. The population density was 15,652.0 people per square mile (6,039.8/km²). There were 7,270 housing units at an average density of 6,011.7 per square mile (2,319.8/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 57.16% White, 5.82% African American, 0.57% Native American, 0.68% Asian, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 28.35% from other races, and 7.38% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 47.77% of the population.\n\nThere were 6,696 households out of which 38.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.4% were married couples living together, 21.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 34.9% were non-families. 29.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.74 and the average family size was 3.38.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out with 29.2% under the age of 18, 11.8% from 18 to 24, 31.6% from 25 to 44, 15.8% from 45 to 64, and 11.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 30 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 93.7 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $22,628, and the median income for a family was $26,844. Males had a median income of $23,854 versus $18,544 for females. The per capita income for the city was $10,825. About 25.9% of families and 29.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 40.8% of those under age 18 and 29.3% of those age 65 or over.\n\nAs of the 2010 U.S. Census, Central Falls was the only majority-minority municipality in Rhode Island with 60.31 percent of its residents identifying as Hispanic/Latino with Puerto Ricans, Guatemalans, and Colombians making up the largest share among the ethnicity. \n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey, Central Falls had a median household income of $28,901 during the 2012-2016 estimates, making it the poorest municipality in Rhode Island. \n\nResidents are served by the Central Falls School District. This school district is funded and appointed by the State of Rhode Island Department of Education.\nIn February 2010, the entire faculty and administrative staff of Central Falls High School was fired after the teachers' union refused to accept one of the \"No Child Left Behind\" options for restructuring failing schools. In accordance with NCLB legislation, schools deemed failing have four options to follow for restructuring. The teachers' union refused to accept to work 25 minutes of extra time under the \"transforming model\", so the superintendent proceeded and chose the \"turnaround model\", which requires a district to fire the entire staff (teachers and administrators). They may rehire up to 50% of the teachers for the beginning of the next school year. The school has a graduation rate of around 50%, and 7% of 11th-graders were proficient in mathematics in 2009. This school had been identified as one of the worst in the state. The teachers union sued the school district, challenging the requirement that teachers must reapply for their jobs. The Obama administration sided with the school board. In May 2010, the teachers were rehired when they agreed to work the extra time required.\n\nAs of the year 2000 US census, 5.9% of Central Falls residents age 25 and older have a bachelor's or advanced college degree.\n\nThere has been at least one Catholic school present in Central Falls since 1895. By 1908, there were three: St. Matthew's, Holy Trinity, and Notre Dame. In 1995, these three schools were combined to create St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Academy, which is located in the building originally serving St. Matthew's. Currently, St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Academy is the only non-public school in Central Falls.\n\nIn the Rhode Island Senate, Central Falls is included in the 16th District and is currently represented by Democrat Elizabeth A. Crowley. At the federal level, Central Falls is a part of Rhode Island's 1st congressional district, represented by Democrat David N. Cicilline. \n\nLike most other majority-minority urban municipalities, Central Falls is overwhelmingly Democratic in presidential elections. No Republican has come remotely close to winning the city in over three decades, during which time voters have consistently backed Democratic nominees with lopsided majorities. \nOn April 25, 2010, the Providence Journal Bulletin ran an article detailing rampant fraud and corruption by Mayor Charles D. Moreau, outlining no-bid contracts and kickbacks from a high school friend, who was granted almost $2 million in overpriced property boarding fees. The article further states that the same friend gave him a $6,875 furnace for his own home for only $6,000, which Moreau said he paid 'in cash'. The friend in question, Michael G. Bouthillette, was a campaign contributor to Moreau's multiple re-election campaigns. These allegations and others are currently being investigated by the Rhode Island State Police.\n\nFinancial straits of the city government of Central Falls have worsened in the 2000s as the state cut money to cities and towns and pensions and pensioner health insurance for city employees accumulated to the extent that the city government declared insolvency in May 2010 and went into receivership. On August 1, 2011 Central Falls filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 9, Title 11 of the United States Code. It made the filing as it grappled with an $80 million unfunded pension and retiree health benefit liability that is over five times its annual budget of $17 million.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40771163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40771163", "title": "Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. United States EPA", "text": "Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. United States EPA\n\nCreating Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. United States EPA: No. 88-1490 (First Argued March 6, 1989 – Finally Decided September 25, 1992) was a notable United States Environmental Law case involving the required reporting of safety breaches in management facilities along with reporting during interim period and reporting of unknown substances. The case began when Chemical Waste Management, Inc appealed its fine from the EPA for environmental health hazards to the US court in 1989 and appealed it twice.\n\nCongress established the RCRA in 1976 to form an environmental regulation program that allowed for comprehensive involvement and more fluid adjustments to be made especially during interim periods.\n\nChemical Waste Management, Inc was a waste disposal company that was responsible for the safe and environmental management of hazardous materials. At the time there were several environmental safety standards in place enforced by the EPA. The EPA at the time required organizations and companies to make reports directly to the agency of any malfunctions or deteriorations of facilities. In addition in 1988 it established the requirement that facilities must report any materials that had leakages, even of unconfirmed substances, as hazardous materials until testing could further distinguish, and thus should be treated as such. The EPA also required disclosures of leakages and new hazards during interim periods of facilities' operations.\n\nChemical Waste Management, Inc had an on-site well-check system designed to test for any hazardous material leakage. It had a two part system check, although the EPA at the time had raised this requirement to three checks. Chemical Waste Management was in an interim stage where it had not installed the third check yet, but had not reached the required date of installment yet. Inspectors had found that an unidentified substance had been leaking out of a facility that was unreported and unknown to Chemical Waste Management. Chemical Waste Management failed to report these inspection findings of this interim period to the EPA.\n\nWhen the EPA eventually found out about these violations, it fined the Chemical Waste Management for improper hazardous waste disposal. The fines were not significantly large, as the supposed violations had only been occurring for a short interim period. However, the EPA could fine firms and organizations up to $25,000 a day for the violation.\n\nChemical Waste Management believed that these fines were improper, since: 1. at the time the leakage substance was not considered hazardous, and 2. Chemical Waste Management had been on schedule to update its safety precautions.\n\nIn determining this case, the court brought into question if the EPA had correctly applied its regulations correctly to the Chemical Waste Management. The court believed that Chemical Waste Management was surely at fault for failing to report its faulty facilities as noted by inspectors. It was therefore its duty to report its breaches of environmental standards. The EPA at the time had a specific requirement that all notes made by inspectors were required to be reported to the agency itself even if the notes are not specifically linked to a malfunction or deterioration of facilities. It was found that Chemical Waste Management was in a state of non-compliance and violation for under six months.\n\nThe case was first brought to the US District court and ruled in favor of the EPA and was then sent to the Appellate court.\n\nDuring the appeals, the court questioned whether the time frame of the petitioner's claim had expired, since it had made the standards change and it was no longer a question of enacting standards, but simply arguing past standards were unfairly put upon the organization. The court did not follow through with this claim, but it did aid in its final decision.\n\nThe court held that the EPA was correct in enforcing these regulations upon Chemical Waste Management. It was reasonable to expect the firm to report leakage of a substance, although it was not considered hazardous. It also held that it was reasonable to expect Chemical Waste Management to especially report leakages that had breached the two check system and thus were in violation of the old requirements, regardless of it being in a transitional stage.\n\nThe court ruled in the EPA's favor, although the fine was significantly lower than before at $40,000, since Chemical Waste Management's violation had been minor, had little effect, and had been dealt with appropriately since the violation.\n\nBoth appeals to higher courts resulted in the same decision by the court, and the decision was made in favor of the EPA, finally resolved in 1992.\n\nThis case outlined many protocols for environmental safety and health enforcement. It further requires disclosure from organizations as mandatory self-reporting regarding their malfunctions in facilities. Secondly it does not dismiss firms from environmental standards during interim periods of changing regulations. It also further solidifies the notion that unknown substance leakages are to be classified as environmental hazards until they can be accurately identified and controlled. The question of retroactivity does not strictly constitute retroactive lawmaking, since it was announced beforehand that new regulations would eventually be created and enforced.\n"}
{"id": "17604930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17604930", "title": "Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities", "text": "Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is an international human rights treaty of the United Nations intended to protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. Parties to the Convention are required to promote, protect, and ensure the full enjoyment of human rights by persons with disabilities and ensure that they enjoy full equality under the law. The Convention has served as the major catalyst in the global movement from viewing persons with disabilities as objects of charity, medical treatment and social protection towards viewing them as full and equal members of society, with human rights. It is also the only UN human rights instrument with an explicit sustainable development dimension. The Convention was the first human rights treaty of the twenty-first century.\n\nThe text was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 December 2006, and opened for signature on 30 March 2007. Following ratification by the 20th party, it came into force on 3 May 2008. As of October 2018, it has 162 signatories and 177 parties, which includes 172 states and the European Union (which ratified it on 23 December 2010 to the extent responsibilities of the member states were transferred to the European Union). In December 2012, a vote in the United States Senate fell six votes short of the two-thirds majority required for ratification. The Convention is monitored by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.\n\n1981 to 1992 was the UN \"Decade of Disabled Persons\". In 1987, a global meeting of experts to review progress recommended that the UN General Assembly should draft an international convention on the elimination of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Draft convention outlines were proposed by Italy and subsequently Sweden, but no consensus was reached. Many government representatives argued that existing human rights documents were sufficient. Instead, non-compulsory \"Standard Rules on the Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities\" were adopted by the General Assembly in 1993. In 2000, leaders of five international disability NGOs issued a declaration, calling on all governments to support a Convention. In 2001, the General Assembly, following a proposal by Mexico, established an Ad Hoc Committee to consider proposals for a comprehensive and integral convention to promote and protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities, based on a holistic approach. Disability rights organisations, including the International Disability Alliance as coordinator of an ad hoc International Disability Caucus, participated actively in the drafting process, in particular seeking a role for disabled people and their organisations in the implementation and monitoring of what became the Convention.\n\nMexico initiated negotiations, with active support from GRULAC (the Latin American regional group). When support for a Convention was foundering in 2002 due to WEOG opposition, New Zealand played a pivotal role in achieving cross-regional momentum. Acting as facilitator from 2002–03, New Zealand eventually assumed the formal role of Chair of Ad Hoc Committee and led negotiations to a consensus agreement in August 2006, working closely with other Bureau members Jordan, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, and South Africa, as well as Korea and Mexico. The Convention became one of the most quickly supported human rights instruments in history, with strong support from all regional groups. 160 States have signed the Convention upon its opening in 2007 and 126 States ratified the Convention within its first five years. In recognition of its role in creating the Convention, as well as the quality of New Zealand's landmark national Disability Strategy, Governor-General of New Zealand Anand Satyanand received the 2008 World Disability Award on behalf of the nation.\n\nAs of 2015, for the first time in its history, the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities opened an investigation into a signatory state for breaching their convention obligations. The investigation was triggered by article 6 of the optional protocol, which provides that an investigation will be carried out once the Committee receives \"reliable information indicating grave and systematic violation\" of the human rights of persons with disabilities. The government of the United Kingdom is being investigated, with the final report currently due to be released in 2017.\n\nThe Convention follows the civil law tradition, with a preamble, in which the principle that \"all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated \" of Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action is cited, followed by 50 articles. Unlike many UN covenants and conventions, it is not formally divided into parts.\n\nArticle 1 defines the purpose of the Convention:\n\nArticles 2 and 3 provide definitions and general principles such as communication including Braille, sign language, plain language and nonverbal communication, reasonable accommodation and universal design.\n\nArticles 4–32 define the rights of persons with disabilities and the obligations of states parties towards them. Many of these mirror rights affirmed in other UN conventions such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights or the Convention Against Torture, but with specific obligations ensuring that they can be fully realised by persons with disabilities.\n\nRights specific to this convention include the rights to accessibility including the information technology, the rights to live independently and be included in the community (Article 19), to personal mobility (article 20), habilitation and rehabilitation (Article 26), and to participation in political and public life, and cultural life, recreation and sport (Articles 29 and 30).\n\nIn addition, parties to the Convention must raise awareness of the human rights of persons with disabilities (Article 8), and ensure access to roads, buildings, and information (Article 9).\n\nArticles 33–39 govern reporting and monitoring of the convention by national human rights institutions (Article 33) and Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Article 34).\n\nArticles 40–50 govern ratification, entry into force, and amendment of the Convention. Article 49 also requires that the Convention be available in accessible formats.\n\nThere are eight guiding principles that underlie the Convention:\n\n\nArticle 2 (Definitions) does not include a definition of disability. The Convention adopts a social model of disability, but does not offer a specific definition. The Convention's preamble (e) explains that the Convention recognises:\n\nArticle one (Purpose) further offers that:\n\nHowever, the use of the term \"include\" should not be interpreted as excluding those who have short term or fluctuating conditions.\n\nThe Convention defines \"reasonable accommodation\" to be \"necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments not imposing a disproportionate or undue burden, where needed in a particular case, to ensure to persons with disabilities the enjoyment or exercise on an equal basis with others of all human rights and fundamental freedoms\" at the Article 2 and demands this all aspects of life including inclusive education.\n\nThe Article 8 of Convention stresses the awareness raising to foster respect for the rights and dignity against discrimination:\n\nThe Convention stresses that persons with disabilities should be able to live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life. To this end, States Parties should take appropriate measures to ensure that persons with disabilities have access, to the physical environment, to transportation, to information and communications technology, and to other facilities and services open or provided to the public.\nAccessibility can be grouped into three main groups. \n1. physical accessibility\n2. service accessibility \n3. accessibility to communication and information\n\nArticle 11 of the Convention affirms that States Parties shall take, in accordance with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law, all necessary measures to ensure the protection and safety of persons with disabilities in situations of armed conflict, humanitarian emergencies and the occurrence of natural disaster.\n\nArticle 12 of the Convention affirms the equal recognition before the law and legal capacity of the persons with disabilities.\n\nStates Parties should: \n\nArticle 13 of the Convention affirms the effective access to justice for persons with disabilities, stating that:\n\nThe Convention states that persons with disabilities should be guaranteed the right to inclusive education at all levels, regardless of age, without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunity.\n\nStates Parties should ensure that:\n\nStates Parties should take appropriate measures, such as:\n\nArticle 25 specifies that \"persons with disabilities have the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health without discrimination on the basis of disability.\"\n\nArticle 17 of the Convention states that every person with disabilities has a right to respect for his or her physical and mental integrity on an equal basis with others.\n\nArticle 23 of the Convention prohibits compulsory sterilization of disabled persons and guarantees their right to adopt children.\n\nArticle 26 of the Convention affirms that \"States Parties shall take effective and appropriate measures, including through peer support, to enable persons with disabilities to attain and maintain maximum independence, full physical, mental, social and vocational ability, and full inclusion and participation in all aspects of life. To that end, States Parties shall organize, strengthen and extend comprehensive habilitation and rehabilitation services and programmes, particularly in the areas of health, employment, education and social services, in such a way that these services and programmes:\n\nThe Convention on the Right of Persons with Disabilities recognised that \"disability results from the interaction between persons with impairments and attitudinal and environmental barriers that hinders their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others\" and that \"persons with disabilities continue to face barriers in their participation as equal members of society.\"\n\nThe Convention makes participation of the disabled one of its principles, stating \"The principles of the present Convention shall be:...Full and effective participation and inclusion in society\", subsequently enshrining the right of disabled to participate fully and equally in the community, education, all aspect of life (in the context of habilitation and rehabilitation), political and public life, cultural life, leisure and sports.\n\nStates Parties should take appropriate measure such as:\n\nArticle 27 requires that States Parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to work, on an equal basis of others; this includes the right to the opportunity to gain a living by work freely chosen or accepted in a labour market and work environment that is open, inclusive and accessible to persons with disabilities. And that States Parties shall safeguard and promote the realization of the right to work, including for those who acquire a disability during the course of employment, by taking appropriate steps, including through legislation, to inter alia:\n\nStates Parties shall ensure that persons with disabilities are not held in slavery or in servitude, and are protected, on an equal basis with others, from forces or compulsory labour.\n\nArticle 28 requires that States Parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to an adequate standard of living for themselves and their families, including adequate food, clothing and housing, and to the continuous improvement of living conditions, and shall take appropriate steps to safeguard and promote the realization of this rights without discrimination on the basis of disability.\n\nStates Parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to social protection and to the enjoyment of that rights without discrimination on the basis of disability, and shall take appropriate steps to safeguard and promote the realization of the rights, including measures;\n\nArticle 29 requires that all Contracting States protect \"the right of persons with disabilities to vote by secret ballot in elections and public referendums\". According to this provision, each Contracting State should provide for voting equipment which would enable disabled voters to vote independently and secretly. Some democracies, e.g., the US, Japan, Netherlands, Slovenia, Albania or India allow disabled voters to use electronic voting machines or electronic aides which help disabled voters to fill the paper ballot. In others, among them Azerbaijan, Kosovo, Canada, Ghana, United Kingdom, and most of African and Asian countries, visually impaired voters can use ballots in Braille or paper ballot templates. Many of these and also some other democracies, Chile for example, use adjustable desks so that voters on wheelchairs can approach them. Some democracies only allow another person to cast a ballot for the blind or disabled voter. Such arrangement, however, does not assure secrecy of the ballot.\n\nArticle 29 also requires that Contracting States ensure \"that voting procedures, facilities and materials are appropriate, accessible and easy to understand and use.\" In some democracies, i.e. Sweden and the US, all the polling places already are fully accessible for disabled voters.\n\nA number of parties have made reservations and interpretative declarations to their application of the Convention.\n\nAustralia does not consider itself bound to stop forcibly medicating those labeled mentally ill when it is considered a last resort.\n\nEl Salvador accepts the Convention to the extent that it is compatible with its constitution.\n\nJapan declares that paragraph 4 of Article 23 of the Convention is interpreted not to apply to a case where a child is separated from his or her parents as a result of deportation in accordance with its immigration law.\n\nMalta interprets the right to health in Article 25 of the Convention as not implying any right to abortion. It also reserves the right to continue to apply its own election laws around accessibility and assistance.\n\nMauritius does not consider itself bound by the Article 11 obligation to take all necessary measures to protect people with disabilities during natural disasters, armed conflict or humanitarian emergencies, unless permitted by domestic legislation.\n\nThe Netherlands interprets the right to life in Article 10 within the framework of its domestic laws. It also interprets Article 25(f), which bars the discriminatory denial of health care, as permitting a person to refuse medical treatment, including food or fluids.\n\nPoland interprets Articles 23 and 25 as not conferring any right to abortion.\n\nThe United Kingdom has reservations relating to the right to education, immigration, service in the armed forces and an aspect of social security law.\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a side-agreement to the Convention which allows its parties to recognise the competence of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to consider complaints from individuals. The text is based heavily on the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.\n\nThe Optional Protocol entered into force with the Convention on 3 May 2008. As of October 2017, it has 92 signatories and 92 parties.\n\nThe Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a body of human rights experts tasked with monitoring the implementation of the Convention. It initially consisted of 12 independent human rights experts, with half elected for a two-year term and half elected for four-years. Thereafter members will be elected for four-year terms, with half the members elected every two years. As the Convention has achieved 80 ratifications, the Committee will be expanded to 18 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32603787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32603787", "title": "Draft Fifth Company Law Directive", "text": "Draft Fifth Company Law Directive\n\nThe Draft Fifth Company Law Directive (1972–1988) is a European Union proposal for a Directive, primarily aimed to implement a right of employees to vote for the boards of directors in large companies. The Directive went through 3 major revisions, but was never agreed to come into law by enough member states.\n\nThe first Draft Fifth Company Law Directive was issued in 1972\nProposed that companies must have two-tiered boards of directors and that companies of over 500 workers should appoint one third of members to a supervisory board.\n\nIn 1983, in an attempt to secure new agreement a further revision was released. The requirement of two tier board was abandoned and the threshold was raised to 1000 workers before codetermination would be required. It envisaged that either board representation would be available for employees on a two or one tier board, or the option of another employee representative body that would receive a copy of all board materials.\n\nThe next attempt at revising the Directive allowed for a third to a half representation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44645713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44645713", "title": "Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act", "text": "Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act\n\nThe Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act, or Public Act 453 of 1976, prohibits discrimination in Michigan on the basis of \"religion, race, color, national origin, age, sex, height, weight, familial status, or marital status\" in employment, housing, education, and access to public accommodations.\n\nThe law is named for its two primary sponsors, Daisy Elliott, a Democrat from Detroit, and Melvin L. Larsen, a Republican from Oxford, and passed in 1976 with 25 votes in the Michigan Senate and 79 votes in the Michigan House of Representatives. It was signed into law by Michigan Governor William Milliken on January 13, 1977 and went into effect on March 31, 1977.\n\nThe law also helped strengthen the role of the Michigan Department of Civil Rights, formed in 1965 to support the work of the Michigan Civil Rights Commission of the 1963 Constitution of Michigan.\n\nThe Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act was passed in 1976, signed into law by Michigan Governor William Milliken on January 13, 1977, and went into effect on March 31, 1977. It has been amended directly or indirectly nearly 20 times.\n\nIn 1885, Michigan adopted the Public Act 130 of 1885, otherwise known as the Civil Rights Act, which stated “all persons within the jurisdiction of (the state) shall be entitled to full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of inns, restaurants, eating-houses, barber shops, public conveyances on land and water, theatres, and all other places of public accommodation and amusement”. In 1890, the Michigan Supreme Court in \"Ferguson v. Gies\" relied on the Civil Rights Act in holding the “separate but equal” doctrine unconstitutional under Michigan law, over 60 years before the Supreme Court of the United States case of \"Brown v. Board of Education\". In 1927, the Civil Rights Act survived constitutional challenge in \"Bolden v. Grand Rapids Operating Corporation\".\n\nIn the years following \"Bolden v. Grand Rapids Operating Corporation\", Michigan passed additional civil rights laws prohibiting discrimination in public accommodations, housing, and employment. The progression of the state’s laws reached a new pinnacle when civil rights were given constitutional status in Michigan's Constitution of 1963, which also resulted in the formation of the Michigan Civil Rights Commission.\n\nAfter attempting in 1966 to pass a Michigan version of the federal civil rights law that was adopted in 1964, Michigan State Representative Daisy Elliott was told by the leadership of her political party, the Democrats, that her measure would never pass unless she found a Republican to co-sponsor it. After being newly elected, Michigan State Representative Melvin L. Larsen, a Republican from Oxford, indicated in 1973 that he would co-sponsor the law. Larsen served on the Michigan House of Representatives civil rights committee that would hold hearings and vote on the proposed legislation. Larsen has stated that his Catholic faith and experience as a principal, athletic director, football coach and instructor at one of the Pontiac Catholic schools was what motivated him to support anti-discrimination measures.\n\nThe act was modeled on prior state civil rights laws prohibiting discrimination in public accommodations, employment, and housing but considerably extended the reach of their application and broadened the forms of discrimination prohibited.\n\nWhen proposed by Elliott and Larsen in 1973, the legislation faced opposition from the disabled (referred to as \"handicappers\" at the time) and LGBT communities because it did not include protections for members of those communities. Elliott and Larsen indicated that the legislation was meant to focus on the African American community. When the bill passed three years later, it was believed that adding \"sexual orientation\" would prevent the bill from passing, so it was left out. Elliott and Larsen made the decision to proceed with the final bill after Elliott offered to add Larsen's name to the bill and consulted him on the final effort to pass the bill in 1976. Most issues raised by the disabled community were also addressed in 1976 with the passage of the Michigan’s Persons with Disabilities Civil Rights Act.\n\nIt passed with 25 votes in the Michigan Senate and 79 votes in the Michigan House of Representatives, and was signed into law by Governor William Milliken on January 13, 1977. The law went into effect on March 31, 1977.\n\nAs early as the 1973 committee hearing on the Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act, members of the LGBT community in Michigan sought to be included in the law. In 1983, Republican state representative Jim Dressel co-sponsored House Bill 5000, which would have added \"sexual orientation\" to the list of protected characteristics; Dressel – who later came out as gay – was defeated for re-election the following year. Michigan's first openly LGBT state legislator, Chris Kolb, included such a change in two other pro-LGBT bills—none of which passed.\n\nSince then a number of additional bills have been introduced to add protections for the LGBT community. Most recently, a bill to add sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression was introduced by State Representative Sam Singh in 2014. Another bill which only included sexual orientation was also introduced by State Representative Frank Foster, but did not receive support from the LGBT community or progressives as the bill left out members of the transgender community and did not adequately protect lesbian, gay, or bisexual people from discrimination. Both bills received a hearing before the Michigan House Commerce Committee, but neither bill received a committee vote.\n\nThe Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act has been amended directly or indirectly nearly 20 times to refine the law, its enforcement, and add protections for groups or classifications not originally named in the act such as height and weight. Most recently in 2009, Governor Jennifer Granholm signed Public Act 190 of 2009, an amendment that increased employment protections for pregnant workers.\n\nThe State Bar of Michigan recognized the law at the 37th Legal Milestone dedication on August 28, 2012, at the Michigan State Capitol in Lansing.\n"}
{"id": "6426718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6426718", "title": "Ex aequo et bono", "text": "Ex aequo et bono\n\nEx aequo et bono (Latin for \"according to the right and good\" or \"from equity and conscience\") is a Latin phrase that is used as a legal term of art. In the context of arbitration, it refers to the power of arbitrators to dispense with consideration of the law but consider solely what they consider to be fair and equitable in the case at hand.\n\nArticle 38(2) of the Statute of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) provides that the court may decide cases \"ex aequo et bono\" only if the parties agree. In 1984, the ICJ decided a case using \"equitable criteria\" in creating a boundary in the Gulf of Maine for Canada and the US.\n\nArticle 33 of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law's Arbitration Rules (1976) provides that the arbitrators shall consider only the applicable law unless the arbitral agreement allows the arbitrators to consider \"ex aequo et bono\", or amiable compositeur, instead. This rule is also expressed in many national and subnational arbitration laws such as section 22 of the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 (NSW).\n\nOn the other hand, the constituent treaty of the Eritrea–Ethiopia Claims Commission explicitly forbids the body from interpreting \"ex aequo et bono\".\n\nThe phrase ex aequo (without \"et bono\") is used to mean \"equally placed\", often in the context of competition winners. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32338686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32338686", "title": "Family mediation in Germany", "text": "Family mediation in Germany\n\nIn Germany, family law was one of the first areas to establish the thought of mediation, and still is the main field of application of mediation. Conflicts in Family Law are characterized by a high rate of personal conflicts.\nA possible definition of conflict might be:\n\n\"Conflict means … the perceived differences of interests or the conviction that the actual aspirations of the parties can no be received at the same time.\"\n\nBasis for personal disputes is the fact that conflicting parties don't come to their own in their personal relationships. After various intents of solving the problems on their own or setting an end to the dispute, the last chance is to get help by a third person. Some hope for an improvement of their marriage by marriage counseling, but in most cases without success. Others try to solve their conflicts by law and hand in a lawsuit. After reviewing this lawsuit, the judge can suggest to consult a mediator, if reasonable.\n\nThere are various constellations of conducting the mediation process. Divorces can be regulated by court. Related issues, like child support, visitation rights or household goods can be resolved by mediation. It is also possible to try to solve all controversies in the mediation process. In this case, the parties can plead for abating legal proceedings. The employed lawyers can recommend a mediator and at the same time can be legal aid during the mediation process.\n\nThe mediator, as against the consulting lawyer, deals with concerns and interests of both parties. \nThe mediator is not suggested or determined by one party alone. This could lead to unwanted disputes or affect the mediation procedure, because one party could feel disadvantaged. \nWhether choosing mediation or not is the parties decision. If they decide to conduct the mediation process, but can't agree as intended, it is not of their disadvantage. The still can go back to the legal process and continue the lawsuit, or file a new one.\n\nAt the beginning, the mediation process was known as an extrajudicial proceeding and was introduced as an alternative to the classical lawsuit. In the meantime, more and more mediations are offered in court. They are conducted by a so-called “judge-mediator” after the commencement of proceedings. The number of judges with this additional qualification is not very high, but it is increasing. This development leads to a change in the point of view of mediations. They are no longer seen as alternative to lawsuits, but are regarded as possible element of the litigation. There is no longer competition between the legal process and the mediation process, but addition.\n\nIt is the marriage partners' decision whether to conduct a mediation process or not, even if it is recommended by court. There is no constraint to take part in the mediation. All parties, also the mediator, are having the right to end the mediation process. So there is no obligation to bring the process to an agreement, exiting the process is possible at any time.\n\nIt is the mediator's obligation to be a neutral facilitator. He arbitrates and serves the parties equally under the precondition that he is absolutely neutral and impartial. He does not favorite one site and needs to treat both parties equally. It would be useful for the mediator not knowing the disputing parties, to prevent preferences, discrimination or personal influences on the decision. The confidence of both parties towards to mediator of great importance for a successful cooperation. If a party is not sure whether the mediator is neutral or not, it is best to continue the mediation process with another mediator.\n\nThe above-mentioned criteria of neutrality and impartiality are also concerning judges. So where is the difference to a mediator? The mediator's essential characteristic is not having any decision-making power in a legal sense. He can support the parties finding a solution and guide them to the right way. At the end of the mediation process, he can make a written agreement, to which the parties must uphold. He needs to fulfill the formalities given for such an agreement. To become legally valid, the agreement needs to be recorded by Family Court or notarially certified.\n\nTo protect the parties, the mediation process is confidential. When both parties are sure that their information is not made public and is protected against malpractice, they are able to solve the conflict more open. They can be sure that problems that were discussed stay within the mediation group. If the mediation fails, the principle of confidentiality is of high importance, because parties can be sure that, if it comes to a lawsuit, information revealed in the mediation process can not be used against them. This applies for the participating parties as well as for the mediator. Information given by the parties in one-to-one conversations with the mediator also come under the non-disclosure obligation. He is not allowed to reveal it to the other party, except he obtains the permission of the party.\n\nThe mediator passes through a process with the parties that is divided into five phases:\n\nAt the beginning the mediator has to comment his mission and function, so that the parties cannot be disappointed during the process. After this discussion, it must be settled if the existent problem of the parties can be answered by a mediation process. At the end of this phase a mediation contract is signed, which contains among other things rights and obligations of the mediator and the parties (modal contract ). The meaning of the contract is to lay a code of behavior, on which the involved must be keeping with.\n\nWith the second phase starts the real conflict management. The extent of the conflict will be made clear and the points which are treating over the process are listed in detail. This way the mediator receives an overview about the dimension and is able to create a plan.\n\nThis phase is the most important chapter of the mediation process. It is basic to deal explicitly with the conflicts. In this phase the parties must reveal their problems and voice their interests, to find the optimal problem-solving approach. If wishes or demands are not communicated at this, it will be difficult to involve those afterwards in the next phase.\n\nAfter collecting the interests they can be search for common solution options. The different ideas will be collect and afterwards evaluated together. The ideas can be collected in different ways, for example by brainstorming. A solution concept will be designed in this phase and that will be developed in the last phase.\n\nAt the end of the mediation, the solution concept from phase 4 will be a phrased into binding agreement. The agreement can be discussed with a consultant lawyer. This way the parties can be sure that they have made a decision which is legally correct. The contract is an obligatory agreement. It needs to be validated, for example by notarization.\n\nThere is no categorization in wrong or false. No party will be inculpated to be wrong or to have made mistakes in the past. The conflicts are reviewed, but with a forward-looking view to find the best solution the two parties. An advantage of mediation is, that the problems are not delegated, the parties try to solve the conflict themselves. This course might take longer, but after all the parties came as opponents to the mediation process and not as friends. In most cases, the idea of solving the problem wins after some time. Due to the voluntariness of the mediation process, a high commitment of the two parties is to be estimated. A positive attitude is thereby part of the course because the parties can agree in peace. Both parties must agree to the arrangement and need to implement the changes in the future. Furthermore, the mediation should encourage friendly contact between the parties after the mediation process. Mediation shall be an impulse to advance the attitude in the future. So the involved can easily stick to the bargain.\n\nThe mediation isn't a judicial action, but for all that the law will be included. Admittedly not with the application of laws but only with the use of them. That means that mediation should be seen as law clarification. The purpose is to represent the three following points, without applying the law:\n\nAn advantage of the family mediation in comparison to a lawsuit is the command of openness. The disputing parties are obliged to reveal all necessary facts and information. If any documents are revealed after the end of the mediation process, the agreement can be invalid. In some cases the statutory offense of fraud is given.\nAnother advantage of family mediation is the time. A lawsuit often takes several years, depending on the number of instances. The mediation process takes only several months depending on the type of conflict and the commitment of the disputing parties. \nAnother advantage results from the time saving. The mediation process is less expensive. The mediator claims of course a charge, but this doesn’t overrun the court costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "26616649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26616649", "title": "Fees in proceedings before the European Patent Office", "text": "Fees in proceedings before the European Patent Office\n\nThe fees due at the European Patent Office (EPO) in relation to a European patent application are laid out in the Rules relating to Fees of 20 October 1977, as adopted by decision of the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation of 7 December 2006 and as last amended by decision of the Administrative Council of 13 December 2017.\n\nRenewal fees are payable to the EPO in respect of pending European patent applications in respect of the third year from the date of filing. These fees are paid in advance of the year in which they are due (such that the renewal fee for the third year falls due two years from the date of filing) and fall due on the last day of the month containing the anniversary of the date of filing. Renewal fees may not be validly paid more than three months before they fall due, except for the renewal fee in respect of the third year which may not be paid more than six months before it falls due.\n\nIf a renewal fee for a European patent application is not paid in due time, the renewal fee may still be validly paid within six months of the due date, provided that the additional fee provided by is also paid within the six-month period. For the calculation of the six-month additional period, the so-called \"de ultimo ad ultimo\" rule is applied by the EPO. According to this rule, the six-month period runs \"from the last day of the month to the last day of the month\". For instance, if a renewal fee was due in February 2004, the additional fee fell due on August 31, 2004 (Tuesday), i.e. six months from the end of February 2004.\n\nThe obligation to pay renewal fees terminates with the payment of the renewal fee due in respect of the year in which the mention of the grant of the European patent is published. Subsequently, renewal fees are payable to the national offices of the EPC Contracting States in which the European patent is brought into effect. Each Contracting State then pays the European Patent Organisation a proportion of each renewal fee received for a European patent in that State. \n\nWhereas for a pending European patent application an applicant must pay a single maintenance fee at the EPO, it may be much more costly to pay several maintenance fees to the several national patent offices for maintaining a granted European patent in a number of countries. This however depends on the number of countries in which the patent proprietor wants to maintain its European patent into force.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, such as following the withdrawal of a European patent application or the withdrawal of an appeal, some fees that were paid may be refunded. This is true for search fees, the examination fee, and the appeal fee.\n\nThe fee structure \"does not necessarily reflect the actual workload imposed on the EPO in any individual case. Rather, legislators have chosen lump sums as fees that are for example independent of the number of auxiliary requests to be decided or the days allowed for conducting oral proceedings.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33718875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33718875", "title": "Geolocation Privacy and Surveillance Act", "text": "Geolocation Privacy and Surveillance Act\n\nThe Geolocation Privacy and Surveillance Act (GPS Act), was a bill introduced in the U.S. Congress in 2011 that attempted to limit government surveillance using geolocation information such as signals from GPS systems in mobile devices. The bill was sponsored by Sen. Ron Wyden and Rep. Jason Chaffetz. Since its initial proposal in June 2011, the GPS Act awaits consideration by the Senate Judiciary Committee as well as the House.\n\nAccording to its proponents, the GPS Act sets forth \"a legal framework designed to give government agencies, commercial entities and private citizens clear guidelines for when and how geolocation information can be accessed and used.\" Advocates drafted the bill to address controversies surrounding prior incidents in which police had attached GPS devices to suspects' vehicles without warrants and to set a legal precedent for such tracking in the future.\n\nCurrent legislation surrounding the issue of tracking an individual's location has proven legally ambiguous and technically outdated. To date, primary precedent draws from the 1983 ruling of \"United States v. Knotts\" (1983) and the contentious Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986. In that case the court ruled that electronic \"beepers\" could be fairly used to track a suspect's vehicle without warrant because the suspect in that case had willingly taken the device that was used to track them. Justice Rehnquist delivered the majority opinion that the monitoring of such \"beeper\" devices did not invade any individual's \"legitimate expectation of privacy\". As a person traveling on public streets is visible to the naked eye, the practice was thus upheld as neither a \"search\" nor a \"seizure\" under Fourth Amendment definitions.\n\nOne notable incident of warrantless GPS tracking in 2005 led to \"United States v. Jones\", decided by the United States Supreme Court. In \"Jones\" the police obtained a warrant to attach a GPS device to the underside of the defendant's car but then violated the warrant's scope in both geography and in length of time.\n\nThe Department of Justice (DOJ) defended the police's actions by contending that a warrant was unnecessary in the first place. It pointed to a two-decade precedent of warrantless GPS tracking. Roger L. Easton, the principal inventor of modern GPS technology, filed an amicus brief urging the court to renounce the DOJ's proposal. In reply, the U.S. Department of Justice argued that an individual has \"no reasonable expectation of privacy\" in his or her movements around public streets, and that legislation requiring certain standards for warrants would \"severely impede\" law enforcement officials in their work.\n\nDuring oral argument, Justice Antonin Scalia suggested that legislatures could create restraints on law enforcement officers that would prevent such tracking.\n\nThe Supreme Court justices voted unanimously that the attachment of a GPS device on a vehicle and its monitoring, even on public streets, constituted a search under the Fourth Amendment. However, only four of the justices argued that the search violated reasonable expectations of privacy while the other five rested their conclusion on other grounds. The GPS Act would effectively endorse the minority's position and establish that geolocational searches are presumptively unreasonable. However, this ruling does not provide full protection from geolocational tracking methods, such as those used by telecommunication companies who reserve the right to collect geolocational information.\n\nIf passed, the GPS Act would require probable cause and an accompanying warrant before government agencies could obtain private geolocational information on an individual, either through a mobile device or by the placement of a tracking bug. Taking a strong stance on consumer rights, the bill would further forbid private businesses from sharing customer location data without explicit consent of the individual. The bill would cover real-time tracking data as well as previously acquired historical location data.\n\nThe bill has set forth certain exceptions under which the acquisition of private tracking data by private or public entities would not be unlawful:\n\nThe bill was initially co-sponsored by Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition and the Internet. Since the bill's introduction, six other members of the House, as well as Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL). have signed on as co-sponsors.\n\nThe bill has also gained support from a variety of civil liberties organizations including the ACLU, CCIA, Competitive Enterprise Institute, Digital Liberty Organization, and Electronic Frontier Foundation.\n\nSimilar bills include one written by Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT), who aims to require a warrant to obtain GPS data from companies, and one by senators Al Franken (D-MN) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), who would require device manufacturers to receive explicit consent from the end-user before tracking their location.\n\nIn her concurrence in \"U.S. v Jones\", Justice Sonia Sotomayor warned that the administration's defense of warrantless GPS tracking, if upheld, would allow federal agencies to track individuals through any cellular device, as law enforcement groups can also intercept signals the phones emit.\n\nThe Obama Administration has expressed potential opposition to the GPS Act based on the belief that GPS tracking is no more invasive than visual surveillance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29195254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29195254", "title": "German air passenger taxes", "text": "German air passenger taxes\n\nGerman air passenger taxes are excise duties and other charges levied by the German government on most passengers departing by air, either in addition to the price of the airline ticket or incorporated into the ticket price.\n\nA departure tax is to apply for all departures starting from 1 January 2011. The amount depends on the destination country; the following table shows the minimum payable (agents may charge tax handling costs).\n\n"}
{"id": "56717241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56717241", "title": "Good Epidemiological Practices", "text": "Good Epidemiological Practices\n\nGood Epidemiological Practices or Good Epidemiology Practices (GEP) was a set of guidelines produced by the U.S. Chemical Manufacturers Association (CMA) in 1991 to improve epidemiologic research practices. It was then adopted by the tobacco industry around 1993 as part of its \"sound science\" program to counter criticisms of the industry on health and environmental issues such as secondhand smoke. It failed to make much impact on the US and European regulators, but may have had more influence in its later manifestations in Asia and particularly China.\n\nThe complexities of creating Good Epidemiological Practices developments have been examined by University of San Francisco researchers Stanton Glantz and Elisa K. Ong in papers such as \"Tobacco Industry Efforts to Subvert the IARC's Second hand smoke study\" published in \"The Lancet\". They argued that these were industry programs designed to manipulate the scientific standards of proof, and an attempt to set risk-evaluation standards that could be forced through by legislation, and imposed on the agencies (EPA, OSHA, etc.) to hamstring the agencies' ability to regulate.\n\nIn February 1993, an executive of Philip Morris USA, Ellen Merlo, wrote a memo to her CEO William Campbell outlining their strategies to discredit the 1992 report by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that identified secondhand smoke as a Group A human carcinogen, and to counter what she described as \"junk science\". Their public relations firm, APCO Associates, launched a \"sound science\" coalition in the United States, and The Advancement of Sound Science Coalition (TASSC) was formed three months later in May 1993, with Garrey Carruthers the chairman. George L. Carlo, a science entrepreneur who worked with Federal Focus Inc., prepared one of the early draft documents.\n\nAt this time the legislative and public activist attacks on the tobacco industry had escalated, and they blamed this on the \"twisted science\" used by the EPA. In Europe the UN's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) was about to release a similar report, which the tobacco industry also needed to counter.\n\nHelmut Reif, Tom Borelli and Mitch Ritter at Philip Morris's Science & Technology division thought the CMA's GEP could be improved to help PM develop standards for secondhand smoke epidemiological studies. This initiative to \"constructively improve\" epidemiology would enlist the assistance of the industry's consultants, and they could then run an \"offensive strategy\"—essentially another proactive effort by the industry to shape the scientific process.\n\nJoanna Sullivan, Philip Morris's main PR in Europe, advised her American superiors (June 1994) on how GEP might be used to combat the IARC's report, since this would give United Nations weight to the claim that second-hand smoke was potentially cancerous to non-smokers. By establishing the standards of epidemiology and by using their influence in Congress to have GEP mandated by legislation, they hoped to design a set of established procedural standards for epidemiology.\n\nThe innovation here, was that they aimed to attack the techniques relied on by the EPA and IARC scientists. In the past, they had focussed attacks on specific adverse scientific findings and reports. GEP was designed to directed an attack on the techniques of epidemiology itself.\n\nThey may have had little hope that this would be widely accepted by the majority of epidemiologists or by the regulators, but it made possible a vigorous public relations campaign in the media to challenge and denigrate any adverse findings.\n\nInitially Philip Morris utilised a small panel of trusted epidemiologists who regularly serviced the industry when it needed to defend against some adverse finding. They were requested to improve on the Chemical Manufacturer's Association's GEP. Later they extended this mandate by conducting seminars on GEP and good risk-assessment practice around the world. The tobacco industry itself needed to remain invisible and so they needed the front provided by third-party think-tanks and old allies.\n\nThe main organisation hired to run the GEP program was Federal Focus Inc., a PR company set up during the second term of the Reagan Administration by two top Agency officials, Thorne Auchter, who had been the Director of the OSHA (Occupational Safety & Health Administration) and James J. Tozzi who had been Reagan's \"Deregulation Czar\" as head of the OIRA (Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs), at the OMB (Office of Management & Budget). These two and the head of the EPA (Anne Gorsuch Burford) were among the 20 or so top Agency executives forced (or encouraged) to resign over Reagan's regulatory scandals.\n\nJim Tozzi's technique at the OIRA was to block regulators from regulating by denying their agencies funding unless they cancelled one regulation before adding another. (Tozzi and Auchter also ran Multinational Business Services, and the Institute for Regulatory Policy).\n\nThe main tobacco law firm, Covington & Burling (C&B) was also involved both in promoting the idea and in recruiting scientists willing to participate, usually only when assured that payment would be laundered through the law firm. C&B lawyer John Rupp initiated similar activities in Italy and Germany. The total expenses for this program in 1997 were about $300,000.\n\nThe GEP program \"experts\" that Auchter and Tozzi enlisted were pre-screened by Philip Morris Issues Managers and Federal Focus, and the results they produced were pre-tested at a number of conferences (which often didn't carry the GEP name). The first, known as the Lansdowne Conference, was held at a US conference center with only a few of their most trusted scientist helpers. They then widened the advisory pool and held a London Conference where Philip Morris opened the operation to British-American Tobacco and the other companies. They established what became known as the London Principles. A German conference soon followed.\n\nGenerally GEP failed to influence policy makers in America and Europe, so it was tried in Asia through conferences of the Asian WhiteCoats group (collectively known as 'ARTIST') and with other recruits in Kuala Lumpur, Hong-Kong, Yokohama, Beijing, and then Guangzhou.\n\nTed Sanders, who ran the Scientific Affairs operations for Philip Morris in Europe, provides us with an excellent overview of how the Philip Morris GEP unravelled in a long letter of complaint to Cathy Ellis, his executive overseer in Brussels (Apr 3 1998).\n"}
{"id": "37509592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37509592", "title": "Harold Michael", "text": "Harold Michael\n\nHarold K. Michael (October 9, 1943 - ) is an American insurance agent from Moorefield, West Virginia, who has served as a Democratic member of the West Virginia House of Delegates representing what is now the 47th District since 1988.\n\nBorn October 9, 1943, son of Merl H. and Flossie V. Michael, Michael has studied at Strayer University, and is an insurance agent by profession (he is past President of the West Virginia Nationwide Insurance Agents).\n\nHe served as Democratic Majority Whip during the 72nd Legislature; and as Chairman of the standing committee on finance during the 73rd, 74th, 75th, 76th and 77th Legislatures.\n\nHe is married to the former Patricia Burns; their children are Harold K. Jr., Melissa Lee, Brandi M., and Tasha Nichole Michael. He is a Methodist and a Freemason.\n"}
{"id": "43987305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43987305", "title": "Home Insurance Co. v. Dick", "text": "Home Insurance Co. v. Dick\n\nHome Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397 (1930), was one of the earliest conflict of laws cases in which the United States Supreme Court held that the U.S. Constitution imposes certain limitations on the ability of states to apply their own law to events occurring in other states.\n\nIn this case, C. J. Dick was a resident of Texas, but was living in Mexico, where he was operating a tugboat for a Mexican company. The tugboat was lost in a fire, and Dick returned to Texas to file a lawsuit against two New York-based reinsurers of the Mexican corporation that owned the boat. Later analysts have questioned whether the true facts of the case were really before the courts as it reached various levels of appeal:\n\nHome Insurance Co. sought to dismiss the suit because Dick had waited more than a year to file the lawsuit, and a clause in the Home Insurance Co. insurance contract required that any action against it had to be brought within a year of the injury. Although this provision was valid under Mexican law, the Texas courts applied a Texas state law which deemed such clauses invalid unless they provided at least two years for the claimant to file a lawsuit.\n\nThe Court, in a unanimous opinion by Justice Brandeis, held that the state of Texas has no power to affect contracts made outside the state, and having no relation to anything done or to be done within the state. The state therefore could not constitutionally apply its own rule invalidating contract clauses that required any statute of limitations under two years to a contract that had no relation to Texas beyond the fact that the plaintiff was a Texas resident. These contacts were insufficient to satisfy the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Supreme Court also rejected a number of defenses raised by Dick. First, the Court rejected claims that the state of Texas had a public policy interest in the outcome of the case, noting that Home Insurance Co. was basically dragged into the Texas courts against its will, and for a matter that did not involve an injury occurring in Texas or a party insured in Texas.\n\nSecond, the Court rejected the argument that it lacked subject matter jurisdiction for want of a federal question over a matter of local law. The Court rejected this argument because the case did not involve a local interpretation of the contract, but application of a law external to the contract itself.\n\nFinally Dick contended that the Constitution does not require states to recognize laws of foreign countries. The court rejected this argument because the appeal raised a due process claim, not a claim under the Full Faith and Credit Clause. The court noted that due process applies to aliens, and in any case that the defendant here was a New York company.\n\nThe doctrine thereafter continued to steadily develop in a series of cases over the following decades. Within a few decades after the decision, the Supreme Court had also enunciated doctrines that would largely foreclose personal jurisdiction over the defendant in cases such as this.\n"}
{"id": "3909806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3909806", "title": "Isle of Man Government", "text": "Isle of Man Government\n\nThe Isle of Man Government () is the government of the Isle of Man. The formal head of the Isle of Man Government is the Lieutenant Governor, representing Queen Elizabeth II, Lord of Mann. The executive head is the Chief Minister.\n\nDouglas, the largest town on the Isle of Man, is its capital and seat of government, where most Government offices and the parliament chambers (Tynwald) are located.\n\nThe Civil Service has more than 2,000 employees and the total number of public sector employees including the Civil Service, teachers, nurses, police, etc. is about 9,000. This is somewhat more than 10% of the population of the Island, and a full 23% of the working population. This does not include any military forces, as defence is the constitutional responsibility of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Government consists of 7 departments, 9 statutory boards, 5 offices, and 9 other quasi-independent agencies (Public Lottery Trust, Manx Heritage Foundation, Arts Council, Sports Council, Swimming Pool Authorities, Local Government, Planning Authority, Health and Safety Executive Authority, Road Transport and Licensing Committee) all reporting to the Council of Ministers. The departments all report directly to the Council of Ministers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe structure and functions of the Departments were re-organised with effect from 1 April 2010. The existing Departments, except the Treasury and the Departments of Education and Home Affairs, were dissolved, and the Department of Education was renamed \"the Department of Education and Children\". The Departments and their functions are now as follows:\n\nBefore modern times the government of the Isle of Man was in the hands of the Governor (or Lieutenant Governor), who was the representative of the Lord of Man, assisted by his Council, consisting of the other permanent officials (the Bishop, Archdeacon, Deemsters, Attorney General, etc.). The Council evolved into the Legislative Council, the upper chamber of Tynwald, the parliament of the Isle of Man.\n\nAfter the Revestment in 1765 the Lieutenant Governor and his officials were the agents of the British Government, and not democratically responsible to the Manx people. Conflict between the House of Keys (popularly elected after 1866) and the Lieutenant Governor came to a head during the tenure of Lord Raglan (1902–18).\n\nAfter World War I the Lieutenant Governor gradually ceded control to Tynwald, a process guided by the reports of commissions and other bodies in 1911, 1959 and 1969. An Executive Council, chaired by him and including members of Tynwald, was established in 1949, and gradually thereafter became the effective government of the Island. Finance and the police came under local control between 1958 and 1976. The Lieutenant Governor ceased to chair the Executive Council in 1980, being replaced by a chairman elected by Tynwald, and the Council was reconstituted in 1985 to include the chairmen of the eight principal Boards; in 1986 they were given the title 'Minister' and the chairman was styled 'Chief Minister'. In 1990 the Council was renamed the 'Council of Ministers'.\n\nDuring the 19th century several bodies, which came to be known as 'Boards of Tynwald', were created to exercise functions under democratic control. These included the Board of Education (1872), Highway Board (1874), Asylums Board (1888), Government Property Trustees (1891) and Local Government Board (1894). However, although direct taxation was levied by Tynwald, the Boards' freedom of action before the 1960s was limited by the Lieutenant Governor's control of the Island's budget and his power to appoint certain of their members.\n\nThe structure of the Boards of Tynwald, along with other bodies variously called 'Statutory Boards' and 'Commercial Boards', became increasingly unwieldy after the 1950s, and was eventually reformed in the 1980s, when a system of 'ministerial government' was set up.\n\nThe Departments and Statutory Boards which existed before the reorganisation in 2010, and their predecessors, are shown below:\n\n"}
{"id": "756800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756800", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Corps, U.S. Navy", "text": "Judge Advocate General's Corps, U.S. Navy\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's Corps also known as the \"JAG Corps\" or \"JAG\" is the legal arm of the United States Navy. Today, the corps consists of a worldwide organization of more than 730 commissioned officers serving as Judge Advocates, 30 limited duty officers (law), 500 enlisted members (primarily in the Legalman rating) and nearly 275 civilian personnel, all serving under the direction of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy.\n\nThe headquarters of the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Department of the Navy is located at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1775, the Continental Congress enacted the Articles of Conduct, governing the ships and men of the Continental Navy. However, soon after the end of the Revolutionary War, all of these ships were sold and the Continental Navy, to include its Continental Marines, the precursor of today's United States Navy and Marine Corps, were disbanded. In July 1797, Congress, after authorizing construction of six frigates, enacted the Rules for Regulation of the Navy as a temporary measure. Then, in 1800, Congress enacted a more sophisticated code adopted directly from the British Naval Code of 1749. There was little or no need for lawyers to interpret these simple codes, nor was there a need for lawyers in the uncomplicated administration of the navy prior to the American Civil War.\n\nDuring the Civil War, however, Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles named a young assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of Columbia named Nathaniel Wilson to present the government's case in complicated courts-martial. Without any statutory authority, Secretary Welles gave Wilson the title of \"Solicitor of the Navy Department,\" making him the first House counsel to the United States Navy.\n\nBy the Act of March 2, 1865, Congress authorized \"the President to appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for service during the rebellion and one year thereafter, an officer of the Navy Department to be called the 'Solicitor and Naval Judge Advocate General.'\" The United States Congress maintained the billet on a year-to-year basis by amendments to the Naval Appropriations Acts. In 1870, Congress transferred the billet to a newly established Justice Department with the title of naval solicitor.\n\nColonel William Butler Remey, USMC, was the first uniformed chief legal officer of the navy, in 1878. Colonel Remey was able to convince Congress that the Navy Department needed a permanent uniformed Judge Advocate General and that naval law was so unique it would be better to appoint a line officer of the navy or Marine Corps. The bill to create the billet of Judge Advocate General of the Navy was signed in 1880.\n\nDuring World War I, the Naval Appropriations Act of 1918 elevated the billets of navy bureau chiefs and judge advocate general to rear admiral. In July 1918, Captain George Ramsey Clark was appointed the first judge advocate general to hold the rank of rear admiral.\n\nDuring the rapid expansion of the navy during World War II, line officers who had been attorneys in civilian life were often pressed into service, frequently ad hoc, to serve as prosecutors and defense attorneys in court martial proceedings. Many of these attorneys remained in the navy following the end of the war as general line officers, but serving as de facto judge advocates. In 1947, the navy created a \"law specialist\" program to allow line officers restricted duty to perform legal services. By the Act of May 5, 1950, Congress required that the Judge Advocate General be a lawyer. The Act also required each Judge Advocate General of any service be a member of the bar with not less than eight years of legal duties as a commissioned officer. The Act also enacted the first Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).\n\nBy 1967, the navy had 20 years of experience with the law specialist program. There was, however, increasing pressure to create a separate corps of lawyers. That year, Congress decided to establish the Judge Advocate General's Corps (JAGC) within the Department of the Navy. The legislation was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on December 8, 1967, and redesignated all navy lawyers as staff officers within the navy, similar to physicians and chaplains. Prior to this change, all navy lawyers were Line Naval Officers.\n\nPrior to 2005, JAG Corps personnel primarily worked in one of three offices: Navy Legal Service Offices (NLSO) providing defense and legal assistance to eligible personnel; Trial Service Offices (TSO) providing courts-martial prosecution, court reporting and administrative trial support; and Staff Judge Advocates (SJA) providing legal advice to U.S. naval base commanding officers. In 2005, the Judge Advocate General of the Navy approved a pilot program which resulted in the merger of the navy's Trial Service Offices and Staff Judge Advocates into new commands known as Region Legal Service Offices (RLSO). Additionally, the JAG Corps has attorneys and paralegals on aircraft carriers, amphibious assault ships and flag ships, as well as in support of Seabee battalions and special operations commands.\n\nThe official insignia of the JAG Corps consists of two gold oak leaves, curving to form a semicircle in the center of which is balanced a silver \"mill rinde\" [sic]. In ancient France, the \"fer de moline\", or millrind, was a symbol of equal justice for all under the law. The two counterbalancing oak leaves are identical and connote the scales upon which justice is weighed. Oak leaves denote a corps, and symbolize strength, particularly the strength of the hulls of the early American Navy, which were oak-timbered. In the milling of grains, the millrind was used to keep the stone grinding wheels an equal distance apart to provide consistency in the milling process. It, thus, symbolizes that the wheels of justice must grind exceedingly fine and exceptionally even. In the 16th century, this symbol was adopted in England as a symbol for lawyers.\n\nThe millrind can also be found in both the Staff Corps Officers Specialty Insignia and in the Enlisted Rating Insignia (LN Legalman).\n\nLegalmen are trained paralegals who assist navy and Marine Corps lawyers and work in navy legal offices.\n\nOn January 4, 1972, Secretary of the Navy John H. Chafee approved the recommendation for establishment of the Legalman enlisted rating. A memorandum from the Chairman of the Rating Review Board announced the approval, stating in part, \"the scope of the new rating will provide judge advocates with the personnel trained in court reporting, claims matters, investigations, legal administration, and legal research. This scope is in consonance with the new concept in the civilian legal community where many areas of legal services can be provided by competent trained personnel under the supervision of a lawyer.\" On October 4, 1972, 275 petty officers were selected for conversion to the new Legalman rating.\n\nIn 2007, the Legalman education and training pipeline was adapted in order to fully train Legalmen as paralegals. The Naval Justice School's NJS curriculum was adapted to include four American Bar Association (ABA) approved paralegal college courses. Legalmen now leave NJS with 10 semester hours of college credit in paralegal studies.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General of the Navy (JAG) and the Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy (DJAG) are appointed positions. They are both nominated by the President and must be confirmed via majority vote by the Senate. The JAG and DJAG are appointed to a four-year term of office but they usually serve for three. The JAG and DJAG have historically been officers in the service of the navy. Federal statutes, however, state that a Marine officer can be appointed to either position as long as he meets the requirements stated in the section. By statute the JAG is appointed as a three-star vice admiral or lieutenant general while holding office and the DJAG is appointed as a two-star rear admiral or a major general. Other than age and years of military service, there is no other statute of limitations on how many times a JAG or DJAG can be renominated for appointment to that position if the President so chooses.\n\n\nNorth\n\nWest\n\nPacific\n\nSoutheast\n\nCapital Region\n\nSoutheast\n\nMid-Atlantic\n\nSouthwest\n\nNorthwest\n\nPacific\n\nEurope Africa and Southwest Asia\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23460149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23460149", "title": "Loop v. Litchfield", "text": "Loop v. Litchfield\n\nLoop v. Litchfield 42 N. Y. 351 (1870) was a part of the historic line of cases holding that the privity requirement barred a products liability action unless the product in question was \"inherently dangerous.\"\n\nA manufacturer negligently made a small balance wheel for use on a circular saw. The manufacturer pointed out the defect in the wheel to the buyer, who wished to purchase a cheap article and was willing to assume the risk of the defect. The buyer then loaned the saw to a neighbor who used it and, five years after the manufacture, was killed when the wheel flew apart.\n\nThe court held the manufacturer not liable.\n\nThree years later, in \"Losee v. Clute\", the plaintiff was injured by a defective steam boiler; the court decided that this, too, was an ordinary object, not an inherently dangerous one.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "306811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306811", "title": "Malum in se", "text": "Malum in se\n\nMalum in se (plural \"mala in se\") is a Latin phrase meaning \"wrong\" or \"evil in itself\". The phrase is used to refer to conduct assessed as sinful or inherently wrong by nature, independent of regulations governing the conduct. It is distinguished from \"malum prohibitum\", which is wrong only because it is prohibited.\n\nFor example, most human beings believe that murder, rape, and theft are wrong, regardless of whether a law governs such conduct or where the conduct occurs, and is thus recognizably \"malum in se\". In contrast, \"malum prohibitum\" crimes are criminal not because they are inherently bad, but because the act is prohibited by the law of the state. For example, law in the United States requires drivers to drive on the right side of the road. This is not because driving on the left side of a road is considered immoral, but because consistent rules promote safety and order on the roads.\n\nThis concept was used to develop the various common law offences.\n\nAnother way to describe the underlying conceptual difference between \"\"malum in se\" and \"malum prohibitum\" is \"iussum quia iustum\" and \"iustum quia iussum\"\", namely something that is commanded (\"iussum\") because it is just (\"iustum\") and something that is just (\"iustum\") because it is commanded (iussum).\n"}
{"id": "595871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595871", "title": "Marine, &amp;c., Broadcasting (Offences) Act 1967", "text": "Marine, &amp;c., Broadcasting (Offences) Act 1967\n\nThe Marine, &c., Broadcasting (Offences) Act 1967 c.41, shortened to Marine Broadcasting Offences Act or \"Marine offences Act\", became law in the United Kingdom at midnight on Monday 14 August 1967. It was subsequently amended by the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 and the Broadcasting Act 1990. Its purpose was to extend the powers of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1949 (which was incorporated by this Act), beyond the territorial land area and territorial waters of the UK to cover airspace and external bodies of water. \n\nThe Act represented the UK's ratification of the 1965 \"European Agreement for the Prevention of Broadcasts Transmitted from Stations outside National Territories\" (sometimes referred to as the \"Council of Europe Strasbourg Convention\" or \"Strasbourg Treaty\").\n\nAt the time that the Bill was introduced in Parliament in 1966, there were radio stations and proposals for television stations outside British licensing jurisdiction with signals aimed at Britain. These stations were at sea but there were press reports of stations broadcasting from aircraft (Caroline TV) and from a ship (Radex TV).\n\nThe Act extended to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man (despite the protests of the Governments there). The Act meant that the operation of offshore, pirate radio stations became illegal if they were operated or assisted by persons subject to UK law. It prohibited \"carrying by water or air goods or persons to or from it\" which made tendering illegal. Station operators thought they could continue if they were staffed, supplied and funded by non-British citizens, but this largely proved impractical.\n\nIn 1966, broadcasting in the UK was controlled by the British General Post Office, which had granted exclusive radio broadcasting licences to the British Broadcasting Corporation and television licences to the BBC and 16 regional Independent Television companies.\n\nThe power of the GPO covered letters delivered by the Royal Mail, newspapers, books and their printing presses, the encoding of messages on lines used to supply electricity; the electric telegraph, the electric telephone (which was originally deemed an electronic post office); the electric wireless telegraph and the electric wireless telephone which became known as \"telephony\" and later wireless broadcasting. In the 1920s the GPO had been circumvented by broadcasting from transmitters in countries close to British listeners. World War II terminated these broadcasts except for Radio Luxembourg.\n\nIn the 1950s a pressure group campaigned with the help of Winston Churchill to pass the Television Act 1954 that broke the BBC television monopoly by creating ITV. Some members wanted commercial competition to radio but were thwarted by a succession of governments.\n\nBy the 1960s several companies formed in the hope that radio licences would be issued. Radio monopolies in adjoining nations had been broken by transmitters on ships in international waters. The first attempt to broadcast offshore to Britain was by CNBC, an English-language station from the same ship as Radio Veronica broadcasting in Dutch to the Netherlands. CNBC ended transmissions but press reports followed that GBLN, \"The Voice of Slough\", would transmit from a ship with sponsored programming already booked and advertised by Herbert W. Armstrong. GBLN was followed by reports that GBOK was attempting to get on air from another ship, both ships to be anchored off south-east England. Many in these early ventures were known to each other.\n\nSome of the commercial television group members had registered broadcasting companies and were working to create offshore radio. The first venture was \"Project Atlanta\" in 1963, which had ties to British political leaders, bankers, the music industry and to Gordon McLendon, who had helped Radio Nord broadcast from a ship off Sweden. When that was put off the air by Swedish law it became available to British entrepreneurs. Before Radio Atlanta got on the air, Radio Caroline began broadcasting in March 1964.\n\nTexas connections to British stations led Don Pierson of Eastland, Texas to promote three American-radio format stations off Britain: Wonderful Radio London or Big L, Swinging Radio England and Britain Radio. By 1966 other stations had come on the air transmitting to Scotland, northern and southern England, or were in the process of doing so. Press reports included rumours of offshore television stations and the brief success of the Dutch REM Island operation called Radio and TV Noordzee heightened the fear of the authorities that de facto unregulated broadcasting was becoming so entrenched due to its popularity that it would not be possible to stop it.\n\nAlthough these stations maintained sales and management offices in Britain, the transmitters were not under British law. In many instances the ships were registered in other countries.\n\nParliamentary debates listed several reasons why unlicensed broadcasting should be stopped. Opponents referred to \"pirate radio stations\". Allegations of piracy included misappropriation of World War II military installations; wavelengths allocated to others and the unauthorised playing of recorded music. Other claims said the vessels were a danger to shipping and that signals could interfere with aircraft and police, fire and ambulance services.\n\nIn 1966, a dispute among offshore radio operators brought the issue of unlicensed radio stations to the fore. Reginald Calvert, operator of Radio City, had refused to pay Radio Caroline's operator Oliver Smedley for a substandard transmitter. Smedley hired some riggers to occupy the Radio City facility (on Shivering Sands, a disused offshore defence fort), and in an altercation at Smedley's house, Smedley killed Calvert. This incident strengthened the position of the Labour government of Harold Wilson, who wanted to bring the pirate stations under control, enough to see the passage of the Marine Broadcasting Offences Act on 15 August 1967.\n\nThe offshore stations fell into four groups:\n\n\nAlthough challenges began with Radio North Sea International in 1970, governments jammed it until it moved to a position off the Netherlands. There was no Dutch equivalent of the Act until 1974; upon its introduction RNI closed.\n\nRadio Caroline returned through the 1970s using a vessel that later sank in 1980, then returned with a new ship in 1983, primarily conducted with volunteer help. For much of this period Caroline's ships also hosted Dutch-language stations whose revenue, along with that of American evangelical broadcasts, kept the station on the air.\n\nIn 1984 Caroline was joined by Laser 558 another vessel with American backing, and while the latter gained a huge audience, the legislation plus a sea embargo monitoring supplies out to Laser drove its operators into insolvency as well as putting additional pressure on Caroline. An attempt to revive Laser under new management only lasted a few months from 1986-7.\n\nThe Great Storm of 1987 damaged Radio Caroline's antenna tower, which collapsed a few weeks later. A smaller antenna system was built but was less efficient. Dutch and British governments then raided the Radio Caroline ship and removed much of its equipment, but again it limped back on the air until late 1990 when its funding ran out. Attempts to secure more proved futile, and thereafter it pursued legal means of broadcasting.\n\nThe end of the offshore Radio Caroline came when the Broadcasting Act 1990, which built on all similar and related legislation, together with a storm that caused its staff temporarily to abandon the ship, caused the station to come ashore in 1991, where enthusiasts continue to build a broadcasting business using the new licensing system available to British broadcasters.\n\nDenmark 1962, Belgium 1962, Ireland 1968, France 1969, Netherlands 1974\n\n"}
{"id": "11423714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11423714", "title": "Missing heir", "text": "Missing heir\n\nA missing heir is a person related to a \"decedent\" (dead person), or testator of a will, but whose residence, domicile, Post office, or other address is not known. A missing heir may be an orphan or other person under a disability, who may need a guardian or custodian of funds.\n\n\"Missing heirs\" often come up in the context of legal actions involving wills, title to real property, or a quiet title action. A private investigator, probate research firm or forensic genealogist may be hired by the executor, trustee, or administrator to find the missing heirs.\n\nA probate court or surrogate judge may require the service of a citation, notice of petition, summons, or subpoena to the relevant persons who may be missing persons, or may know the whereabouts of such person.\n\nSome courts, such as Suffolk County Probate Court in Boston, actively solicit missing heirs.\n\nProbate research companies specialize in locating missing and unknown heirs.\n\nProbate research\n"}
{"id": "56355027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56355027", "title": "Mona Lynch", "text": "Mona Lynch\n\nMona Pauline Lynch is an American criminologist and Professor of Criminology, Law and Society and Law at the University of California, Irvine, where she is also co-director of the Center in Law, Society and Culture. She has also been the co-editor-in-chief of \"Punishment & Society\" since 2015. An expert on drug laws in the United States, she is the author of the 2016 book \"Hard Bargains: The Coercive Power of Drug Laws in Federal Court\", which discusses the use of drug laws by federal prosecutors to coerce defendants into taking plea bargains.\n\n"}
{"id": "4285967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4285967", "title": "Mount Laurel doctrine", "text": "Mount Laurel doctrine\n\nThe \"Mount Laurel\" doctrine is a controversial judicial interpretation of the New Jersey State Constitution. The doctrine requires that municipalities use their zoning powers in an affirmative manner to provide a realistic opportunity for the production of housing affordable to low and moderate income households.\n\nThe doctrine takes its name from the lead case in which it was first pronounced by the New Jersey Supreme Court in 1975: \"Southern Burlington County N.A.A.C.P. v. Mount Laurel Township\" (commonly called \"Mount Laurel I\"), in which the plaintiffs challenged the zoning ordinance of Mount Laurel Township, New Jersey, on the grounds that it operated to exclude low and moderate income persons from obtaining housing in the municipality.\n\nAfter the decision in \"Mount Laurel I\", suits were filed against numerous municipalities. The plaintiffs in such suits fell into three classes: lower income persons who actually sought housing and advocacy organizations on their behalf; the New Jersey Public Advocate; and builders who sought to construct developments containing affordable housing.\n\nThese early exclusionary zoning suits were beset by numerous difficulties and little, if any, affordable housing resulted. In 1983 appeals in several of these cases (of which \"Southern Burlington County N.A.A.C.P. v. Mount Laurel Township\" was again the lead case), gave the New Jersey Supreme Court the opportunity to reaffirm and tweak the \"Mount Laurel\" Doctrine and provide several mechanisms and remedies to make the doctrine more effective.\n\nThe New Jersey Supreme Court was aware that the \"Mount Laurel II\" decision would be controversial and would engender debate about the proper role of the courts. The opinion invited legislative action to implement what the court defined as the constitutional obligation.\n\nIn 1985 the New Jersey Legislature responded by passing the Fair Housing Act. Accepting the premise that there was some constitutional obligation for municipalities to foster some degree of affordable housing, this legislation created an administrative agency, the Council on Affordable Housing (COAH), to establish regulations whereby the obligation of each municipality in terms of the number of units and how the obligation could be satisfied.\n\nA municipality which elected to participate in COAH's administrative process prior to being sued was provided with protection from litigation and especially the builder's remedy. As a transitional provision, the act provided that municipalities involved in litigation when the act was passed were to be able to transfer the litigation to COAH unless manifest injustice would result.\n\nCOAH developed regulations under which the specific number of affordable units that each municipality would be required to provide (its \"pre-credited need\") could be determined. Participating municipalities developed compliance plans to address this need by such means as the application of credits (\"e.g.\" filtering, spontaneous rehabilitation, extra credit for rental units), the use of regional contribution agreements (transferring part of the obligation to a willing municipality, usually an urban center, in the same region along with payment in an amount agreed by the municipalities) and zoning for affordable housing (usually involving increased density and mandatory set-asides). When COAH approved a municipality's compliance plan it would grant \"substantive certification\" which was designed to provide the municipality with protection from exclusionary zoning litigation.\n\nFrom the municipal point of view, the advantages of COAH's administrative process included the use of a formula to calculate fair share that might produce a lower obligation than the court would impose, the availability of the regional contribution agreement to reduce the number of units and the ability to determine where in the municipality that affordable housing ought to be developed rather than being forced to permit a development as a reward to a successful builder-plaintiff. Those municipalities that chose not to participate in COAH's administrative process remained vulnerable to exclusionary zoning lawsuits and the prospect of the builder's remedy. The disadvantage would be that a participating municipality might be required to zone some land in a manner that extra housing would be produced. Some municipalities, believing that the likelihood of facing an actual exclusionary zoning lawsuit was low enough, took their chances in not participating.\n\nWhile the Mount Laurel decision mandates a state constitutional obligation for every municipality in a \"growth area\" to provide a fair share of its region's present and prospective housing needs for low and moderate income families, there is no funding source specified for low or very-low income families, in a state that already has some of the nation's highest property taxes. Some have accused the decision for being an example of judicial activism.\n\nThe New Jersey Supreme Court welcomed the Legislature's adoption of the Fair Housing Act. A number of trial court decisions had denied transfer of pending cases to COAH under the manifest injustice standard, but the Supreme Court read that term very narrowly and ordered the cases transferred. The trial courts were directed to conform their rulings with regard to calculation of each municipality's obligation and how to meet it to COAH's regulations and the statute was found facially constitutional and interpreted to grant COAH ample authority, such as restraining the use of scarce resources (sewer capacity, potable water, land) for other than providing affordable housing, to assure that affordable housing might actually be built.\n\nCOAH is a currently defunct government agency created in the 1980s to administer Mt. Laurel requirements. Some have argued it needs reinvigoration.\n\nThe Fair Share Housing Center, or FSHC, is a Cherry Hill-based nonprofit organization founded in 1975 that litigates against towns in enforcement of fair housing development. Some have alleged that the FSHC has \"ties to developers.\"\n\nA \"builder's remedy lawsuit\" is a New Jersey lawsuit filed by a real estate developer in an attempt to force a New Jersey town to allow the construction of a large, multi-family housing complex that includes some affordable housing alongside ordinary apartments.\n\nUsually, the developer's court papers will make specific mention of the Mt. Laurel doctrine, which holds municipalities responsible for providing affordable housing to low and moderate income households. Some have argued that developers exploit the Mount Laurel doctrine with the builder's remedy and prevent town efforts to combat overdevelopment and sprawl. Some recent \"builder's remedy\" lawsuits or related concerns include:\n\n\nIn 1985, the Fair Housing Act created the now-repealed Regional Contribution Agreement system. The RCAs meant that towns could pay to get out of up to half of their affordable housing obligation by funding affordable housing elsewhere as required by the New Jersey Supreme Court's Mt. Laurel decision.\n\nIn 2008, at the behest of the Fair Share Housing Center's Peter O' Connor and over the objections of some suburban Democrats, Governor Corzine signed a law barring RCAs. A500. He signed A-500 into law during a ceremony at Fair Share Housing Development's Ethel R. Lawrence Homes. Some have demanded that RCAs be returned to cut down on sprawl.\n\nIn 1983, the NJ Supreme Court cautioned that, in requiring affordable housing, our State Constitution \"does not require bad planning. It does not require suburban spread. It does not require rural municipalities to encourage large scale housing developments. It does not require wasteful extension of roads and needless construction of sewer and water facilities for the out-migration of people from the cities and the suburbs. There is nothing in our Constitution that says that we cannot satisfy our constitutional obligation to provide lower income housing and, at the same time, plan the future of the state intelligently.\"\nSome commentators have denounced the environmental impact of the current regime. As the result of one successful builder's remedy lawsuit brought by S. Hekemian Group, developers may construct a 360-unit, high density housing development in Cranford, New Jersey next to a flood plain. Some assert such developments could worsen flooding in an already flood-prone area that was ravaged by Hurricane Irene in 2011.\n\nOther New Jersey residents assert they fear sprawl, the destruction of historic New Jersey small town architecture, and crowding: \n\nAs an environmental scientist, I am concerned with the question of how many residents can be sustained before we reach an environmental tipping point. When do our water systems fail to provide the supply needed (remember the Bergen County dire drought warning last October?); when does the volume of traffic finally overwhelm our existing roadways and extend commuting times to impossible limits (remember the last time you sat in local traffic?); when does the air quality become too unhealthy to breath (remember the ozone and poor air-quality alerts just last month?); how many people can actually be sustained with a reasonable quality of life within our municipalities, counties and state?\nOne Parsippany resident stated, \"I'm very frustrated that this significant tract of undeveloped land is being razed for development when so much property in Parsippany lies vacant,\" said Dave Kaplan, of the Stop the Overdevelopment at Waterview opposition group.\n\nThe New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club applauded Christie's efforts to reform affordable housing law in 2010: \n\nThe current COAH law has had a bigger impact on land use and development than any other law in New Jersey's history. The Sierra Club strongly supports a requirement for affordable housing. As towns grow, they must provide a fair share of it. But the need for affordable housing should not undermine the environmental protections given to wetlands, flood plains, steep slopes, stream buffers that protect water supplies, ocean-fronts, and endangered species habitat. And no homes should be built where water supply is at critically low levels. Furthermore, new housing should be located where jobs are, to reduce the carbon footprints and pollution associated with automobile commuting.\n\nSome believe the NJ Supreme Court seeks legislative action to implement the Mount Laurel doctrine based on recent rulings, as of mid-2017:\n\nIn January 2017, the NJ Supreme Court issued a ruling stating that towns had to consider any historic failure to provide affordable housing. As one commentator put it, \n\nThis case resolved affordable housing regulation debates that have been ongoing since 1999. However, the Court provided no guidance on the method of implementation of affordable housing accommodations that it now requires of municipalities. This decision leaves numerous unanswered questions and it will depend heavily on the Legislature to issue reform of affordable housing requirements. This decision requires implementation of affordable housing accommodations into township plans that have not otherwise considered them since 1999. It is likely that the open spaces in towns will now be filled with affordable housing units, which will bring an influx of population to municipalities. ...We will need to watch the Legislature to see how and if it will alter the current affordable housing regulations to comply with the Court's recent ruling.\n\nIn its January 2017 opinion, the NJ Supreme Court welcomed the Legislature to re-approach the affordable housing issue: \"We recognize, as we have before, that the Legislature is not foreclosed from considering alternative methods for calculating and assigning a municipal fair share of affordable housing, and to that end, we welcome legislative attention to this important social and economic constitutional matter,\" Justice LaVecchia wrote.\n\nA Morris County Freeholder candidate, Harding Committeeman Nicolas Platt, proposed in May 2017 that all mayors state-wide conduct a sit-in in Trenton and refuse to leave the statehouse until legislators acted to reduce the overdevelopment impact of the builder's remedy issue.\n\nBergen and Passaic County Assemblywoman Holly Schepisi argued in a July 2017 opinion piece that reform was urgently needed: \"If built, the number of new homes alone would far exceed all the homes in the entire borough of Manhattan,\" she stated, calling the issue one of overdevelopment \"madness.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2017, Schepisi held the first of several planned public hearing in Paramus with various civic leaders on mandated affordable housing with local mayors and other state assembly members.\n\n\"It is long past time for the Legislature to act, and block [the nonprofit group Fair Share Housing Center] from their objective of destroying our suburban communities,\" said one mayor at the hearing according to the press. \"We really need action. Nobody has done what they need to do.\"\n\nSchepisi stated she invited the Fair Share Housing Center to attend but received a letter declining an appearance.\n\nIn Somerset County, Montgomery Township Mayor Ed Trzaska said the influx of apartment complex development would ruin the rural character of the area, \"overwhelm the township's infrastructure, greatly increase property taxes and burden the school system and negatively impact the quality of life in the township.\"\n\nIn Union County, in the summer of 2017, the Clark town council issued a unanimous resolution demanding for the state legislature to take action to reform the affordable housing issue; the mayor stated that otherwise, \"Union County will look like Queens in 25 years.\"\n\nIn Berkeley Heights in Union County in June 2017, Council President Marc Faecher said he considered the Legislature's failure to act on overdevelopment to be an \"abject failure by our state government.\"\n\nIn June 2018, NJ 101.5 radio host Bill Spadea advocated for a constitutional amendment to revoke the doctrine, arguing the imposition of unnecessary development increased tax burdens unfairly.\n\nIn the summer of 2017, the mayors of five Bergen County towns announced they were \"teaming up to take a regional perspective on affordable housing, in an effort to find reasonable solutions that will protect the integrity of their communities.\"\n\n\"Owing to its ongoing high rate of residential foreclosures, New Jersey has become known the Land of the Zombie Houses.\"\nSome have argued that the deluge of abandoned and vacant properties in New Jersey should be taken into account before forced building occurs in less crowded areas. They have also suggested that the state step up funding for code enforcement to reduce burdens of urban blight on attractive home development, including enforcement on absentee landlords. The City of Newark is \"working with the Urban League to identify vacant or abandoned properties that can be sold to small developers to then sell at cost to residents. About 16 percent of Newark's housing is vacant and the city has a high eviction and foreclosure rate according to a Rutgers report. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52618454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52618454", "title": "National Privacy Commission (Philippines)", "text": "National Privacy Commission (Philippines)\n\nThe National Privacy Commission, or NPC, is an independent body created under Republic Act No. 10173 or the Data Privacy Act of 2012, mandated to administer and implement the provisions of the Act, and to monitor and ensure compliance of the country with international standards set for data protection. It is attached to the Philippines' Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT) for purposes of policy coordination, but remains independent in the performance of its functions. The Commission safeguards the fundamental human right of every individual to privacy, particularly Information privacy while ensuring free flow of information for innovation, growth, and national development.\n\nIn order to fulfil its mandate, the Commission is vested with a broad range of powers, from receiving complaints and instituting investigations on matters affecting personal data protection to compelling entities to abide by its orders in matters affecting data privacy. It also represents the Philippine Government internationally on data protection related issues. The Commission formulates and implements policies relating to the protection of personal data, including the relevant circulars and advisory guidelines, to assist organisations in understanding and complying with the Data Privacy Act. The Commission also reviews organizational actions in relation to data protection rules and issue decisions or directions for compliance where necessary. It is mandated to work with relevant sector regulators in exercising its functions.\n\nBeyond regulating data protection issues, the NPC also undertakes public and sector-specific educational and outreach activities to help organizations adopt good data protection practices and to help individuals to better understand how they may protect their own personal data from misuse.\n\nThe Data Privacy Act of 2012 is the first law in the Philippines which acknowledges the rights of Individuals over their Personal Data and Enforcing the responsibilities of entities who process them.\n\nThe initial definition was offered first in Republic Act 8792, Section 32 better known as the eCommerce Act of the Philippines and was formally introduced by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) on its Department Administrative Order #08 - Defining Guidelines for the Protection of Personal Data in Information Private Sector. Along with the Anti-Cybercrime Bill (now RA 10175), The first draft of the law started in 2001 under the Legal and Regulatory Committee of the former Information Technology and eCommerce Council (ITECC) which is the forerunner of the Commission on Information and Communication Technology (CICT). It was headed by former Secretary Virgilio \"Ver\" Peña and the Committee was chaired by Atty. Claro Parlade. It was an initiative of the Information Security and Privacy Sub-Committee chaired by Albert Dela Cruz who was the President of PHCERT together with then Anti-Computer Crime and Fraud Division Chief, Atty. Elfren Meneses of the NBI. The administrative and operational functions was provided by the Presidential Management Staff (PMS) acting as the CICT secretariat.\n\nWith rising concerns by the Information Technology and Business Process Association of the Philippines (IBPAP) of an absence of a Data Privacy Law, Philippine Congress passed Senate Bill No. 2965 and House Bill No. 4115 on June 6, 2012. President Benigno S. Aquino III signed Republic Act No. 10173 or the Data Privacy Act of 2012 on August 15, 2012. The law was influenced by the Data Protection Directive and the APEC Privacy Framework.\n\nPresident Aquino appointed on March 7, 2016 Raymund Liboro as inaugural head of the commission with Damian Domingo O. Mapa and Ivy D. Patdu as inaugural deputy privacy commissioners. With fixed terms of office, they continued with their roles during the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte.\n\nAfter consultation with various private organizations, civil societies and a series of public hearings in Manila, Cebu and Davao, the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Data Privacy Act was signed on August 24, 2016. It took effect on September 9, 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, the Commission formally investigated the Commission on Elections for the Commission on Elections data breach one of the largest security breach in government held personal data. On February 21, 2017, NPC announced that the Commission on Elections was being investigated for another security breach due to alleged theft of a computer containing personal data of voters.\n\nThe NPC also began coordinating with different sectors on privacy and data protection.\nIn 2016, the National Privacy Commission was accepted as a member in the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners and the Asia Pacific Privacy Authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16589208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16589208", "title": "Nauruan nationality law", "text": "Nauruan nationality law\n\nNationality and citizenship in the Republic of Nauru are currently defined and regulated by the Constitution of Nauru and the \"Nauruan Community Ordinance 1956-1962\". Dual citizenship is permitted.\n\nPart VIII of the Constitution pertains to citizenship, and defined who was to become a citizen of Nauru upon the country's accession to independence in 1968. Article 71 refers to the \"Nauruan Community Ordinance 1956-1962\". Any person who is\n\nSection 4 of the Ordinance in question establishes legal belonging to the \"Nauruan community\". Nauruans under this law include\n\nThe Constitution re-iterates the provisions of the Ordinance, and provides additional means of obtaining citizenship. These include:\n\nThe Constitution also establishes that the Parliament of Nauru may \"make provision for depriving a person of his Nauruan citizenship\", except if that person obtained citizenship through the provisions of the 1956 Ordinance, and except if that person was born of two Nauruan parents or of a Nauruan parent married to a Pacific Islander. Parliament is also authorised by the Constitution to \"make provision for the renunciation by a person of his Nauruan citizenship\".\n\nOn 22 March 2008, the Speaker of the Nauruan Parliament, David Adeang, called a Parliamentary session, allegedly without informing government ministers, who therefore did not attend. Opposition MPs, Adeang included, constituted a majority of legislators present, and passed a ruling outlawing dual citizenship for Members of Parliament.\n\nThe ruling, if applied, would affect senior Cabinet ministers Dr. Kieren Keke and Frederick Pitcher. Were they compelled to resign from Parliament, the Opposition would control a majority of seats in Parliament.\n\nThe government rejected the legitimacy of the ruling, stating that it was unconstitutional because of the lack of parliamentary quorum. President Marcus Stephen accused Adeang and the Opposition of passing the ruling \"after dark on Easter Saturday\", \"under candelight\".\n\nIn April, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court ruled that the amendment to the citizenship law was unconstitutional, thus confirming that persons with dual nationality remain entitled to sit in Parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "3071498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071498", "title": "Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention", "text": "Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention\n\nThe Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention (NICC) was an elected body set up in 1975 by the United Kingdom Labour government of Harold Wilson as an attempt to deal with constitutional issues surrounding the status of Northern Ireland.\n\nThe idea for a constitutional convention was first mooted by the Northern Ireland Office in its white paper \"The Northern Ireland Constitution\", published on 4 July 1974. The paper laid out plans for elections to a body which would seek agreement on a political settlement for Northern Ireland. The proposals became law with the enactment of the Northern Ireland Act 1974 later that month. With Lord Chief Justice Robert Lowry appointed to chair the new body, elections were announced for 1 May 1975.\n\nThe elections were held for the 78-member body using the single transferable vote system of proportional representation in each of Northern Ireland's twelve Westminster constituencies. Initially the body was intended to be purely consultative, although it was hoped that executive and legislative functions could be devolved to the NICC once a cross-community agreement had been reached.\n\nUnionists opposed to the NICC once again banded together under the umbrella of the United Ulster Unionist Council (UUUC) and this coalition proved the most successful, taking 46 seats.\n\nSource: Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention Elections 1975\n\nA number of leading Northern Ireland politicians were elected to the NICC, increasing hope that the body might achieve some of its aims. Also elected were some younger figures who went on to become leading figures in the future of Northern Ireland politics. These included:\n\nThe elections left the body fundamentally weakened from its inception as an overall majority had been obtained by those Unionists who opposed power sharing as a concept. As a result, the Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention Report published on 20 November 1975 recommended only a return to majority rule as had previously existed under the old Parliament of Northern Ireland government. As such a solution was completely unacceptable to the nationalist parties, the NICC was placed on hiatus.\n\nHoping to gain something from the exercise, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Merlyn Rees announced that the NICC would be reconvened on 3 February 1976. However, a series of meetings held between the UUUC and the SDLP failed to reach any agreement about SDLP participation in government, and so the reconvened NICC once again failed to achieve a solution with cross-community support. As a result, Rees announced the dissolution of the body on 4 March 1976 and Northern Ireland remained under direct rule.\n\nOn the face of it, the NICC was a total failure as it did not achieve its aims of agreement between the two sides or of introducing 'rolling devolution' (gradual introduction of devolution as and when the parties involved saw fit to accept it). Nevertheless, coming as it did not long after the Conservative-sponsored Sunningdale Agreement, the NICC indicated that no British government would be prepared to re-introduce majority rule in Northern Ireland. During the debates William Craig accepted the possibility of power-sharing with the SDLP, a move that split the UUUC and precipitated the eventual collapse of Vanguard.\n\nThe idea of electing a consultative body to thrash out a deal for devolution was also retained and in 1996 it was revived when the Northern Ireland Forum was elected on largely the same lines and with the same overall purpose. The Forum formed part of a process that led to the Belfast Agreement and the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "41493162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41493162", "title": "Notary public (United States)", "text": "Notary public (United States)\n\nIn the United States, a notary public is a person appointed by a state government, e.g., the governor, lieutenant governor, state secretary, or in some cases the state legislature, and whose primary role is to serve the public as an impartial witness when important documents are signed. Since the notary is a state officer, a notary's duties may vary widely from state to state and in most cases bars a notary from acting outside his or her home state unless they also have a commission there as well.\n\nIn 32 states the main requirements are to fill out a form and pay a fee; many states have restrictions concerning notaries with criminal histories, but the requirements vary from state to state. Notaries in 18 states and the District of Columbia are required to take a course, pass an exam, or both; the education or exam requirements in Delaware and Kansas only apply to notaries who will perform electronic notarizations.\n\nA notary is almost always permitted to notarize a document anywhere in the state where their commission is issued. Some states simply issue a commission \"at large\" meaning no indication is made as to from what county the person's commission was issued, but some states do require the notary include the county of issue of their commission as part of the jurat, or where seals are required, to indicate the county of issue of their commission on the seal. Merely because a state requires indicating the county where the commission was issued does not necessarily mean that the notary is restricted to notarizing documents in that county, although some states may impose this as a requirement.\n\nSome states (Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, among others) allow a notary who is commissioned in a state bordering that state to also act as a notary in the state if the other allows the same. Thus someone who was commissioned in Montana could notarize documents in Wyoming and North Dakota, and a notary commissioned in Wyoming could notarize documents in Montana, a notary from Wyoming could not notarize documents from North Dakota (or the inverse) unless they had a commission from North Dakota or a state bordering North Dakota that also allowed North Dakota notaries to practice in that state as well.\n\nNotaries in the United States are much less closely regulated than notaries in most other common-law countries, typically because U.S. notaries have little legal authority. In the United States, a lay notary may not offer legal advice or prepare documents - except in Louisiana and Puerto Rico - and in most cases cannot recommend how a person should sign a document or what type of notarization is necessary. There are some exceptions; for example, Florida notaries may take affidavits, draft inventories of safe deposit boxes, draft protests for payment of dishonored checks and promissory notes, and solemnize marriages. In most states, a notary can also certify or attest a copy or facsimile.\n\nThe most common notarial acts in the United States are the taking of acknowledgements and oaths. Many professions may require a person to double as a notary public, which is why US court reporters are often notaries as this enables them to swear in witnesses (deponents) when they are taking depositions, and secretaries, bankers, and some lawyers are commonly notaries public. Despite their limited role, some American notaries may also perform a number of far-ranging acts not generally found anywhere else. Depending on the jurisdiction, they may: take depositions, certify any and all petitions (ME), witness third-party absentee ballots (ME), provide no-impediment marriage licenses, solemnize civil marriages (ME, FL, SC), witness the opening of a safe deposit box or safe and take an official inventory of its contents, take a renunciation of dower or inheritance (SC), and so on.\n\n\"An acknowledgment is a formal [oral] declaration before an authorized public officer. It is made by a person executing [signing] an instrument who states that it was his [or her] free act and deed.\" That is, the person signed it without undue influence and for the purposes detailed in it. A certificate of acknowledgment is a written statement signed (and in some jurisdictions, sealed) by the notary or other authorized official that serves to prove that the acknowledgment occurred. The form of the certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but will be similar to the following:\nBefore me, the undersigned authority, on this ______ day of ___________, 20__ personally appeared _________________________, to me well known to be the person who executed the foregoing instrument, and he/she acknowledged before me that he/she executed the same as his/her voluntary act and deed.\n\nA jurat is the official written statement by a notary public that he or she has administered and witnessed an oath or affirmation for an oath of office, or on an affidavit - that is, that a person has sworn to or affirmed the truth of information contained in a document, under penalty of perjury, whether that document is a lengthy deposition or a simple statement on an application form. The simplest form of jurat and the oath or affirmation administered by a notary are:\n\nIn the U.S., notarial acts normally include what is called a venue or caption, that is, an official listing of the place where a notarization occurred, usually in the form of the state and county and with the abbreviation \"ss.\" (for Latin \"scilicet\", \"to wit\") normally referred to as a \"subscript\", often in these forms:\n\nThe venue is usually set forth at the beginning of the instrument or at the top of the notary's certificate. If at the head of the document, it is usually referred to as a caption. In times gone by, the notary would indicate the street address at which the ceremony was performed, and this practice, though unusual today, is occasionally encountered.\n\nThe California Secretary of State, Notary Public & Special Filings Section, is responsible for appointing and commissioning qualified persons as notaries public for four-year terms.\n\nPrior to sitting for the notary exam, one must complete a mandatory six-hour course of study. This required course of study is conducted either in an online, home study, or in-person format via an approved notary education vendor. Both prospective notaries as well as current notaries seeking reappointment must undergo an \"expanded\" FBI and California Department of Justice background check.\n\nVarious statutes, rules, and regulations govern notaries public. California law sets maximum, but not minimum, fees for services related to notarial acts (e.g., per signature: acknowledgment $15, jurat $15, certified power of attorney $15, et cetera). A finger print (typically the right thumb) may be required in the notary journal based on the transaction in question (e.g., deed, quitclaim deed, deed of trust affecting real property, power of attorney document, et cetera). Documents with blank spaces cannot be notarized (a further anti-fraud measure). California explicitly prohibits notaries public from using literal foreign language translation of their title.\nThe use of a notary seal is required.\n\nNotarial acts performed in Colorado are governed under the Notaries Public Act, 12-55-101, et seq. Pursuant to the Act, notaries are appointed by the Secretary of State for a term not to exceed four years. Notaries may apply for appointment or reappointment online at the Secretary of State's website. A notary may apply for reappointment to the notary office 90 days before her commission expires. Beginning in early 2010, all new notaries will be required to take a training course and pass an examination to ensure minimal competence of the Notaries Public Act. A course of instruction approved by the Secretary of State may be administered by approved vendors and shall bear an emblem with a certification number assigned by the Secretary of State's office. An approved course of instruction covers relevant provisions of the Colorado Notaries Public Act, the Model Notary Act, and widely accepted best practices. In addition to courses offered by approved vendors, the Secretary of State offers free certification courses at the Secretary of State's office. To sign up for a free course, visit the notary public training page at the following link. A third party seeking to verify the status of a Colorado notary may do so by visiting the Secretary of State's website at the following link. Constituents seeking an apostille or certificate of magistracy are requested to complete the form found on the following page before sending in their documents or presenting at the Secretary of State's office. \n\nApart from military officers (see below) there are no federal notaries. Federal law, however, provides for authentication in lieu of notarization in 28 U.S.C. 1746. That section provides that to meet any notarization requirement under federal law or practice, an unsworn declaration under penalties of perjury is sufficient. The declaration may be executed inside or outside the United States. The existence of the statute is not well known with the result that state notarizations are sought (or required) by federal officers who are unfamiliar with 28 U.S.C. 1746. \n\nFlorida notaries public are appointed by the Governor to serve a four-year term. New applicants and commissioned notary public must be bona fide residents of the State of Florida and first time applicants must complete a mandatory three-hour education course administered by an approved educator. Florida state law also requires that a notary public post bond in the amount of $7,500.00. A bond is required in order to compensate an individual harmed as a result of a breach of duty by the notary. Applications are submitted and processed through an authorized bonding agency. Florida is one of three states (Maine and South Carolina are the others) where a notary public can solemnize the rites of matrimony (perform a marriage ceremony).\n\nThe Department of State appoints civil law notaries, also called \"Florida International Notaries\", who must be Florida attorneys who have practiced law for five or more years. Applicants must attend a seminar and pass an exam administered by the Department of State or any private vendor approved by the department. Such civil law notaries are appointed for life and may perform all of the acts of a notary public in addition to preparing authentic acts.\n\nNotaries public in Illinois are appointed by the Secretary of State for a four-year term. Also, residents of a state bordering Illinois (Iowa, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Wisconsin) who work or have a place of business in Illinois can be appointed for a one-year term. Notaries must be United States citizens (though the requirement that a notary public must be a United States citizen is unconstitutional; see \"Bernal v. Fainter\"), or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence; be able to read and write the English language; be residents of (or employed within) the State of Illinois for at least 30 days; be at least 18 years old; not be convicted of a felony; and not had a notary commission revoked or suspended during the past 10 years.\n\nAn applicant for the notary public commission must also post a $5,000 bond, usually with an insurance company and pay an application fee of $10. The application is usually accompanied with an oath of office. If the Secretary of State's office approves the application, the Secretary of State then sends the commission to the clerk of the county where the applicant resides. If the applicant records the commission with the county clerk, he or she then receives the commission. Illinois law prohibits notaries from using the literal Spanish translation in their title and requires them to use a rubber stamp seal for their notarizations. The notary public can then perform his or her duties anywhere in the state, as long as the notary resides (or works or does business) in the county where he or she was appointed.\n\nA notary public in Kentucky is a public servant appointed by either the Secretary of State or the Governor to administer oaths and take proof of execution and acknowledgements of instruments. Notaries public fulfill their duties to deter fraud and ensure proper execution. There are two separate types of notaries public that are commissioned in Kentucky. They are Notary Public: State at Large and Notary Public: Special Commission. They have two distinct sets of duties and two different routes of commissioning. For both types of commissions, applicants must be eighteen (18) years of age, of good moral character (not a convicted felon) and capable of discharging the duties imposed upon him/her by law. In addition, the application must be approved by one of the following officials in the county of application: a Circuit Judge, the Circuit Court Clerk, the county Judge/Executive, the County Clerk, a county Magistrate or member of the Kentucky General Assembly. The term of office for both types of notary public is four years.\n\nA \"Notary Public: State at Large\" is either a resident or non-resident of Kentucky who is commissioned to perform notorial acts anywhere within the physical borders of the Commonwealth of Kentucky that may be recorded either in-state or in another state. In order to become a Notary Public: State at Large, the applicant must be a resident of the county from which he/she makes application or be principally employed in the county from which he/she makes the application. A completed application is sent to the Secretary of State's office with the required fee. Once the application is approved by the Secretary of State, the commission is sent to the county clerk in the county of application and a notice of appointment is sent to the applicant. The applicant will have thirty days to go to the county clerk's office where they will be required to 1.) Post either a surety or property bond (bonding requirements and amounts vary by county) 2.) Take the Oath/Affirmation of Office and 3.) File and record the commission with the county clerk.\n\nA \"Notary Public: Special Commission\" is either a resident or non-resident of Kentucky who is commissioned to perform notorial acts either inside or outside the borders of the Commonwealth on documents that must be recorded in Kentucky. The main difference in the appointment process is that, unlike a Notary Public: State at Large, a Notary Public: Special Commission is not required to post bond before taking the oath/affirmation nor are they required to be a resident or employed in Kentucky. In addition, where a Notary Public: State at Large is commissioned directly by the Secretary of State, a Notary Public: Special Commission is appointed by the Governor on the recommendation of the Secretary of State. It is permitted to hold a commission as both a Notary Public: State at Large and a Notary Public: Special Commission, however separate applications and filing fees are required.\n\nA Kentucky Notary Public is not required to use a seal or stamp and a notarization with just the signature of the notary is considered to be valid. It is, however, recommended that a seal or stamp be used as they may be required on documents recorded or used in another state. If a seal or stamp is used, it is required to have the name of the notary as listed on their commission as well as their full title of office (Notary Public: State at Large or Notary Public: Special Commission). A notary journal is also recommended but not required (except in the case of recording protests, which must be recorded in a well-bound and indexed journal).\n\nLouisiana notaries public are commissioned by the Governor. They are the only notaries to be appointed for life. The Louisiana notary public is a civil law notary with broad powers, as authorized by law, usually reserved for the American style combination \"barrister/solicitor\" lawyers and other legally authorized practitioners in other states. A commissioned notary in Louisiana is a civil law notary that can perform/prepare many civil law notarial acts usually associated with attorneys and other legally authorized practitioners in other states, except represent another person or entity before a court of law for a fee (unless they are also admitted to the bar). Notaries are not allowed to give \"legal\" advice, but they are allowed to give \"notarial\" advice - i.e., explain or recommend what documents are needed or required to perform a certain act - and do all things necessary or incidental to the performance of their civil law notarial duties. They can prepare any document a civil law notary can prepare (to include inventories, appraisements, partitions, wills, protests, matrimonial contracts, conveyances, and, generally, all contracts and instruments in writing) and, if ordered or requested to by a judge, prepare certain notarial legal documents, in accordance with law, to be returned and filed with that court of law.\n\nMaine notaries public are appointed by the Secretary of State to serve a seven-year term. Maine is one of three states (Florida and South Carolina are the others) where a notary public can solemnize the rites of matrimony (perform a marriage ceremony). Also, licensed Maine attorneys have all of the powers of notaries public and are authorized to do all acts that may be done by notaries public.\n\nMaryland notaries public are appointed by the governor on the recommendation of the secretary of state to serve a four-year term. New applicants and commissioned notaries public must be bona fide residents of the State of Maryland or work in the state. An application must be approved by a state senator before it is submitted to the secretary of state. The official document of appointment is imprinted with the signatures of the governor and the secretary of state as well as the Great Seal of Maryland. Before exercising the duties of a notary public, an appointee must appear before the clerk of one of Maryland's 24 circuit courts to take an oath of office.\n\nA bond is not required. A notary is required to keep a log of all notarial acts, indicating the name of the person, their address, what type of document is being notarized, the type of ID used to authenticate them (or that they are known personally) by the notary, and the person's signature. The notary's log is the only document for which a notary may write their own certificate.\n\nMinnesota notaries public are commissioned by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate for a five-year term. All commissions expire on 31 January of the fifth year following the year of issue. Citizens and resident aliens over the age of 18 years apply to the Secretary of State for appointment and reappointment. Residents of adjoining counties in adjoining states may also apply for a notary commission in Minnesota. Notaries public have the power to administer all oaths required or authorized to be administered in the state; take and certify all depositions to be used in any of the courts of the state; take and certify all acknowledgments of deeds, mortgages, liens, powers of attorney and other instruments in writing or electronic records; and receive, make out and record notarial protests. The Secretary of State's website () provides more information about the duties, requirements and appointments of notaries public.\n\nMontana notaries public are appointed by the Secretary of State and serve a four-year term. A Montana notary public has jurisdiction throughout the states of Montana, North Dakota, and Wyoming. These states permit notaries from neighboring states to act in the state in the same manner as one from that state under reciprocity, e.g., as long as that state grants notaries from neighboring states to act in their state. [Montana Code 1-5-605]\n\nThe Secretary of State is charged with the responsibility of appointing notaries by the provisions of Chapter 240 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. Nevada notaries public who are not also practicing attorneys are prohibited by law from using \"notario\", \"notario publico\" or any non-English term to describe their services. (2005 Changes to NRS 240)\n\nNevada notary duties: administer oaths or affirmations; take acknowledgments; use of subscribing witness; certify copies; and execute jurats or take a verification upon oath or affirmation.\n\nThe State of Nevada Notary Division Page provides more information about duties, requirements, appointments, and classes.\n\nNotaries are commissioned by the State Treasurer for a period of five years. Notaries must also be sworn in by the clerk of the county in which he or she resides. One can become a notary in the state of New Jersey if he or she: (1) is over the age of 18; (2) is a resident of New Jersey OR is regularly employed in New Jersey and lives in an adjoining state; (3) has never been convicted of a crime under the laws of any state or the United States, for an offense involving dishonesty, or a crime of the first or second degree, unless the person has met the requirements of the Rehabilitated Convicted Offenders Act (NJSA 2A:168-1). Notary applications must be endorsed by a state legislator.\n\nNotaries in the state of New Jersey serve as impartial witnesses to the signing of documents, attests to the signature on the document, and may also administer oaths and affirmations. Seals are not required; many people prefer them and as a result, most notaries have seals in addition to stamps. Notaries may administer oaths and affirmations to public officials and officers of various organizations. They may also administer oaths and affirmations in order to execute jurats for affidavits/verifications, and to swear in witnesses.\n\nNotaries are prohibited from pre-dating actions; lending notary equipment to someone else (stamps, seals, journals, etc.); preparing legal documents or giving legal advice; appearing as a representative of another person in a legal proceeding. Notaries should also refrain from notarizing documents in which they have a personal interest.\n\nPursuant to state law, attorneys licensed in New Jersey may administer oaths and affirmations.\n\nNew York notaries are empowered to administer oaths and affirmations (including oaths of office), to take affidavits and depositions, to receive and certify acknowledgments or proof of deeds, mortgages and powers of attorney and other instruments in writing; to demand acceptance or payment of foreign and inland bills of exchange, promissory notes and obligations in writing, and to protest these (that is, certify them) for non-acceptance or non-payment. They are not empowered to marry couples, their notarization of a will is insufficient to give the will legal force, and they are strictly forbidden to certify \"true copies\" of documents. Every county clerk's office in New York must have a notary public available to serve the public free of charge.\n\nAdmitted attorneys are automatically eligible to be notaries in the State of New York, but must make an application through the proper channels and pay a fee.\n\nNew York notaries initially must pass a test and then renew their status every 4 years.\n\nOregon notaries public are appointed by the Governor and commissioned by the Secretary of State to serve a four-year term. Oregon notaries are empowered to administer oaths, jurats and affirmations (including oaths of office), to take affidavits and depositions, to receive and certify acknowledgments or proof of deeds, mortgages and powers of attorney and other instruments in writing; to demand acceptance or payment of foreign and inland bills of exchange, promissory notes and obligations in writing, and to protest these (that is, certify them) for non-acceptance or non-payment. They are also empowered to certify \"true copies\" of most documents. Every court clerk in Oregon is also empowered to act as a notary public, although they are not required to keep a journal. Oregon formerly required that impression seals be used, but now it is optional. The ink seal must be in black ink. Beginning in 2001, all Oregon notaries were required to pass an open-book examination to receive their commission. Beginning in 2006, new notary applicants were also required to complete a free three-hour online or live in-person instructional seminar, however this requirement is waived for notaries who are renewing their commissions, as long as the commission is renewed before its expiration date. Oregon law specifically prohibits the use of the term \"notorio publico\" by a notary in advertising his or her services, but translation of the title into other languages is not restricted.\n\nA notary in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is empowered to perform seven distinct official acts: take affidavits, verifications, acknowledgments and depositions, certify copies of documents, administer oaths and affirmations, and protest dishonored negotiable instruments. A notary is strictly prohibited from giving legal advice or drafting legal documents such as contracts, mortgages, leases, wills, powers of attorney, liens or bonds.\n\nSouth Carolina notaries public are appointed by the Governor to serve a ten-year term. All applicants must first have that application endorsed by a state legislator before submitting their application to the Secretary of State. South Carolina is one of three states (Florida and Maine are the others) where a notary public can solemnize the rites of matrimony (perform a marriage ceremony)(2005). If you live in South Carolina but work in North Carolina, Georgia or Washington, DC, these states will permit you to become a notary public for their state. South Carolina does not offer this provision to out-of-state residents that work in South Carolina(2012).\n\nTexas Government Code Section 406 governs notaries public.\n\nThe Texas Secretary of State handles appointments of notaries public. Any person appointed serves for four years and has statewide jurisdiction. A person must be at least 18 and not convicted of a felony or a crime involving \"moral turpitude\", must complete all forms and pay all fees required, and must post a $10,000 bond. The notary public must, in any advertisement, list language substantially stating (in both English and, if applicable, the language in which the advertisement is transmitted): \"I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW IN TEXAS AND MAY NOT GIVE LEGAL ADVICE OR ACCEPT FEES FOR LEGAL ADVICE.\" However, if the notary public is an attorney this is not required.\n\nUtah notaries public are appointed by the Lieutenant Governor to serve a four-year term. Utah used to require that impression seals be used, but now it is optional. The seal must be in purple ink.\n\nA Virginia notary must either be a resident of Virginia or work in Virginia, and is authorized to acknowledge signatures, take oaths, and certify copies of non-government documents which are not otherwise available, e.g. a notary cannot certify a copy of a birth or death certificate since a certified copy of the document can be obtained from the issuing agency. Changes to the law effective 1 July 2008 imposes certain new requirements; while seals are still not required, if they are used they must be photographically reproducible. Also, the notary's registration number must appear on any document notarized. Changes to the law effective 1 July 2008 will permit notarization of electronic signatures.\n\nOn July 1, 2012, Virginia became the first state to authorize a signer to be in a remote location and have a document notarized electronically by an approved Virginia electronic notary using audio-visual conference technology by passing the bills SB 827 and HB 2318.\n\nIn Washington State, any resident or resident of an adjacent state employed in Washington may apply to become a notary public. Applicants must obtain a $10,000 surety bond and present proof at a Department of Licensing. A notary public is appointed for a term of 4 years.\n\nWyoming notaries public are appointed by the Secretary of State and serve a four-year term. A Wyoming notary public has jurisdiction throughout the states of Wyoming and Montana. These states permit notaries from neighboring states to act in the state in the same manner as one from that state under reciprocity, e.g. as long as that state grants notaries from neighboring states to act in their state.\n\nA Maryland requirement that to obtain a commission, a notary declare his belief in God, as required by the Maryland Constitution, was found by the United States Supreme Court in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\", to be unconstitutional. Historically, some states required that a notary be a citizen of the United States. However, the U.S. Supreme Court, in the case of \"Bernal v. Fainter\" , declared that to be impermissible.\n\nIn the U.S., there are reports of notaries (or people claiming to be notaries) having taken advantage of the differing roles of notaries in common law and civil law jurisdictions to engage in the unauthorized practice of law. The victims of such scams are typically illegal immigrants from civil law countries who need assistance with, for example, their immigration papers and want to avoid hiring an attorney. Confusion often results from the mistaken premise that a notary public in the United States serves the same function as a \"Notario Publico\" in Spanish-speaking countries (which are civil law countries). Prosecutions in such cases are difficult, as the victims are often deported and thus unavailable to testify.\n\nCertain members of the United States Armed Forces are given the powers of a notary under federal law (10 U.S.C. section 1044). Some military members have authority to certify documents or administer oaths, without being given all notarial powers. In addition to the powers granted by the federal government, some states have enacted laws granting notarial powers to commissioned officers.\n"}
{"id": "42551597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42551597", "title": "Odon Bacqué", "text": "Odon Bacqué\n\nOdon Lessley Bacqué, Jr., also known as Don Bacqué (born November 30, 1944), is an No Party former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for District 43 in Lafayette Parish, Louisiana, who served a single term from 1988 to 1992.\n\nIn 2014, he released \"A Walk in the Park: A Vietnam Comedy\", a book of comedy about the foibles of the Vietnam War, in which he served from 1968 to 1970.\n\nBacqué (pronounced \"BAH KAY\") is one of four sons of Odon L. Bacqué, Sr. (1917-1993), and the former Lydia Aponte (1920-2007), a native of Puerto Rico who attended college in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Bacqué's brothers are Frank R. Bacqué, M.D., William J. Bacqué, and Jean Louis Bacqué (1949-1954). His Roman Catholic parents married in 1943 and moved to Lafayette, where he was born the next year. His mother, who held a degree in Chemistry, was a lab instructor from 1965 to 1986 at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, then known as the University of Southwestern Louisiana. Bacque's parents and brother Jean Louis are interred at Lafayette Memorial Park. His paternal grandfather, Frank M. Bacqué, served a single term in the Louisiana House under then Governor Sam Houston Jones from 1940 to 1944. \nFrom 1959 to 1961, Bacqué, attended Charlotte Catholic High School in Charlotte, North Carolina. He returned to Lafayette for his senior year at Cathedral Carmel High School, from which he graduated in 1962. In 1966, he obtained a bachelor's degree in History from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge and planned to enter law school but instead faced conscription by the United States Army. He entered officer candidate school and served in the former South Vietnam with the 5th Special Forces, popularly known as the Green Berets. After his two years in the military, Bacqué returned to Lafayette, launched a life insurance business, was later named to the Million Dollar Round Table, and became involved in various civic affairs.\n\nIn 1982, as the president (now called chairman) of the Greater Lafayette Chamber of Commerce, Bacqué supported the consolidation of the Lafayette city and parish governments. In 1983, Bacqué received the Distinguished Service Award given annually by the Lafayette Junior Chamber International. He organized a Vietnam Veterans group in Lafayette. He has served as the state co-chairman of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Committee that built a monument in New Orleans to honor the 881 veterans from Louisiana who did not return from the war.\n\nBacqué is a past and current president of the Lafayette Estate and Business Planning Council. He is a past state president of the Louisiana Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors, an organization of which he has been a member since 1970, when he entered the insurance business.\n\nIn 1986, Bacqué was the founding chairman of Leadership Lafayette, a program sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce to train community leaders.\n\nIn 1987, Bacqué unseated the Republican Michael F. Thompson. In the nonpartisan blanket primary held on October 24, Thompson led a three-candidate field with 7,345 votes (45 percent) to Bacqué's 6,473 (40 percent). The remaining but critical 2,377 votes were polled by the Democrat, Vance Lanier. In the November 21 general election, the Lanier backers swung strongly to Bacqué, who prevailed, 6,811 (57 percent) to Thompson's 5,106 ballots (43 percent). Thompson's defeat was also attributed to the failure of some 2,200 Republican voters who participated in the primary to return to the polls for the second round of balloting. The successful Republican candidate for lieutenant governor, Paul Hardy, won in Lafayette Parish over the Democratic incumbent Robert \"Bobby\" Freeman at the same time that Thompson was going down to defeat.\n\nAs a freshman legislator, Bacqué stood alone in 1989, when he attempted to deny seating to newly elected representative David Duke, a former figure in the Ku Klux Klan, on the grounds that Duke was not a legal resident of his district. When Duke's election opponent, fellow Republican John S. Treen, failed in a court challenge, Duke was seated but without Bacqué's acquiescence.\n\nIn 2007, Lafayette City and Parish President Joey Durel named Bacqué to fill the unexpired term of Don Higginbotham on the Lafayette Regional Airport Commission. Higginbotham, a Democrat-turned-Republican, had earlier served with Bacqué in the state House.\n\nIn 2010, Bacqué served for five months on the Lafayette Charter Commission.\n\nIn 2014, Bacqué was a political donor to Democratic U.S. Senator Mary Landrieu, who failed in her bid for a fourth term in the runoff election against Republican Bill Cassidy on December 6. He has also contributed to his own Lafayette-area former congressman, Republican Charles Boustany of Louisiana's 3rd congressional district.\n\nIn 2014, Bacqué published the e-book \"A Walk in the Park: A Vietnam Comedy\", which examines comic situations he encountered in the military but without the cynicism of such well-known novels as \"Catch-22\" or \"\". Bacqué told the reporter Bill Decker of the \"Lafayette Daily Advertiser\" that his \"experience wasn't heroic. It was comedic. ... Those things that we did to occupy that time is what most young people do when they’re in a crazy situation.\"\n\nBacqué had mistakenly believed that his poor eyesight would spare him from combat. Forty years after his military service ended, Bacqué found that his memories were fading until, when he was moving to another house, he comes across some wartime letters that he had written to his wife, the former Carola Lipsey (born November 12, 1946), known as \"Cookie\" Bacqué, by whom he has two daughters, Leslie and Emily. The letters quickly rekindled his Vietnam experience and enabled him to write his book. \n"}
{"id": "232117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232117", "title": "Outer Space Treaty", "text": "Outer Space Treaty\n\nThe Outer Space Treaty, formally the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, is a treaty that forms the basis of international space law. The treaty was opened for signature in the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union on 27 January 1967, and entered into force on 10 October 1967. As of October 2018, 107 countries are parties to the treaty, while another 23 have signed the treaty but have not completed ratification. In addition, Taiwan, which is currently recognized by , ratified the treaty prior to the United Nations General Assembly's vote to transfer China's seat to the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1971.\n\nThe Outer Space Treaty represents the basic legal framework of international space law. Among its principles, it bars states party to the treaty from placing weapons of mass destruction in Earth orbit, installing them on the Moon or any other celestial body, or otherwise stationing them in outer space. It exclusively limits the use of the Moon and other celestial bodies to peaceful purposes and expressly prohibits their use for testing weapons of any kind, conducting military maneuvers, or establishing military bases, installations, and fortifications (Article IV). However, the treaty does not prohibit the placement of conventional weapons in orbit and thus some highly destructive attack strategies such as kinetic bombardment are still potentially allowable. The treaty also states that the exploration of outer space shall be done to benefit all countries and that space shall be free for exploration and use by all the States.\n\nThe treaty explicitly forbids any government to claim a celestial resource such as the Moon or a planet. Article II of the treaty states that \"outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other means.\" However, the State that launches a space object retains jurisdiction and control over that object. The State is also liable for damages caused by its space object.\n\nArticle VI of the Outer Space Treaty deals with international responsibility, stating that \"the activities of non-governmental entities in outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, shall require authorization and continuing supervision by the appropriate State Party to the Treaty\" and that States Parties shall bear international responsibility for national space activities whether carried out by governmental or non-governmental entities.\n\nAs a result of discussions arising from Project West Ford in 1963, a consultation clause was included in Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty: \"A State Party to the Treaty which has reason to believe that an activity or experiment planned by another State Party in outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, would cause potentially harmful interference with activities in the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, may request consultation concerning the activity or experiment.\"\n\nThe United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS) oversees these treaties and other questions of space jurisdiction.\n\nThe Outer Space Treaty was opened for signature in the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union on 27 January 1967, and entered into force on 10 October 1967. As of July 2017, 107 countries are parties to the treaty, while another 23 have signed the treaty but have not completed ratification.\n\nMultiple dates indicate the different days in which states submitted their signature or deposition, which varied by location. This location is noted by: (L) for London, (M) for Moscow, and (W) for Washington, DC. Also indicated is whether the state became a party by way of signing the treaty and subsequent ratification, or by accession to the treaty after it had closed for signature.\n\nThe Republic of China (Taiwan), which is currently only recognized by , ratified the treaty prior to the United Nations General Assembly's vote to transfer China's seat to the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1971. When the PRC subsequently ratified the treaty, they described the Republic of China's (ROC) ratification as \"illegal\". The ROC has committed itself to continue to adhere to the requirements of the treaty, and the United States has declared that they still consider them to be \"bound by its obligations\".\n\n23 states have signed but not ratified the treaty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55581175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55581175", "title": "Party of New Type", "text": "Party of New Type\n\nParty of New Type (PNT) is a voluntary public association in Russia, formed on an informal basis of a common world outlook. It is not an officially registered party. S.Sulakshin is Chairman of the Party and one of the self-nominated candidates in the 2018 Russian presidential election.\nIn the scientific circulation the term \"party of new type\" was entered into by Vladmir Lenin. In 2015, the General Director of the Center for Political Thought and Ideology, Stepan Sulakshin, announced the idea of creating PNT as opposition to Vladimir Putin's governance. The following year, he made a declaration of intent to create a \"party of new type.\" Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev also used the phrase, in reference to the United Russia party: \"The past election campaign marked the beginning of the most important stage for our Party - the formation of a new type of party.\" It is likely that the formulation was included in the speech of the prime minister by the efforts of the speechwriters. \n\nThe founding congress of PNT was held on June 17, 2017. At the congress it was decided to create a party as a public association without registration. \nSulakshin S. refused to call the party's agenda left-patriotic, explaining that it \"has a universal program aimed at all citizens.\" PNT stands on the balanced political platform of a \"solidary society\" in which revolutions and expropriations will never again occur, but will be based on \"work, justice and freedom.\"\n"}
{"id": "48905000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48905000", "title": "Prolok", "text": "Prolok\n\nProlok was a pioneering copy protection system developed by W. Krag Brotby and Vault Corporation in 1982. Prolok was involved in the copyright law case Vault Corp. v. Quaid Software Ltd. which allowed software to be used in certain situations that the copyright holder did not originally intend. \n\nProlok was developed for Apple II, CP/M, CP/M-86, MS-DOS, Microsoft Windows and OS/2. US Patent 4,785,361 \n"}
{"id": "16483250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16483250", "title": "Pur autre vie", "text": "Pur autre vie\n\nIn property law of the United States and some Canadian provinces, pur autre vie (Old French for \"for another['s] life\") is a duration of a property interest. While it is similar to a life estate, it differs in that a person's life interest will last for the life of \"another person\" instead of their own. For example, if Bob is given use of the family house for as long as his mother lives, he has possession of the house pur autre vie. Pur autre vie can occur when a contingent remainder is destroyed, in a Doctrine of Merger situation, where one person acquires the life estate of another and thereby destroys a remainder not already vested.\n"}
{"id": "2517216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2517216", "title": "Rechtsstaat", "text": "Rechtsstaat\n\nRechtsstaat is a doctrine in continental European legal thinking, originating in German jurisprudence. It can be translated into English as \"rule of law\", alternatively \"legal state\", \"state of law\", \"state of justice\", \"state of rights\", or \"state based on justice and integrity\".\n\nA \"Rechtsstaat\" is a \"constitutional state\" in which the exercise of governmental power is constrained by the law, and is often tied to the Anglo-American concept of the rule of law, but differs from it in that it also emphasizes what is just (i.e., a concept of moral rightness based on ethics, rationality, law, natural law, religion, or equity). Thus it is the opposite of \"Obrigkeitsstaat\" or \"Nichtrechtsstaat\" (a state based on the arbitrary use of power), and of \"Unrechtsstaat\" (a non-\"Rechtsstaat\" with the capacity to become one after a period of historical development).\n\nIn a \"Rechtsstaat\", the power of the state is limited in order to protect citizens from the arbitrary exercise of authority. The citizens share legally based civil liberties and can use the courts. \n\nGerman writers usually place the theories of German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) at the beginning of their accounts of the movement toward the \"Rechtsstaat\". Kant did not use the word \"Rechtsstaat\", but contrasted an existing state (\"Staat\") with an ideal, constitutional state (\"Republik\"). His approach is based on the supremacy of a country’s written constitution. This supremacy must create guarantees for implementation of his central idea: a permanent peaceful life as a basic condition for the happiness of its people and their prosperity. Kant proposed that this happiness be guaranteed by a moral constitution agreed on by the people and thus, under it, by moral government.\n\nThe actual expression \"Rechtsstaat\" appears to have been introduced by Carl Theodor Welcker in 1813, but it was popularised by Robert von Mohl's book \"Die deutsche Polizeiwissenschaft nach den Grundsätzen des Rechtsstaates\" (\"German Policy Science according to the Principles of the Constitutional State\") (1832–33). Von Mohl contrasted government through policy with government, in a Kantian spirit, under general rules.\n\nThe most important principles of the \"Rechtsstaat\" are:\n\n\nThe Russian legal system, borne out of transformations in the 19th century under the reforms of Emperor Alexander II, is based primarily on the German legal tradition. It was from here that Russia borrowed a doctrine of \"Rechtsstaat\", which literally translates as \"legal state\". The concept of \"legal state\" () is a fundamental (but undefined) principle that appears in the very first dispositive provision of Russia’s post-Communist constitution: \"The Russian Federation – Russia – constitutes a democratic federative legal state with a republican form of governance.\" Similarly, the first dispositive provision of Ukraine’s Constitution declares: \"Ukraine is a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, legal state.\" The effort to give meaning to the expression \"legal state\" is anything but theoretical.\n\nValery Zorkin, President of the Constitutional Court of Russia, wrote in 2003:\n\nThe Russian concept of legal state adopted many elements of constitutional economics. Constitutional economics is a field of economics and constitutionalism that describes and analyzes the specific interrelationships between constitutional issues and functioning of the economy, including the budget process. The term \"constitutional economics\" was used by American economist James M. Buchanan as a name for a new academic sub-discipline that in 1986 brought him the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his \"development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making.\" According to Buchanan, the ethic of constitutionalism is a key for constitutional order and \"may be called the idealized Kantian world\" where the individual \"who is making the ordering, along with substantially all of his fellows, adopts the moral law as a general rule for behaviour\". Buchanan rejects \"any organic conception of the state as superior in wisdom, to the individuals who are its members.\" He believes that a constitution, intended for use by at least several generations of citizens, must be able to adjust itself for pragmatic economic decisions and to balance interests of the state and society against those of individuals and their constitutional rights to personal freedom and private happiness. The standards of constitutional economics when used during annual budget planning, as well as the latter's transparency to the civil society, are of primary importance to the implementation of the rule of law. Moreover, the availability of an effective court system, to be used by the civil society in situations of unfair government spending and executive impoundment of any previously authorized appropriations, becomes a key element for the success of any influential civil society. Some Russian researchers support an idea that, in the 21st century, the concept of the legal state has become not only a legal but also an economic concept, at least for Russia and many other transitional and developing countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433432", "title": "Richard FitzAlan, 11th Earl of Arundel", "text": "Richard FitzAlan, 11th Earl of Arundel\n\nRichard FitzAlan, 4th or 11th Earl of Arundel and 9th Earl of Surrey, (1346 – 21 September 1397) was an English medieval nobleman and military commander.\n\nBorn in 1346, he was the son of Richard FitzAlan, 10th Earl of Arundel and Eleanor of Lancaster. He succeeded his father to the title of Earl of Arundel on 24 January 1376.\n\nHis brother was Thomas Arundel, the Bishop of Ely from 1374 to 1388, Archbishop of York from 1388 to 1397, and Archbishop of Canterbury in 1397 and from 1399 until his death in 1414.\n\nAt the coronation of Richard II, Richard FitzAlan carried the crown.\n\nIn 1377, Richard FitzAlan held the title of Admiral of the West and South. In this capacity, he attacked Harfleur at Whitsun 1378, but was forced to return to his ships by the defenders. Later, he and John of Gaunt attempted to seize Saint-Malo but were unsuccessful.\n\nFitzAlan was closely aligned with Thomas, Duke of Gloucester, who was uncle of King Richard II. Thomas was opposed to Richard II's desire for peace with France in the Hundred Years War and a power struggle ensued between him and Gloucester. In late 1386, Gloucester forced King Richard II to name himself and Richard FitzAlan to the King's Council. This Council was to all intents and purposes a Regency Council for Richard II. However, Richard limited the duration of the Council's powers to one year.\n\nIn 1386, Richard II named Richard FitzAlan Admiral of England and made him a Knight of the Garter. As Admiral of England, he defeated a Franco-Spanish-Flemish fleet off Margate in March 1387, along with Thomas de Mowbray, Earl of Nottingham.\n\nIn August 1387, the King dismissed Gloucester and FitzAlan from the Council and replaced them with his favourites - including the Archbishop of York, Alexander Neville; the Duke of Ireland, Robert de Vere; Michael de la Pole; the Earl of Suffolk, Sir Robert Tresilian, who was the Chief Justice; and the former Mayor of London Nicholas Brembre.\n\nThe King summoned Gloucester and FitzAlan to a meeting. However, instead of coming, they raised troops and defeated the new Council at Radcot Bridge on 22 December 1387. During that battle, they took the favourites prisoner. The next year, the Merciless Parliament condemned the favourites.\n\nFitzAlan was one of the Lords Appellant who accused and condemned Richard II's favorites. He made himself particularly odious to the King by refusing, along with Gloucester, to spare the life of Sir Simon de Burley who had been condemned by the Merciless Parliament. This was even after the queen, Anne of Bohemia, went down on her knees before them to beg for mercy. King Richard never forgave this humiliation and planned and waited for his moment of revenge.\n\nIn 1394, FitzAlan further antagonized the King by arriving late for the queen's funeral. Richard II, in a rage, snatched a wand and struck FitzAlan in the face and drew blood. Shortly after that, the King feigned a reconciliation but he was only biding his time for the right moment to strike. Arundel was named Governor of Brest in 1388.\n\nPeace was concluded with France in 1389. However, Richard FitzAlan followed Gloucester's lead and stated that he would never agree with the peace that had been concluded.\n\nArundel married twice.\n\nHis first wife was Elizabeth de Bohun, daughter of William de Bohun, 1st Earl of Northampton and Elizabeth de Badlesmere. They married around 28 September 1359 and had seven children:\n\nAfter the death of his first wife in 1385, Arundel married Philippa Mortimer, daughter of Edmund Mortimer, 3rd Earl of March. Her mother was Philippa Plantagenet, the only daughter of Lionel of Antwerp and thus a granddaughter of Edward III. They had no children.\n\nOn 12 July 1397, Richard FitzAlan was arrested for his opposition to Richard II, as well as plotting with Gloucester to imprison the king. He stood trial at Westminster and was attainted. He was beheaded on 21 September 1397 and was buried in the church of the Augustin Friars, Bread Street, London. Tradition holds that his final words were said to the executioner, \"Torment me not long, strike off my head in one blow\".\n\nIn October 1400, the attainder was reversed, and Richard's son Thomas succeeded to his father's estates and honours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13035965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13035965", "title": "Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law", "text": "Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law\n\nThe Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law is a nonpartisan, multidisciplinary global affairs research center at The University of Texas at Austin. The Center is named for renowned lawyer and public servant Ambassador Robert S. Strauss.\n\nThe Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law integrates expertise from across the University of Texas, as well as from the private and public sectors, in pursuit of practical solutions to emerging international challenges. The Center sponsors a wide array of research programs and educational initiatives.\n\nThe Strauss Center supports independent research conducted by graduate students on projects related to international relations and offers several in-house research programs. The research programs focus on political instability, international security, and political violence.\n\nThe Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law hosts a variety of events on pressing international issues facing the United States and the rest of the world. These events bring together scholars, students, and practitioners to share expertise and debate ideas. The Strauss Center encourages free and open exchange of ideas and welcomes speakers representing a wide array of views to discuss critical issues impacting international security.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57998131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57998131", "title": "SMS Admiral Spaun", "text": "SMS Admiral Spaun\n\nSMS \"Admiral Spaun\" was a scout cruiser built for the Austro-Hungarian Navy. Named for Admiral and \"Marinekommandant\" (Commander-in-Chief of the Navy) Hermann von Spaun, \"Admiral Spaun\" was constructed shortly before World War I. Laid down at the Pola Navy Yard in May 1908, the cruiser was launched in October 1909. \"Admiral Spaun\" was commissioned into the Navy just over a year later, in November 1910. The first ship of the Austro-Hungarian Navy to be constructed with steam turbines, her design later influenced the construction of the s.\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" served as the flotilla leader of the Second Torpedo Flotilla at the outbreak of World War I and was stationed out of the naval base at Cattaro. She saw limited action during the first year of the war, and following Italy's declaration of war on Austria-Hungary in May 1915, the cruiser participated in a bombardment of the Italian coastline. Throughout the rest of 1915, \"Admiral Spaun\" engaged in various operations across the Adriatic Sea. While she was involved in missions centred mostly around Trieste in the northern Adriatic for the rest of the war, \"Admiral Spaun\" also participated in many of Austria-Hungary's naval operations as far south as the Otranto Barrage and the Strait of Otranto, alongside the \"Novara\"-class cruisers.\n\nEmboldened by the Austro-Hungarian victory during the Battle of the Strait of Otranto, and determined to break the Otranto Barrage with a major attack on the strait, Austria-Hungary's newly appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Fleet (German: \"Flottenkommandant\") Miklós Horthy de Nagybánya organised a massive attack on the Allied forces with \"Admiral Spaun\", alongside seven battleships, three cruisers, four destroyers, four torpedo boats, and numerous submarines and aircraft, but the operation was abandoned after the battleship was sunk by the Italian motor torpedo boat \"MAS-15\" on the morning of 10 June.\n\nAfter the sinking of \"Szent István\", the ships returned to port where they remained for the rest of the war. When Austria-Hungary was facing defeat in October 1918, the Austrian government transferred its navy to the newly formed State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs in order to avoid having to hand the ship over to the Allies. Following the Armistice of Villa Giusti in November 1918, \"Admiral Spaun\" was seized by the Allies and transferred to Italy, where she participated in a victory parade through the Venice Lagoon in March 1919. The final distribution of Austria-Hungary's former navy was settled under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye in 1920. \"Admiral Spaun\" was ceded to the United Kingdom before being sold for scrap and broken up between 1920 and 1921.\n\nIn 1904, the Austro-Hungarian Navy consisted of ten battleships of various types, three armoured cruisers, six protected cruisers, eight torpedo vessels, and 68 torpedo craft. The total tonnage of the navy was . While the navy was capable of defending the coastline of Austria-Hungary, this fleet was drastically outclassed by other major Mediterranean navies, namely Italy and the United Kingdom. Following the establishment of the Austrian Naval League in September 1904, and the October appointment of Vice-Admiral Rudolf Montecuccoli to the posts of Commander-in-Chief of the Navy (German: \"Marinekommandant\") and Chief of the Naval Section of the War Ministry (German: \"Chef der Marinesektion\"), the Austro-Hungarian Navy began an expansion program suitable for that of a Great Power. Montecuccoli immediately pursued the efforts championed by his predecessor, Admiral Hermann von Spaun, and pushed for a greatly expanded and modernized navy.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 20th century, Austria-Hungary's naval policy began to shift away from simply coastal defence, to projecting power into the Adriatic and even Mediterranean Seas. This change in policy was motivated by both internal and external factors. New railroads had been constructed through Austria's Alpine passes between 1906 and 1908, linking Trieste and the Dalmatian coastline to the rest of the Empire and providing the interior of Austria-Hungary with quicker access to the sea than ever before. Lower tariffs on the port of Trieste aided the expansion of the city and a similar growth in Austria-Hungary's merchant marine. These changes necessitated the development of a new line of battleships capable of more than the defence of Austria-Hungary's coastline.\n\nPrior to the turn of the century, sea power had not been a priority in Austrian foreign policy, and the navy had little public interest or support. The appointment of Archduke Franz Ferdinand – heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne and a prominent and influential supporter of naval expansion – to the position of admiral in September 1902 greatly increased the importance of the navy in the eyes of both the general public and the Austrian and Hungarian Parliaments. Franz Ferdinand's interest in naval affairs stemmed primarily from his belief that a strong navy would be necessary to compete with Italy, which he viewed as Austria-Hungary's greatest regional threat.\n\nAs the first scout cruiser of the Austro-Hungarian Navy, \"Admiral Spaun\" was authorized when Austria-Hungary was engaged in a naval arms race with its nominal ally, Italy. Italy's Regia Marina was considered the most-important naval power in the region which Austria-Hungary measured itself against, often unfavourably. The disparity between the Austro-Hungarian and Italian navies had existed for decades; in the late 1880s Italy boasted the third-largest fleet in the world, behind the French Navy and the British Royal Navy. While that disparity had been somewhat equalized with the Imperial Russian Navy and the German Imperial Navy surpassing the Italian Navy in 1893 and in 1894, by 1904 the balance began to shift towards Italy's favour once more. Indeed, by 1904 the size of the Italian Regia Marina was by tonnage was over twice that of the Austro-Hungarian Navy, and while the two nations had relatively even numbers of battleships, Italy had over twice as many cruisers.\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" first conceived on paper in early 1905 when Montecuccoli drafted his first proposal for a modern Austrian fleet as part of his plan to construct a navy large enough to contest the Adriatic Sea. This initial plan consisted of 12 battleships, four armoured cruisers, eight scout cruisers, 18 destroyers, 36 high seas torpedo craft, and six submarines. While specifics had yet to be drawn up, the four cruisers in Montecuccoli's plan would ultimately become \"Admiral Spaun\" and the three ships of the \"Novara\" class. Due to a political crisis within the Hungarian government, a vote on Montecuccoli's proposed program was delayed for most of 1905. It would not be until the end of the year before the Austrian and Hungarian Delegations for Common Affairs approved Montecuccoli's program. Under the terms of the budget agreement, 121,000,000 Krone was set aside for warship construction over a period of three years, with the installments for this special credit being retroactively pushed back to 1904. The budget lacked funding for the three other cruisers Montecuccoli wished to construct, but included funding for the three s, six destroyers, and \"Admiral Spaun\".\n\nDesigned for scouting missions, \"Admiral Spaun\" was based on the premise that the theater of operations she would operate in would be largely confined to the Adriatic Sea. She was intended to act as a fast moving scout cruiser capable of conducting hit-and-run missions while also threatening communications and convoy routes. Montecuccoli believed that should Austria-Hungary be drawn into a larger naval conflict encompassing the Mediterranean, \"Admiral Spaun\" would still be capable of fulfilling her role successfully and that a class of battlecruisers was not necessary for such a scenario. Following the construction of \"Admiral Spaun\", her design was so well received that she was used to influence the construction of the three \"Novara\"-class cruisers which followed her. The similarities between \"Admiral Spaun\" and the \"Novara\"s were so close that despite being different classes, both contemporary and modern publications occasionally link all four ships together as members of the same class. \"Admiral Spaun\" had a crew of 320–327 officers and men.\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" had an overall length of . At the waterline, the cruiser had a length of , while her length between perpendiculars measured . She had a beam of and a mean draft of at deep load. She was designed to displace at normal load, but at full combat load she displaced . The propulsion systems of the ship consisted of six Parsons steam turbines and four shafts. These turbines were designed to provide and were powered by 16 Yarrow water-tube boilers, giving \"Admiral Spaun\" a top speed of during her sea trials.\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" was armed with a main battery of seven 50-caliber guns in single pedestal mounts. Two were placed forward on the forecastle of the ship, four were located amidship, two on either side, and one was located on the quarterdeck. She also possessed a SFK L/44 gun. A Škoda /50 K10 anti-aircraft gun and four torpedo tubes in twin mounts were added to \"Admiral Spaun\" in 1916. The guns of \"Admiral Spaun\" were of a smaller caliber than many other cruisers of the era, which led to plans to remove the guns on the forecastle and quarterdeck of the ship and replace them with a pair of guns fore and aft, but these modifications were not able to take place before the war ended. Her smaller armament was due in part because of a desire within the Austro-Hungarian Navy for \"Admiral Spaun\" to have a faster speed and greater armour than most other contemporary cruisers of the era. As a result, the armament of the cruiser had to be scaled down.\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" was protected at the waterline waterline by an armoured belt which measured thick amidship. The guns had thick shields, while the thickness of the deck for the ship was . The armour protecting the conning tower was .\n\n\"Admiral Spaun\" was laid down at the Pola Navy Yard on 30 May 1908. During construction, Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino struck an agreement with the Parsons Marine Steam Turbine Company to allow for the construction of \"Admiral Spaun\"s steam turbines to be assembled in Trieste using materials found from within the Austro-Hungarian Empire. She was the first ship of the Austro-Hungarian Navy to be constructed with steam turbines.\n\nIn September 1909, Montecuccoli proposed to the Austro-Hungarian Ministerial Council a budget for 1910 which would authorise construction on the three cruisers of the \"Novara\" class, alongside the four dreadnoughts of the battleships and several torpedo boats and submarines. While Montecuccoli's desire to construct a new class of cruisers was delayed, this time due to the financial costs Austria-Hungary took on following the annexation of Bosnia and the mobilisation of her fleet and army at the height of Bosnian crisis, the navy was given funds to speed up completion of the battleships and \"Admiral Spaun\".\n\nAfter nearly a year and a half of construction, \"Admiral Spaun\" was launched on 30 October 1909. Thereafter, she conducted sea trials for a year. When \"Admiral Spaun\" was ordered, she was designed to attain a speed greater than contemporary cruisers found in other navies around the world, such as the United States Navy and the British Royal Navy. In September 1910, it was reported that she obtained a top speed of . This was faster than her contracted speed. After the conclusion of her sea trials, \"Admiral Spaun\" was commissioned into the Austro-Hungarian Navy on 15 November 1910.\n\nWithin a year of \"Admiral Spaun\"s commissioning into the Austro-Hungarian Navy, the Italo-Turkish War erupted in September 1911. Despite the fact that Austria-Hungary and Italy remained nominal allies under the Triple Alliance, tensions between the two nations remained high throughout the war. The Austro-Hungarian Navy was placed on high alert, while the Army was deployed to the Italian border. While the war would ultimately become localised at the request of Austria-Hungary to parts of the Eastern Mediterranean and Libya, the First Balkan War broke out even before Italy and the Ottoman Empire were able to conclude a peace agreement. Once again, the Ottoman military proved insufficient to defeat its opponents. The Balkan League of Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece, and Montenegro swiftly overran the Ottoman Empire's last remaining European possessions in a matter of weeks. By November 1912, Serbia appeared poised to obtain a port on the Adriatic Sea. Austria-Hungary strongly opposed this as a Serbian port on the Adriatic could drastically alter the balance of power in the region, bring Serbia and Italy closer together through economic ties, and also serve as a Russian naval base.\n\nAustria-Hungary found support from Italy, who opposed Serbian access to the Adriatic on the belief that Russia would use any Serbian ports to station its Black Sea fleet. Italy also feared that Austria-Hungary itself would one day annex Serbia, and thus gain more Adriatic coastline without handing over any Italian-speaking territories such as Trentino or Trieste. Russia and Serbia both protested to Vienna this objection to a potential Serbian coastline. By the end of November 1912, the threat of conflict between Austria-Hungary, Italy, Serbia, and Russia, coupled with allegations of Serbian mistreatment of the Austro-Hungarian consul in Prisrena led to a war scare in the Balkans. Both Russian and Austria-Hungary began mobilizing troops along their border, while Austria-Hungary began to mobilize against Serbia. During the crisis, the entire Austro-Hungarian Navy was also fully mobilized. At the time, several Austro-Hungarian warships had already been deployed to the Aegean Sea or the city of Constantinople to protect Austro-Hungarian interests during the Italo-Turkish War and the First Balkan War. The Navy subsequently ordered \"Admiral Spaun\" and from their stations in Constantinople. They were ordered to join the rest of the fleet in the Aegean Sea in the event of a war with Serbia and Russia.\n\nBy December 1912, the Austro-Hungarian Navy had, in addition to \"Admiral Spaun\", a total of seven battleships, five cruisers, eight destroyers, 28 torpedo boats, and six submarines ready for combat. The crisis eventually subsided after the signing of the Treaty of London, which granted Serbia free access to the sea through an internationally-supervised railroad, while at the same time establishing an independent Albania. The Austro-Hungarian Army and Navy was subsequently demobilised on 28 May 1913.\n\nIn June 1914, the battleship was tasked with transporting Archduke Franz Ferdinand to the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to watch military manoeuvres. Following the manoeuvres, Ferdinand and his wife Sophie planned to visit Sarajevo to open the state museum in its new premises. On 24 June the battleship brought the Archduke from Trieste to the Narenta River, where he boarded a yacht which took him north towards Sarajevo. After observing the military maneuvers for three days, the Archduke met his wife in Sarajevo. On 28 June 1914, they were shot to death by Gavrilo Princip.\n\nUpon hearing of the assassination, \"Marinekommandant\" Anton Haus sailed south from Pola with an escort fleet comprising \"Admiral Spaun\", \"Viribus Unitis\"s sister ship , and several torpedo boats. Two days after their murders, Ferdinand and Sophia's bodies were transferred aboard \"Viribus Unitis\", which had been anchored waiting to receive the Archduke for his return, and were transported back to Trieste. \"Viribus Unitis\" was shadowed by Haus' escort fleet for the journey, with the fleet moving slowly along the Dalmatian coast, usually within sight of land. Coastal towns and villages rang church bells when the ships passed while spectators watched the fleet from the shoreline. The Archduke's death triggered the July Crisis, culminating in Austria-Hungary's declaration of war on the Kingdom of Serbia on 28 July 1914.\n\nEvents unfolded rapidly in the ensuing days. On 30 July 1914, Russia declared full mobilisation in response to Austria-Hungary's declaration of war on Serbia. Austria-Hungary declared full mobilisation the next day. On 1 August, both Germany and France ordered full mobilisation and Germany declared war on Russia in support of Austria-Hungary. While relations between Austria-Hungary and Italy had improved greatly in the two years following the 1912 renewal of the Triple Alliance, increased Austro-Hungarian naval spending, political disputes over influence in Albania, and Italian concerns over the potential annexation of land in the Kingdom of Montenegro caused the relationship between the two allies to falter in the months leading up to the war. Italy's 1 August declaration of neutrality in the war dashed Austro-Hungarian hopes to use their larger ships—including \"Admiral Spaun\"—in major combat operations in the Mediterranean, as the navy had been relying upon coal stored in Italian ports to operate in conjunction with the Regia Marina. By 4 August, Germany had already occupied Luxembourg and invaded Belgium after declaring war on France. The United Kingdom subsequently declared war on Germany that same day in support of Belgian neutrality.\n\nShortly after the onset of the war, the assistance of the Austro-Hungarian fleet was called upon by the German Mediterranean Division, which consisted of the battlecruiser and light cruiser . The German ships were attempting to break out of Messina, where they had been taking on coal prior to the outbreak of war. By the first week of August, British ships had begun to assemble off Messina in an attempt to trap the Germans. While Austria-Hungary had not yet fully mobilised its fleet, a force was assembled to assist the German ships. This consisted of \"Admiral Spaun\", along with the three \"Radetzky\"s and the three \"Tegetthoff\"s, the armoured cruiser , six destroyers, and 13 torpedo boats. The Austro-Hungarian high command, wary of instigating war with Great Britain, ordered the fleet to avoid the British ships and to only support the Germans openly while they were in Austro-Hungarian waters. On 7 August, when the Germans broke out of Messina, the Austro-Hungarian fleet had begun to sail for Brindisi to link up with the Germans and escort their ships to a friendly port in Austria-Hungary. However, the German movement toward the mouth of the Adriatic had been a diversion to throw the British and French off their pursuit, and the German ships instead rounded the southern tip of Greece and made their way to the Dardanelles, where they would eventually be sold to the Ottoman Empire. Rather than follow the German ships towards the Black Sea, the Austrian fleet returned to Pola.\n\nFollowing France and Britain's declarations of war on Austria-Hungary on 11 and 12 August respectively, the French Admiral Augustin Boué de Lapeyrère was issued orders to close off Austro-Hungarian shipping at the entrance to the Adriatic Sea and to engage any Austro-Hungarian ships his Anglo-French fleet came across. Lapeyrère chose to attack the Austro-Hungarian ships blockading Montenegro. The ensuing Battle of Antivari ended Austria-Hungary's blockade, and effectively placed the Strait of Otranto firmly in the hands of Britain and France.\n\nAfter the Battle of Antivari and the breakout of \"Goeben\" and \"Breslau\" from Messina, the Austro-Hungarian Navy saw very little action, with many of its ships spending much of their time in port. The navy's general inactivity was partly caused by a fear of mines in the Adriatic. Other factors contributed to the lack of naval activity in the first year of the war. Admiral Haus was fearful that direct confrontation with the French Navy, even if it should be successful, would weaken the Austro-Hungarian Navy to the point that Italy would have a free hand in the Adriatic. This concern was so great to Haus that he wrote in September 1914, \"So long as the possibility exists that Italy will declare war against us, I consider it my first duty to keep our fleet intact.\" Haus' decision to keep his fleet in port earned sharp criticism from the Austro-Hungarian Army, the German Navy, and the Austro-Hungarian Foreign Ministry, but it also led to a far greater number of Allied naval forces being devoted to the Mediterranean and the Strait of Otranto. These could have been used elsewhere, such as against the Ottoman Empire during the Gallipoli Campaign. Throughout the rest of 1914, \"Admiral Spaun\" was among the most active ships in the Austro-Hungarian Navy, despite chronic engine problems.\n\nBy January 1915, Haus had adopted a cautious strategy to preserve his fleet, as Austria-Hungary was drastically outnumbered by the Anglo-French fleets in the Mediterranean, and the attitude of Austria-Hungary's erstwhile ally Italy remained unknown. Haus decided the best course of action would be to act as a fleet in being, which would tie down Allied naval forces, while torpedo boats, mines, and raids with fast cruisers like \"Admiral Spaun\" could be used to reduce the numerical superiority of the enemy fleets before a decisive battle could be fought.\n\nHowever, engine and other machinery problems related to her propulsion systems hindered \"Admiral Spaun\"s abilities to be deployed for operations in the Adriatic in a similar fashion to the ships of the \"Novara\" class. Indeed, Gardiner and Grey write in \"Conway's All the World's Fighting Ships: 1906–1921\" that \"the ship suffered so many teething troubles with her engines that she never participated in the cruiser operations of her successors, although she saw wartime service in minor and less dangerous roles.\" Instead, the ships of the \"Novara\" class continued operations in the Adriatic, conducting missions such as towing U-boats out into the Mediterranean or raiding Allied convoys and drifters guarding the Straight of Otranto. Nevertheless, \"Admiral Spaun\" would participate in the largest and most successful Austro-Hungarian naval operation of the war following Italy's entry into the conflict on the side of the Allies in May 1915.\n\nAfter failed negotiations with Germany and Austria-Hungary over Italy joining the war as a member of the Central Powers, the Italians negotiated with the Triple Entente for Italy's eventual entry into the war on their side in the Treaty of London, signed on 26 April 1915. On 4 May Italy formally renounced her alliance to Germany and Austria-Hungary, giving the Austro-Hungarians advanced warning that Italy was preparing to go to war against them. On 20 May, Emperor Franz Joseph I gave the Austro-Hungarian Navy authorisation to attack Italian ships convoying troops in the Adriatic or sending supplies to Montenegro. Haus meanwhile made preparations for his fleet to sortie out into the Adriatic in a massive strike against the Italians the moment war was declared. On 23 May 1915, between two and four hours after the Italian declaration of war reached the main Austro-Hungarian naval base at Pola, the Austro-Hungarian fleet, including \"Admiral Spaun\", departed to bombard the Italian coast.\n\nDuring the Austro-Hungarian attacks along the Italian coastline, \"Admiral Spaun\", the cruisers , , and , as well as nine destroyers, provided a screen against a possible Italian counterattack. The expected Italian counterattack failed to materialize however. While scouting in the southern Adriatic, \"Admiral Spaun\" bombarded the port of Termoli, inflicting damage on a railway bridge and freight train, before moving on to Campomarino where she shelled the city's freight yard and train station buildings, destroying both. Meanwhile, the core of the Austro-Hungarian Navy, spearheaded by the ships of the \"Tegetthoff\" class, made their way to Ancona. The bombardment of Ancona was a major success for the Austro-Hungarian Navy. In the port of Ancona, an Italian steamer was destroyed and three others damaged, while an Italian destroyer—\"Turbine\"—was sunk further south. The infrastructure of the port of Ancona and the surrounding towns was severely damaged. The railroad yard and port facilities in the city were damaged or destroyed, while local shore batteries defending them were knocked out. Multiple wharves, warehouses, oil tanks, radio stations, and coal and oil stores were set on fire by the bombardment, and the city's electricity, gas, and telephone lines were severed. Within the city itself, Ancona's police headquarters, army barracks, military hospital, sugar refinery, and Bank of Italy offices all saw damage. 30 Italian soldiers and 38 civilians were killed, while an additional 150 were wounded in the attack. During the attacks along the Italian coastline that day, Austro-Hungarian seaplanes also bombed Venice and Ancona.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian fleet would later move on to bombard the coast of Montenegro, without opposition; by the time Italian ships arrived on the scene, the Austro-Hungarians were safely back in port. The objective of the bombardment of Italy's coastline was to delay the Italian Army from deploying its forces along the border with Austria-Hungary by destroying critical transportation systems, and the surprise attack on Ancona and the Italian Adriatic coast succeeded in delaying the Italian deployment to the Alps for two weeks. This delay gave Austria-Hungary valuable time to strengthen the Italian front and re-deploy some of its troops from the Eastern and Balkan fronts. The bombardment and sinking of several Italian ships also delivered a severe blow to Italian military and public morale.\n\nFollowing Italy's entry into the war in May 1915, \"Admiral Spaun\" would be among the most regularly used ships throughout the rest of the year against the Italians in the Adriatic. However, her mechanical problems prevented her from engaging in the same number of raids and sorties as the \"Novara\"-class cruisers. During this time, \"Admiral Spaun\" spent most of her time in service in the northern Adriatic, providing cover for Austro-Hungarian ships conducting mine-laying and mine-sweeping operations. Nevertheless, she did participate in some raids in the southern Adriatic in a secondary role. On the night of 28 December 1915, \"Helgoland\" and five destroyers participated in a raid on French and Italian ships. During this raid, \"Helgoland\" rammed and sank the French submarine between Brindisi and the Albanian port of Durazzo, before attacking shipping in Durazzo the following morning. After sinking several ships in the port, two of the Austro-Hungarian destroyers accompanying \"Helgoland\" struck mines and one sank. In response to these setbacks, \"Novara\", \"Admiral Spaun\", and the coastal defence ship were mobilised to support \"Helgoland\" and the Austro-Hungarian destroyers. \"Helgoland\" was unscathed in the operation and managed to evade the Allied pursuit when darkness fell, rendezvousing with the reinforcements sent out to escort her back to Cattaro. \"Admiral Spaun\" saw much less action throughout 1916 as mechanical issues remained a problem. Instead, she remained on duty in more secondary roles and underwent a refit to strengthen her anti-aircraft and torpedo weaponry. Despite these setbacks, throughout most of the war \"Admiral Spaun\" and the \"Novara\"-class ships served as the \"real capital ships of the Adriatic\", as many of the larger ships of the Austro-Hungarian Navy—such as the \"Tegetthoff\"-class battleships—remained at port in Pola between May 1915 and June 1918.\n\nFollowing the torpedoing of the coastal defence ship on 10 December 1917, \"Admiral Spaun\", the pre-dreadnought battleship , and six destroyers were sent to reinforce Austria-Hungary's harbour defences in Trieste. On 19 December, these warships linked up with \"Budapest\", as well as 16 torpedo boats, five minesweepers, and five seaplanes to bombard Italian artillery positions at the mouth of the Piave River. This operation was supposed to provide cover for a division of the Royal Hungarian Honvéd to cross the river, but failed due to poor weather. By 1 January, \"Admiral Spaun\" and the rest of this fleet had withdrawn back to Pola.\n\nAfter the Cattaro Mutiny, Admiral Maximilian Njegovan was fired as \"Marinekommandant\", though at Njegovan's request it was announced that he was retiring. Miklós Horthy, who had since been promoted to commander of the battleship , was promoted to rear admiral and named \"Flottenkommandant\" (Commander-in-Chief of the Fleet). Horthy's promotion was met with support among many members of the naval officer corps, who believed he would use Austria-Hungary's navy to engage the enemy. Horthy's appointment posed difficulties. His relatively young age alienated many of the senior officers, and Austria-Hungary's naval traditions included an unspoken rule that no officer could serve at sea under someone of inferior seniority. This meant that the heads of the First and Second Battle Squadrons, as well as the Cruiser Flotilla, all had to go into early retirement or take shore-based positions.\n\nHorthy was determined to use the fleet to attack the Otranto Barrage, and he planned to repeat his successful raid on the blockade in May 1917. Horthy envisioned a major attack on the Allied forces with his four \"Tegetthoff\"-class ships providing the largest component of the assault. They would be accompanied by the three ships of the \"Erzherzog Karl\"-class pre-dreadnoughts, three \"Novara\"-class cruisers, \"Admiral Spaun\", four \"Tátra\"-class destroyers, and four torpedo boats. Submarines and aircraft would also be employed in the operation to hunt down enemy ships on the flanks of the fleet.\n\nOn 8 June 1918 Horthy took his flagship, \"Viribus Unitis\", and \"Prinz Eugen\" south with the lead elements of his fleet. On the evening of 9 June, \"Szent István\" and \"Tegetthoff\" followed along with their own escort ships. Horthy's plan called for \"Novara\" and \"Helgoland\" to engage the Barrage with the support of the \"Tátra\"-class destroyers. Meanwhile, \"Admiral Spaun\" and \"Saida\" would be escorted by the fleet's four torpedo boats to Otranto to bombard Italian air and naval stations. The German and Austro-Hungarian submarines would be sent to Valona and Brindisi to ambush Italian, French, British, and American warships that sailed out to engage the Austro-Hungarian fleet, while seaplanes from Cattaro would provide air support and screen the ships' advance. The battleships, and in particular the \"Tegetthoff\"s, would use their firepower to destroy the Barrage and engage any Allied warships they ran across. Horthy hoped that the inclusion of these ships would prove to be critical in securing a decisive victory.\n\nEn route to the harbour at Islana, north of Ragusa, to rendezvous with the battleships \"Viribus Unitis\" and \"Prinz Eugen\" for the coordinated attack on the Otranto Barrage, \"Szent István\" and \"Tegetthoff\" attempted to make maximum speed in order to catch up to the rest of the fleet. In doing so, \"Szent István\"s turbines started to overheat and speed had to be reduced. When an attempt was made to raise more steam in order to increase the ship's speed, \"Szent István\" produced an excess of smoke. At about 3:15 am on 10 June, two Italian MAS boats, \"MAS 15\" and \"MAS 21\", spotted the smoke from the Austrian ships while returning from an uneventful patrol off the Dalmatian coast. Both boats successfully penetrated the escort screen and split to engage each of the dreadnoughts. \"MAS 15\" fired her two torpedoes successfully at 3:25 am at \"Szent István\". \"Szent István\" was hit by two torpedoes abreast her boiler rooms. \"Tegetthoff\" attempted to take \"Szent István\" in tow, which failed. At 6:12 am, with the pumps unequal to the task, \"Szent István\" capsized off Premuda.\n\nFearing further attacks by torpedo boats or destroyers from the Italian navy, and possible Allied dreadnoughts responding to the scene, Horthy believed the element of surprise had been lost and called off the attack, forcing \"Admiral Spaun\" back to port. In reality, the Italian torpedo boats had been on a routine patrol, and Horthy's plan had not been betrayed to the Italians as he had feared. The Italians did not even discover that the Austrian dreadnoughts had departed Pola until 10 June when aerial reconnaissance photos revealed that they were no longer there. Nevertheless, the loss of \"Szent István\" and the blow to morale it had on the navy forced Horthy to cancel his plans to assault the Otranto Barrage. The Austro-Hungarian ships returned to their bases where they would remain for the rest of the war.\n\nBy October 1918 it had become clear that Austria-Hungary was facing defeat in the war. With various attempts to quell nationalist sentiments failing, Emperor Karl I decided to sever Austria-Hungary's alliance with Germany and appeal to the Allied Powers in an attempt to preserve the empire from complete collapse. On 26 October Austria-Hungary informed Germany that their alliance was over. At the same time, the Austro-Hungarian Navy was in the process of tearing itself apart along ethnic and nationalist lines. Horthy was informed on the morning of 28 October that an armistice was imminent, and used this news to maintain order and prevent a mutiny among the fleet. While a mutiny was spared, tensions remained high and morale was at an all-time low. The situation was so stressful for members of the navy that the captain of \"Prinz Eugen\", Alexander Milosevic, committed suicide in his quarters aboard the battleship.\n\nOn 29 October the National Council in Zagreb announced Croatia's dynastic ties to Hungary had come to a formal conclusion. The National Council also called for Croatia and Dalmatia to be unified, with Slovene and Bosnian organisations pledging their loyalty to the newly formed government. This new provisional government, while throwing off Hungarian rule, had not yet declared independence from Austria-Hungary. Thus Emperor Karl I's government in Vienna asked the newly formed State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs for help maintaining the fleet stationed at Pola and keeping order among the navy. The National Council refused to assist unless the Austro-Hungarian Navy was first placed under its command. Emperor Karl I, still attempting to save the Empire from collapse, agreed to the transfer, provided that the other \"nations\" which made up Austria-Hungary would be able to claim their fair share of the value of the fleet at a later time. All sailors not of Slovene, Croatian, Bosnian, or Serbian background were placed on leave for the time being, while the officers were given the choice of joining the new navy or retiring.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian government thus decided to hand over the bulk of its fleet to the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs without a shot being fired. This was considered preferential to handing the fleet to the Allies, as the new state had declared its neutrality. Furthermore, the newly formed state had also not yet publicly dethroned Emperor Karl I, keeping the possibility of reforming the Empire into a triple monarchy alive. The transfer to the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs began on the morning of 31 October, with Horthy meeting representatives from the South Slav nationalities aboard his flagship, \"Viribus Unitis\" in Pola. After \"short and cool\" negotiations, the arrangements were settled and the handover was completed that afternoon. The Austro-Hungarian Naval Ensign was struck from \"Viribus Unitis\", and was followed by the remaining ships in the harbour. Control over the battleship, and the head of the newly-established navy for the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, fell to Captain Janko Vuković, who was raised to the rank of admiral and took over Horthy's old responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief of the Fleet.\n\nOn 3 November 1918 the Austro-Hungarian government signed the Armistice of Villa Giusti with Italy, ending the fighting along the Italian Front. The Armistice refused to recognize the transfer of Austria-Hungary's warships to the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs. As a result, on 4 November 1918, Italian ships sailed into the ports of Trieste, Pola, and Fiume. On 5 November, Italian troops occupied the naval installations at Pola. While the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs attempted to hold onto their ships, they lacked the men and officers to do so as most sailors who were not South Slavs had already gone home. The National Council did not order any men to resist the Italians, but they also condemned Italy's actions as illegitimate. On 9 November, all remaining ships in Pola harbour had the Italian flag raised. At a conference at Corfu, the Allied Powers agreed the transfer of Austria-Hungary's Navy to the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs could not be accepted, despite sympathy from the United Kingdom. Faced with the prospect of being given an ultimatum to surrender the former Austro-Hungarian warships, the National Council agreed to hand over the ships beginning on 10 November 1918.\n\nWhile under Italian custody, \"Admiral Spaun\" sailed into Venice in March 1919 as part of an Italian victory parade, alongside the captured battleships \"Tegetthoff\" and \"Erzherzog Franz Ferdinand\". All three entered the Venice Lagoon flying the Italian flag, and were escorted into the port where they were displayed as war trophies by the Italians. It would take a year for the final disposition of the ships to be settled by the Allied powers through the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The United Kingdom was ceded \"Admiral Spaun\" under the terms of the treaty. Much like the larger battleships of the Austro-Hungarian Navy, however, Admiral Spaun's post-war service would be short. The same year the British were granted possession of the cruiser, she was sold for scrap to Italian ship breakers and broken up between 1920 and 1921.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1174350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174350", "title": "Saul Williams", "text": "Saul Williams\n\nSaul Stacey Williams (born February 29, 1972) is an American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, slam poet, writer, and actor. He is known for his blend of poetry and alternative hip hop and for his lead roles in the 1998 independent film \"Slam\" and the 2013 jukebox musical \"Holler If Ya Hear Me\", featuring Tupac Shakur's music.\n\nWilliams was born in Newburgh, New York, and is the youngest of three children in his family. He attended Newburgh Free Academy, where he wrote his song \"Black Stacey\". He graduated from Morehouse College with a BA in acting and philosophy, then moved to New York City, where he earned an MFA in acting from New York University's Graduate Acting Program at the Tisch School of the Arts. While at New York University he became part of the New York café poetry scene. Williams has also lived in Brazil as an exchange student from 1988 to 1989.\n\nBy 1995, Williams had become an open mic poet. In 1996, he won the title of Nuyorican Poets Cafe's Grand Slam Champion. The documentary film \"SlamNation\" follows Williams and the other members of the 1996 Nuyorican Poets Slam team (Beau Sia, muMs da Schemer, and Jessica Care Moore) as they compete in the 1996 National Poetry Slam held in Portland, Oregon. The following year, Williams landed the lead role in the 1998 feature film \"Slam\". Williams featured as both a writer and actor in the film, which would win both the Sundance Festival Grand Jury Prize and the Cannes Camera D'Or (Golden Camera).\n\nAround 1998, Williams was also breaking into music. He had performed with such artists as Nas, The Fugees, Christian Alvarez, Blackalicious, Erykah Badu, KRS-One, Zack De La Rocha, De La Soul, and DJ Krust, as well as poets Allen Ginsberg and Sonia Sanchez. After releasing a string of EPs, he released the LP \"Amethyst Rock Star\" with producer Rick Rubin in 2001. In September 2004, he released his self-titled album to much acclaim. He played several shows supporting Nine Inch Nails on their European tour in summer 2005, and has also supported The Mars Volta. Williams was invited to the Lollapalooza music festival around that time, and the Chicago stage allowed Williams to attract a wider audience. He appeared on the Nine Inch Nails album \"Year Zero\", and supported the group on their 2006 tour of North America. On the tour, Williams announced that Trent Reznor would co-produce his next album.\n\nThis collaboration resulted in 2007's \"The Inevitable Rise and Liberation of NiggyTardust!\". The album was available only from its website until a physical CD was issued, featuring new tracks and extended album artwork. The first 100,000 customers on the website had the option to download a free lower-quality audio version of the album. The other option was for users to pay $5 to support the artist directly and be given the choice of downloading the higher-quality MP3 version or the lossless FLAC version. The material was produced by Trent Reznor and mixed by Alan Moulder. It was Reznor who said, after his own recent dealings with record labels, that they should release it independently and directly to the audience.\n\nIn early 2008, a Nike Sparq Training commercial featured Williams' song \"List of Demands (Reparations)\". In a November 2008 interview with Wired.com, Williams talked about his forthcoming projects: \"There's one album that I'm waist-deep into. I'm aiming to finish it up next month. Trent wants to work on a sequel for \"Niggy\" that I think would be cool, and I also have an album and new songs demoed at home that I'm ready to go into the studio and lay down. It’s a complete reflection of how I feel in this country; it's a very transformative time.\"\n\nWilliams' fourth album, \"Volcanic Sunlight\", was released on November 11, 2011. Williams showcased the album at London's Hoxton Bar Kitchen on January 26, 2011. Livemusic interviewed Williams on the evening and made a subsequent film, produced by artist Alex Templeton-Ward. When Williams was asked what the point of poetry was, he said: \"I'm making this up, I have no idea but here we go. I think that it would be to express, to share, to relieve, to explore. For me, poetry offers some what of a cathartic experience. I am able to move through emotions and emotional experience particularly, you know, break-ups, difficulties in all the things that I may face, whether that is with an industry or a loved one or whomever, there needs to be an infiltration process, like you have a window open over there. That is the purpose of poetry: it is the window that opens, that allows some air in, some other insight, some other possibility so we can explore all that we feel, all that we think but with the space to see more than what we know, because there is so much more than we know. If I didn't open myself to the possibilities of the unknown, then I would be lost.\"\n\nWilliams' fifth album, \"MartyrLoserKing\", was released on January 29, 2016.\n\nIn March 2018, The Kills released their cover of Williams' \"List of Demands (Reparations)\" and Williams opened for The Kills' sold-out performance at the Regent Theater in Los Angeles on August 13, 2018.\n\nAs a writer, Williams has been published in \"The New York Times\", \"Esquire\", \"Bomb Magazine\", and \"African Voices\", as well as releasing four collections of poetry. As a poet and musician, Williams has toured and lectured across the world, appearing at many universities and colleges. In his interview in the book \"Words in Your Face: A Guided Tour Through Twenty Years of the New York City Poetry Slam\", Williams explained why he creates within so many genres: \"It's not that I balance those arts out, all the different arts balance me out. So, that there is a certain type of emotion that is more easily accessible through music than poetry... some things are meant to be written, some are meant to be sung, some things are meant to be hummed, some things are made to be yelled, and so that's just how life works.\"\n\nIn January 2009, he released \"NGH WHT The Dead Emcee Scrolls with The Arditti Quartet\", a reading of his 2006 poetry book of the same name. This collaboration with Thomas Kessler (who also set Williams' spoken-word track \",said the shotgun to the head\" to music) was released with two payment options: listeners could download chapters 18 to 22 of the 27-minute composition in MP3 format for free, or could download the entire 33-chapter composition in lossless AIFF format for $6, along with the isolated vocal and quartet multitracks. The entire paid download totalled in size at 563 megabytes. Williams contributed to two tracks on the 2011 album \"Baba Love\" by Arthur H.\n\nOn film Williams has starred in \"Slam\" (1998), and \"Today\" (2012). On stage Williams was chosen for the lead role in \"Holler If Ya Hear Me\", a Broadway musical featuring music by Tupac Shakur. Though it features Shakur's music, the musical is not about his life. It is an original script written by Todd Kreidler. \"Rolling Stone\" described the production as \"the first hip-hop jukebox musical in Broadway history\". The show opened on June 19, 2014. Williams' role in the musical landed him an interview on \"The Colbert Report\", where he spoke about his career and performed a poem entitled \"Amethyst Rocks\".\n\nWilliams is a vegan. He is a vocal critic of the War on Terrorism and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Among his better-known works are the anti-war anthems \"Not in My Name\" and \"Act III Scene 2 (Shakespeare)\". In 2011, he added his name to Occupy Musicians, supporting the worldwide Occupy movement against income inequality. He identifies as queer.\n\nWilliams and Marcia Jones, a visual artist and art professor, began their relationship in 1995 as collaborative artists on the Brooklyn performance art and spoken word poetry circuit. Their daughter, Saturn, was born in 1996. A collection of poems by Williams entitled \"S/HE\" is a series of reflections on the demise of his relationship with Jones. Jones created the cover artwork for \"The Seventh Octave\", images throughout \"S/HE\" in response to Williams, and set-designed his 2001 album \"Amethyst Rock Star\". Saturn performed with her father on his 2008 concert tour. Williams also has a son named Xuly.\n\nOn February 29, 2008 (his 36th birthday), Williams married actress Persia White, his girlfriend of five years. They met in 2003 when he made a guest appearance on the TV show \"Girlfriends\". On January 17, 2009, White announced via her Myspace blog that she and Williams were no longer together.\n\nHe is now married to Rwandan-born Anisia Uzeyman. He recently lived in Paris for four years but now resides in Los Angeles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34817283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34817283", "title": "Sixpack (European Union law)", "text": "Sixpack (European Union law)\n\nThe EU economic governance, Sixpack describes a set of European legislative measures to reform the Stability and Growth Pact and introduces greater macroeconomic surveillance. These measures were bundled into a \"six pack\" of regulations, tabled in September 2010 as two versions respectively by the European Commission and a European Council task force. In March 2011 the ECOFIN council reached a preliminary agreement for the content of the Sixpack with the Commission, and negotiations for endorsement by the European Parliament then started. Ultimately it entered into force 13 December 2011, after one year of preceding negotiations. The six regulations aim at strengthening the procedures to reduce public deficits and address macroeconomic imbalances.\n\nAll 28 EU member states are committed by the paragraphs in the EU Treaty, referred to as the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), to implement a fiscal policy aiming for the country to stay within the limits on government deficit (3% of GDP) and debt (60% of GDP); and in case of having a debt level above 60% it should each year have a declining trend. Each year all EU member states are obliged to submit a SGP compliance report for the scrutiny and evaluation of the European Commission and the Council of Ministers, that will present the country's expected fiscal development for the current and subsequent three years. These reports are called \"stability programmes\" for eurozone Member States and \"convergence programmes\" for non-eurozone Member States, but despite having different titles they are identical in their content. After the reform of the SGP in 2005, these programmes have also included the Medium-Term budgetary Objectives (MTOs), being individually calculated for each Member State as the medium-term sustainable average-limit for the country's structural deficit, the Member State is also obliged to outline the measures it intends to implement to attain its MTO. If the EU Member State do not comply with both the deficit limit and the debt limit, a so-called \"Excessive Deficit Procedure\" (EDP) is initiated along with a deadline to comply, which outlines an \"adjustment path towards reaching the MTO\".\n\nFour of the six instruments in the Sixpack are used to conduct further reforms of the \"Stability and Growth Pact\" (SGP), focusing on improving compliance. These reforms do not change any of the conditions already imposed by the SGP, but aim to enforce greater budgetary discipline among the Member States of the euro area by stipulating that sanctions come into force earlier and more consistently. For example, when a country against which an excessive deficit procedure was opened fails to take necessary measures to eliminate its deficit, an interest-bearing deposit equalling 0.2% of GDP is due. With continued non-compliance the deposit is converted into a fine. In addition, automatic sanctions are triggered based on a different voting mechanism in the Council of the European Union. At the same time the national accounts statistics and forecast practices of Member States are adjusted to comply with EU standards. If it is determined that a country has reported false data, an additional fine may be imposed.\n\nThe remaining two pieces of legislation in the Sixpack relate to the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure, an early warning system and correction mechanism for excessive macroeconomic imbalances.\n\nSpecifically, the EU sixpack relates to the following regulations and guidelines:\n\n\n<br>\n\n\nDevelopment of the Eurozone fiscal union can be described as the fourth stage of the EMU, proposed to be implemented for the Eurozone in the near future. The argument presented was, that Member States sharing the same currency will also need more integration of fiscal policies (closer collaboration on fiscal matters) and tighter budgetary surveillance, to prevent and combat the occurrence of financial instability caused by macroeconomic imbalances inside the monetary union.\n\nA step towards increased fiscal discipline of member States of the European Union was taken on 23 November 2011, when the European Commission proposed the two Regulations (also known as the \"Two-pack\"), which introduced additional coordination and surveillance of budgetary processes for all eurozone members. The additional regulations complement the SGP's requirement for surveillance, by enhancing the frequency of scrutiny of Member States' policymaking, but do not place additional requirements on the policy itself. The frequency of monitoring will depend on the economic health of the member state. As of the entry into force of the regulations, all eurozone member states are obliged to respect \"Regulation 1\", while \"Regulation 2\" – demanding even more in depth and frequent monitoring – will only be triggered if the state receive macroeconomic financial assistance or has an ongoing Excessive Imbalance Procedure (EIP):\n\nThe two above regulations apply towards all eurozone member states, and together form a stronger budgetary governance with a more tight system of monitoring and surveillance by the European Commission. According to in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the enactment and entry into force of the regulations required the Council's adoption in agreement with the European Parliament, subject to a qualified majority of the 17 eurozone member states. The ECOFIN council reached a final agreement with the Parliament's Permanent Representatives Committee on 20 February 2013. The parliament then adopted the two-pack on 12 March,<ref name=\"legal status for twopack regulation 2011/0385\"></ref><ref name=\"legal status for twopack regulation 2011/0386\"></ref> with the first regulation passed by 526 voting for towards 86 against and 66 abstentions, and with the second regulation passed by 528 voting for towards 81 against and 71 abstentions. Subsequently the two-pack was finally adopted by the Council of the European Union on 13 May, with publication of the legal acts in the Official Journal of the European Union on 27 May, and the official legal entry into force on 30 May 2013. Most provisions will apply from the date of entry into force. In regards of the increased reporting frequency for member states with an open EDP, and the requirement to set up independent national bodies monitoring compliance with the fiscal rules, these article provisions will however only apply starting from 31 October 2013.\n\nThe provisions of the Two-pack (which only apply for Eurozone member states), complements and extends the Stability and Growth Pact already reformed by the Six-pack, and it also integrates some elements of the already ratified intergovernmental European Fiscal Compact, directly into EU law. Examples of identical elements with the Fiscal Compact: \"1) Member States are required to transpose the SGP fiscal rules into national legislation, 2) Member States in EDP are required to prepare \"economic partnership programmes\", 3) Member States are required to submit their debt issuance plans for an ex-ante coordination with other Member States\". The new legal structure introduced by the Two-pack, was in March 2013 expected to be used for the first time, when the 2014 fiscal budget draft laws shall be submitted to the European Commission for prior review and comments by 15 October 2013.\n\nOn 23 November 2011, the European Commission also presented a Green paper for the possible introduction of Eurobonds (referred to as \"Stability Bonds\"), that outlined different options and levels for common issuance and common guarantees. After having concluded a public consultation on the subject in January 2012, the Commission asked for the political opinion of the \"European Economic and Social Committee\". This opinion was submitted to the Commission on 11 July 2012, with a recommendation for the Commission to continue the political work to develop a proposal. The committee revealed that it favoured the option where eurobonds should carry full common payment guarantees (from all eurozone member states), but only substitute a part of the current national bonds (subject to a fiscal responsibility criteria still to be developed). It was fully agreed, that the impact of introducing eurobonds would be an effective tool to ensure low (and more equal) interest rates across all eurozone countries (with the degree of its effect being related to how big a share of national bonds would be substituted with eurobonds). The committee however also called for additional impact studies, to map if (or by how much) the 3 different levels for introduction of eurobonds, potentially also could introduce some negative consequences, in the form of an increased risk that each of the eurozone countries might exploit the gained \"security delivered by common eurobonds\", just to lower their exercised degree of \"fiscal responsibility\" at the national level.\n\nIntroduction of Eurobonds (Stability Bonds) is expected first to require a Treaty change and/or other political agreements first to be implemented. Despite of a relative long roadmap for a possible introduction of eurobonds, it is believed an agreement for this proposal could have an immediate impact on market expectations, resulting in the immediate decline of funding costs through lower government bond yields, for those Member States currently facing funding pressures.\n\nThe European Commission presented on 28 November 2012 a \"Blueprint\", on how it see the path on the short + medium + long term towards building a \"deep and genuine EMU\". In this report, the introduction of eurobonds were described as the last final step on the path to create a genuine fiscal union, and something only to be introduced in the long term (beyond 5 years from 2012). The report suggested for the medium term (18 months to 5 years), that it was more appropriate as a first step, to introduce a common issuance by eurozone Member States of the so-called eurobills, which are defined as being short-term instruments to finance government debt with a maturity of up to one or two years. This first eurobills step would still require a treaty change along with an increased call for implementing an even tighter fiscal policy integration (creating in advance a \"strong budgetary governance and a watertight system of monitoring and surveillance\" in the Eurozone, beyond of what has already been implemented by the Six-pack and Two-pack). Introduction of eurobills would however, not require a full fiscal policy integration straight from the start, because of the fact that it would only cover introduction of common short term debt, which only represents a minor fraction of the governments overall debt pile, and thus the risk of excersiced \"moral hazard\" in the individual member states would also be limited (because the majority of the governments debt, financed by medium and long-term bonds, will still be yielded according to each state's credit rating at financial markets).\n\nThe \"Blueprint\" on the next steps towards a deeper Economic and Monetary Union, is to be considered as the first draft version of a joint report from the \"Four presidents\" (signed by President of the European Council, President of the European Commission, President of the European Central Bank and the President of the Eurogroup), that will be further discussed by the European Council on 13–14 December 2012.\n\nThe European Commission also recently proposed the establishment of a Convergence and Competitiveness Instrument (CCI) within the EU budget. The proposal is to create a special EU budget account with earmarked money, for supporting the timely implementation of needed structural reforms (traditionally considered to be politically unpopular to implement), where the implementation funding would be paid by the CCI fund conditional on strict adherence to a prior signed \"contractual arrangement\" for the agreed structural reform, with the two contracting parties being the Member State and the Commission. If the Member State implements the identified and needed structural reforms to ensure convergence/competitiveness, then the CCI budget will so to speak pay the Member State an economic reward of behaving in a sound and responsible way. The proposal is expected to be further debated, soon after the Council have concluded an agreement for the next 7-year EU budget (also referred to as the \"Multi-annual Financial Framework 2014–2020\").\n\nAn additional/related suggestion also currently being debated, is to create the CCI outside the EU budget and only let it apply for eurozone member states, with a budget instead to be covered by income from the collection of the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). In October 2012, the FTT was formally agreed to be implemented and enter into force 1 January 2014 in 11 out of 17 eurozone member states. Currently no formal decision was however reached, if the collected income should be kept as direct national income, or perhaps instead be transferred to a supranational eurozone budget.\n\nThe proposal to create a Banking Union, covers both the creation of a Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), and after its adoption also a Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) to deal with banks in difficulties. This new independent organisation, is supposed to be in charge of the restructuring and resolution of banks within the EU Member States participating in the Banking Union (meaning that it is not limited to the eurozone). The European Commission presented the proposal 12 September 2012 and at the EU summit in October, it was agreed to formally request that a final proposal for the SSM framework be agreed between the Council and Parliament before the end of the year, with the aim for the SSM to be founded in 2013 and fully established to cover all banks starting from 1 January 2014.\n\nOn 29 November 2012, the Economic and Monetary affairs Committee of the European Parliament voted on and approved the initial framework proposal and a mutually approved final proposal agreement between the Council and Parliament is now the next step. Remaining issues for the ECOFIN council to consider at their next meeting on 4 December 2012, is to decide on: \"the role of the national supervisors, the governance of the ECB and the voting rights within EBA\". At the council meeting there was not sufficient time to agree on any final decision, so the council will be called for a second meeting within 8 days, with the aim of concluding the work ahead of the EU summit on 13–14 December. Any change of the EU legislation about EBA require (according to article 114 of the TFEU): A qualified majority at the Council in conjunction with the Parliament's approval. While any change of the EU legislation about ECB's function/role require (according to article 127(6) of the TFEU): \"Unanimity for adoption by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament and the ECB\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38283314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38283314", "title": "Stochastic forensics", "text": "Stochastic forensics\n\nStochastic forensics is a method to forensically reconstruct digital activity lacking artifacts, by analyzing emergent properties resulting from the stochastic nature of modern computers. Unlike traditional computer forensics, which relies on digital artifacts, stochastic forensics does not require artifacts and can therefore recreate activity which would otherwise be invisible. Its chief application is the investigation of insider data theft.\n\nStochastic forensics was invented in 2010 by computer scientist Jonathan Grier to detect and investigate insider data theft. Insider data theft has been notoriously difficult to investigate using traditional methods, since it does not create any artifacts (such as changes to the file attributes or Windows Registry). Consequently, industry demanded a new investigative technique.\n\nSince its invention, stochastic forensics has been used in real world investigation of insider data theft, been the subject of academic research, and met with industry demand for tools and training.\n\nStochastic forensics is inspired by the statistical mechanics method used in physics. Classical Newtonian mechanics calculates the exact position and momentum of every particle in a system. This works well for systems, such as the solar system, which consist of a small number of objects. However, it cannot be used to study things like a gas, which have intractably large numbers of molecules. Statistical mechanics, however, doesn't attempt to track properties of individual particles, but only the properties which emerge statistically. Hence, it can analyze complex systems without needing to know the exact position of their individual particles.\n\nLikewise, modern day computer systems, which can have over formula_1 states, are too complex to be completely analyzed. Therefore, stochastic forensics views computers as a stochastic process, which, although unpredictable, has well defined probabilistic properties. By analyzing these properties statistically, stochastic mechanics can reconstruct activity that took place, even if the activity did not create any artifacts.\n\nStochastic forensics chief application is detecting and investigating insider data theft. Insider data theft is often done by someone who is technically authorized to access the data, and who uses it regularly as part of their job. It does not create artifacts or change the file attributes or Windows Registry. Consequently, unlike external computer attacks, which, by their nature, leave traces of the attack, insider data theft is practically invisible.\n\nHowever, the statistical distribution of filesystems' metadata is affected by such large scale copying. By analyzing this distribution, stochastic forensics is able to identify and examine such data theft. Typical filesystems have a heavy tailed distribution of file access. Copying in bulk disturbs this pattern, and is consequently detectable.\n\nDrawing on this, stochastic mechanics has been used to successfully investigate insider data theft where other techniques have failed. Typically, after stochastic forensics has identified the data theft, follow up using traditional forensic techniques is required.\n\nStochastic forensics has been criticized as only providing evidence and indications of data theft, and not concrete proof. Indeed, it requires a practitioner to \"think like Sherlock, not Aristotle.\" Certain authorized activities besides data theft may cause similar disturbances in statistical distributions.\n\nFurthermore, many operating systems do not track access timestamps by default, making stochastic forensics not directly applicable. Research is underway in applying stochastic forensics to these operating systems as well as databases.\n\nAdditionally, in its current state, stochastic forensics requires a trained forensic analyst to apply and evaluate. There have been calls for development of tools to automate stochastic forensics by Guidance Software and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6790914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6790914", "title": "The George Washington Law Review", "text": "The George Washington Law Review\n\nThe George Washington Law Review is a law review edited and published by students at the George Washington University Law School that examines legal issues of national significance. The review was established in 1932 and publishes six issues each year, containing scholarly articles, essays, and student notes.\n\nThe review also devotes a double issue to the annual Law Review Symposium. To celebrate its 75th Anniversary in 2006, the review published its inaugural issue of the \"Annual Review of Administrative Law\". An issue dedicated to this growing field has become an annual feature of the review.\n\nIn 2006, \"The George Washington Law Review\" was ranked 25th of law reviews based upon submissions.\n"}
{"id": "26654920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26654920", "title": "Treaty of the More", "text": "Treaty of the More\n\nThe Treaty of the More was concluded on 30 August 1525 between Henry VIII and the interim French government of Louise of Savoy. It was celebrated by Henry and the French ambassadors at the More, Hertfordshire, a castle owned by Henry's chief minister, Cardinal Wolsey.\n\nEngland, with Wolsey negotiating, agreed to give up some territorial claims on France, receiving in return a pension from the French of £20,000 a year. France settled what was owed to Henry VIII's sister, Mary, dowager queen of France. England also agreed to work to secure the release of King Francis of France, then held prisoner by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain.\n\nEngland had been troubled by the threat of a renewal of the \"Auld Alliance\" between France and Scotland, and France agreed to prevent the Scottish Duke of Albany from returning to Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "23045515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23045515", "title": "Truce of Pläswitz", "text": "Truce of Pläswitz\n\nThe Truce or Armistice of Pläswitz was a nine-week armistice during the Napoleonic Wars, agreed between Napoleon I of France and the Allies on June 4, 1813 (the same day as the Battle of Luckau was being fought elsewhere). It was proposed by Metternich during the retreat of the main Allied army into Silesia after Bautzen, seconded by Napoleon (keen as he was to buy time to strengthen his cavalry, rest his army, intimidate Austria by bringing the Army of Italy up to Laibach and negotiate a separate peace with Russia) and keenly accepted by the Allies (thus buying time to woo Austrian support, bring in further British funding and rest the exhausted Russian army). The Truce conceded all of Saxony to Napoleon, in return for territory along the Oder, and was initially scheduled to end on 10 July, but later extended to 10 August.\n\nIn the time the Truce bought, the Landwehr was mobilised and Metternich finalised the Treaty of Reichenbach on June 27, agreeing that Austria would join the Allies should Napoleon fail to meet certain conditions by a specific day. He failed to meet those conditions, the Truce was allowed to lapse without renewal, and Austria declared war on August 12.\n\n"}
