{"id": "20973042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20973042", "title": "Agrarian Party of Moldova", "text": "Agrarian Party of Moldova\n\nThe Agrarian Party of Moldova (, PAM), formerly the Democratic Agrarian Party of Moldova (\"Partidul Democrat Agrar din Moldova\", PDAM), is a Moldovan political party, prominent from 1991 to 1998. Governing for most of this period, the party represented a large centrist multi-ethnic bloc led by former collective farm chairmen and village mayors. These reformed Communists were motivated more by patronage than ideology and committed to maintaining their positions of power in the privatised agricultural and agro-industrial sector. To its right stood the pan-Romanians of the Popular Front, and to its left, the Socialists and later the Communists.\n\nThe Agrarian Party traces its origins to a parliamentary club numbering 60 deputies and called \"Viaţa Satului\" (\"The Life of the Village\"), set up in April 1990. The party was formally created in November 1991, three months after Moldova's independence from the Soviet Union; Dumitru Moţpan was its first president. At the time, the sitting Moldovan Parliament was the one elected in 1990, when non-Communist parties were still banned, and deputies freely entered and exited nascent parties in a chaotic environment. In this way, the PDAM, with its clear policy orientation, institutional power base and good organisation, quickly gained the most seats and became the effective governing party, standing at the centre of the national unity government formed in mid-1992 following the end of hostilities in the War of Transnistria. Composed largely of the former Communist agricultural and agro-industrial elite, the party championed Moldovan sovereignty, opposing attempts to join Romania and Russia. For a time, its most radical members rejected the Front's description of Moldovans' ethnicity and language as \"Romanian\", maintaining the Soviet view of an ethnic distinction between Romanians and Moldovans. By 1994, this ideology, sometimes called Moldovenism, had become a central tenet of the party's platform. It was notably promoted in a speech by the party's most prominent spokesman at the time, President Mircea Snegur, marking a shift from his earlier more pro-Romanian stance.\n\nThe speech undoubtedly helped propel the Agrarian Democrats to victory in the February 1994 election, the country's first since independence. The Front's weakening since 1990 had already shown the unpopularity of pan-Romanian notions, and Snegur's rhetoric was against union with Romania and in favour of independence and territorial integrity. At the election, the Front finished in last place of the parties elected and the PDAM's 43.2% of the vote translated into an absolute majority in parliament (56 of 104 seats). Further confirming the popularity of government policy, at a referendum the following month, 95.4% voted that Moldova should remain an \"independent and unitary state\", while at the 1995 local elections, the party scored 47% of the vote.\n\nFollowing the 1994 election, the Agrarians reversed a number of Frontist reforms enacted a few years earlier. Parliament voted to drop \"Deşteaptă-te, române!\", used in Romania as well, as the national anthem. The Constitution of Moldova, adopted by Parliament in July 1994, describes that state language as the \"Moldovan language\" and makes no reference to its relationship with Romanian, as did the 1989 language laws. Language tests mandated for state employees by those laws were suspended, and the State Department of Languages, which had previously conducted \"raids\" on institutions to ensure employees knew the official language, virtually shut down. These measures ended language as a major political issue and made Moldova \"de facto\" bilingual. The party also supported autonomy for the Gagauz, which soon manifested itself in the creation of Gagauzia. Furthermore, it backed closer relations with Russia and the former Soviet republics, calling for participation in the CIS' economic structures but not its political or military ones (Moldova joined the CIS in 1994), and advocating permanent neutrality and the banning of foreign troops from the country (then as now stationed in Transnistria). The PDAM wished for a slow transition to capitalism, continuing market reforms but with generous subsidies and credits for agriculture.\n\nDespite the linguistic compromises reached in 1994, the matter did resurface in March 1995, when mass student demonstrations called for the constitution to recognise the language as \"Romanian\" and not \"Moldovan\". Snegur showed his support for these demands in a speech the following month delivered in order to differentiate himself in the upcoming presidential election. Soon afterwards, Snegur and his rival, parliament chairman Petru Lucinschi, formed their own parties, the former appealing to right and centre-right ethnic Moldovans; the latter to left-wing Moldovans and Slavs. A number of PDAM deputies defected to Snegur's new party, forcing the Agrarians to rely on support from the Slavic-dominated Socialist Unity Bloc. The third major candidate was Prime Minister Andrei Sangheli, who remained a leader of the Agrarian Democrats. A victorious Lucinschi was able to push through an ambitious privatisation programme in 1997 despite much resistance from the PDAM and their Slavic allies, although at the Agrarians' insistence, agricultural subsidies ballooned and privatisation and restructuring in that sector remained slow.\n\nThe Agrarian Democrats collapsed at the March 1998 election, taking 3.6% of the vote and failing to enter parliament. Two main reasons were the cause: economic malaise and the fading of the ethnic issue allowed for a Communist resurgence, and disputes among PDAM sympathizers Snegur, Lucinschi and Sangheli caused internal division. Moreover, with Snegur's party occupying the centre-right, Lucinschi's the centre and the Communists the far left, the moderate leftists of the PDAM were outflanked, having alienated Moldovan peasants by allying with Slavs against the popular Lucinschi and opposing the transformation of collective farms into private ones. Until 2001, three alliances governed together mainly as a way to block the Communists, who won the election that year. There, the PDAM took 1.2% of the vote, failing to regain ground at the 2003 local elections.\n\nAt the party's 8th congress in July 2004, its name was changed to its current form, and despite preparations to do so, it failed to contest the 2005 election. Now led by Anatol Popuşoi, it has some 10,000 members. At the April 2009 election, it supported the ruling Communists, with Popuşoi being included on that party's list of candidates.\n\n"}
{"id": "21425041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425041", "title": "Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue Between Cultures", "text": "Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue Between Cultures\n\nThe Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue Between Cultures is a network of civil society organisations dedicated to promoting intercultural dialogue in the Mediterranean region.\n\nIt was set up in 2005 by the governments of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership (Euromed), a political agreement made in 1995 between the European Union and Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, Syria and Turkey.\n\nIt is named in honour of Anna Lindh, the Swedish Foreign Minister who was murdered in 2003. The name was put forward by Egypt at a meeting 25 September 2003. The Foundation’s headquarters are in Alexandria in Egypt.\nIn 2008 André Azoulay was elected president of the Foundation.\n\nThe Anna Lindh Foundation facilitates and supports the action of civil society of the Euro-Mediterranean Region in priority fields which affects the capacity for individuals and groups to share values and live together. The Foundation’s programme is focused on activities in fields which are essential for human and social dialogue: Education and Youth; Culture and Arts; Peace and Co-existence; Values, Religion and Spirituality; Cities and Migration; Media.\n\nThe purpose of the Anna Lindh Foundation (ALF) is to bring people together from across the Mediterranean to improve mutual respect between cultures and to support civil society working for a common future of the Region.\n\nSince its launch in 2005, the ALF has launched and supported action across fields impacting on mutual perceptions among people of different cultures and beliefs, as well as developing a region-wide Network of over 3000 civil society organisations.\n\nThrough its action and reflection, the ALF aims to contribute to the development of an Intercultural Strategy for the Euro-Mediterranean Region, providing recommendations to decision-makers and institutions and advocating for shared values.\n\n"}
{"id": "28727337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28727337", "title": "Anti-austerity movement", "text": "Anti-austerity movement\n\nThe anti-austerity movement refers to the mobilisation of street protests and grassroots campaigns that has happened across various countries, especially in Europe, since the onset of the worldwide Great Recession.\n\nAnti-austerity actions are varied and ongoing, and can be either sporadic and loosely organised or longer-term and tightly organised. They continue as of the present day. The global Occupy movement has arguably been the most noticeable physical enactment of anti-austerity and populist sentiment.\n\nAn example of countries implementing severe austerity measures is Ireland. Ireland witnessed its housing market completely (rather than, as elsewhere, partially) collapse, and the government eventually had to apply for a bailout from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), agreeing to an austerity program of economic reform in exchange. The austerity measures and the terms of the IMF bailout became major aspects of the Irish financial crisis, and populist anger over these issues played a major role in the loss of governmental power of Fianna Fáil to opposition parties in the 2011 Irish general election. The loss for Fianna Fáil was so great that many commentators remarked that the results were \"historic\". Fine Gael and the Labour Party formed a coalition government, and Fine Gael promised to re-negotiate the terms of the IMF bailout end the austerity programme. Sinn Féin, which for the first time won a notable percentage in the election, called for a nationwide referendum over whether the bailout agreement should be scrapped altogether. Labour dismissed this idea. Members of smaller parties, such as the Socialists, People Before Profit Alliance, the WUAG and Independents involved themselves in the Campaign Against Home and Water Taxes.\n\nSince the onset of the economic recession in Europe, the political establishment response has increasingly focused on austerity: attempts to bring down budget deficits and control the rise of debt. The anti-austerity movement has responded by giving rise to a wave of anti-establishment political parties. Opposition to austerity is seen as the force behind the rise of Podemos in Spain, Italy's Five Star Movement and the Syriza party in Greece.\n\nAhead of the Scottish independence referendum in 2014, the Scottish Government pledged to end austerity in an independent Scotland.\n\nEconomist Thomas Piketty welcomed the political reaction to austerity, saying the rise of anti-austerity parties is \"good news for Europe\". According to Piketty, European countries tried to get rid of their deficits too quickly, resulting in a situation where \"their citizens have suffered the consequences in the shape of austerity policies. It's good to reduce deficits, but at a rate that's commensurate with growth and economic recovery, but here growth has been killed off.\"\n\n\nSome economists, like Nobel Prize winning Princeton economist Paul Krugman, argue that austerity measures tend to be counterproductive when applied to the populations and programs they are usually applied to. The fact that the political sphere has been so heavily influenced by a paper known as \"Growth in a Time of Debt\" based on flawed methodology has led Krugman to argue:\nWhat the Reinhart–Rogoff affair shows is the extent to which austerity has been sold on false pretenses. For three years, the turn to austerity has been presented not as a choice but as a necessity. Economic research, austerity advocates insisted, showed that terrible things happen once debt exceeds 90 percent of G.D.P. But \"economic research\" showed no such thing; a couple of economists made that assertion, while many others disagreed. Policy makers abandoned the unemployed and turned to austerity because they wanted to, not because they had to.\n\nIn October 2012, the International Monetary Fund announced that its forecasts for countries which implemented austerity programs have been consistently overoptimistic.\n"}
{"id": "4389437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4389437", "title": "Bamboo torture", "text": "Bamboo torture\n\nBamboo torture is a possibly apocryphal form of torture and execution where a bamboo shoot grows through the body of a victim, reported to have been used in East and South Asia but for which no reliable evidence exists.\n\nA \"Madras civilian\", in his travel description from 1820s India, referred to this use of bamboo was a well known punishment in Ceylon.\n\nAfter World War II, stories circulated of Japanese soldiers inflicting \"bamboo torture\" upon U.S. and Allied prisoners of war, where the victim was tied securely in place above a young bamboo shoot. Over several days, the sharp, fast-growing shoot would first puncture, then completely penetrate the victim's body, eventually emerging through the other side. The Chinese poet and author Woon-Ping Chin mentions the \"bamboo torture\" as one of those tortures the locals believed the Japanese performed on prisoners in her memoir \"Hakka Soul\".\n\nThe cast of the TV program \"MythBusters\" investigated bamboo torture in a 2008 episode and found that a bamboo shoot can penetrate through several inches of ballistic gelatin in three days. For research purposes, ballistic gelatin is considered comparable to human flesh, and the experiment thus supported the \"viability\" of this form of torture, not its \"historicity\".\n\nHowever, this tale of using live trees impaling persons as they grow is not confined to the context of World War II and the Japanese as torturers, but was recorded in the 19th century, when Malays alleged that the Siamese used the sprout of the nipah palm in the manner of bamboo torture during the 1821 Siamese invasion of Kedah among other punishments.\n"}
{"id": "45112951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45112951", "title": "Boanerges de Souza Massa", "text": "Boanerges de Souza Massa\n\nBoanerges de Souza Massa (born January 7, 1938 - disappeared June 21, 1972) was a Brazilian physician who joined the resistance against the military dictatorship. He was the field surgeon of the National Liberation Action (, \"ALN\") founded by Carlos Marighella. After the police liquidated Marighella, he went to Cuba to take guerilla courses and co-founded the (, \"MOLIPO\"). The army captured him in 1971 in Pindorama and he disappeared shortly thereafter. 25 years later, the Brazilian government officially acknowledged its responsibility.\n\nBoanerges de Souza Massa was born on January 7, 1938 in Avaré, São Paulo, to Francisco de Souza Massa and Laura Alves \nMassa. He married Maria Lucia Sant'Anna Saadi Kerbeg in São Paulo on January 9, 1969. In the 1980s the authorities granted her a divorce because her husband had disappeared for a decade. In the 1990s the authorities granted Boanerges' brother Cyro Massa a 100,000 reais compensation because his brother had disappeared for two decades after being in government custody.\n\nBoanerges de Souza Massa was born in a rural area and worked as teacher and accountant to pay for his studies. He was admitted to the Medicine School and the Law School of the University of São Paulo. He graduated from the former in December 1965 and the latter in June 1966. He interned at the University of São Paulo Faculty of Medicine Clinics Hospital. He is the co-author of a published academic research article on leptospirosis.\n\nIn July 1962, Boanerges was invited to speak to John F. Kennedy on the lawn of the White House as part of a delegation of the Alliance for Progress. A journalist reported: \"Wagging his finger, the student from Avaré questioned the President of the United States on his interference in poor countries.\" In medical school he was designated as commencement speaker for the Class of 1965, but his speech was censored for being critical of the military dictatorship.\n\nOver the years, Boanerges de Souza Massa gravitated towards the militant group Ação Libertadora Nacional (ALN). On May 8, 1969, the ALN robbed a bank and killed a policeman, but one of their members, Takao Amano, was wounded. It was Boanerges who gave him emergency medical care and extracted the bullet.\n\nOn June 4, 1969, the ALM conducted another bank robbery, leaving one soldier dead. Two bullets wounded Francisco Gomes da Silva, the brother of ALN leader Virgilio Gomes da Silva (codename \"Jonas\" in the Oscar-nominated movie Four Days in September about the kidnapping of US ambassador Charles Burke Elbrick). Boanerges, along with the rest of the ALN commando, hijacked a hospital to treat the wounded. This 4-hour operation was medically successful, but Boanerges was recognized by the hospital staff and forced into clandestinity.\n\nOver the course of 1969, the most actively sought-after opponents to the military dictatorship became known as the \"Marighella 7\", among which Boanerges. He escaped from Brazil thanks to false identity papers provided by Dominicans. Traveling through Uruguay, Boanerges linked up in Argentina with other ALN operatives, and they hijacked an airplane to fly to Cuba where they took refuge.\n\nIn Cuba, Boanerges de Souza Massa lived with other exiled Brazilians in a house provided by the Castro regime. They took guerilla classes: physical training in the morning, political in the afternoon. Their goal was to return to Brazil and liberate their country from the military dictatorship. To this end they formed a new Marxist revolutionary organization, the MOLIPO, abbreviation of (in English: \"People's Liberation Movement\").\n\nBoanerges de Souza Massa was the first MOLIPO operative to be sent back to Brazil to establish a rural guerilla base in the Northeast region. But counter-insurgency forces were aware of his return. He was the first to be captured, in Pindorama, on December 21, 1971. According to the sociologist Renato Dias:\nThe final outcome was a crushing defeat for the MOLIPO: at least 60% of its cadre died or disappeared at the hands of the military. One of the rare survivors was José Dirceu, who entered mainstream politics after Brazil's 1985 transition to democracy and became the chief-of-staff of left-leaning President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (commonly called \"Lula\").\n\nAs for the fate of Boanerges himself, according to the \"Special Commission on Political Deaths and Disappearances\":He was seen in prison by other political prisoners, but his arrest was never officially registered by the security organs of the military regime. As late as 1995, his name was not on the official list of dead and missing political activists. A declassified Army document says that he was physically impaired to the point that his identification would be difficult. His body was never found. Yet for the family there is no doubt: he was murdered in prison. His brother, Cyro Massa, said:After a proof of his incarceration dated June 21, 1972 was produced, the Brazilian government officially acknowledged responsibility for his disappearance on September 5, 1997. Investigative journalist Taís Morais, based on her extensive interview with a member of the secret services codenamed \"Carioca\", finally revealed in 2008 that Boanerges de Souza Massa had been killed and buried near the city of Formosa in the state of Goiás. On November 22, 2012, Victor Manoel Mariz, Public Prosecutor of the State of Tocantins, sued Lieutenant Colonel Lício Maciel for the unlawful arrest, torture and murder of Boanerges de Souza Massa.\n\n"}
{"id": "47705060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47705060", "title": "Bouzebal", "text": "Bouzebal\n\nBouzebal is a Moroccan Rage comic face who is the title character of an online animated series on YouTube. The character, Bouzebal, was created by Mohamed Nassib, in August 2011, after he had the idea to create a webpage for the meme name \"Bouzebal\". It was a great success and is now the largest meme page in Africa and among the most active pages in Morocco with an average of more than 3 million page views per week.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4294", "title": "British National Party", "text": "British National Party\n\nThe British National Party (BNP) is a far-right, fascist political party in the United Kingdom. It is headquartered in Wigton, Cumbria, and its current leader is Adam Walker. A minor party, it has no elected representatives at any level of UK government. Founded in 1982, the party reached its greatest level of success in the 2000s, when it had over fifty seats in local government, one seat on the London Assembly, and two Members of the European Parliament.\n\nTaking its name from that of a defunct 1960s far-right party, the BNP was created by John Tyndall and other former members of the fascist National Front (NF). During the 1980s and 1990s, the BNP placed little emphasis on contesting elections, in which it did poorly. Instead, it focused on street marches and rallies, creating the Combat 18 paramilitary—its name a reference to Nazi German leader Adolf Hitler—to protect its events from anti-fascist protesters. A growing 'moderniser' faction was frustrated by Tyndall's leadership, and ousted him in 1999. The new leader Nick Griffin sought to broaden the BNP's electoral base by presenting a more moderate image, targeting concerns about rising immigration rates, and emphasising localised community campaigns. This resulted in increased electoral growth throughout the 2000s, to the extent that it became the most electorally successful far-right party in British history. Concerns regarding financial mismanagement resulted in Griffin being ousted in 2014. By this point the BNP's membership and vote share had declined dramatically, groups like Britain First had splintered off, and the English Defence League had supplanted it as the UK's foremost far-right group.\n\nIdeologically positioned on the extreme or far-right of British politics, the BNP has been characterised as fascist or neo-fascist by political scientists. Under Tyndall's leadership, it was more specifically regarded as neo-Nazi. The party is ethnic nationalist, and it espouses the view that only white people should be citizens of the United Kingdom. It calls for an end to non-white migration into the UK and for non-white Britons to be stripped of citizenship and removed from the country. Initially, it called for the compulsory expulsion of non-whites, although since 1999 has advocated voluntary removals with financial incentives. It promotes biological racism and the white genocide conspiracy theory, calling for global racial separatism and condemning interracial relationships. Under Tyndall, the BNP emphasised anti-semitism and Holocaust denial, promoting the conspiracy theory that Jews seek to dominate the world through both communism and international capitalism. Under Griffin, the party's focus switched from anti-semitism towards Islamophobia. It promotes economic protectionism, Euroscepticism, and a transformation away from liberal democracy, while its social policies oppose feminism, LGBT rights, and societal permissiveness.\n\nThe BNP has a highly centralised structure that gives its chairman near-total control. It established a range of sub-groups—such as a youth wing, record label, and trade union—and built links with extreme-right parties across Europe. Regarded as the most successful far-right party in British history, the BNP attracted most support from within White British working-class communities in northern and eastern England, particularly among middle-aged and elderly men. More widely, it was highly unpopular and faced much opposition from anti-fascists, religious organisations, and mainstream politicians and media. BNP members are banned from a number of professions, and polling suggested that a majority of Britons favoured a ban on the party.\n\nThe British National Party (BNP) was founded by the extreme-right political activist John Tyndall. Tyndall had been involved in neo-Nazi groups since the late 1950s before leading the far-right National Front (NF) throughout most of the 1970s. Following an argument with senior party member Martin Webster, he resigned from the NF in 1980. In June 1980 Tyndall established a rival, the New National Front (NNF). At the recommendation of Ray Hill—who was secretly an anti-fascist spy seeking to sow disharmony among Britain's far-right—Tyndall decided to unite an array of extreme-right groups as a single party. To this end, Tyndall established a Committee for Nationalist Unity (CNU) in January 1982. In March 1982, the CNU held a conference at the Charing Cross Hotel in London, at which 50 far-right activists agreed to the formation of the BNP.\n\nThe BNP was formally launched on 7 April 1982 at a press conference in Victoria. Led by Tyndall, most of its early members came from the NNF, although others were defectors from the NF, British Movement, British Democratic Party, and Nationalist Party. Tyndall remarked that there was \"scarcely any difference [between the BNP and NF] in ideology or policy save in the minutest detail\", and most of the BNP's leading activists had formerly been senior NF figures. Under Tyndall's leadership the party was neo-Nazi in orientation and engaged in nostalgia for Nazi Germany. It adopted the NF's tactic of holding street marches and rallies, believing that these boosted morale and attracted new recruits. Their first march took place in London on St. George's Day 1982. These marches often involved clashes with anti-fascist protesters and resulted in multiple arrests, helping to cement the BNP's association with political violence and older fascist groups in the public eye. As a result, BNP organisers began to favour indoor rallies, although street marches continued to be held throughout the mid-to-late 1980s.\n\nIn its early years, the BNP's involvement in elections was \"irregular and intermittent\", and for its first two decades it faced consistent electoral failure. It suffered from low finances and few personnel, and its leadership was aware that its electoral viability was weakened by the anti-immigration rhetoric of Conservative Party Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. In the 1983 general election the BNP stood 54 candidates, although it only campaigned in five seats. Although it was able to air its first party political broadcast, it averaged a vote share of 0.06% in the seats it contested.\nAfter the Representation of the People Act 1985 raised the electoral deposit to £500, the BNP adopted a policy of \"very limited involvement\" in elections. It abstained in the 1987 general election, and stood only 13 candidates in the 1992 general election. In a 1993 local by-election the BNP gained one council seat—won by Derek Beackon in the East London district of Millwall—after a campaign that played to local whites who were angry at the perceived preferential treatment received by Bangladeshi migrants in social housing. Following an anti-BNP campaign launched by local religious groups and the Anti-Nazi League, it lost this seat during the 1994 local elections. In the 1997 general election, it contested 55 seats and gained an average 1.4% of the vote.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the paramilitary group Combat 18 (C18) was formed to protect BNP events from anti-fascists. In 1992, C18 carried out attacks on left-wing targets like an anarchist bookshop and the headquarters of the \"Morning Star\". Tyndall was angered by C18's growing influence on the BNP's street activities, and by August 1993, C18 activists were physically clashing with other BNP members. In December 1993, Tyndall issued a bulletin to BNP branches declaring C18 to be a proscribed organisation, furthermore suggesting that it may have been established by agents of the state to discredit the party. To counter the group's influence among militant British nationalists, he secured the American white nationalist militant William Pierce as a guest speaker at the BNP's annual rally in November 1995.\n\nIn the early 1990s, a \"moderniser\" faction emerged within the party, favouring a more electorally palatable strategy and an emphasis on building grassroots support to win local elections. They were impressed by the electoral gains made by a number of extreme-right parties in continental Europe—such as Jörg Haider's Austrian Freedom Party and Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front—which had been achieved by both switching focus from biological racism to the perceived cultural incompatibility of different racial groups and by replacing anti-democratic platforms with populist ones. \nThe modernisers called for community campaigns among the white working-class populations of London's East End, and Northern England. While the modernisers gained some concessions from the party's hard-liners, Tyndall opposed many of their ideas and sought to stem their growing influence. In his view, \"we should not be looking for ways of applying ideological cosmetic surgery to ourselves in order to make our features more appealing to the public\".\n\nAfter the BNP's poor performance at the 1997 general election, opposition to Tyndall's leadership grew. The modernisers called the party's first leadership election, and in October 1999 Tyndall was ousted when two-thirds of those voting backed Nick Griffin, who offered an improved administration, financial transparency, and greater support for local branches. Often characterised as a political chameleon, Griffin had once been considered a party hardliner before switching allegiance to the modernisers in the late 1990s. In his youth, he had been involved in the NF as well as Third Positionist groups like Political Soldier and the International Third Position. Criticising his predecessors for fuelling the image of the BNP as \"thugs, losers and troublemakers\", Griffin inaugurated a period of change in the party.\n\nInfluenced by Le Pen's National Front in France, Griffin sought to widen the BNP's appeal to individuals who were concerned about immigration but had not previously voted for the extreme-right. The BNP replaced Tyndall's policy of compulsory deportation of non-whites to a voluntary system whereby non-whites would be given financial incentives to emigrate. It downplayed biological racism and stressed the cultural incompatibility of different racial groups. This emphasis on culture allowed it to foreground Islamophobia, and following the September 11 attacks in 2001 it launched a \"Campaign Against Islam\". It stressed the claim that the BNP was \"\"not\" a racist party\" but an \"organised response to anti-white racism\". At the same time Griffin sought to reassure the party's base that these reforms were based on pragmatism and not a change in principle.\n\nGriffin also sought to shed the BNP's image as a single-issue party, by embracing a diverse array of social and economic issues. Griffin renamed the party's monthly newspaper from \"British Nationalist\" to \"The Voice of Freedom\", and established a new journal, \"Identity\". The party developed community-based campaigns, through which it targeted local issues, particularly in those areas with large numbers of skilled white working-class people who were disaffected with the Labour Party government. For instance, in Burnley it campaigned for lower speed limits on housing estates and against the closure of a local swimming bath, while in South Birmingham it targeted pensioners' concerns about youth gangs. In 2006 the party urged its activists to carry out local activities like cleaning up children's play areas and removing graffiti while wearing high-vis jackets emblazoned with the party logo.\n\nGriffin believed that Peak Oil and a growth in Third World migrants arriving in Britain would result in a BNP government coming to power by 2040. \nThe close of the twentieth century produced more favourable conditions for the extreme-right in Britain as a result of increased public concerns about immigration and established Muslim communities coupled with growing dissatisfaction with the established mainstream parties. In turn, the BNP gained rapidly growing levels of support over the coming years. In July 2000, it came second in the council elections for the North End of the London Borough of Bexley, its best result since 1993. At the 2001 general election it gained 16% of the vote in one constituency and over 10% in two others. In the 2002 local elections the BNP gained four councillors, three of whom were in Burnley, where it had capitalised on white anger surrounding the disproportionately high levels of funding being directed to the Asian-dominated Daneshouse ward. This breakthrough generated public anxieties about the party, with a poll finding that six in ten supported a ban on it. In the 2003 local elections the BNP gained 13 additional councillors, including seven more in Burnley, having attained over 100,000 votes. Concerned that much of their potential vote was going to the UK Independence Party (UKIP), in 2003 the BNP offered UKIP an electoral pact but was rebuffed. Griffin then accused UKIP of being a Labour Party scheme to steal the BNP's votes. They invested much in the campaign for the 2004 European Parliament election, at which they gained 800,000 votes but failed to secure a parliamentary seat. In the 2004 local elections, they secured four more seats, including three in Epping.\nFor the 2005 general election, the BNP expanded its number of candidates to 119 and targeted specific regions. Its average vote in the areas it contested rose to 4.3%. It gained significantly more support in three seats, achieving 10% in Burnley, 13% in Dewsbury, and 17% in Barking. In the 2006 local elections the party gained 220,000 votes, with 33 additional councillors, having averaged a vote share of 18% in the areas it contested. In Barking and Dagenham, it saw 12 of its 13 candidates elected to the council. At the 2008 London Assembly election, the BNP gained 130,000 votes, reaching the 5% mark and thus gaining an Assembly seat. At the 2009 European Parliament election, the party gained almost 1 million votes, with two of its candidates, Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons, being elected as Members of the European Parliament for North West England and Yorkshire and the Humber respectively. That election also saw extreme-right parties winning seats for various other EU member-states. This victory marked a major watershed for the party. Amid significant public controversy, Griffin was invited to appear on the BBC show \"Question Time\" in October 2009, the first time that the BNP had been invited to share a national television platform with mainstream panellists. Griffin's performance was however widely regarded as poor.\n\nDespite its success, there was dissent in the party. In 2007 a group of senior members known as the \"December rebels\" challenged Griffin, calling for internal party democracy and financial transparency, but were expelled. In 2008, a group of BNP activists in Bradford split to form the Democratic Nationalists. In November 2008, the BNP membership list was posted to WikiLeaks, after appearing briefly on a weblog. A year later, in October 2009, another list of BNP members was leaked.\n\nEddy Butler then led a challenge to Griffin's leadership, alleging financial corruption, but he had insufficient support. The rebels who supported him split into two groups: one section remained as the internal Reform Group, the other left the BNP to form the British Freedom Party.\nBy 2010, there was discontent among the party's grassroots, a result of the change to its white-only membership policy and rumours of financial corruption among its leadership. Some defected to the National Front or left to form parties like Britain First, the British Freedom Party, the National People's Party and the Britannica Party. Anti-fascist groups like Hope not Hate had campaigned extensively in Barking to stop the area's locals voting for the BNP. At the 2010 general election, the BNP had hoped to make a breakthrough by gaining a seat in the House of Commons, although it failed to achieve this. It nevertheless gained the fifth largest national vote share, with 1.9% of the vote, representing the most successful electoral performance for an extreme-right party in UK history. In the 2010 local elections, it lost all of its councillors in Barking and Dagenham. Nationally, the party's number of councillors dropped from over fifty to 28. Griffin described the results as \"disastrous\".\n\nIn a 2011 leadership election, Griffin secured a narrow victory, beating Brons by nine votes of a total of 2,316 votes cast. In October 2012, Brons left the party, leaving Griffin as its sole MEP. In the 2012 local elections, the party lost all of its seats and saw its vote share fall dramatically; whereas it gained over 240,000 votes in 2008, this had fallen to under 26,000 by 2012. Commenting on the result, the political scientist Matthew Goodwin noted: \"Put simply, the BNP's electoral challenge is over.\" In the 2012 London mayoral election, the BNP candidate came seventh, with 1.3% of first-preference votes, its poorest showing in the London mayoral contest. The 2012 election results established that the BNP's steady growth had ended. In the 2013 local elections, the BNP fielded 99 candidates but failed to win any council seats, leaving it with only two.\n\nIn June 2013, Griffin visited Syria along with members of Hungarian far-right party Jobbik to meet with government officials, including the Speaker of the Syrian People's Assembly, Mohammad Jihad al-Laham, and the Prime Minister Wael Nader al-Halqi. Griffin claims he was influential in the speaker of Syria's Parliament writing an open letter to British MPs urging them to \"turn Great Britain from the warpath\" by not intervening in the Syrian conflict. Griffin lost his European Parliament seat in the May 2014 European election. The party blamed the UK Independence Party for its decline, accusing the latter of stealing BNP policies and slogans. In July 2014, Griffin resigned and was succeeded by Adam Walker as acting chairman. In October, Griffin was expelled from the party for \"trying to cause disunity [in the party] by deliberately fabricating a state of crisis\".\n\nIn January 2015, membership of the party numbered 500, down from 4,220 in December 2013. At the general election in 2015, the BNP fielded eight candidates, down from 338 in 2010. The party's vote share declined 99.7% from its 2010 result.\nIn January 2016, the Electoral Commission de-registered the BNP for failing to pay its annual registration fee of . At this time, it was estimated that BNP assets totalled less than . According to the Commission, \"BNP candidates cannot, at present, use the party's name, descriptions or emblems on the ballot paper at elections.\" A month later, the party was re-registered.\nThere were ten BNP candidates at the general election in 2017. At the 2018 local elections, the party's last remaining councillor—Brian Parker of Pendle—decided not to stand for re-election, leaving the party without any representation at any level of UK government.\n\nMany academic historians and political scientists have described the BNP as a far-right party, or as an extreme-right party. As the political scientist Matthew Goodwin used it, the term referred to \"a particular form of political ideology that is defined by two anti-constitutional and anti-democratic elements: first, right-wing extremists are \"extremist\" because they reject or undermine the values, procedures and institutions of the democratic constitutional state; and second they are \"right-wing\" because they reject the principle of fundamental human equality\".\n\nVarious political scientists and historians have described the BNP as being fascist in ideology. Others have instead described it as neo-fascist, a term which the historian Nigel Copsey argued was more exact. Academic observers—including the historians Copsey, Graham Macklin, and Roger Griffin, and the political theologian Andrew P. Davey—have argued that Nick Griffin's reforms were little more than a cosmetic process to obfuscate the party's fascist roots. According to Copsey, under Griffin the BNP was \"fascism recalibrated – a form of neo-fascism – to suit contemporary sensibilities\". Macklin noted that despite Griffin's 'modernisation' project, the BNP retained its ideological continuity with earlier fascist groups and thus had not transformed itself into a genuinely \"post-fascist\" party. In this it was distinct from parties like the Italian National Alliance of Gianfranco Fini, which has been credited with successfully shedding its fascist past and becoming post-fascist.\n\nThe anti-fascist activist Gerry Gable referred to the BNP as a \"Nazi organisation\", while the Anti-Nazi League published leaflets describing the BNP as the \"British Nazi Party\". Copsey suggested that while the BNP under Tyndall could be described as \"Neo-Nazi\", it was not \"crudely mimetic\" of the original German Nazism. Davey characterised the BNP as a \"populist ethno-nationalist\" party.\n\nIn his writings, Griffin acknowledged that much of his 'modernisation' was an attempt to hide the BNP's core ideology behind more electorally palatable policies. Like the National Front, the BNP's private discourse differed from its public one, with Griffin stating that \"Of course we must teach the truth to the hardcore... [but] when it comes to influencing the public, forget about racial differences, genetics, Zionism, historical revisionism and so on... we must at all times present them with an image of moderate reasonableness\". The BNP has eschewed the labels \"fascist\" and \"Nazi\", claiming that it is neither. In its 1992 electoral manifesto, it insisted that \"Fascism was Italian. Nazism was German. We are British. We will do things our own way; we will not copy foreigners\". In 2009, Griffin that the term \"fascism\" was simply \"a smear that comes from the far left\"; he added that the term should be reserved for groups that engaged in \"political violence\" and desired a state that \"should impose its will on people\", claiming that it was the anti-fascist group Unite Against Fascism—and not the BNP—who were the real fascists. More broadly, many on Britain's extreme-right sought to avoid the term \"British fascism\" because of its electorally unpalatable connotations, utilising \"British nationalism\" in its place.\n\nAfter Griffin took control of the party, it made increasing use of nativist themes in order to emphasise its \"British\" credentials. In its published material, the party made appeals to the idea of Britain and Britishness in a manner not dissimilar to mainstream political parties. In this material it has also made prominent use of the Union flag and the colours red, white, and blue. Roger Griffin noted that the terms \"Britain\" and \"England\" appear \"confusingly interchangeable\" in BNP literature, while Copsey has pointed out that the BNP's form of British nationalism is \"Anglo-centric\". The party employed militaristic rhetoric under both Tyndall and Griffin's leadership; under the latter for example its published material spoke of a \"war without uniforms\" and a \"war for our survival as a people\". Tyndall described the BNP as a revolutionary party, calling it a \"guerrilla army operating in occupied territory\".\n\nThe BNP adheres to biological racist ideas, displaying an obsession with the perceived differences of racial groups. Both Tyndall and Griffin believed that there was a biologically distinct white-skinned \"British race\" which was one branch of a wider Nordic race, a view akin to those of earlier fascists like Hitler and Arnold Leese.\n\nThe BNP adheres to an ideology of ethnic nationalism. It promotes the idea that not all citizens of the United Kingdom belong to the British nation. Instead, it claims that the nation only belongs to \"the English, Scots, Irish and Welsh along with the limited numbers of peoples of European descent, who have arrived centuries or decades ago and who have fully integrated into our society\". This is a group that Griffin referred to as the \"home people\" or \"the folk\". According to Tyndall, \"The BNP is a racial nationalist party which believes in Britain for the British, that is to say racial separatism.\" Richard Edmonds in 1993 told \"The Guardian\"'s Duncan Campbell that \"we [the BNP] are 100% racist\". The BNP does not regard UK citizens who are not ethnic white Europeans as \"British\", and party literature calls on supporters to avoid referring to such individuals as \"Black Britons\" or \"Asian Britons\", instead describing them as \"racial foreigners\".\n\nTyndall believed the white British and the broader Nordic race to be superior to other races, and under his leadership, the BNP promoted pseudoscientific claims in support of white supremacy. Following Griffin's ascendency to power in the party, it officially repudiated racial supremacism and insisted that no racial group was superior or inferior to another. Instead it foregrounded an \"ethno-pluralist\" racial separatism, claiming that different racial groups had to be kept separate and distinct for their own preservation, maintaining that global ethno-cultural diversity was something to be protected. This switch in focus owed much to the discourse of the French Nouvelle Droite movement which had emerged within France's extreme-right during the 1960s.\nAt the same time the BNP switched focus from openly promoting biological racism to stressing what it perceived as the cultural incompatibility of racial groups. It placed great focus on opposing what it referred to as \"multiculturalism\", characterising this as a form of \"cultural genocide\", and claiming that it promoted the interests of non-whites at the expense of the white British population. However, internal documents produced and circulated under Griffin's leadership demonstrated that—despite the shift in its public statements—it remained privately committed to biological racist ideas.\n\nThe party emphasises what it sees as the need to protect the racial purity of the white British. It condemns miscegenation and \"race mixing\", claiming that this is a threat to the British race. Tyndall stated that he \"felt deeply sorry for the child of a mixed marriage\" but had \"no sympathy whatsoever for the parents\". Griffin similarly stated that mixed-race children were \"the most tragic victims of enforced multi-racism\", and that the party would not \"accept miscegenation as moral or normal ... we never will\". In its 1983 election manifesto, the BNP stated that \"family size is a private matter\" but still called for white Britons who are \"of intelligent, healthy and industrious stock\" to have large families and thus raise the white British birth-rate. The encouragement of high birth rates among white British families continued under Griffin's leadership.\n\nUnder Tyndall's leadership, the BNP promoted eugenics, calling for the forced sterilisation of those with genetically transmittable disabilities. In party literature, it talked of improving the British 'racial stock' by removing \"inferior strains within the indigenous races of the British Isles\". Tyndall argued that medical professionals should be responsible for determining who to sterilise, while a lowering of welfare benefits would discourage breeding among those he deemed to be genetic inferiors. In his magazine \"Spearhead\", Tyndall also stated that \"the gas chamber system\" should be used to eliminate \"sub-human elements\", \"perverts\", and \"asocials\" from British society.\n\nOpposition to immigration has been central to the BNP's political platform. It has engaged in xenophobic campaigns which emphasise the idea that immigrants and ethnic minorities are both different from, and a threat to, the white British and white Irish populations. In its campaign material it presented non-whites both as a source of crime in the UK, and as a socio-economic threat to the white British population by taking jobs, housing, and welfare away from them. It engaged in welfare chauvinism, calling for white Britons to be prioritised by the UK's welfare state. Party literature included such as claims as that the BNP was the only party which could \"do anything effective about the swamping of Britain by the Third World\" or \"lead the native peoples of Britain in our version of the New Crusade that must be organised if Europe is not to sink under the Islamic yoke\".\n\nMuch of its published material made claims about a forthcoming race war and promoted the conspiracy theory about white genocide. In a 2009 radio interview, Griffin referred to this as a \"bloodless genocide\". It presents the idea that white Britons are engaged in a battle against their own extinction as a racial group. It reiterated a sense of urgency about the situation, claiming that both high immigration rates and high birth rates among ethnic minorities were a threat to the white British. In 2010, it for instance was promoting the idea that at current levels, \"indigenous Britons\" would be a minority within the UK by 2060.\n\nThe BNP calls for the non-white population of Britain to either be reduced in size or removed from the country altogether. Under Tyndall's leadership it promoted the compulsory removal of non-whites from the UK, stating that under a BNP government they would be \"repatriated\" to their countries of origin. In the early 1990s it produced stickers with the slogan \"Our Final Solution: Repatriation\". Tyndall understood this to be a two-stage process that would take ten to twenty years, with some non-whites initially leaving willingly and the others then being forcibly deported. During the 1990s, party modernisers suggested that the BNP move away from a policy of compulsory repatriation and toward a voluntary system, whereby non-white persons would be offered financial incentives to leave the UK. This idea, adopted from Powellism, was deemed more electorally palatable.\n\nWhen Griffin took control of the party, the policy of voluntary repatriation was officially adopted, with the party suggesting that this could be financed through the use of the UK's pre-existing foreign aid budget. It stated that any non-whites who refused to leave would be stripped of their British citizenship and categorised as \"permanent guests\", while continuing to be offered incentives to emigrate. Griffin's BNP also stressed its support for an immediate halt to non-white immigration into Britain and for the deportation of any migrants illegally in the country. Speaking on the BBC's \"Andrew Marr Show\" in 2009, Griffin declared that, unlike Tyndall, he \"does not want all-white UK\" because \"nobody out there wants it or would pay for it\".\n\nUnder Tyndall's leadership, the BNP was openly anti-Semitic. From A. K. Chesterton, Tyndall had inherited a belief that there was a global conspiracy of Jews bent on world domination, viewing the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" as genuine evidence for this. He believed that Jews were responsible for both communism and international finance capitalism and that they were responsible for undermining the British Empire and the British race. He believed that both democratic government and immigration into Europe were parts of the Jewish conspiracy to weaken other races. In an early edition of \"Spearhead\" published in the 1960s, Tyndall had expressed the view that \"if Britain were to become Jew-clean she would have no nigger neighbours to worry about... It is the Jews who are our misfortune: T-h-e J-e-w-s. Do you hear me? THE JEWS?\" Tyndall added Holocaust denial to the anti-Semitic beliefs inherited from Chesterton, believing that the Holocaust was a hoax created by the Jews to gain sympathy for themselves and thus aid their plot for world domination. Among those to endorse such anti-Semitic conspiracy theories was Griffin, who promoted them in his 1997 pamphlet, \"Who are the Mind Benders?\" Griffin also engaged in Holocaust denial, publishing articles promoting such ideas in \"The Rune\", a magazine produced by the Croydon BNP. In 1998, these articles resulted in Griffin being convicted of inciting racial hatred.\n\nWhen Griffin took power, he sought to banish overt anti-Semitic discourse from the party. He informed party members that \"we can get away with criticising Zionists, but any criticism of Jews is likely to be legal and political suicide\". In 2006, he complained that the \"obsession\" that many BNP members had with \"the Jews\" was \"insane and politically disastrous\". In 2004, the party selected a Jewish candidate, Pat Richardson, to stand for it during local council elections, something Tyndall lambasted as a \"gimmick\". References to Jews in BNP literature were often coded to hide the party's electorally unpalatable anti-Semitic ideas. For instance, the term \"Zionists\" was often used in party literature as a euphemism for \"Jews\". As noted by Macklin, Griffin still framed many of his arguments \"within the parameters of recognizably anti-Semitic discourse\". The BNP's literature is replete with references to a conspiratorial group who have sought to suppress nationalist sentiment among the British population, who have encouraged immigration and mixed race relationships, and who are promoting the Islamification of the country. This group is likely a reference to the Jews, an old fascist canard.\n\nUnder Griffin, the BNP's website linked to other web pages that explicitly portrayed immigration as part of a Jewish conspiracy, while it also sold books that promoted Holocaust denial. In 2004, secretly filmed footage was captured in which Griffin was seen claiming that \"the Jews simply bought the West, in terms of press and so on, for their own political ends\". Sectors of the extreme-right were highly critical of Griffin's softening on the subject of the Jews, claiming that he had \"sold out\" to the 'Zionist Occupied Government'. In 2006, John Blean, editor of \"Identity\", included an article in which he reassured BNP members that the party had not \"sold out to the Jews\" or \"embraced Zionism\" but that it remained \"committed to fighting... subversive Jews\".\n\nCopsey noted that despite Griffin's reforms, a \"culture of anti-Semitism\" still pervaded the BNP. In 2004, a London activist told reporters that \"most of us hate Jews\", while a Scottish BNP group was observed making Nazi salutes while shouting \"Auschwitz\". The party's Newcastle upon Tyne Central candidate compared the Auschwitz concentration camp to Disneyland, while their Luton North candidate stated her refusal to buy from \"the kikes that run Tesco\". In 2009, a BNP councillor from Stoke-on-Trent resigned from the party, complaining that it still contained Holocaust deniers and Nazi sympathisers.\n\nGriffin informed BNP members that rather than \"bang on\" about the Jews—which would be deemed extremist and prove electorally unpopular—their party should focus on criticising Islam, an issue that would be more resonant among the British public. After Griffin took over, the party increasingly embraced an Islamophobic stance, launching a \"Campaign Against Islam\" in September 2001. In \"Islam: A Threat to Us All\", a leaflet distributed to London households in 2007, the BNP claimed that it would stand up to both Islamic extremism and \"the threat that 'mainstream' Islam poses to our British culture\". In contrast to the mainstream British view that the actions of militant Islamists—such as those who perpetrated the 7 July 2005 London bombings—are not representative of mainstream Islam, the BNP insists that they are. In some of its literature it presents the view that every Muslim in Britain is a threat to the country. Griffin referred to Islam as an \"evil, wicked faith\", and elsewhere publicly described it as a \"cancer\" that needed to be removed from Europe through \"chemotherapy\".\n\nThe BNP has called for the prohibition of immigration from Muslim countries and for the banning of the burka, halal meat, and the building of new mosques in the UK. It also called for the immediate deportation of radical Islamist preachers from the country. In 2005 the party claimed that its primary issue of concern was the \"growth of fundamentalist-militant Islam in the UK and its ever-increasing threat to Western civilization and our implicit values\". To broaden its anti-Islamic agenda, Griffin's BNP made overtures to the UK's Hindu, Sikh, and Jewish communities; Griffin's claim that Jews can make \"good allies\" in the fight against Islam caused controversy within the international far-right.\n\nTyndall believed that liberal democracy was damaging to British society, claiming that liberalism was a \"doctrine of decay and degeneration\". Under Tyndall, the party sought to dismantle the UK's liberal democratic system of parliamentary governance, although was vague about what it sought to replace this system with. In his 1988 work \"The Eleventh Hour\", Tyndall wrote of the need for \"an utter rejection of liberalism and a dedication to the resurgence of authority\". Tyndall's BNP perceived itself as a revolutionary force that would bring about a national rebirth in Britain, entailing a radical transformation of society. It proposed a state in which the Prime Minister would have full executive powers, and would be elected directly by the population for an indefinite period of time. This Prime Minister could be dismissed from office in a further election that could be called if Parliament produced a vote of no confidence in them. It stated that rather than having political parties, candidates standing for election to the parliament would be independent. During the period of Griffin's leadership, the party downplayed its anti-democratic themes and instead foregrounded populist ones. Its campaign material called for the devolution of greater powers to local communities, the reestablishment of county councils, and the introduction of citizens' initiative referendums based on those used in Switzerland.\nThe BNP has adopted a hard Eurosceptic platform from its foundation.\nUnder Tyndall's leadership, the BNP had overt anti-Europeanist tendencies. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s he maintained the party's opposition to the European Economic Community. Antagonism toward what became the European Union was retained under Griffin's leadership, which called for the UK to leave the Union.\nOne of Vote Leave's biggest donors during the Brexit referendum was former BNP member Gladys Bramall and the party has claimed that its anti-Establishment rhetoric \"created the road\" to Britain's vote to leave the European Union.\n\nTyndall suggested replacing the EEC with a trading association among the \"White Commonwealth\", namely countries like Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. Tyndall held imperialist views and was sympathetic to the re-establishment of the British Empire through the recolonization of parts of Africa. However, officially the BNP had no plans to re-establish the British Empire or secure dominion over non-white nations. In the 2000s, it called for an immediate military withdrawal from both the Iraq War and the Afghan War. It has advocated ending overseas aid to provide economic support within the UK and to finance the voluntary repatriation of legal immigrants.\n\nUnder Tyndall, the BNP rejected both Welsh nationalism and Scottish nationalism, claiming that they were bogus because they caused division among the wider 'British race'. Tyndall also led the BNP in support of Ulster loyalism, for instance by holding public demonstrations against the Irish republican party Sinn Féin, and endorsing Ulster loyalist paramilitaries. Under Griffin, the BNP continued to support Ulster's membership of the United Kingdom, calling for the crushing of the Irish Republican Army and the scrapping of the Anglo-Irish Agreement. Griffin later expressed the view that \"the only solution that could possibly be acceptable to loyalists and republicans alike\" would be the reintegration of the Irish Republic into the United Kingdom, which would be reorganised along federal lines. However, while retaining the party's commitment to Ulster loyalism, under Griffin the importance of the issue was downplayed, something that was criticised by Tyndall loyalists.\n\nTyndall described his approach to the economy as \"National Economics\", expressing the view that \"politics must lead, and not be led by, economic forces\". His approach rejected economic liberalism because it did not serve \"the national interest\", although still saw advantages in a capitalist system, looking favourably on individual enterprise. He called on capitalist elements to be combined with socialist ones, with the government playing a role in planning the economy. He promoted the idea of the UK becoming an autarky which was economically self-sufficient, with domestic production protected from foreign competition. This attitude was heavily informed by the corporatist system that had been introduced in Benito Mussolini's Fascist Italy.\n\nA number of senior members, including Griffin and John Bean, had anti-capitalist leanings, having been influenced by Strasserism and National Bolshevism. Under Griffin's leadership, the BNP promoted economic protectionism and opposed globalisation. Its economic policies reflect a vague commitment to distributist economics, ethno-socialism, and national autarky. The BNP maintains a policy of protectionism and economic nationalism, although in comparison with other far-right nationalist parties, the BNP focuses less on corporatism. It has called for British ownership of its own industries and resources and the \"subordination of the power of the City to the power of the government\". It has promoted the regeneration of farming in the United Kingdom, with the object of achieving maximum self-sufficiency in food production. In 2002, the party criticised corporatism as a \"mixture of big capitalism and state control\", saying it favoured a \"distributionist tradition established by home-grown thinkers\" favouring small business.\n\nWhen it comes to environmentalism, the BNP refers to itself as the \"real green party\", claiming that the Green Party of England and Wales engages in \"watermelon\" politics by being green (environmentalist) on the outside but red (leftist) on the inside. Influenced by the Nouvelle Droite, it framed its arguments regarding environmentalism in an anti-immigration manner, talking about the need for 'sustainability'. It engages in climate change denial, with Griffin claiming that global warming is a hoax orchestrated by those trying to establish the New World Order.\n\nThe BNP is opposed to feminism and has pledged that—if in government—it would introduce financial incentives to encourage women to leave employment and become housewives. It would also seek to discourage children being born out of wedlock. It has stated that it would criminalise abortion, except in cases where the child has been conceived as a result of rape, the mother's life is threatened, or the child will be disabled. There are nevertheless circumstances where it has altered this anti-abortion stance; an article in \"British Nationalist\" stated that a white woman bearing the child of a black man should \"abort the pregnancy... for the good of society\". More widely, the party censures inter-racial sex and accuses the British media of encouraging inter-racial relationships.\n\nUnder Tyndall, the BNP called for the re-criminalisation of homosexual activity. Following Griffin's takeover, it moderated its policy on homosexuality, although opposed the 2004 introduction of civil partnerships for same-sex couples. During his 2009 \"Question Time\" appearance, Griffin described the sight of two men kissing as \"really creepy\". The party has also condemned the availability of pornography; its 1992 manifesto stated that the BNP would give the \"pedlars of this filth... the criminal status that they deserve\". The BNP promoted the reintroduction of capital punishment, and the sterilisation of some criminals. It also called for the reintroduction of national service in the UK, adding that on completion of this service adults would be permitted to keep their standard issue assault rifle.\n\nAccording to the academic Steven Woodbridge, the BNP had a \"rather ambivalent attitude toward Christian belief and religious themes in general\" during most of its history, but under Griffin's modernisation the party increasingly utilised Christian terminology and themes in its discourse. Various members of the party presented themselves as \"true Christians\", and defenders of the faith, with key ideologues claiming that the religion has been \"betrayed\" and \"sold out\" by mainstream clergy and the British establishment. British Christianity, the BNP claimed, was under threat from Islam, Marxism, multiculturalism, and \"political correctness\". On analysing the BNP's use of Christianity, Davey argued that the party's emphasis was not on Christian faith itself, but on the inheritance of European Christian culture.\n\nThe BNP long considered the mainstream media to be one of its major impediments to electoral success. Tyndall claimed that the media represents a \"state above the state\" which was committed to the \"left-liberal\" goals of internationalism, liberal democracy, and racial integration. The party has claimed that the mainstream media has given disproportionate coverage to the achievements of ethnic minority sportsmen and to the victims of anti-black racism while ignoring white victims of racial prejudice and the BNP's activities. Both Tyndall and Griffin have claimed that the mainstream media is controlled by Jews, who use it for their own devices; the latter promoted this idea in his \"Who are the Mind Benders?\" Griffin has described the BBC as \"a thoroughly unpleasant, ultra-leftist establishment\". The BNP has stated that if it took power, it would end \"the dictatorship of the media over free debate\". It claims that it would introduce a law prohibiting the media from disseminating falsehoods about an individual or organisation for financial or political gain, and that it would ban the media from promoting racial integration.\nBNP policy pledges to protect freedom of speech, as part of which it would repeal all laws banning racial or religious hate speech. It would repeal the 1998 Human Rights Act and withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn contrast to the UK's mainstream parties, the BNP received few donations from businesses, wealthy donors, or trade unions. Instead it relied on finances produced by its membership. Under Tyndall, the party operated on a shoestring budget with a lack of transparency; in 1992 it collected £5000 and in 1997 it collected £10,000. It also tried raising money by selling extreme-right literature, and opened a bookshop in Welling in 1989, although this was closed in 1996 after being attacked by anti-fascists and proving too costly to run. In 1992 the party formed a dining club of its wealthier supporters, which was renamed the Trafalgar Club in 2000. By the 1997 general election it admitted that its expenses had \"far out-stripped\" its income, and it was appealing for donations to pay off loans it had taken out.\n\nGriffin placed greater emphasis on fundraising, and from 2001 through to 2008 the BNP's annual turnover increased almost fivefold. Membership subscriptions grew from £35,000 to £166,000, while its donations raised from £38,000 to £660,000. However, expenses also rose as the BNP spent more on its electoral campaigns, and the party reported a financial deficit in 2004 and again in 2005. Between 2007 and 2009 the BNP accumulated debts of £500,000.\n\nFor most of its history, the BNP had a whites-only membership policy. In 2009, the state's Equality and Human Rights Commission stated that this was a violation of the Race Relations Act 1976 and called on the party to amend its constitution accordingly. Responding to this, in early 2010 members voted to remove the racial restriction to membership, although it is unlikely that many non-whites joined. \nAt its creation, the BNP had approximately 1,200 members. By the 1983 general election this had grown to approximately 2,500, although by 1987 had slumped to 1000, with no significant further growth until the 21st century. After taking control Griffin began publishing the party's membership figures: 2,174 in 2001, 3,487 in 2002, 5,737 in 2003, and 7,916 in 2004. Membership dropped slightly to 6,281 in 2005, but had grown to 9,297 in 2007 and to 10,276 in spring 2010. In 2011, it was noted that this meant that the BNP had experienced the most rapid growth since 2001 of any minor party in the UK.\n\nA party membership list dating from late 2007 was leaked onto the internet by a disgruntled activist, containing the names and addresses of 12,000 members. This included names, addresses and other personal details. People on the list included prison officers (barred from BNP membership), teachers, soldiers, civil servants and members of the clergy. The leaked list indicated that membership was concentrated in particular areas, namely the East Midlands, Essex, and Pennine Lancashire, but with particular clusters in Charnwood, Pendle, and Amber Valley. Many of these areas had long been targeted by extreme-right campaigns, dating back to the NF activity of the 1970s, suggesting that such longstanding activism may have had an effect on levels of BNP membership. This information also revealed that membership was most likely in urban areas with low rates of educational attainment and large numbers of economically insecure people employed in manufacturing, with further correlations to nearby Muslim communities. Following an investigation by Welsh police and the Information Commissioner's Office, two people were arrested in December 2008 for breach of the Data Protection Act concerning the leak. Matthew Single was subsequently found guilty and fined £200. The fine was criticised as an \"absolute disgrace\" by a BNP spokesman and a detective sergeant involved said he was \"disappointed\" with the outcome.\n\nThe leaked membership list showed that the party was 17.22% female. While women have occupied key positions within the BNP, men dominated at every level of the party. In 2009, over 80% of the party's Advisory Council was male and from 2002 to 2009, three-quarters of its councillors were male. The average percentage of female candidates presented at local elections in 2001 was 6%, although this had risen to 16% by 2010. Since 2006, the party had made a point of selecting female candidates, with Griffin stating that this was necessary to \"soften\" the party's image. Goodwin suggested that membership fell into three camps: the \"activist old guard\" who had previously been involved in the NF during the 1970s, the \"political wanderers\" who had defected from other parties to the BNP, and the \"new recruits\" who had joined post-2001 and who had little or no political interest or experience beforehand.\n\nHaving performed qualitative research among the BNP by interviewing various members, Goodwin noted that few of those he interviewed \"conformed to the popular stereotypes of them being irrational and uninformed crude racists\". He noted that most strongly identified with the working class and claimed to have either been former Labour voters or from a Labour-voting family. None of those interviewed claimed a family background in the ethnic nationalist movement. Instead, he noted that members claimed that they joined the party as a result of a \"profound sense of anxiety over immigration and rising ethno-cultural diversity\" in Britain, along with its concomitant impact on \"British culture and society\". He noted that among these members, the perceived cultural threat of immigrants and ethnic minorities was given greater prominence than the perceived economic threat that they posed to white Britons. He noted that in his interviews with them, members often framed Islam in particular as a threat to British values and society, expressing the fear that British Muslims wanted to Islamicise the country and eventually impose \"sharia\" law on its population.\n\nGoodwin described the BNP's voters as being \"socially distinct and concerned about a specific set of issues\". Under Griffin's leadership, the party targeted areas with high proportions of skilled white working-class voters, particularly those who were disenchanted with the Labour government. It has attempted to appeal to disaffected Labour voters with slogans such as \"We are the Labour Party your Grandfather Voted For\". The BNP had little success in gaining support from women, the middle classes, and the more educated.\n\nGoodwin noted a \"strong male bias\" in the party's support base, with statistical polling revealing that between 2002 and 2006, seven out of ten BNP voters were male. That same research also indicated that BNP voters were disproportionately middle-aged and elderly, with three quarters being aged over 35, and only 11% aged between 18 and 24. This contrasted to the NF's support base during the 1970s, when 40% of its voters were aged between 18 and 24. Goodwin suggested two possibilities for the BNP's failure to appeal to younger voters: one was the 'life cycle effect', that older people have obtained more during in their life and thus have more to lose, feeling both more threatened by change and more socially conservative in their views. The other explanation was the 'generational effect', with younger Britons who have grown up since the onset of mass immigration having had greater social exposure to ethnic minorities and thus being more tolerant toward them. Conversely, many older voters came of age during the 1970s, under the impact of the anti-immigrant rhetoric promoted by Powellism, Thatcherism, and the NF, and thus have less tolerant attitudes.\n\nMost BNP voters had no formal qualifications and the party's support was centred largely in areas with low educational attainment. According to the 2002–06 data, two-thirds of BNP voters had either no formal qualifications or had left education after their O-levels/GCSEs. Only one in ten BNP voters possessed an A-level, and an even smaller percentage had a university degree. Most of the BNP's voting base were from the financially insecure lower classes. Research conducted from 2002 to 2006 indicated that seven out of ten BNP voters were either skilled or unskilled workers or unemployed. A 2009 poll found that six out of ten BNP voters fitted this profile. Goodwin suggested that it was the skilled working classes rather than their unskilled or unemployed neighbours who were the main support base behind the BNP, because they owned some assets and thus felt that they had more to lose as a result of the economic threat posed by immigrants and ethnic minorities.\n\nResearch indicated that BNP voters also held opinions that were distinct from the average British citizen. They were far more pessimistic about their economic prospects than average, with seven out of ten BNP voters expecting their economic prospects to decline in future, contrasted with four out of ten who held this view in the wider population. In the 2002–06 period, 59% of BNP voters considered immigration to be the most important issue facing the UK, compared with only 16% of the wider population who agreed. By 2009, 87% of BNP voters identified immigration and asylum as the most important issue, to 49% of the wider population. BNP voters were also more likely to identify law and order, the EU, and Islamic extremism as the most important issues facing the UK than other voters, and less likely than average to rate the economy, NHS, pensions, and housing market as the most important.\n\nBNP voters were also more likely than average to believe both that white Britons face unfair discrimination, and that Muslims, non-whites, and homosexuals had unfair advantages in British society. 78% of BNP voters endorsed the belief that the Labour Party prioritised immigrants and ethnic minorities over white British people, to 44% of the wider population. When asked questions about immigration and Muslims, BNP voters were found to be far more hostile to them than the average Briton, and also more willing than average to support outright racially discriminatory policies toward them. Copsey believed that \"popular racism\"—namely against asylum seekers and Muslims—generated the BNP's \"largest reservoir of support\", and that in many Northern English towns the main factors behind BNP support were white resentment toward Asian communities, anger at Asian-on-white crime, and the perception that Asians received disproportionately high levels of public funding.\n\nResearch also indicated that BNP voters were more mistrustful of the establishment than average citizens. In 2002–06, 92% of BNP voters described themselves as being dissatisfied with the government, to 62% of the wider population. Over 80% of BNP voters were found to distrust their local Member of Parliament, council officials, and civil servants, and were also more likely than average to think that politicians were personally corrupt. There was also a tendency for BNP voters to read tabloids like the \"Daily Mail\", \"Daily Express\", and \"The Sun\", all of which promote anti-immigration sentiment. Whether these voters gained such sentiment as a result of reading these tabloids or they read these tabloids because it endorsed their pre-existing views is unclear.\n\nThe early stronghold of the BNP was in London, where it established enclaves of support in the boroughs of Enfield, Hackney, Lewisham, Southwark, and Tower Hamlets, with smaller units in Bexley, Camden, Greenwich, Hillingdon, Lambeth, and Redbridge. By the late 1990s, the party was increasingly retreating from its original East End heartland, finding that its electoral support had declined in the area. Griffin expressed the view that it was too dangerous for BNP activists to campaign in the East End, suggesting that they would likely be attacked by opponents. Instead the party shifted its focus to parts of Outer London, in particular the boroughs of Barking, Bexley, Dagenham, Greenwich, and Havering. After Griffin took power, the party focused on building support in the North of England, taking advantage of the anxieties generated by the ethnic riots that took place in Bradford, Oldham, and Burnley in 2001. In the period between 2002 and 2006, over 40% of the BNP's voters were in Northern England.\n\nThe decline of the BNP as an electoral force around 2014 helped to open the way for the growth of another right-wing party, UKIP. In a study Goodwin produced with Robert Ford, the two political scientists noted that UKIP's support base mirrored the BNP's in that it had the same \"very clear social profile\": the \"old, male, working class, white and less educated\". One area where the two differed, they noted, was in the fact that BNP support had been highest among the middle-aged before tailing off among the over 55s, whereas UKIP retained strong support with those over 55. Ford and Goodwin suggested that this might be because more over 55s had \"direct or indirect experiences\" of the Second World War, in which Britain defeated the fascist powers, resulting in them being less inclined to support fascist parties than their younger counterparts. Despite these commonalities, UKIP proved far more successful at mobilising these social groups than did the BNP. This was likely in part because UKIP had a \"reputational shield\"; it emerged from within the Eurosceptic tradition of British politics rather than from the far-right and thus, while often ridiculed by the mainstream, was regarded as a legitimate democratic actor in a way that the BNP was not.\n\nOn its formation, the BNP avoided the National Front's committee-rule system of collective leadership in the hope of evading the infighting and factionalism that had damaged the NF. Instead it was founded around what it called the \"leadership principle\", with a central chairman having complete control over the party, which was then arranged in a highly hierarchical structure. The BNP lacked any internal democracy, with the grassroots membership having no formal powers. On taking power, Griffin retained the leadership principle inherited from Tyndall. He nevertheless established an Advisory Council which would meet several times a year; the members were to be selected by Griffin himself and would serve as his advisors.\n\nThe party's branches and local groups were referred to as \"units\" within the party. These were designed to recruit followers, raise funds, and campaign during elections. Under Tyndall, the party operated with a skeleton organisation. It had no full-time staff and for most of the 1980s lacked a telephone number. Instead it relied on a handful of geographically scattered, unpaid regional organisers. Its early activists were recruited from within the extreme-right movement, and thus lacked the experience and skills in electoral campaigning. When Griffin took control, he introduced a variety of internal departments to help manage the party's activities: the administration and enquiries department, department for group development, legal affairs department, security department, and communications department. Griffin tried to build a more professional party machine by educating and training BNP members, providing them with incentives, establishing a steady income stream, and overcoming factionalism and dissent. He launched an \"annual college\" for activists in 2001 and formed an education and training department in 2007. In 2008 and 2010 he oversaw the establishment of \"summer schools\" for high-ranking officials. The party also began employing full-time members of staff, having three in 2001 and 13 in 2007.\n\nTo incentivise members to remain committed to the party, Griffin followed the example of the Swedish National Democrats by implementing a new \"voting membership\" scheme in 2007. This meant that those who had been BNP members for two years could become a \"voting member\", at which they would go on a year's probation. During this year they were required to attend educational and training seminars, to engage in a certain amount of activism, and to donate a specified amount of money to the party. Once completed, they were allowed to vote on certain matters at general members' meetings and annual conferences, to participate in policy debates, and to be eligible for intermediate and senior positions. This policy ensured that those who reached the higher echelons of the BNP were fully trained in the party's ideology and electoral strategy.\n\nGriffin hoped to build a wider social movement around the BNP by establishing affiliated networks and organisations. In many cases, these were presented to the public in a way that concealed any direct connection to the BNP. Most of these affiliated groups were poorly funded and had few members. The party established its own record label, Great White Records, a radio station, and a trade union known as Solidarity – The Union for British Workers. It formed a group for young people known as the Young BNP, although in 2010 renamed this group as the BNP Crusaders, \"to pay homage to our ancestors from the Middle Ages who saved Christian Europe from the onslaught of Islam\". It established a Land and People group to recruit support in rural areas, a Family Circle to recruit women and families, and both a Veterans Group and an Association of British ex-Servicemen for former military servicemen. A group called Families Against Immigrant Racism was established to counter perceived racism against white Britons, while an Ethnic Liaison Committee was created to build links with anti-Muslim Hindu and Sikh groups active in Britain. Another group was the American Friends of the British National Party (AFBNP), set up by Mark Cotterill in 1999 to gain support from sympathisers in the United States. In 2001 it had 100 members, and by 2008 had 107.\n\nA group called Islands of the North Atlantic (IONA) was established to promote the BNP's view of British culture and identity. The British Students Association was founded to promote the party's views among university students in 2000.\nAlbion Life Insurance was set up in September 2006 as an insurance brokerage company established on behalf of the BNP to raise funds for its activities. The firm ceased to operate in November 2006. In 2006, the BNP launched the Christian Council of Britain (CCB), a group designed to rival the Muslim Council of Britain and oppose the growing \"Islamification\" of inner city areas. The CCB was established and run by BNP member Robert West, who claimed to have been ordained by the Apostolic Church, a claim that the church denies. West is a Calvinist and espouses a theology of nations which is influenced by Calvinist theologians like Abraham Kuyper, holding that God wishes every race and nation to remain separate until end time.\n\nGriffin's BNP also established an annual Red, White and Blue festival, which was based on the 'Blue Blanc Rouge' organised by France's National Front. The festival brought party activists together and aimed to promote a more family friendly image for the group, although it also provided a venue for white power skinhead bands like Stigger, Nemesis and Warlord. Around 1,000 BNP members attended the party's 2001 festival.\n\nUnder Griffin's leadership, the BNP zealously embraced the use of alternative media to promote itself in a way different from the negative portrayal that featured in the mainstream media. On its website—which had been established in 1995—it created an internet television channel, 'BNPtv'. It has created blogs that cover different themes without being explicitly political in order to promote the party's message. The BNP established an online marketing platform, Excalibur, through which to sell its merchandise. In 2003, the BNP claimed that it had the most viewed website of a political party in Britain, and by 2011 was claiming to have the most viewed such website in Europe. In September 2007, \"The Daily Telegraph\" newspaper reported that Hitwise, the online competitive intelligence service, said that the BNP website had more hits than any other website of a British political party.\n\nUnder Griffin, the BNP forged stronger links with various extreme-right parties elsewhere in Europe, among them France's National Front, Germany's National Democratic Party (NPD), Sweden's National Democrats, and Hungary's Jobbik. Griffin unsuccessfully urged the NPD to move away from neo-Nazism and embark on the same 'modernisation' project that he had taken the BNP. Jean-Marie Le Pen of the French Front National was the guest of honour at an \"Anglo-French Patriotic Dinner\" held by the BNP in April 2004.\nGriffin met leaders of the Hungarian far right party Jobbik to discuss co-operation between the two parties and spoke at a Jobbik party rally in August 2008. In April 2009, Simon Darby, deputy chairman of the BNP, was welcomed with fascist salutes by members of the Italian nationalist Forza Nuova during a trip to Milan. Darby stated that the BNP would look to form an alliance with France's Front National in the European Parliament. Following the election of two BNP MEPs in 2009, the following year saw the BNP join with other extreme-right parties to form the Alliance of European National Movements, with Griffin becoming its vice president. The party also had close links with the Historical Review Press, a publisher focused on promoting Holocaust denial.\n\nBritain's extreme-right has long faced internal and public divisions. Disgruntled BNP members left the party to found or join a wide range of rivals, among them the British Freedom Party, White Nationalist Party, Nationalist Alliance, Wolf's Hook White Brotherhood, British People's Party, England First Party, Britain First, Democratic Nationalists, and the New Nationalist Party. Various BNP members were involved in the nascent English Defence League (EDL)—with EDL leader Tommy Robinson having been a former BNP activist—although Griffin proscribed the organisation and condemned it as having been manipulated by \"Zionists\". The political scientist Chris Allen noted that the EDL shared much of the BNP's ideology, but that its \"strategies and actions\" were very different, with the EDL favouring street marches over electoral politics. By 2014, both the BNP and EDL were in decline, and Britain First—founded by former BNP members James Dowson and Paul Golding—had risen to prominence. It combined the electoral tactics of the BNP with the street marches of the EDL.\n\nThe Steadfast Trust was established as a charity in 2004 with the stated aims of reducing poverty among those of Anglo-Saxon descent and supporting English culture. It has many former and current BNP, NF and British Ku Klux Klan members. It was deregistered as a charity by the Charity Commission in February 2014. In 2014, after Nick Griffin lost the leadership of BNP, he set up British Voice, but before it was launched, he decided to set up a different group, British Unity.\n\nSome members of the BNP were radicalised during their involvement with the party and subsequently sought to carry out acts of violence and terrorism. Tony Lecomber was imprisoned for three years for possessing explosives, after a nail bomb exploded while he was transporting it to the offices of the Workers' Revolutionary Party in 1985. He was imprisoned for three years in 1991 whilst serving as the BNP's Director of Propaganda for assaulting a Jewish teacher. In 1999, the ex-BNP member David Copeland used nail bombs to target homosexuals and ethnic minorities in London. In 2005, the BNP's Burnley candidate Robert Cottage was convicted of stockpiling chemicals for use in what he believed was a coming civil war, while a Yorkshire BNP member, Terry Gavan, was convicted in 2010 for stockpiling firearms and nail bombs.\n\nThe BNP has contested seats in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Research from Robert Ford and Matthew Goodwin shows that BNP support is concentrated among older and less educated working-class men living in the declining industrial towns of the North and Midlands regions, in contrast to previous significant far-right parties like the National Front, which drew support from a younger demographic.\n\nThe BNP placed comparatively little emphasis on elections to the British House of Commons, aware that the first past the post voting system was a major obstacle.\n\nThe British National Party has contested general elections since 1983.\nThe BNP in the 2001 general election saved five deposits (out of 33 contested seats) and secured its best general election result in Oldham West and Royton (which had recently been the scene of racially motivated rioting between white and Asian youths) where party leader Nick Griffin secured 16% of the vote.\n\nThe 2005 general election was considered a major breakthrough by the BNP, as they picked up 192,746 votes in the 119 constituencies it contested, took a 0.7% share of the overall vote, and retained a deposit in 40 of the seats.\n\nThe BNP put forward candidates for 338 out of 650 seats for the 2010 general election gaining 563,743 votes (1.9%), finishing in fifth place and failing to win any seats. However, a record of 73 deposits were saved. Party chairman Griffin came third in the Barking constituency, behind Margaret Hodge of Labour and Simon Marcus of the Conservatives, who were first and second respectively. At 14.6%, this was the BNP's best result in any of the seats it contested that year.\n\nThe BNP's first electoral success came in 1993, when Derek Beackon was returned as a councillor in Millwall, London. He lost his seat in elections the following year. The next BNP success in local elections was not until the 2002 local elections, when three BNP candidates gained seats on Burnley council. The BNP's first councillor for six years was John Haycock, elected as a parish councillor for Bromyard and Winslow in Herefordshire in 2000. Haycock failed to attend any council meetings for six months and was later disqualified from office.\n\nThe party had 55 councillors for a time in 2009. After the 2013 local county council elections, the BNP was left with a total of two borough councillors in England:\n\nAs of 2011, the BNP had yet to make \"a major breakthrough\" on local councils.\nThe BNP's councillors usually had \"an extremely limited impact on local politics\" because they were isolated as individuals or small groups on the council. Councillors from the main parties often disliked their BNP colleagues and deemed having to work alongside them as an affront to dignity and decency.\nQuestions were often raised as to whether BNP councillors could adequately represent the interests of all of their local constituents. On being elected, Beackon for instance stated that he refused to serve his Asian constituents in Millwall. There were also allegations made that BNP councillors had particularly low attendance at council meetings, although research indicated that this was not the case, with the BNP's attendance record being largely average.\n\nThere is evidence to suggest that racially and religiously motivated crime increased in those areas where BNP councillors had been elected. For instance, after the 1993 election of Beackon, there was a spike in racist attacks in the borough of Tower Hamlets. BNP members were directly responsible for some of this; the party's national organiser Richard Edmonds was sentenced to three months imprisonment for his part in an attack on a black man and his white girlfriend.\n\nBNP lead candidate Richard Barnbrook won a seat in the London Assembly in May 2008, after the party gained 5.3% of the London-wide vote. However, in August 2010, he resigned the party whip and became an independent.\n\nIn the 2007 Welsh Assembly elections, the BNP fielded 20 candidates, four in each of the five regional lists, with Nick Griffin standing in the South Wales West region. It did not win any seats, but was the only minor party to have saved deposits in the electoral regions, one in the North Wales region and the other in the South Wales West region. In total the BNP polled 42,197 votes (4.3%).\n\nIn the 2011 Welsh Assembly elections, the BNP fielded 20 candidates, four in each of the five regional lists and for the first time 7 candidates were fielded in FPTP constituencies. On the regional lists, the BNP polled 22,610 votes (2.4%), down 1.9% from 2007. In 2 out of the 7 FPTP constituencies contested the BNP saved deposits: (Swansea East and Islwyn).\n\nIn the 2007 Scottish Parliament election, the party fielded 32 candidates, entitling it to public funding and an election broadcast, prompting criticism. The BNP received 24,616 votes (1.2%), no seats were won, nor were any deposits saved. In the 2011 Scottish Parliament election, the BNP fielded 32 candidates in the regional lists. 15,580 votes were polled (0.78%).\n\nThe BNP fielded 3 candidates for the first time in three constituencies each in the 2011 Northern Ireland Legislative Assembly elections (Belfast East, East Antrim and South Antrim). 1,252 votes were polled (0.2%), winning no seats for the party.\n\nThe BNP has taken part in European Parliament elections since 1999, when they received 1.13% of the total vote (102,647 votes).\n\nIn the 2004 elections to the European Parliament, the BNP won 4.9% of the vote, making it the sixth biggest party overall, but did not win any seats.\n\nThe BNP won two seats in the European Parliament in the 2009 elections. Andrew Brons was elected in the Yorkshire and the Humber regional constituency with 9.8% of the vote. Party chairman Nick Griffin was elected in the North West region, with 8% of the vote. Nationally, the BNP received 6.26%.\n\nThe British Government announced in 2009 that the BNP's two MEPs would be denied some of the access and information afforded to other MEPs. The BNP would be subject to the \"same general principles governing official impartiality\" and they would receive \"standard written briefings as appropriate from time to time\", but diplomats would not be \"proactive\" in dealing with the BNP MEPs and that any requests for policy briefings from them would be treated differently and on a discretionary basis.\n\nThe leaders and senior officers of the BNP have criminal convictions for inciting racial hatred.\nJohn Hagan claims that the BNP has conducted right-wing extremist violence to gain \"institutionalized power\". Critics of the BNP, such as Human Rights Watch in a 1997 report, have asserted that the party recruits from skinhead groups and that it promotes racist violence.\n\nIn the past, Nick Griffin has defended the threat of violence to further the party's aims. After the BNP won its first council seat in 1993, he wrote that the BNP should not be a \"postmodernist rightist party\" but \"a strong, disciplined organisation with the ability to back up its slogan 'Defend Rights for Whites' with well-directed boots and fists. When the crunch comes, power is the product of force and will, not of rational debate\". In 1997 he said: \"It is more important to control the streets of a city than its council chambers.\"\n\nA BBC \"Panorama\" programme reported on a number of BNP members who have had criminal convictions, some racially motivated. Some of the more notable convictions include:\n\nIn 2011, Goodwin described the BNP as being \"the most successful party in the history of the extreme right in Britain\". That same year, John E. Richardson noted that it had achieved \"a level of electoral success that is unparalleled in the history of British fascism\". The historian Alan Sykes stated that \"in electoral terms\", the BNP achieved \"more in the first three years of the twenty-first century\" than the British far right \"as a whole achieved in the previous seventy\". However, Copsey noted that the party's belief that one day the conditions would be right for it to win a general election belonged to the \"Never-Never Land of British politics\". Copsey also noted that the BNP's electoral successes had been modest in comparison to those achieved by extreme-right groups elsewhere in Western Europe such as France's National Front, Italy's National Alliance, and Belgium's Vlaams Blok.\n\nThe BNP's growth met a hostile reaction, and in 2011 the political scientists Copsey and Macklin described it as \"Britain's most disliked party\". It was widely reviled as racist and even following Griffin's \"modernisation\" project it was still heavily tainted by its associations with neo-Nazism. For many years it remained closely associated with the National Front in the British public imagination.\nThe BNP remained unable to gain a broad appeal or widespread credibility. In a 2004 poll, seven out of ten voters said that they would never consider voting for the BNP. A 2009 poll found that two-thirds would \"under no circumstances\" consider voting BNP, while only 4% of respondents would \"definitely consider\" voting for them.\n\nThe Conservative leader Michael Howard stated that the BNP were a \"stain\" on British democracy, adding that \"this is not a political movement, this is a bunch of thugs dressed up as a political party\". His successor David Cameron described it as a \"completely unacceptable\" organisation which \"thrives on hatred\". The Labour prime minister, Tony Blair, called it a \"nasty, extreme organisation\", while the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg termed it a \"party of thugs and fascists\". In 2004, the General Synod of the Church of England declared that supporting the BNP was incompatible with Christianity, comparing it to \"spitting in the face of God\". Christian groups throughout Britain have maintained that the BNP's hostility toward cultural and ethnic diversity in the country was at odds with mainstream Christianity's emphasis on inclusiveness, tolerance, and interfaith dialogue. Winston Churchill's family has criticised the BNP's use of his image and quotations, labelling it \"offensive and disgusting\". The singer Vera Lynn condemned the party for selling her CD on its website. In 2009, the Royal British Legion asked Griffin—at first privately and then publicly—to not wear their poppy symbol.\n\nThe British police, Fire Brigades Union, and Church of England, prohibited its members from joining the BNP. In 2002, Martin Narey, banned BNP membership among prison workers; he subsequently received death threats. In 2010, the Education Secretary Michael Gove announced bans allowing headteachers to ban their staff from being party members.\nIndividuals whose membership of the party was made public sometimes faced ostracism and the loss of their job: examples include a school headmaster who had to resign, a caretaker who was sacked after attending a BNP rally, and a police officer dismissed from his position. After BNP membership lists were leaked on the Internet, a number of police forces investigated officers whose names appeared on the lists.\n\nIn 2005, an invitation to Nick Griffin by the University of St Andrews Union Debating Society to participate in a debate on multiculturalism was withdrawn after protests. The BNP says that National Union of Journalists guidelines on reporting \"far right\" organisations forbid unionised journalists from reporting uncritically on the party. In April 2007, an election broadcast was cancelled by BBC Radio Wales whose lawyers believed that the broadcast was defamatory of the Chief Constable of North Wales Police, Richard Brunstrom. The BNP claimed that BBC editors were following an agenda.\n\nAttitudes toward the BNP in both mainstream broadcast media and print journalism have been overwhelmingly negative, and no mainstream newspaper has endorsed the party. This hostile coverage has even been found in right-wing tabloids like the \"Daily Mail\", \"Daily Express\" and \"The Sun\" which otherwise share the BNP's hostile attitude toward issues like immigration. In 2003, the \"Daily Mail\" described the BNP as \"poisonous bigots\", while in 2004 \"The Sun\" printed the headline of \"BNP: Bloody Nasty People\". Senior BNP figures nevertheless believed that these tabloids' hostile coverage of immigration and Islam helped to legitimise and normalise the party and its views among much of the British public, a view echoed by some academic observers. When, in 2004, anti-racist activists picketed outside the \"Daily Mail\" office in central London to protest against its negative coverage of asylum seekers, BNP members organised a counter-picket at which they displayed the placard \"Vote BNP, Read the \"Daily Mail\"\".\n\nThe BNP initially faced a 'no platform for fascists' policy from the broadcast media, although this eroded as Griffin was invited on to a number of television programmes amid the party's growing electoral success. When the BBC invited him to appear on \"Question Time\" in 2009 it was criticised by several trade unions, sections of the media, and several Labour politicians, all of whom believed that the BNP should not be given a public platform. Anti-fascist protesters assembled outside of the television studio to protest Griffin's inclusion.\n\nThe first academic attention to be directed at the BNP appeared after it gained a councillor in the 1993 local elections. Nevertheless, throughout the 1990s it remained the subject of little academic research. Academic interest increased following its victories at local elections from 2002 onward. The first detailed monograph study to be devoted to the party was Nigel Copsey's \"Contemporary British Fascism\", first published in 2004. In September 2008, an academic symposium on the BNP was held at Teesside University.\n\nOpposition to the BNP also came from the organised anti-fascist movement. By the mid-1990s, the BNP's attempts to stage public events in Scotland, the North West and the Midlands were largely thwarted by the militant disruption of the Anti-Fascist Action (AFA) group. The BNP's modernisation and move away from street demonstrations and toward electoral campaigning caused problems for the AFA, who proved unable to successfully change their tactics; on those occasions when AFA activists tried to forcibly disrupt BNP activities, they were prevented and arrested by riot police.\n\nMore liberal sections of the anti-fascist movement sought to counter the BNP through community-based initiatives. \"Searchlight\" encouraged trade unions to establish localised campaigns that would ensure that ethnic minority and other anti-BNP locals voted. It suggested that such campaigns should avoid associating with the mainstream parties from which BNP voters felt disenfranchised and that they should not be afraid of calling out Islamic fundamentalists and extremists active in the area. The Unite Against Fascism group also sought to maximise anti-BNP turnout at elections, calling on the electorate to vote for \"anyone but fascists\". Evidence suggests that such anti-fascist activities did little to erode the far-right vote; this was in part because anti-fascist groups had encouraged the stereotype that BNP candidates were violent skinheads, something which conflicted with the more normal, friendly image that BNP activists cultivated when canvassing.\n\nThe BNP often received a hostile response from other sections of the British extreme-right. Some extreme-right-wingers, such as the British Freedom Party, expressed frustration at the party's inability to moderate itself further on the issue of race, while those such as Colin Jordan and the NF accused the BNP—particularly under Griffin's leadership—of being too moderate. This latter view was articulated by an extreme-right groupuscule, the International Third Position, when it claimed that the BNP \"has been openly courting the Jewish vote and pumping out material which confirms what most us knew years ago: the BNP has become a multi-racist, Zionist, queer-tolerant anti-Muslim pressure group\".\n\nIn \"ASLEF v. United Kingdom\", the European Court of Human Rights overturned an employment appeal tribunal ruling that awarded BNP member and train driver Jay Lee damages for expulsion from a trade union. In Redfearn v United Kingdom, the court ruled that members of racist organisations could lawfully be dismissed on health and safety grounds if there was a danger of violence occurring in the workplace. In November 2012, the European Court of Human Rights made a majority ruling (4 to 3) that in Redfearn's case against the UK government, his rights under Article 11 (free association) had been infringed, but not those under Article 10 (free expression) or Article 14 (discrimination).\n\n"}
{"id": "20710492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20710492", "title": "Christian Legal Centre", "text": "Christian Legal Centre\n\nThe Christian Legal Centre (CLC) is a legal organization which was set up in December 2007 to provide legal support for Christians in the United Kingdom and lobby on their behalf. They are linked to the Christian Concern campaigning organisation.\n\nSince its inception, the CLC has provided legal support in a number of high-profile cases in the UK. Most of them have been unsuccessful. Notable examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "963197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=963197", "title": "Communist League of Great Britain", "text": "Communist League of Great Britain\n\nThe Communist League of Great Britain was an anti-revisionist group in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt origins were in the Communist Party of Great Britain, where a faction formed around Bill Bland. Initially Maoist, it joined the majority of the Committee to Defeat Revisionism, for Communist Unity in 1965 to form the Action Centre for Marxist-Leninist Unity, publishing \"Hammer or Anvil\". In 1967, this was renamed the Marxist-Leninist Organisation of Britain. Soon after, the group ceased supporting Mao, instead supporting Hoxhaism - although Hoxha was aligned with Mao at the time. Following a split the MLOB was renamed the \"Communist League\" in 1975, its ideological position strengthened with the Sino-Albanian Split.\n\nThe group remained active into the new millennium, but became less so since Bland's death in 2001, and their website contains no new content since that year. The \"Communist Party Alliance\", a successor group working within the Stalin Society, had their own site which was active until 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "605342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605342", "title": "Compulsory arbitration", "text": "Compulsory arbitration\n\nCompulsory arbitration is arbitration of labor disputes which laws of some communities force the two sides, labor and management, to undergo. These laws mostly apply when the possibility of a strike seriously affects the public interest. Some labor contracts make specific provisions for compulsory arbitration should the two sides fail to reach agreement through the regular system of collective bargaining.\n\nThe Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 introduced the rule of law in industrial relations for Australia by establishing the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration.\n\nSince 1906 Australia has enforced a system of compulsory arbitration between employers and employees. This statutory system of arbitration, the Industrial Relations Court or Commission, and the Harvester court case underpin the Australian industrial relations system.\n\nThis system has been amended since 1983. The former Liberal Party government, led by John Howard, sought to further modify it through WorkChoices. The former Labor government, during the Rudd-Gillard era, sought to re-establish regulation surrounding compulsory arbitration of Australia's industrial relations regime through other means.\n\n"}
{"id": "24007577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24007577", "title": "Constitution of the Moldavian SSR", "text": "Constitution of the Moldavian SSR\n\nThe Constitution of the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic of 15 April 1978 was the fundamental law of the Moldovan SSR, adopted in 1978.\n\nAt its Extraordinary Session of 15 April 1978, the Supreme Soviet of the Moldavian Socialist Republic unanimously adopted a new republican Constitution, to replace the old Constitution of 12 January 1941, including its subsequent amendments. The new Constitution consisted of a Preamble and 172 articles, and was prepared as part of the whole project of adjusting all 15 republican Constitutions to the new Constitution of the Soviet Union of October 1977. \n\nIt was the second Constitution of the Moldavian SSR. \n\nOn 27 August 1994 the Constitution of the Moldavian SSR of 15 April 1978, including all its subsequent revisions and amendments, was abrogated in its entirety. On that same date the new Constitution of Moldova came into force. \n\n"}
{"id": "42797279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42797279", "title": "Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service", "text": "Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service\n\nThe Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) is an extension agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), part of the executive branch of the federal government. The 1994 Department Reorganization Act, passed by Congress, created CSREES by combining the former Cooperative State Research Service and the Extension Service into a single agency.\n\nIn 2009, CSREES was reorganized into the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). Sonny Ramaswamy serves as NIFA's director.\n\nCSREES' mission is to \"advance agriculture, the environment, human health and well-being, and communities\" by supporting research, education, and extension programs at land-grant universities and other organizations it partners with. CSREES doesn't conduct its own research; it provides funding and leadership to land-grant universities and competitively granted awards to researchers in partner organizations.\nCSREES' areas of involvement span across 60 programs in the biological, physical, and social sciences related to agricultural research, economic analysis, statistics, extension, and higher education.\n\nCSREES administers federal appropriations through three funding tools: competitive grants, formula grants, and congressionally directed funding.\n\nCompetitive grants are awarded to applicants upon the recommendation of a peer-review panel. CSREES' competitive programs include the National Research Initiative, the Small Business Innovation Research Program, the Biotechnology Risk Assessment Program, and Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers.\n\nCSREES supports research and extension activities at land-grant institutions through federal funds that are appropriated to states on the basis of statutory, population-based formulas. CSREES' formula grants are directed to state experiment stations, the Cooperative Extension System, and Cooperative Forestry Programs. In most cases, the states are required to match the federal formula dollars with nonfederal contributions.\nThe four CSREES research funding programs for land-grant universities are (1) Hatch, (2) Multistate Research (a subset of Hatch), (3) McIntire-Stennis, and (4) Animal Health.\n\nCongress directs CSREES to fund and administer certain programs each year through special appropriations accounts. In general, the Executive Branch does not support the inclusion of these programs in the president's annual budget submission to Congress. Examples of projects include: the Expert Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Decision Support System; Global Change, UV-B Monitoring; IPM and Biological Control; Minor Crop Pest Management, IR-4; and Minor Use Animal Drugs.\n\nCSREES is the USDA's extramural research agency, funding individuals; institutions; and public, private, and non-profit organizations. Its research programs address issues affecting 13 national emphasis areas:\n\n\nSupported research falls into three categories:\n\n\nEducation programs support all CSREES emphasis areas and promote teaching excellence, enhance academic quality, and help develop the scientific and professional workforce. CSREES continues a federal-state teaching partnership started in 1977 by strengthening agricultural and science literacy in K-12 education, improving higher education curricula, and increasing the diversity and quality of future graduates to enter the workforce.\n\nIn 1981, Agriculture in the Classroom (AITC) was established to promote agricultural literacy in classrooms across the country. Today, AITC provides lesson plans, professional development opportunities, and teacher recognition programs for teachers, as well as maintains a national resource directory and other sources of public information on K-12 agricultural education issues.\n\nThe Cooperative Extension System is a non-formal educational program implemented in the United States designed to help people use research-based knowledge to improve their lives. The service is provided by the state's designated land-grant universities. In most states, the educational offerings are in the areas of agriculture and food, home and family, environment, community economic development, and youth and 4-H. The National 4-H Headquarters is located within the Families, 4-H, and Nutrition unit of CSREES.\n\nThe Smith-Lever Act, which was passed in 1914, established the partnership between agricultural colleges and the USDA to support agricultural extension work. The act also stated that USDA provide each state with funds based on a population-related formula. Today, CSREES distributes these so-called formula grants annually in cooperation with state and county governments and land-grant universities.\n\nTraditionally, each county of all 50 states had a local extension office. This number has declined as some county offices have consolidated into regional extension centers. Today, there are approximately 2,900 extension offices nationwide.\n\nSince 2005, the Extension system has collaborated in developing eXtension.org (pronounced \"e-extension\"). eXtension is an Internet-based learning platform where Extension professionals and citizens nationwide and beyond have 24/7 access to unbiased, research-based, peer-reviewed information from land-grant universities on a wide range of topics. Information is organized into articles, professional development resources, news, frequently asked questions, and blog posts that provide a knowledge-to-action service that has become an integral part of the Cooperative Extension System. In 2015, the nonprofit, member-based eXtension Foundation was created to advance innovation and technology-enhanced professional development going forward.\n\nThis table summarizes the cooperative extension programs in each state. (Under the 1890 amendment to the Morrill Act, if a state's land-grant university was not open to all races, a separate land-grant university had to be established for each race. Hence, some states have more than one land-grant university.)\n\n"}
{"id": "521286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521286", "title": "Critical infrastructure", "text": "Critical infrastructure\n\nCritical infrastructure (or critical national infrastructure (CNI) in the UK) is a term used by governments to describe assets that are essential for the functioning of a society and economy – the infrastructure. Most commonly associated with the term are facilities for:\n\n\nThe European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection (EPCIP) has been laid out in EU Directives by the Commission (EU COM(2006) 786 final).\n\nIt has proposed a list of European critical infrastructures based upon inputs by its member states.\n\nEach designated European Critical Infrastructures (ECI) will have to have an Operator Security Plan (OSP) covering the identification of important assets, a risk analysis based on major threat scenarios and the vulnerability of each asset, and the identification, selection and prioritisation of counter-measures and procedures.\n\nThe German critical-infrastructure protection programme is coordinated by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Some of its special agencies like the German Federal Office for Information Security or the Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance BBK deliver the respective content, e.g., about IT systems.\n\nIn the UK, the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI) provides information, personnel and physical security advice to the businesses and organisations which make up the UK's national infrastructure, helping to reduce its vulnerability to terrorism and other threats.\n\nIt can call on resources from other government departments and agencies, including MI5, the Communications-Electronics Security Group and other government departments responsible for national infrastructure sectors.\n\nThe USA has had a wide-reaching critical infrastructure protection program in place since 1996. Its Patriot Act of 2001 defined critical infrastructure as those \"systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.\"\n\nIn 2014 the NIST Cybersecurity Framework was published, and quickly became a popular set of guidelines, despite the significant costs of full compliance.\n\nThese have identified a number of critical infrastructures and responsible agencies:\n\n\nThe National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP) defines critical infrastructure sector in the US. Presidential Policy Directive 21 (PPD-21), issued in February, 2013 entitled Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience mandated an update to the NIPP. This revision of the plan established the following 16 critical infrastructure sectors:\n\n\nNational Monuments and Icons along with the postal and shipping sector were removed in 2013 update to the NIPP. The 2013 version of the NIPP has faced criticism for lacking viable risk measures. The plan assigns the following agencies sector-specific coordination responsibilities:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6451880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6451880", "title": "Diplomatic illness", "text": "Diplomatic illness\n\nDiplomatic illness is the practice amongst diplomats and government ministers of feigning illness, or another debilitating condition, to avoid engaging in diplomatic or social engagements. The excuse of ill-health is designed to avoid formally offending the host or other parties. The term also refers to the period during which the \"diplomatic illness\" is claimed to persist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1229988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229988", "title": "Dunglish", "text": "Dunglish\n\nDunglish (portmanteau of \"Dutch\" and \"English\"; in Dutch steenkolenengels, literally: \"coal-English\") is a popular term for mistakes native Dutch speakers make when trying to speak English. The term's usage is loosely connected to that of other English language corruptions, such as \"Engrish\".\n\nEnglish instruction in the Netherlands begins in elementary school or secondary school, and Dutch-speaking Belgians are usually taught English from the age of twelve. In addition, like all foreign-language films, English-spoken movies are subtitled rather than being dubbed in the Netherlands and in Flanders, the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium.\n\nThe Dutch word for the poorest form of Dunglish, \"steenkolenengels\" (\"Coal English\"), goes back to the early 20th century when Dutch port workers used a rudimentary form of English to communicate with the personnel of English coal ships.\n\nErrors occur mainly in pronunciation, word order, and the meaning of words, so-called false friends and false cognates. Former Dutch ambassador and prime minister Dries van Agt supposedly once said \"I can stand my little man\" (translation of \"ik kan mijn mannetje staan\", a Dutch idiom meaning roughly \"I can stand up for myself\"). The former leader of the Dutch Liberal Party, Frits Bolkestein, repeatedly referred to economic prospects as \"golden showers\", unaware of the term's sexual connotation.\n\nErrors often occur because of the \"false friend\" or false cognate possibility: words are incorrectly translated for understandable reasons. Examples are:\n\nSome Dutch speakers may use Dutch syntax inappropriately when using English, creating errors such as \"What mean you?\" instead of \"What do you mean?\"\n\nThis is because English and Dutch do not follow exactly the same word order. English has a subject–verb–object word order, but this is shared only partially by Dutch, which has a verb-second order, causing the subject to follow the verb if another constituent already precedes it; e.g., \"Hij is daar\" (\"He is there\"), but \"Daar is hij\"; literally \"There is he\" (idiomatically, \"There he is\"). \n\nAlso, Dutch places perfect participles towards the end of a clause while the auxiliary remains at the verb-second position, allowing for the two to be separated and for many other elements to stand in between; e.g. \"Ik heb dat gisteren [meteen na de lunch toen ik aankwam etc.] gedaan\"; literally \"I have that yesterday [immediately after the lunch when I arrived etc.] done\".\n\nIn questions, English employs periphrastic constructions involving the verb \"to do\", a rare feature crosslinguistically. Dutch does not use this construction, but instead utilizes a VSO word order, inverting the subject and verb.\n\nIn English noun adjuncts, such as \"Schiphol\" in the phrase \"Schiphol Meeting Point\", the modifying noun comes before the other noun. In Dutch this is the reverse, giving rise to errors like \"Meeting Point Schiphol\".\n\nIn English, only certain compound nouns (such as \"schoolteacher\") can be written as one word, whereas in Dutch the default is to write compound nouns as a single word. This is witnessed in errors in English texts on signs – at Schiphol Airport alone one can see signs for \"meetingpoint\", \"boardingpass\" and \"traintickets\". In some cases the English compound noun spelled as two words in English has been officially absorbed by the Dutch language – as is the case with \"\" (credit card) and \"jetlag\" (jet lag).\n\nEnglish and Dutch are both West Germanic languages, with many cognate verbs with identical or nearly identical meanings. This similarity between verbs may cause speakers of Dutch to conjugate English verbs according to Dutch grammar.\n\n\n\nDutch author Maarten H. Rijkens has written two books on the subject for Dutch readers: \"I always get my sin\" and \"We always get our sin too\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9371", "title": "Economy of Equatorial Guinea", "text": "Economy of Equatorial Guinea\n\nEquatorial Guinea is a small nation of 1.2 million located on the west coast of Central Africa which gained independence from Spain in 1968. Thanks to the discovery and exploitation of significant oil reserves in the 1990s, it enjoys a purchasing power parity GDP per capita of more than US$38,699 which is as of 2016 the highest in Africa and the 31st highest in the world. However, the country has been ranked only 138th out of 188 countries on the United Nations Human Development Index in 2015. After the oil price collapsed in 2014, the economy has gone into a free for all which has put growth in a downwards spiral from around 15% to -10%.\n\nPre-independence Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency earnings. In 1959 it had the highest per capita income of Africa which it still has.\n\nThe discovery of large oil reserves in 1996 and their subsequent exploitation have contributed to a dramatic increase in government revenue. As of 2004, Equatorial Guinea was the third-largest oil producer in Sub-Saharan Africa. Its oil production had then risen to , up from only two years earlier.\n\nForestry, farming, and fishing are also major components of GDP. Subsistence farming predominates. Although pre-independence Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency earnings, the neglect of the rural economy under successive regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth. However, the government has stated its intention to reinvest some oil revenue into agriculture. A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF have been cut off since 1993 because of corruption and mismanagement. No longer eligible for concessional financing because of large oil revenues, the government has been unsuccessfully trying to agree on a \"shadow\" fiscal management program with the World Bank and IMF. Businesses, for the most part, are owned by government officials and their family members. Undeveloped natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium, and alluvial gold (Mining in Equatorial Guinea). Growth remained strong in 2005 and 2006, led by oil.\n\nOil and gas exports have increased substantially (in 2003 Equatorial Guinea was ranked third among Sub-Sahara African producers behind Nigeria and Angola) and will drive the economy for years to come. The GDP increased by 105.2% in 1997, and real GDP growth reached 23% in 1999, and initial estimates suggested growth of about 15% in 2001, according to IMF 2001 forecast. Per capita income grew from about $1,000 in 1998 to about $2,000 in 2000. The energy export sector is responsible for this rapid growth. Oil production has increased from to between 1998 and early 2001. There is ongoing additional development of existing commercially viable oil and gas deposits as well as new exploration in other offshore concessions.\n\nEquatorial Guinea has other largely unexploited human and natural resources, including a tropical climate, fertile soils, rich expanses of water, deepwater ports, and an untapped, if unskilled, source of labor. Following independence in 1968, the country suffered under a repressive dictatorship for 11 years, which devastated the economy. The agricultural sector, which historically was known for cocoa of the highest quality, has never fully recovered. In 1969 Equatorial Guinea produced 36,161 tons of highly bid cocoa, but production dropped to 4,800 tons in 2000. Coffee production also dropped sharply during this period to bounce back to 100,000 metric tons in 2000. Timber is the main source of foreign exchange after oil, accounting for about 12.4% of total export earnings in 1996-99. Timber production increased steadily during the 1990s; wood exports reached a record 789,000 cubic meters in 1999 as demand in Asia (mainly China) gathered pace after the 1998 economic crisis. Most of the production (mainly Okoume) goes to exports, and only 3% is processed locally. Environmentalists fear that exploitation at this level is unsustainable and point out to the permanent damage already inflicted on the forestry reserves on Bioko.\n\nConsumer price inflation has declined from the 38.8% experienced in 1994 following the CFA franc devaluation, to 7.8% in 1998, and 1.0% in 1999, according to BEAC data. Consumer prices rose about 6% in 2000, according to initial estimates, and there was anecdotal evidence that price inflation was accelerating in 2001.\n\nEquatorial Guinea's policies, as defined by law, comprise an open investment regime. Qualitative restrictions on imports, non-tariff protection, and many import licensing requirements were lifted when in 1992 the government adopted a public investment program endorsed by the World Bank. The Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea has sold some state enterprises. It is attempting to create a more favourable investment climate, and its investment code contains numerous incentives for job creation, training, promotion of non-traditional exports, support of development projects and indigenous capital participation, freedom for repatriation of profits, exemption from certain taxes and capital, and other benefits. Trade regulations have been further liberalized since implementation in 1994 of the ICN turnover tax, in conformity with Central African tax and custom reform codes. The reform included elimination of quota restrictions and reductions in the range and amounts of tariffs. The CEMAC countries agreed to replace the ICN with a value added tax (VAT) in 1999.\n\nWhile business laws promote a liberalized economy, the business climate remains difficult. Application of the laws remains selective. Corruption among officials is widespread, and many business deals are concluded under non-transparent circumstances.\n\nThere is little industry in the country, and the local market for industrial products is small. The government seeks to expand the role of free enterprise and to promote foreign investment but has had little success in creating an atmosphere conducive to investor interest.\n\nThe Equato-Guinean budget has grown enormously in the past 3 years as royalties and taxes on foreign company oil and gas production have provided new resources to a once poor government. The 2001 budget foresaw revenues of about 154 billion CFA francs (154 GCFAF) (about U.S.$200 million), up about 50% from 2000 levels. Oil revenues account for about two-thirds of government revenue, and VAT and trade taxes are the other large revenue sources.\n\nYear 2001 government expenditures were planned to reach 158 billion CFA francs, up about 50% from 2000 levels. New investment projects represented about 40% of the budget, and personnel and internal and external debt payments represented about one-third of planned expenditures.\n\nThe Equato-Guinean Government has undertaken a number of reforms since 1991 to reduce its predominant role in the economy and promote private sector development. Its role is a diminishing one, although many government interactions with the private sector are at times capricious. Beginning in early 1997, the government initiated efforts to attract significant private sector involvement through a Corporate Council on Africa visit and numerous ministerial efforts. In 1998, the government privatized distribution of petroleum products. There are now Total and Mobil stations in the country. The government has expressed interest in privatizing the outmoded electricity utility. A French company operates cellular telephone service in cooperation with a state enterprise. The government is anxious for greater U.S. investment, and President Obiang visited the U.S. three times between 1999 and 2001 to encourage greater U.S. corporate interest. Investment in agriculture, fishing, livestock, and tourism are among sectors the government would like targeted.\n\nEquatorial Guinea's balance-of-payments situation has improved substantially since the mid-1990s because of new oil and gas production and favorable world energy prices. Exports totaled about francs CFA 915 billion in 2000 (1.25 G$US), up from CFA 437 billion (700 M$US) in 1999. Crude oil exports accounted for more than 90% of export earnings in 2000. Timber exports, by contrast, represented only about 5% of export revenues in 2000. Additional oil production coming on line in 2001, combined with methanol gas exports from the new CMS-Nomeco plant, should increase export earnings substantially.\n\nImports into Equatorial Guinea also are growing very quickly. Imports totaled francs CFA 380 billion (530 M$US), up from franc CFA 261 million (420 M$US) in 1999. Imports of equipment used for the oil and gas sector accounted for about three-quarters of imports in 2000. Imports of capital equipment for public investment projects reached francs CFA 30 billion in 2000, up 40% from 1999 levels.\n\nEquatorial Guinea's foreign debt stock was approximately francs CFA 69 billion (100 M$US) in 2000, slightly less than the debt stock in 1999, according to BEAC data. Equatorial Guinea's debt service ratio fell from 20% of GDP in 1994 to only 1% in 2000. Foreign exchange reserves were increasing slightly, although they were relatively low in terms of import coverage. According to the terms of the franc CFA zone, some of these reserves are kept in an account with the French Ministry of Finance.\n\nEquatorial Guinea in the 1980s and 1990s received foreign assistance from numerous bilateral and multilateral donors, including European countries, the United States, and the World Bank. Many of these aid programs have ceased altogether or have diminished. Spain, France, and the European Union continue to provide some project assistance, as do China and Cuba. The government also has discussed working with World Bank assistance to develop government administrative capacity.\n\nEquatorial Guinea operated under an IMF-negotiated Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) until 1996. Since then, there have been no formal agreements or arrangements. The International monetary Fund held Article IV consultations (periodic country evaluations) in 1996, 1997, and in August 1999. After the 1999 consultations, IMF directors stressed the need for Equatorial Guinea to establish greater fiscal discipline, accountability, and more transparent management of public sector resources, especially energy sector revenue. IMF officials also have emphasized the need for economic data. In 1999, the Equato-Guinean Government began attempting to meet IMF-imposed requirements, maintaining contact with IMF and the World Bank representatives. However, the newfound oil wealth allowed the government to avoid improving fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability.\n\nInfrastructure is generally old and in poor condition. Surface transport is extremely limited at present, with little more than 700 kilometres of paved roads. The African Development Bank is helping to improve the paved roads from Malabo to Luba and Riaba; the Chinese are undertaking a project to link Mongomo to Bata on the mainland, and the European Union is financing an inter-states road network linking Equatorial Guinea to Cameroon and Gabon. Road maintenance is often inadequate.\n\nElectricity is available in Equatorial Guinea's larger towns thanks to three small overworked hydropower facilities and a number of aged generators. In 1999, national production was about 13 MWh. In Malabo, the American company, CMS-Nomeco, built a 10 megawatt electricity plant financed by the government, which came in line in mid-2000, and plans to double capacity are advancing. This plant provides improved service to the capital, although there are still occasional outages. On the mainland the largest city, Bata, still has regular blackouts.\n\nWater is only available in the major towns and is not always reliable because of poor maintenance and mismanagement. Some villages and rural areas are equipped with generators and water pumps, usually owned by private individuals.\n\nParastatal Getesa, a joint venture with a minority ownership stake held by a French subsidiary of Orange, provides telephone service in the major cities. The regular system is overextended, but Orange has introduced a popular GSM system, which is generally reliable in Malabo and Bata.\n\nEquatorial Guinea has two of the deepest Atlantic seaports of the region, including the main business and commercial port city of Bata. The ports of both Malabo and Bata are severely overextended and require extensive rehabilitation and reconditioning. The British company, Incat, has an ongoing project with the government to renovate and expand Luba, the country's third-largest port which is located on Bioko Island. The government hopes Luba will become a major transportation hub for offshore oil and gas companies operating in the Gulf of Guinea. Luba is located some 50 kilometres from Malabo and had been virtually inactive except for minor fishing activities and occasional use to ease congestion in Malabo. A new jetty is also being built at km 5 on the way from Malabo to the airport. It is a project mainly supposed to service the oil industry, but can also relieve the congested Malabo Port due to its closeness.\nThe Oil Jetty at km 5 was supposed to open the end of March 2003. Riaba is the other port of any scale on Bioko but is less active. The continental ports of Mbini and Cogo have deteriorated as well and are now used primarily for timber activities.\n\nThere are both air and sea connections between the two cities of Malabo and Bata. Most Soviet-built aircraft have been replaced mostly by ATR and Boeing operated by several small carriers, one state-owned, and the others private, constitute the national aircraft fleet. The runway at Malabo (3,200 m) is equipped with lights and can service aircraft similar to B777s and IL-76s. The one at Bata (2,400 m) does not operate at night but can accommodate aircraft as large as B737s. Their primary users are the national airline (EGA) and a private company (GEASA). Two minor airstrips (800 m) are located at Mongomo and Annobon. There are international connections out of Malabo to Madrid and Zurich in Europe and to Cotonou, Douala and Libreville in West Africa.\n\nAfter a slow start, Equatorial Guinea has recently emerged as a major oil producer in the Gulf of Guinea, one of the most promising hydrocarbon regions in the world. The main oil fields, Zafiro and Alba, both lie located offshore of Bioko island. In 1999 oil production was about five times its 1996 level; Zafiro Field, operated by Exxon Mobil and Ocean Energy, produced about , and CMS Nomeco extracted approximately . Aggressive field development and promising exploration activities may raise production to nearly within 2 to 3 years (slightly above the current estimated production of Gabon) according to the official sources.\n\nIn 1995 Mobil (now Exxon Mobil) discovered the large Zafiro field,\nwith estimated reserves of . Production began in 1996. The company announced a 3-year U.S.$1bn rapid-development program to boost output to by early 2001. Progress was delayed due to a contractual dispute with the government and by unexpectedly difficult geology. The difference with the government was eventually resolved.\n\nIn 1998 a more liberal regulatory and profit-sharing arrangement for hydrocarbon exploration and production activities was introduced. It revised and updated the production-sharing contract, which, until then, had favoured Western operators heavily. As a result, domestic oil receipts rose from 13% to 20% of oil export revenue. However, the government's share remains relatively poor by international standards.\n\nIn 1997 CMS Nomeco moved to expand its operation with a U.S.$300m methanol plant. The plant entered production in 2000 and helped boost natural gas condensate output from Alba field.\n\nIn August 1999 the government closed bidding on a new petroleum-licensing round for 53 unexplored deepwater blocks and seven shallow-water blocks. The response was small due to a combination of factors, including falling oil-prices, restructuring within the oil industry, and uncertainty over an undemarcated maritime border with Nigeria (which was not resolved until 2000).\n\nIn late 1999 Triton Energy, a U.S. independent, discovered La Ceiba in block G in an entirely new area offshore the mainland of the country. Triton expects a U.S.$200m development program to enable La Ceiba and associated fields to produce by late 2001, despite disappointments and technical problems at the beginning of the year.\n\nWith an upturn in oil prices, exploration intensified in 2000. In April 2000 U.S.-based Vanco Energy signed a production-sharing contract for the offshore block of Corisco Deep. In May 2000, Chevron was granted block L, offshore Rio Muni, and a further three production-sharing contracts (for blocks J, I, and H) were signed with Atlas Petroleum, a Nigerian company.\n\nIn early 2001 the government announced plans to establish a national oil company, to allow Equatorial Guinea to take a greater stake in the sector and to facilitate the more rapid transfer of skills. However, critics fear that such a company may become a vehicle for opaque accounting and inertia of the sort that has hindered development in neighbouring countries including Angola, Cameroon, and Nigeria.\n\nSince 2001 the government has created GEPetrol, a national oil company; and Sonagas, a national natural-gas company. The company EG LNG has been created to construct and operate the Bioko Island LNG plant and terminal. The plant began to operate in May 2007 and a second plant is now under development.\n\nEquatorial Guinea became a member of OPEC in May 2017.\n\nCattle and poultry production is rapidly reaching its pre-independence levels of self-sufficiency with the financial help of the African Development Bank. However, production of domesticated animals is hindered by the presence of trypanosomiasis and other tropical deterrents. In 2005 there were 37,600 sheep, 9,000 goats, 6,100 hogs, and 5,000 cattle.\n\nThe fishing industry gained strength through the 1980s and is now almost entirely modernized; a tuna processing plant went into operation in 1990. Annobón subsists almost entirely on fishing and retains its traditional preeminence in off shore whaling and turtle gathering. Bioko is also a major fishing center, the chief catches being perch, tuna, mackerel, cod, pike, shark, and crayfish. The country’s own catch was about 3,500 tons in 2003.\n\nTimber from Río Muni is Equatorial Guinea’s leading export. Forests cover over 62 percent of the land area. The Río Muni area on the mainland produces okoumé and akoga from rain forests of considerable age. Even though the government has given permission to foreign firms, exploitation is difficult due to infrastructural problems. The government enacted a new forestry action plan in 1990 in an effort to strengthen the sector’s development. In 2004, roundwood production was estimated at 811,000 cubic metres. In 2004, exports of forest products amounted to $97 million:\n\nThe following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "39409354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39409354", "title": "Ethel Tawse Jollie", "text": "Ethel Tawse Jollie\n\nEthel Maud Tawse Jollie (8 March 1874 – 21 September 1950; née Cookson; widowed Colquhoun) was a writer and political activist in Southern Rhodesia who was the first female parliamentarian in the British overseas empire.\n\nCookson was born Ethel Maude Cookson in Castle Church, Stafford, the daughter of Samuel Cookson, a doctor. She studied art under Anthony Ludovici at the Slade School of Fine Art where she met her first husband, explorer Archibald Ross Colquhoun. They married at St. Paul′s church, Stafford, on 8 March 1900, and she accompanied her husband on tours across Asia, the Pacific and Africa, before settling in Southern Rhodesia. After Colquhoun's death on 18 December 1914, she replaced him as editor of \"United Empire\" magazine. She later remarried a Rhodesian farmer called John Tawse Jollie.\n\nTawse Jollie was one of the front figures in the campaign for Rhodesian self-rule, founding the Responsible Government Association in 1917. She was a leading member of the National Service League, the Imperial Maritime League, the British Women's Emigration Society, the Women's Unionist Association, and the Southern Rhodesian Legislative Council. Ethel Tawse Jollie was an avowed anti-suffragist and anti-feminist. She died in Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia, on 21 September 1950.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37945241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37945241", "title": "Evander Smith", "text": "Evander Smith\n\nEvander Smith was an openly gay San Francisco lawyer who gained national attention for his efforts to legally block San Francisco police from harassing attendees of a fund-raising ball organized by the Council on Religion and the Homosexual, an early homophile organization, on January 1, 1965.\n\nOn the eve of January 1, 1965, several homophile organizations in San Francisco, California - including the Council on Religion and the Homosexual, the Society for Individual Rights, the Daughters of Bilitis, and the Mattachine Society - organized a fund-raising ball for their mutual benefit to be held at the California Hall. Prior to the ball, several of the ministers from the Council on Religion and the Homosexual met with the San Francisco police, who tried to get them to cancel it. The clergy members declined to cancel the event, and the San Francisco police initially agreed not to interfere. However, on the evening of the ball, the police showed up in force and surrounded the California Hall and focused numerous kleig lights on the entrance to the hall. As each of the 600 plus persons entering the ball approached the entrance, the police took their photographs. A number of police paddy wagons were parked in plain view near the entrance to the ball.\n\nEvander Smith, a lawyer for the groups organizing the ball, and Herb Donaldson, another openly gay lawyer, tried to stop the police from conducting the fourth \"inspection\" of the evening; both were arrested, along with two heterosexual lawyers - Elliott Leighton and Nancy May - who were supporting the rights of the participants to gather at the ball.\n\nOn January 2, 1965, ministers associated with the Council on Religion and the Homosexual held a news conference in protest of Smith, Donaldson, and the other two lawyers arrest as well as the police harassment that they ball attendees had been subjected to. Twenty-five of the most prominent lawyers in San Francisco joined the defense team for the four lawyers, and the judge directed the jury to find the four not-guilty before the defense had even had a chance to begin their argumentation when the case came to court.\n\nThis event has been called the \"San Francisco's Stonewall\" by some historians; The participation of such prominent litigators in the defense of the Smith, Donaldson, and the other two lawyers marked a turning point in gay rights on the West Coast of the United States.\n\nSmith went on to protest the Vietnam War and was one of a group of signatories to a full page ad calling on the San Francisco City Council to pass a resolution calling for an end to the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "3595465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595465", "title": "Fasci Siciliani", "text": "Fasci Siciliani\n\nThe Fasci Siciliani , short for Fasci Siciliani dei Lavoratori (Sicilian Workers Leagues), were a popular movement of democratic and socialist inspiration, which arose in Sicily in the years between 1889 and 1894. The Fasci gained the support of the poorest and most exploited classes of the island by channeling their frustration and discontent into a coherent programme based on the establishment of new rights. Consisting of a jumble of traditionalist sentiment, religiosity, and socialist consciousness, the movement reached its apex in the summer of 1893, when new conditions were presented to the landowners and mine owners of Sicily concerning the renewal of sharecropping and rental contracts.\n\nUpon the rejection of these conditions, there was an outburst of strikes that rapidly spread throughout the island, and was marked by violent social conflict, almost rising to the point of insurrection. The leaders of the movement were not able to keep the situation from getting out of control. The proprietors and landowners asked the government to intervene, and Prime Minister Francesco Crispi declared a state of emergency in January 1894, dissolving the organizations, arresting its leaders and restoring order through the use of extreme force. Some reforms followed, including workmen's compensation and pension schemes. The suppression of the strikes also led to an increase in emigration.\n\nThe Fasci movement was made up of a federation of scores of associations that developed among farm workers, tenant farmers, and small sharecroppers as well as artisans, intellectuals, and industrial workers. The immediate demands of the movement were fair land rents, higher wages, lower local taxes and distribution of misappropriated common land. Between 1889 and 1893 some 170 Fasci were established in Sicily. According to some sources the movement reached a membership of more than 300,000 by the end of 1893. The Fasci constituted autonomous organizations with their own insignia (red rosettes), uniforms and sometimes even musical bands, and their own local halls for reunions and congresses. They were called Fasci (\"Fascio\" literally means bundle) because everyone can break a single stick, but no one can break a bundle of sticks.\n\nWhile many of the leaders were of socialist or anarchist leanings, few of their supporters were revolutionaries. Nevertheless, the peasants who assembled into the Fasci were eager for social justice and convinced that a new world was about to be born. A crucifix hung beside the red flag in many of their meeting-places, and portraits of the King beside those of the revolutionaries Garibaldi, Mazzini and Marx. Cheers for the King were often heard in their marches that almost resembled quasi-religious processions. Many of the Fasci were part of the Italian Workers' Party (\"Partito dei Lavoratori Italiani\", the initial name of the Italian Socialist Party) that had been founded at a conference in Genoa on August 14, 1892.\n\nThe rural Fasci in particular were a curious phenomenon: both ancient and modern. They combined millenarian aspirations with urban intellectual leadership often in contact with workers’ organizations and ideas in the more industrialized Northern Italy. According to the Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm, the Fasci were millenarian insofar as the socialism preached by the movement was seen by the Sicilian peasantry as a new religion, the true religion of Christ – betrayed by the priests, who were on the side of the rich – that foretold the dawn of a new world, without poverty, hunger and cold, in accordance with God’s will. The Fasci, which included many women, were encouraged by the messianic belief that the start of a new reign of justice was looming and the movement spread like an epidemic.\n\nThe Fasci were the result of the revolt of the Sicilian peasants against the introduction of capitalist relationships into the rural economy aggravated by the world depression in agriculture of the 1880s. The agrarian crisis between 1888 and 1892 led to a steep decrease in wheat prices. The island’s main sources of wealth – wine, fruit and sulphur – suffered a heavy blow. The dominant landowning class channeled most of the economic burden on to the peasantry, in the form of higher rents and discriminatory local taxation. As social tension rose, a handful of young and hitherto quite unknown socialist intellectuals – many of them recent graduates of Palermo University – seized their opportunity. The movement grew under the first government of Prime minister Francesco Crispi (1887-1891) and coincided with unpopular tax increases and ratification of a series of laws curtailing personal freedom. The Italian economy had been sliding into a deep recession since the late 1880s. New protective tariffs had been introduced in 1887 on agricultural and industrial goods, followed by a trade war with France, which badly damaged Italian commerce and affecting Italy’s agricultural exports, the only potentially dynamic economic sector of southern Italy. Many farmers suffered severely.\nThe first official \"Fascio\" was founded on May 1 (Labour Day), 1891, in Catania by Giuseppe de Felice Giuffrida. (An earlier \"Fascio\" was set up in Messina on March 18, 1889, but was dormant after its founder, Nicola Petrina, was arrested in July of that year and not released until 1892. Another reason why the first \"Fascio\" of Messina – formed after the example of the \"Fasci operai\" [Workers leagues] constituted in Central and North Italy from 1871 – did not develop was that it brought together not individual workers but the workers' associations of the city, which retained their independence, their status and economic orientation.) Other leaders included Rosario Garibaldi Bosco in Palermo, Nicola Barbato in Piana dei Greci, Bernardino Verro in Corleone, and Lorenzo Panepinto in Santo Stefano Quisquina. While the ruling elite depicted the men of the Fasci as treasonous socialists, communists and anarchists seeking to overthrow the monarchy; in fact many were devout Catholics and monarchists. The movement sometimes had a messianic nature, characterised by statements such as \"Jesus was a true socialist and wanted just what the Fasci were demanding.\" Nicola Barbato was known as \"the workers' apostle.\"\n\nThe keenest socialist among the Fasci leaders was Garibaldi Bosco. In August 1892 he attended the Socialist party’s congress at Genoa and on his return obediently purged his fascio of its anarchist and other non-socialist members. His ideal of a united democratic front was shared by the father of Sicilian socialism, Napoleone Colajanni. The leader in Catania, De Felice, also maintained contact with leading anarchists like Amilcare Cipriani. On these and other important issues there was much friction between Catania and Palermo.\n\nCrispi was replaced as prime minister by Antonio Di Rudinì in February 1891, who was succeeded by Giovanni Giolitti in May 1892. On January 20, 1893, when peasants of Caltavuturo occupied communal land that they claimed was theirs, local authorities killed 13 and wounded 21 in the Caltavuturo massacre. Disturbances continued throughout the year. The Fasci started out as urban movements, animated by artisans, which evolved into a more popular and combative mass movement with the adherence of sulphur miners, and in a later stage with the involvement of peasants and sharecroppers. In the autumn of 1893, labour conflicts in the cities and the mines came together with the protests and claims of the farmers. The movement reached its greatest breadth in the manifestations against taxes, involving the lowest tiers of the city and the countryside, becoming difficult, if not impossible, to control by its leaders.\n\nFrom its initial origins in Eastern Sicily, especially in Catania, the movement got its real impetus with the establishment of the \"Fascio\" of Palermo on June 29, 1892. The Leagues rapidly radiated over all Sicily. In the spring of 1893 the leaders of the movement decided to carry their propaganda to the peasants and miners of the countryside. Between March and October the number of fasci grew from 35 to 162 with more than 200,000 members.\n\nOn May 21–22, 1893, a Congress was held in Palermo attended by 500 delegates from nearly 90 leagues and socialist circles. A Central Committee was elected, composed of nine members: Giacomo Montalto for the province of Trapani, Nicola Petrina for the province of Messina, Giuseppe De Felice Giuffrida for the province of Catania, Luigi Leone for the province of Siracusa, Antonio Licata for the province of Agrigento, Agostino Lo Piano Pomar for the province of Caltanissetta, Rosario Garibaldi Bosco, Nicola Barbato and Bernardino Verro for the province of Palermo. The Congress decided that all Leagues were obliged to join the Italian Workers' Party (\"Partito dei Lavoratori Italiani\"), the predecessor of the PSI.\n\nIn July 1893 a peasant conference at Corleone drafted model agrarian contracts for labourers, sharecroppers and tenants and presented them to the landowners. When those refused to negotiate, a strike against landowners and against state taxes broke out over a large part of western Sicily. The so-called \"Patti di Corleone\" (Corleone Covenants), are considered by historians to be the first trade union collective contract in capitalist Italy. In September the state authorities intervened and some of the landowners were persuaded to capitulate. Elsewhere the strike continued until November 1893. Railwaymen of Catania and Palermo, the sulphur-miners and many other workers followed their example winning higher wages or better working conditions.\n\nIn October 1893, a congress of miners was held in Grotte in the Province of Agrigento which was attended by some 1,500 people, including workers and small producers. The miners demanded that the minimum age to be raised to 14 years for those who worked in the sulfur mines, the decrease of working hours and setting a minimum wage. Small producers demanded measures to avoid exploitation by large owners. The minimum-age measure was meant to improve the situation for the \"carusi\", minors that worked in conditions of near-slavery that sparked public outrage and inspired many complaints.\n\nThe successful struggle convinced the Sicilian ruling elite that the \"upheaval\" had to be stopped. They were seized by panic and some even demanded the closing of all schools to halt the spread of subversive doctrines. Prefects and frightened local councils bombarded Rome with requests for the immediate suppression of the Fasci. Despite the heavy pressure from the King, the army and conservative circles in Rome, however, Giolitti would neither treat strikes – which were not illegal – as a crime nor dissolve the Fasci nor authorise the use of firearms against popular demonstrations. His policy was “to allow these economic struggles to resolve themselves through amelioration of the condition of the workers” and not to interfere in the process.\n\nNonetheless, Giolitti acknowledged the need to stifle the agitation. From May 1893 onwards, leaders of the Fasci were arrested occasionally and police and military reinforcements were sent to Sicily. In the autumn of 1893 the leadership lost control over the Fasci and the popular agitation got out of hand. Peasant squatters seized land, violent crowds demonstrated for work and against local misgovernment, tax offices were burnt down and clashes with the police grew more frequent and bloody. The violent social conflict almost rose to the point of insurrection. The proprietors and landowners asked the government to intervene.\n\nHowever, his attitude could not be maintained. Landowners were infuriated by the unwillingness of the government to use force, while the peasants were annoyed by the unwillingness to redistribute land from the latifundia. Landowners matched the strike with a lockout, and many peasants, probably a majority in the strike centres, were left without tenancies when the planting season ended in mid-December. In December 1893 the failure of the Giolitti government to restore public order gave rise to a general demand that Crispi should return to power. Giolitti had to resign on November 24, 1893, as a result of the Banca Romana scandal.\n\nIn addition to the unrest in Sicily, a wave of rioting spread through Italy in August 1893, triggered by the killing of a number of migrant workers in the salt pans of Aigues Mortes in southern France escalated into a more generalized working-class revolt supported by anarchists and violent riots in Rome and Naples. Italy seemed to be slipping to a revolution. By the time Crispi returned to power in December 1893, Italy appeared to many to be on the brink of collapse. Crispi promised important measures of land reform for the near future. He was not blind to the misery and the need for social reform. Before 1891 he had been the patron of the Sicilian working-class and many of their associations had been named after him. Colajanni, the chief architect of Giolitti’s fall by exposing the \"Banca Romana\" scandal, was first offered the Ministry of Agriculture, which he refused, then sent to Sicily on a mission of appeasement.\n\nCrispi’s good intentions got lost in the outcry for strong measures. In the three weeks of uncertainty before the government was formed, the rapid spread of violence drove many local authorities to defy Giolitti’s ban on the use of firearms. In December 1893, 92 peasants lost their lives in clashes with the police and army. Government building were burned as well as flour mills and bakeries that refused to lower their prices when taxes were lowered or abolished. Eleven people were killed on December 10, 1893, in Giardinello after a rally that asked for the abolition of taxes on food and disbandment of the local field guards (\"guardie campestri\"). The protestors carried the portrait of the King taken from the municipality and burned tax files. On December 17, 1893, many people were wounded when troops fired on a manifestation in Monreale. Another 11 protestors were killed in Lercara Friddi on December 25. On January 1, 1894, 20 people were killed and many wounded in Gibellina and Pietraperzia. On January 2, there two dead in Belmonte Mezzagno and the next day 18 dead and many wounded in Marineo. Two days after, on January 5, thirteen dead and many wounded closed the series in Santa Caterina.\n\nThe disorders were not the product of a revolutionary plot, but Crispi chose to believe otherwise. On the basis of dubious documents and reports, Crispi claimed that there was an organised conspiracy to separate Sicily from Italy; the leaders of the Fasci conspired with the clerics and were financed by French gold, and war and invasion were looming.\n\nOn January 3, 1894, Crispi declared a state of siege throughout Sicily. Army reservists were recalled and General Roberto Morra di Lavriano was dispatched with 40,000 troops. The old order was restored through the use of extreme force, including summary executions. The Fasci were outlawed, the army and the police killed scores of protesters, and wounded hundreds. Thousands of militants, including all the leaders, were put in jail or sent into internal exile. Some 1,000 persons were deported to the penal islands without trial. All working-class societies and cooperatives were dissolved and the freedom of the press, meeting and association were suspended. A solidarity revolt of anarchists and republicans in the Lunigiana was crushed as well. The government also seized the opportunity to 'revise' the electoral registers. In Catania 5,000 of the 9,000 electors were struck off.\n\nIn the early days of January, 1894 a meeting of the Central Committee of the Fasci took place in Palermo to discuss the position of the movement. Two sharply contrasting positions emerged. De Felice Giuffrida, known for his anarchist tendencies, supported the need to take advantage of the situation of unrest to provoke a revolution on the island. However, the majority took an opposite view, arguing the need to proceed peacefully. A revolt was not only inappropriate, but it would be detrimental to the movement. The meeting condemned the violent incidents in various parts of the island, and launched an appeal to stay calm and not to retaliate. In the end De Felice Giuffrida accepted the position of the majority. But the die was cast for the authorities to arrest De Felice, Montalto, Petrina, and others. Garibaldi Bosco, Barbato and Verro were arrested on board the steamship \"Bagnara\" that was about to leave for Tunis.\n\nOn February 28, 1894 Crispi presented the \"evidence\" for a widespread conspiracy in parliament: the so-called \"International Treaty of Bisacquino\", signed by the French Government, the Czar of Russia, Giuseppe De Felice, the anarchists and the Vatican, with the goal to detach Sicily from the rest of the country and put it under a Franco-Russian protectorate. The Radical deputy Felice Cavallotti ridiculed the conspiracy of Crispi, poking fun at \"the famous treaty between the Emperor of Russia, the President of the French Republic, and Mr De Felice\". The so-called \"Treaty of Bisacquino\" was so named not because it was signed in the Sicilian town, but because it had been invented by the Director of Public Safety of Bisacquino, the Neapolitan Sessi.\n\nThe trials of the central committee of the Fasci, that took place in Palermo in April and May 1894, were the final blow to the movement. In spite of an eloquent defence, which turned the Court into a political platform and thrilled every socialist in the country, they were condemned to heavy sentences of imprisonment. On May 30, 1894, the leaders of the movement received their sentence: Giuseppe de Felice Giuffrida to 18 years and Rosario Bosco, Nicola Barbato and Bernardino Verro to 12 years in jail.\n\n“In front of you,” Barbato told the judges, “we provided the documents and evidence of our innocence. My friends thought it necessary to support their defence legally; I will not do so. Not because I have no confidence in you, but it is the law that does not concern me. So I do not defend myself. You have to sentence: we are the elements that destroy your sacred institutions. You have to sentence: it is logical, human. I will always pay tribute to your loyalty. But we say to our friends outside: do not ask for pardon, do not ask for amnesty. Socialist civilization should not begin with an act of cowardice. We demand a condemnation, we do not ask for mercy. Martyrs are more useful to the holy cause than any propaganda. Condemn us!” \n\nThe heavy sentence aroused strong reactions in Italy and in the United States. In Palermo a group of students went to the Teatro Bellini and asked the orchestra to perform the hymn of Garibaldi. And the theatre applauded. In March 1896, after Crispi had to resign due to the humiliating defeat of the Italian army at Battle of Adwa in Ethiopia during First Italo-Ethiopian War, the new government under Prime minister Antonio Di Rudinì recognized the excessive brutality of the repression. Many Fasci members were pardoned and released from jail. Di Rudinì made it clear though that a reorganization of the Fasci would not be tolerated. After their release, De Felice, Barbato and Bosco were met by a large crowd of supporters in Rome, who released the horses form their carriage and dragged them to the hotel, cheering for socialism and denouncing Crispi.\n\nThe brutal repression backfired to some extent. The Fasci leaders used the military tribunals to make impassioned and well-reported speeches in their defence. The tribunals were too repressive and revolted the Liberal consciences of many Northern Italians. In an attempt to regain his former 'left wing', Crispi introduced a bill in July 1894 to take over large estates and uncultivated land. The idea was to rent out the land on long leases in medium-sized holdings and leaseholders would be given reduced credit and tax concessions. While the bill failed to convince the Radicals and democrats of Crispi's good intentions, it angered the Sicilian landowners. After the suppression of the Fasci those were now unwilling to make any concessions. Under the leadership of Di Rudiní, they battled against the bill. When Crispi fell from power after Adwa in March 1896, their proponent Di Rudiní became Prime Minister and the Sicilian landowners were safe.\n\nNevertheless, the revolt inspired social reforms. In 1898 two measures of social legislation were passed by the minister of the treasury of Di Rudini’s cabinet, Luigi Luzzatti. The industrial workmen’s compensation scheme from 1883 was made obligatory with the employer bearing all costs; and a voluntary fund for contributory disability and old age pensions was created.\n\nMany former adherents of the Fasci left Sicily. Life had grown hard and employment difficult to find because of their involvement with the movement. For those in Sicily who wanted to change their life for the better in those days, there were only two alternatives: rebel or emigrate. After the failure of the rebellion many peasants had no choice but to vote with their feet and opted for emigration. Others remained, and a year later, in 1895, protests against unjust taxes and about the issue of communal land resumed in many towns in Sicily. The disbandment of troop had to be postponed.\n\nAccording to Hobsbawm, the Fasci were a prime example of primitive agrarian movement that became modern by aligning itself with socialism and communism. Many of its leaders continued in the Socialist Party and continued the struggle for land rights and land reform once they were released. Despite the 1894 defeat, permanent movements were set up in some areas of Sicily using modern socialist models of organisation.\n\nWith the dissolution of the Fasci, the unrest on Sicily did not subside. In January 1898, peasants demanding work and bread ransacked the town hall in Siculiana. In the fall of 1901, Sicilian peasants – following the example of numerous agrarian strikes that were affecting the whole of Italy – again set off a wave of agrarian unrest, conscious of the fact that in a way they resumed \"the march abruptly interrupted in 1894 by the repression of the Fasci.\" Just as the Fasci movement, one of the main goals of the 1901 strikes and was a revision of the land leases to undermine the economic power of the gabellotti. After the First World War the communist movement In Sicily built on the incipient organisational structures of the Fasci, such as during the Biennio Rosso. The Fasci inspired social struggle in Sicily well into the 1950s.\n\nThe role of women in the Fasci siciliani was substantial, but is regularly overlooked in historical accounts. Women were often at the forefront of demonstrations and strikes, speaking in public meetings and conferences. During municipal elections they made sure that men were going to vote (women did not have the right to vote at the time). They patrolled the taverns to prevent the men from betraying the duty of militancy with bottles of wine. They also took care of many organizational aspects and were particularly active in proselytizing for the movement, decorating the stage of the rallies, preparing ceremonies such as the inauguration opening of the flag of the Fasci, and welcoming the leaders who came to the towns with flowers.\n\nWomen were among the most ardent. In some municipalities the women organized themselves into women's sections and in others even in exclusively female Fasci. The strongest and most numerous presence of women was in the Fascio of Piana degli Albanesi, where over a thousand of the 3,500 members were women in a town of 9,000 inhabitants. For the Fasci the women abandoned the Church, but not the religious sentiment, to protest against the priests, who had tried to frighten them and isolate them with the threat of excommunication. In Piana the women organised a boycott of annual religious procession in protest of the priest’s opposition to the movement in 1893.\n\nAt the congress in Palermo in May 1893 where the union of all the Fasci in Sicily was decided, Maria Cammarata, of the Fascio of Piana, urged the audience to ensure the registration of women. The presence and political sophistication of the female representatives at the congress surprised the editor of the \"Giornale di Sicilia\": \"I could not believe it myself. They spoke loudly and clearly, with ease and astonishing courage.\" One of the most prominent women was Marietta De Felice Giuffrida, the daughter of Giuseppe de Felice Giuffrida – one of the founders of the movement. Only 14 years old, she accompanied her father throughout Sicily to help him setting up Fasci in the interior. She was \"extraordinarily animated by the spirit of socialism, who spoke to the people with a fervour of a missionary, and because of her sex and age, she commanded the fascination of the masses.\"\n\nThe authorities watched the Fasci closely and in a report to the government in Rome noticed that the female Fasci in Piana, Belmonte Mezzagno and San Giuseppe Jato should be considered as dangerous. The women had developed \"highly successful propaganda activities and revolutionary agendas, through which they exercised considerable influence on the other fasci in the region.\"\n\nSome historians emphasize that the leagues were engaged in class struggle against a coalition of landowners and mafiosi and ignore evidence of strategic alliances between the Fasci and the Mafia. The leagues were not only led by socialists and anarchists; some were run by local gentry and mafiosi. The Mafia bosses Vito Cascioferro and Nunzio Giaimo led the Fasci in Bisacquino in alliance with Verro. The Mafia was sometimes needed to enforce flying pickets with credible threats of violence and to make the strike costly to landowners by destroying their property.\n\nIn order to give the strike teeth and to protect himself from harm, Verro became a member of a Mafia group in Corleone, the \"Fratuzzi\" (Little Brothers). However, during the great strike of the Fasci in September 1893, the \"Fratuzzi\" mobilized to boycott it, providing the necessary manpower to work on the lands that the peasants refused to cultivate. After that, Verro broke away from the mafiosi, and – according to police reports – became their most bitter enemy. He was killed by the Mafia in 1915 when he was the mayor of Corleone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33074533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33074533", "title": "Furness General Hospital scandal", "text": "Furness General Hospital scandal\n\nThe Furness General Hospital scandal involves an investigation by Cumbria Constabulary and other government and public bodies into the deaths of several mothers and newborn babies, during the 2000s at Furness General Hospital (FGH) in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, England. Cases date back to 2004, with a number of major incidents occurring in 2008. The death of Joshua Titcombe and a suppressed report by the Morecambe Bay NHS Trust brought the spotlight onto FGH in 2011 when investigations began. Claims of medical records being intentionally destroyed alongside the discovery of major wrongdoing on behalf of midwives led to threats of closure to the maternity ward.\n\nThe scandal was covered in a 2012 BBC \"Panorama\" episode titled \"How Safe is Your Hospital?\" with the Stafford Hospital scandal. In June 2013, Cumbria Constabulary announced they would only be pursuing the Titcombe case and that other complaints would not proceed to a criminal prosecution. Later in the same month, the British medical community was rocked by allegations that the Care Quality Commission, which took part in investigations, was fully aware of concerns of maternity care at FGH as early as 2008 and gave the hospital a clean bill of health in 2010, having destroyed evidence to the contrary.\n\nThe independently issued Morecambe Bay Investigation Report was published in 2015, stating a 'lethal mix' of 'serious and shocking' failings had led to the deaths of eleven babies and one mother. The report recommended a national review of maternity care and thorough investigations of staff members involved by the General Medical Council and Nursing and Midwifery Council. Numerous investigations have discovered serious failings, corruption and cover-ups on every level; investigations continue and no individual has been held accountable for the deaths at FGH. The criminal investigation into the scandal was concluded in April 2015 with no prosecutions.\n\nPolice did not announce the number of deaths being investigated but six known are listed below. Several families of the victims have revealed that they are suing the University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Trust, claiming clinical negligence. The claim of Carl Hendrickson (husband and father of Nittaya and Chester Hendrickson respectively) alone is expected to exceed £50,000.\n\nIn September 2011, Cumbria Constabulary assigned 15 officers to investigate the deaths of at least four babies and two mothers during 2008 at FGH; it is alleged that midwives at the hospital destroyed medical records to cover up their mistakes. On 13 September, several national newspapers reported that race played a role in the hospital's wrongdoings after it was revealed 83 percent of serious incidents at FGH in 2008 involved ethnic minorities, while only 2 percent of Barrow's population is non-white. Cumbria Constabulary have however refused to pursue the racial angle of the crime.\n\nOther bodies involved in the investigation include health watchdog, the Care Quality Commission and the Nursing and Midwifery Council. A report by the CQC threatened to close the maternity ward at FGH by 21 November 2011 if major changes were not implemented. The NMC identified 19 areas requiring urgent improvement, including governance, risk management, collaborative working and leadership.\n\nIn late October 2011, during the height of the investigation, leaked figures revealed that FGH had the worst mortality rate of any hospital in England. The mortality ratio for the University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Trust (which also runs hospitals in Lancaster and Kendal) stood at 124, significantly higher than national average. It is suspected that up to 16 babies and two mothers died at FGH due to poor care with over 30 claims for compensation; despite this Cumbria police narrowed their investigation in 2013 to focus on the death of just one child and decided not to prosecute over any of the other deaths.\n\nIn August 2012 new Care Quality Commission (CQC) chief executive David Behan commissioned a report by management consultants Grant Thornton. The report examining the CQCs response to complaints about baby and maternal deaths and injuries at Furness General Hospital, was instigated by a complaint from a member of the public and \"an allegation of a 'cover-up', submitted by a whistleblower at CQC.\" It was published on 19 June 2013.\n\nAmong the findings, the CQC was \"accused of quashing an internal review that uncovered weaknesses in its processes\" and had allegedly \"deleted the review of their failure to act on concerns about University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Trust\". One CQC employee claimed that he was instructed by a senior manager \"to destroy his review because it would expose the regulator to public criticism\". The report concluded \"We think that the information contained in the [deleted] report was sufficiently important that the deliberate failure to provide it could properly be characterised as a 'cover-up'\".\n\nIn June 2013, following a series of critical reports and facing 30 civil claims for negligence, it was announced that the organisation would be subjected to a public inquiry. David Prior, who was appointed CQC Chair in February 2013, admitted that the organisation was \"not fit for purpose\". Jeremy Hunt, the Secretary of State for Health, issued an official apology in the House of Commons for \"the appalling suffering\" of the 30 families involved.\n\nOn 20 June 2013, Behan and Prior agreed to release the names of redacted senior managers within the Grant Thornton report, who were alleged had suppressed the internal CQC report. The people named were the former CQC Chief Executive Cynthia Bower, deputy CEO Jill Finney and media manager Anna Jefferson, who were all said by Grant Thornton to be present at a meeting where deletion of a critical report was allegedly discussed. Bower and Jefferson immediately denied being involved in a cover-up. In a later interview with \"The Independent\", Bower accused the CQC of commissioning \"a report... that was neither fair nor reasonable and \"against natural justice\", but admitted that the CQC inspection process, whilst she was CEO, had failed to uncover the failings at Morecambe Bay trust. She said: \"We should have registered it with conditions.\". Finney brought an action for libel against the commission, denying that she had been part of a cover-up. The commission agreed in an out-of-court settlement to pay her £60,000 in damages and £510,000 towards her legal fees.\n\nThe Morecambe Bay Investigation Report was the independent public inquiry conducted by Bill Kirkup on behalf of the government into maternity and neonatal services and care at FGH, between 2004 and 2013. It was published in March 2015 with a damning verdict. The report stated the deaths of eleven babies and one mother at FGH were avoidable and a result of a 'lethal mix' of failings. Amongst the findings were that the maternity unit had been 'dysfunctional', with 'substandard care' provided by staff 'deficient in skills and knowledge'. Working relationships between doctors and midwives had been extremely poor, there had been 'significant organisational failure' on behalf of the Care Quality Commission and the North West Health Authority and Parliamentary and the Health Services Ombudsman had failed to take opportunities that could have brought the problems to light sooner. The report also stated that the Department of Health had been reliant on misleadingly optimistic assessments from regulators; 44 recommendations were made in the report, ranging from action to be taken on midwives involved, to national reviews on maternity care.\n\nThe Nursing and Midwifery Council was criticised by Kirkup, for the way it handled the investigation resulting from events at University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust, relating to misconduct by two midwives involved in the Furness General Hospital scandal. He said their response to his report had \"fallen far short of expectations\". The Professional Standards Authority said the regulator's investigation was \"deficient\" because evidence was not presented to the panel by the council even though it had it in its possession.\n\nIn November 2011, the University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Trust announced plans to replace outdated equipment and rebuild FGH's maternity ward at a cost of £5 million. A random inspection in September 2012 by the CQC found that recommended changes had been made and found quality and safety standards being met.\n\n"}
{"id": "26297578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26297578", "title": "Furnished Houses (Rent Control) Act 1946", "text": "Furnished Houses (Rent Control) Act 1946\n\nThe Furnished Houses (Rent Control) Act 1946 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that and set up rent tribunals to control rents in the private sector. and regulated renting prices. Following the Second World War, the practice of limiting rent prices had been introduced due to the scarcity of rented property, which made it a \"seller's market\".\n\nThe Act was intended to stop the high prices in furnished properties being rented out; as they were furnished, they were not covered by previous Rent Acts. It was given the Royal Assent on 26 March 1946. The Act was heavily influenced by the Ridley Committee, established to investigate rent control methods, which reported in 1945.\n\nThe Act set up rent assessment committees, which were given to districts after a consultation with the Minister of Health or his representative. Upon these tribunals being established in a district, they set a fixed maximum of rent for furnished dwellings, making it illegal for the landlord to charge more. The tribunals were criticised for their slow pace and for failing to charge landlords for previous exorbitant rent prices, and the Act was repealed by Section 117 of the Rent Act 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9393990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9393990", "title": "Halachic state", "text": "Halachic state\n\nHalachic state (, \"Medinat ha-Halakha\") is the idea of a Jewish state governed by Halakha, Jewish religious law.\n\nAn opinion poll released in March 2016 by the Pew Research Center found high support for a Halachic state among religious Israeli Jews. The poll found that 86% of Israeli Haredi Jews and 69% of non-Haredi religious Jews support making Halacha Israel's legal code, while 57% of traditional Jews and 90% of secular Jews oppose such a move.\n\nJust a couple of parties like Chayil and Kahanist groups actively promote this (Kahanists such as Kach and Kahane Chai advocate the abolition of secular democracy and the creation of a Halakhic state in its stead). In contrast, United Torah Judaism (UTJ) and Shas believe that a Jewish-run state is halakhically forbidden until the Messianic age (based on the Three Oaths). Therefore, the aspiration is essentially messianic, and they are not trying to implement it. Meimad is the only Jewish religious political party in Israel that actively opposes a Halachic state. The National Religious Party wishes to increase the Jewish religious character of the state incrementally by influencing individuals.\n\nThe Lubavitcher Rebbe advocated the transformation of Israel into a Halachic state after the Messiah comes. He also pointed out many times that according to Jewish tradition, the arrival of the Moshiach, the Jewish Messiah, would bring the Land of Israel to be under the rule of the Halacha. This state would be a monarchy, with Moshiach at its head.\n\nIn 2009, Justice Minister Yaakov Neeman stated that \"step by step, Torah law will become the binding law in the State of Israel. We have to reinstate the traditions of our forefathers, the teaching of the rabbis of the ages, because these offer a solution to all the issues we are dealing with today.\" He later retracted his statement. According to 2002 Israel Prize winner Nahum Rakover, who received the Yakir Yerushalayim prize for his research on the use of Jewish law in the legal system, Neeman's opinion was nothing new. He said that the idea is supported in the Foundations of Law Act, passed in 1980, which encourages judges to use Jewish law in their decisions. Former president of the Israeli Supreme Court, Yitzhak Kahan, recommended that Jewish law be implemented even in cases of an existing precedent, although his opinion was not accepted, and former justice ministers Shmuel Tamir and Moshe Nissim advocated teaching judges and lawyers Jewish law to provide them with the necessary knowledge to implement the law.\n\nThe 2004 attempt to revive the Sanhedrin as an upper house in Israel (with either the resulting bicameral legislature or the lower house inheriting the title Knesset) was also regarded as an attempt to move the Israeli government to a halakhic state of governance and jurisprudence.\n\nIn 2014, Israel's cabinet advanced a that would define Israel as \"the nation-state of the Jewish people\" and also said that Jewish law would be a \"source of inspiration\" for the Knesset. This was seen by non-Orthodox Jews as a step toward enforcing Orthodox halakha as the law of the land.\n\n"}
{"id": "116938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=116938", "title": "Harvard, Massachusetts", "text": "Harvard, Massachusetts\n\nHarvard is a quiet affluent town in Worcester County, Massachusetts. The town is located 25 miles west-northwest of Boston, in eastern Massachusetts. A farming community settled in 1658 and incorporated in 1732, it has been home to several non-traditional communities, such as Harvard Shaker Village and the utopian Transcendentalist center Fruitlands. Today it is an affluent residential town noted for its excellent public schools, with its students consistently ranking in the state's top ten test results in English and math. The population was 6,520 at the 2010 census. \n\nEuropeans first settled in what later became Harvard in the 17th century, along a road connecting Lancaster with Groton that was formally laid out in 1658. There were few inhabitants until after King Philip's War, in which Groton and Lancaster were attacked and substantially destroyed. Over the next 50 years the population grew until it had reached a point adequate to support a church. A new town including parts of Lancaster, Groton, and Stow was incorporated in 1732, subject to the proviso that the inhabitants \"Settle a learned and Orthodox Minister among them within the space of two years and also erect an House for the publick Worship of God.\" It is uncertain how the town obtained its name, though the Willard family, among the first settlers and the largest proprietors in the new town, had several connections to Harvard College. The first minister was Rev. John Seccombe, serving from 1733-1757. \n\nIn 1734, the town was considered to have five districts or villages. These were Oak Hill, Bare Hill, Still River, Old Mill and Shabikin, present day Devens.\n\nOne notable early enterprise based in Harvard was the Benjamin Ball Pencil Company which produced some of the first writing instruments made in the United States. They operated in the Old Mill district from 1830 to 1860. Despite this and other limited manufacturing, the town economy was primarily based on agriculture until the middle of the 20th century. This past is most prominently visible in the number of apple orchards. It is now mostly a residential \"bedroom community\" for workers at companies in Boston and its suburbs. Harvard has had a relatively quiet history, but has attracted several \"non-traditional\" communities that have given its history some flavor.\n\nOne part of town is the site of Harvard Shaker Village, where a utopian religious community was established. During a period of religious dissent, a number of Harvard residents abandoned the Protestant church in Harvard. They built in 1769 a house that later became known as the Square House. The Shaker Founder Mother Ann Lee met with this group in 1781 and the group joined her United Society of Believers in Christ’s Second Appearing, or Shakers.\n\nIt was the first Shaker settlement in Massachusetts and the second settlement in the United States. The Harvard Shaker Village Historic District is located in the vicinity of Shaker Road, South Shaker Road, and Maple Lane. At its largest, the Shakers owned about 2,000 acres of land in Harvard. By 1890, the Harvard community had dwindled to less than 40, from a peak of about 200 in the 1850s. In 1917 the Harvard Shaker Village was closed and sold. Only one Shaker building is open to the public, at Fruitlands Museum; the remaining surviving buildings are in private ownership.\n\nNationally, 19 Shaker communities had been established in the 1700s and 1800s, mostly in northeastern United States. Community locations ranged from Maine to Kentucky and Indiana. The Shakers were renowned for plain architecture and furniture, and reached its national peak membership in the 1840s and 1850s. The Shaker community's practice of celibacy meant that to maintain its population, it was always necessary to have new outsiders join. The improving employment opportunities provided by the Industrial Revolution would over the middle decades of the 1800s diminish the attractions of joining the Shaker community. Today, only one church \"society\" remains open, run by the last Shakers at Sabbathday Lake Shaker Village in New Gloucester, Maine.\n\nAmos Bronson Alcott relocated his family, including his ten-year-old daughter, Louisa May Alcott, to Harvard in June 1843. He and Charles Lane attempted to establish a utopian transcendentalist socialist farm called Fruitlands on the slopes of Prospect Hill in Harvard. The experimental community only lasted 7 months, closing in January 1844. Fruitlands, so called \"because the inhabitants hoped to live off the fruits of the land, purchasing nothing from the outside world,\" saw visits from the likes of Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson. Louisa May Alcott used her experience at Fruitlands as an inspiration for her novel \"Little Women\".\n\nClara Endicott Sears, whose summer estate was also situated on Prospect Hill, restored Fruitlands and opened it as a museum in 1914. On the grounds of Fruitlands Museum there is also a Shaker house, which was relocated there from Harvard's Shaker Village by Sears in 1920. It is the first Shaker museum ever established in the United States. In addition, Sears opened a gallery on the property dedicated to Native American history. Sears became interested in Native Americans after Nipmuck arrowheads were found around her property on Prospect Hill, which the Nipmuck Indians had called Makamacheckamucks.\n\nOriginally, Sears' Fruitlands property spanned , but in 1939, were seized by eminent domain for expansion of Fort Devens. As of 2010, that land is now part of the Oxbow National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nFiske Warren, a follower of Henry George, attempted to establish a single tax zone in Harvard in 1918. The enclave bought up land communally and attempted to manage the land according to George's principles. The enclave failed soon after Warren died in 1938. His house was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1996.\n\nFather Leonard Feeney was a Jesuit priest who held to a literal interpretation of the doctrine \"Extra Ecclesiam nulla salus\". His St Benedict Center at Harvard College in Cambridge made numerous converts in the 1940s, among them Avery Cardinal Dulles, the son of John Foster Dulles, secretary of state in the Eisenhower administration. Feeney was excommunicated in 1953. Cardinal Medeiros of Boston visited Feeney on his deathbed and apologized for the heavy-handed way he had been treated by the ecclesiastical authorities 30 years before. A branch of the Saint Benedict Center is located in Still River, on the west side of Harvard.\n\nIn Still River there is an abbey of Benedictine monks which branched from the St. Benedict Center. There are six brothers and seven priests. They focus on reverently saying the both \"Novus Ordo\" and \"Tridentine\" Mass and chanting the Divine Office in Latin. Their current abbot is the Right Reverend Xavier Connelly, OSB, who was elected June 16, 2010.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , of which is land and , or 2.26%, is water.\n\nThe town is largely wooded with small rolling hills, fields and wetlands. In addition to the numerous streams and brooks throughout Harvard, Bare Hill Pond is a central, iconic locale.\n\nHarvard and the surrounding area are renowned for apple orchards and riding stables.\n\nHarvard is located in MetroWest, surrounded by several towns:\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 5,981 people, 1,809 households, and 1,494 families residing in the town. The population density was 226.9 people per square mile (87.6/km). There were 2,225 housing units at an average density of 84.4 per square mile (32.6/km). The racial makeup of the town was 91.69% White, 4.50% African American, 0.17% Native American, 1.97% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 0.50% from other races, and 1.12% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6.09% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,809 households out of which 44.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 73.4% were married couples living together, 6.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 17.4% were non-families. 14.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 4.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.86 and the average family size was 3.18.\n\nIn the town the population was spread out with 26.6% under the age of 18, 4.0% from 18 to 24, 29.5% from 25 to 44, 32.3% from 45 to 64, and 7.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females there were 124.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 133.6 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $117,934, and the median income for a family was $139,352. Males had a median income of $90,937 versus $49,318 for females. The per capita income for the town was $50,867. About 0.5% of families and 2.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 0.7% of those under age 18 and 7.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe decline in the population of the town of Harvard from the 1990 census to the 2000 U.S. census is attributable to the 1996 closure of Fort Devens, a U.S. military installation and the departure of military personnel and families residing at Fort Devens, which in large part is within the territory of the town of Harvard. The Fort Devens property has in large part been converted to civilian use, under the direction of MassDevelopment, a development authority of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.\n\nThe town elects five members to the Board of Selectmen to run the town day-to-day and has an annual Town Meeting to pass/amend the town bylaws and approve the town budget.\n\nWhen the town constructed the current building housing the Bromfield School middle and high school, the town successfully resisted the Massachusetts School Building Authority efforts to regionalize its school system with other towns; the School Building Authority partially funds new school buildings and renovations. Harvard's Kindergarten through grade twelve school system ranks among the top 5% of schools in the state according to some authorities, and more than 97% of its graduates go on to college. The public high school, the Bromfield School, and the Hildreth Elementary School are both located in the center of town on Massachusetts Avenue Bromfield has its ranks in nationwide tests in the top 20 and HES has them for MCAS (Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System) in the top 5.\n\nThe public library of Harvard opened in 1856. In fiscal year 2008, the town of Harvard spent 2.41% ($487,470) of its budget on its public library—some $81 per person and since then the library has undergone multiple renovations. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40079704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40079704", "title": "International Day of No Prostitution", "text": "International Day of No Prostitution\n\nInternational Day of No Prostitution (IDNP) is an awareness day that was first observed in 2002. Locations at which IDNP was observed in its inaugural year included the San Francisco Bay Area of California, United States and Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The day is celebrated annually on October 5 as a manner of opposing prostitution. In 2005, the University of the Philippines Institute of Human Rights and the Asia-Pacific chapter of the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women (CATW) organized an IDNP event at which they discussed the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003. In 2008, there was an IDNP candlelight vigil in Phoenix, Arizona. The vigil took place again in 2010, and city leaders and former prostitutes were among the participants. In 2010, CATW observed IDNP by opposing the decision in \"Bedford v. Canada\" to strike down Canada's anti-prostitution laws. A group of former human trafficking victims and sex workers in Canada also opposed the striking down of these laws; they picketed a courthouse in downtown Toronto, Ontario in recognition of IDNP. Picketers included Natasha Falle, Trisha Baptie, Bridget Perrier, Katarina MacLeod, and Christine Barkhouse. In 2011, People Working Against Prostitution, an organization in the Philippines, expressed their disappointment that the Cagayan de Oro city council did not host any events in recognition of IDNP.\n"}
{"id": "33669480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33669480", "title": "Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ", "text": "Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ\n\nThe Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ (ICGJC, also Israelite Church-God & Jesus), formerly known as the Israeli Church of Universal Practical Knowledge, is an organization of Black Hebrew Israelites. The Southern Poverty Law Center has designated the ICGJC as an active hate group. \n\nThe ICGJC teaches that the descendants of the lost 12 tribes of Israel and true biblical Jews are the Black Americans/Negros, West Indians, and Native Americans of North and South America and those scattered throughout the whole planet, but not the Jewish people or the Africans. The group claims that the \"Black Israelites\" have divine favor and inspiration and are superior to \"Edomites\" (white people) and all other non-Israelite people. They also hold strong apocalyptic views regarding the end of the world. The ICGJC believes that Yahawashi (Jesus) is God's divine Son and Messiah, and the redeemer for the sins of the Israelites and no other nation, that the Old and New Testament and Apocrypha are inspired Scripture, but the group does not believe in the doctrine of the Trinity.\n\nAccording to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the group's leaders are \"obsessed with hatred for Edomites\", and it is one of several extremist/supremacist Hebrew Israelite groups that have expanded since 2000 from black inner-city neighborhoods on the East Coast to cities in 10 US states. Its headquarters are in New York City, and its leader is known as \"Chief High Priest Tazadaqyah\".\n\nIsraelite Church of God in Jesus Christ is the second largest Black Hebrew Israelite organization in the United States, the first being the Nation of Yahweh. While \"most Hebrew Israelites are neither explicitly racist nor anti-Semitic and do not advocate violence\", the ICGJC is and does.\n\nThis Israelite church, like most others, believes that their purported Israelite identity is based on the Bible, history, and archaeology. According to some Black Hebrew Israelite Groups, the twelve tribes of Israel are Blacks only, and the understanding of the tribes is unknown. Those groups teach that according to \"Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?\" According to other groups, this means that all 12 tribes look like the Ethiopians which includes children of the slave-trade including all Africans. This belief has led some to ask who were the Hamites, Egyptians Canaanites, Jebusites, Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Perizzites, and the Hivites who were originally in Africa in the days of Moses.\n\nThis Hebrew Israelite Group and most others teach that some of the twelve tribes of Israel are made up of lighter non-Spaniard Latin Americans and Native American Indians conquered and enslaved years ago; they are the northern kingdom of Israel that migrated \"over the waters\" [they believe this means to the Americas] during the reign of Cyrus the Persian King according to 2 Esdras 13:40-45 and Deuteronomy 33:17. Some have mixed themselves among their captors which explains the lighter complexion and hair texture difference according to Hosea 7:8 \"Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake not turned.\" The Blacks who were enslaved in 1619 are the southern kingdom of Judah according to Joel 3:1-7. They base the list shown below on Genesis 49 and Deuteronomy 33.\n\nAccording to the beliefs of the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ, the twelve tribes of Israel have their order listing along with their respective national identities shown below:\n\n\nThere are a number of positions in the Israelite church which may only be filled by a high priest at the higher orders. Among these are Bishop, Chief Priest, Apostle, and/or Holy Apostle. These leaders are primarily responsible for the spiritual welfare of the members and the administration of local church units. But they have also subservient positions that are filled by other men when they are \"elevated\" by the \"spirit\". These are 13 shield generals, all the way down to 1 shield generals. Captains of 10,000 to Captains of 1,000. Top Officers of 5,000 down to Top Officers of 500. Officers of 100, and recruits.\n\nPerhaps the most prominent leader of the church is Tazadaqyah, a man who rose in to power of the church in the late 90's. Tazadaqyah is proclaimed by many of his followers to be the God-sent \"Comforter\" of the Nation of Israel. Tazadaqyah also holds the titles Holy Apostle, Chief Priest.\n\nThe Israelite Church and its various splinter groups can be loosely grouped together as sects, which advocate a Hebrew and Authorized King James Version-only approach to the Bible (i.e. they only endorse the Hebrew/Greek and AKJV versions of the Bible), and the notion that Caucasians are Edomites.\n\nIn 2013, the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ ordered action figures cast in the image of their leader (Chief High Priest Tazadaqyah) from a toymaker. When they received the dolls they sued the toymaker (Vicale Corp) because they didn't like the dolls. The church complained that the dolls didn't look like Tazadaqyah and weren't black enough, that the Connecticut toymaker put \"pointed noses and faces\" dolls. And half of them \"were light brown\" instead of \"dark brown,\" according to the court papers.\n\nAccording to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the group's enemies include white people, \"who they preach are descended from a race of red, hairy beings, known as Edomites, who were spawned by Esau, the twin brother of Jacob\" (later known as Israel) in the Old Testament. \"Equally hated\" are \"fraudulent\" Jews (i.e., the people known to the world today as Jews), \"the synagogue of Satan,\" Asians, promiscuous black women, abortionists, continental Africans (who, according to ICGJC and other extremist Israelites, \"sold the lost tribes of Israel, who were black, to European slave traders\"), and gay people, who \"according to extremist Israelites should all be put to death\".\n\nIn late 2008, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) described the ICGJC and other black supremacist Hebrew Israelite groups as \"the extremist fringe\" of the movement. It wrote that the members of such groups \"believe that Jews are devilish impostors and ... openly condemn whites as evil personified, deserving only death or slavery\". The SPLC also said that \"most Hebrew Israelites are neither explicitly racist nor anti-Semitic and do not advocate violence\". In 2017, they listed the group as a black nationalist hate group.\n\nThe Black Hebrew groups characterized as black supremacist by the SPLC include the Nation of Yahweh and the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ. Also, the Anti-Defamation League has written that the \"12 Tribes of Israel\" website, maintained by a Black Hebrew group, promotes hatred and black supremacy.\n\nIn April 2018, the leader of ICGJC Jermaine Grant and ICGJC treasurer Lincoln Warrington were arrested on fraud and tax charges. The United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey alleged the men \"used their positions to divert millions of dollars for Grant’s personal use and benefit.\" Grant has pleaded \"not guilty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9124894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9124894", "title": "Jobless claims", "text": "Jobless claims\n\nInitial Jobless Claims is a report issued by the U.S. Department of Labor on a weekly basis. The employment situation is extremely important for a macroeconomic analysis, so the financial markets track employment indicators, although this is a low impact indicator compared with the monthly BLS's \"Employment Report\". This report tracks how many new people have filed for unemployment benefits in the previous week. It is a good gauge of the U.S. job market. For instance, when more people file for unemployment benefits, fewer people have jobs, and vice versa. Investors can use this report to gather pertinent information about the economy, but it's a very volatile data, so the four-week average of jobless claims is monitored. \n\nThe report is released at 08:30 Eastern Time on Thursdays and can be a market moving event. \n\nInitial jobless claims measure emerging unemployment, and it is released after one week, but continued claims data measure the number of persons claiming unemployment benefits, and it is released one week later than the initial claims, that's the reason initial have a higher impact in the financial markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "435765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435765", "title": "José María Figueres", "text": "José María Figueres\n\nJosé María Figueres Olsen (born 24 December 1954 in San José, Costa Rica) is a Costa Rican businessman and politician. After he left the presidency of Costa Rica in 1998, Figueres has also been involved in global issues such as climate change, sustainable development, and technology. He started his career as an engineer working in agribusiness. After a decade, he entered public service as Minister of Foreign Trade and then Minister of Agriculture. In 1994, he was elected President of Costa Rica, as the nation's youngest elected president of the 20th century. In 2000, he joined the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, and later he worked with Concordia 21 in Madrid. Since 2010, he has been Chairman of the Carbon War Room, an independent non-profit organization focused on the global transition to a low-carbon economy. On 27 March 2012, Sir Richard Branson announced that he was appointed as the new President of the Carbon War Room.\n\nJosé María Figueres is the son of José Figueres Ferrer (affectionately known as Don Pepe), who was a three-time President of Costa Rica. His mother, Karen Olsen Beck, an American social worker born to Danish immigrant parents, later adopted Costa Rican nationality. After serving as First Lady, she was appointed Ambassador to Israel in 1982. In 1990, she was elected Member of Congress for the 1990–1994 legislature.\n\nFigueres grew up in La Lucha, a farm community his father Don Pepe founded in 1928. There José María attended the public school Cecilia Orlich Figueres, before going on to study at the Colegio Humboldt and later at the Lincoln High School, both in San José.\n\nFigueres has three younger siblings, Christiana Figueres, Mariano and Kirsten. Christiana Figueres was Executive Director of the UNFCCC, responsible for international climate change negotiations. From the first marriage of his father, Figueres has an older brother, Marti, and a sister, Muni. Muni Figueres has held various public positions, and since 2010 she has served as the Costa Rican Ambassador to the United States.\n\nJosé María has two children from his first marriage to former First Lady Josette Altmann Borbón, José María and Eugenia. The marriage between Figueres and Altmann ended in divorce. He is currently married to Cinthya Berrocal Quirós.\n\nFigueres completed his undergraduate studies at the United States Military Academy (West Point), where he graduated in the Class of 1979 with a major in Engineering. While attending West Point, he attended and completed the U.S. Army's Ranger Training Course in 1975. He was awarded the Army Ranger tab and was the class Distinguished Honor Graduate.\n\nLater, he continued his academic studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, graduating in 1991 with a master's degree in Public Administration. During his studies at Harvard, Figueres also attended courses at Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School.\n\nUpon returning to Costa Rica after concluding his studies at West Point, he joined and later led the restructuring process of the deeply indebted family business, Sociedad Agroindustrial San Cristobal (SAISC) . Figueres helped return the business to profitability by disposing of non-productive assets, reducing leverage, improving the efficiency of many industrial processes, and focusing on expanding exports.\n\nYears later, in 1990, Figueres co-founded Energía Global Inc. a renewable energy company with operations in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Chile. The business was later sold and today it continues to operate as a subsidiary of ENEL, Italy's largest power company .\n\nIn 1999, Figueres joined the Board of Directors of Terremark Worldwide Inc., on which he served for five years. He then continued to be closely associated with the company in its international expansion projects. Terremark is involved in transforming and securing enterprise-class IT on a global scale, providing industry managed services, cloud computing, colocation and web hosting solutions for enterprise IT infrastructures from their data centers. In 2011, Terremark was acquired by Verizon.\n\nIn 2005, Figueres undertook a one-year assignment as Managing Director of Talal Abu-Ghazaleh Organization, responsible for refocusing global consulting within the group. This group is the largest Arab group of professional services firms, headquartered in Amman, Jordan, with over 73 offices in 23 countries. From 2006 to 2009, Figueres served on the International Advisory Board of Abraaj Capital, the largest Middle East Private Equity firm with over $6 billion of assets under management. In 2009, he joined the Advisory Board of Grupo Arcano, an independent financial services firm based in Madrid, Spain. The group is a leading boutique in investment banking and asset management services .\n\nIn 2010, Figueres joined IJ Partners in Geneva, Switzerland, as a Managing Partner. IJ Partners was founded in 2009 during the global economic crisis, to provide financial services to private individuals and family offices investing exclusively in tangible assets.\n\nFigueres serves on the board of the Rocky Mountain Institute, including as Chair until 2017.\n\nIn 1986 Nobel Peace Prize Laurate and President Óscar Arias (1986–1990), appointed Figueres to overhaul the ailing National Railway System, INCOFER. He was then appointed Minister in the Arias government, first of Foreign Trade and later of Agriculture. Upon the completion of the governmental period Figueres continued his academic studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, graduating in 1991 with a master's degree in Public Administration.\n\nFollowing his graduate studies at Harvard, Figueres returned to Costa Rica and declared his intention to seek the nomination of the political party he belonged to, Partido Liberación Nacional. After a heated and much-disputed primary election process involving five candidates, Figueres won the party's nomination in 1993 and went on to the national election that he won in February 1994. José María Figueres Olsen was elected President of Costa Rica for four years at the age of 39, the nation's youngest president in the 20th century.\n\nAccording to Leonardo Garnier, minister of Planning and Economic Policy during the Figueres' administration, the latter promoted Sustainable Development as the integrating architecture of governmental action. This program was anchored on three pillars: Firstly, to transform the Costa Rican economy towards one of higher productivity, with special emphasis on technology. Secondly, for the Costa Rican society to express greater solidarity by opening opportunities of wellbeing for all. Thirdly, for society to develop itself in harmony with nature (from the book \"Gobernando en Tiempos de Cambio: Administración Figueres Olsen\", by Leonardo Garnier). The administration is credited with having worked to advance and promote further integration of Costa Rica into the globalised economy.\n\nFigueres reformed and reorganized many public institutions including the closing of some of them, such as Banco Anglo Costarricense (which was plagued with corruption charges) and the National Railway System (INCOFER) which after being re-organized several times was again insolvent. The latter decision was reversed by the following administrations, which actually invested in modernizing the railway, with apparent success Trenes en Costa Rica (In Spanish). The Figueres Administration contributed to the establishment of Intel Corporation in Costa Rica.\n\nHis administration also launched several initiatives to improve national education, including a constitutional reform approved by Congress to dedicate 6% of GDP towards public education ; introduced English as a second language in public schools from the first grade up; consolidated the installation of computer labs in high schools.\n\nDuring his term, government created the EBAIS (Primary Teams of Basic Health Care) as an effective provider of preventive medicine in the communities, primarily by giving easy access to medical services.\n\nPresident Figueres' Government was controversial to some. The most common criticisms were :\n\nIn 1991, when Figueres was seen as a possible contender for the presidency, brothers David and José Romero published a book accusing Figueres of having participated in the extrajudicial execution of a drug dealer named Jose Joaquin Orozco, known as \"Chemise\". The basis for this allegation dated back to March 7, 1973. Figueres accused the Romero brothers of libel and in 1993 a court acquitted them while condemning their main source, former drug-enforcement officer Walter Campos. In 1998 another court sentenced the Romero brothers to seven years' imprisonment for making a false accusation, but that sentence was appealed and revoked due to procedural issues. In 2000, two years after Figueres left office, the legal proceeding ended with a settlement between the Romero brothers and Figueres's lawyers .\n\nIn the middle of Figueres' presidential campaign, anonymous allegations arguing Figueres was not Catholic were widely spread and picked up by the media. Costa Rica's political constitution establishes the Catholic faith as the official State religion . To dispel the strong rumors Monsenor Román Arrieta, Archbishop of San José and President of the Episcopal Conference was obliged to pronounce himself acknowledging José María Figueres had been baptized a Roman Catholic.\n\nIn 2004, Costa Rica's Attorney General opened official investigations against two other former presidents, for alleged financial misconduct. Both were placed under arrest. Shortly afterwards local media reports claimed Figueres had also received payments from Alcatel. It was reported that Figueres had earned nearly US $900 thousand for three years of consultancy work on telecommunications with Alcatel initiated two years after his presidency, and while already working in Europe. Figueres disclosed all his financial affairs and requested the Costa Rican Internal Revenue Service to review his tax returns. Following this review, Figueres amended his tax filings to include income earned outside of Costa Rica, which is not subject to Costa Rican tax, and paid 67.2 million Costa Rican colones in taxes. On 5 December 2005 the Internal Revenue Service of Costa Rica notified Figueres of no financial misconduct with resolution number 5452000009594 dated 27 October 2005.\n\nA Congressional Commission took it upon themselves to investigate the allegations. The Commission of Control of Public Revenue and Expenditure (Comisión de Control del Ingreso y el Gasto Público) summoned Figueres. On 6 September 2005, Judge Maria Morales of the First Circuit Court of Costa Rica pronounced a ruling in Figueres' favour, and against the Congressional Commission's procedures. The Commission also failed to register a report on the findings before the Congress, as stipulated in Congressional Procedural Regulations.\n\nFigueres was never summoned nor charged by the Attorney General's office (fiscalía) . On 19 September 2007, the Attorney General formally announced that there were no grounds on which to press any charges against Figueres. .\n\nIn November 2017 an investigation conducted by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalism cited his name in the list of politicians named in \"Paradise Papers\" allegations.\n\nPresident Figueres has received numerous international awards for his work and adherence to the tenets of Sustainable Development. These include:\n\nUpon leaving government in 1998 President Figueres founded Entebbe – Fundacion Costa Rica para el Desarollo Sostenible (Costa Rican Foundation for Sustainable Development). This organization leads and promoted initiatives and projects with national and international impact that encourage the incorporation and use of modern technologies to improve the quality of life in Latin American societies. The foundation started and developed pioneering programs, such as LINCOS (Little Intelligent Communities), APVE (Clean Transport Alternatives) and CENTAIRE (Center for monitoring and evaluation of Air Quality in Central America). A large number of academic, social and communal organizations, as well as private sector partners contributed to the development of these programs.\nIn the same field of deploying technologies to boost development, together with Nicolas Negroponte and Jeffrey Sachs, Figueres founded the \"Digital Nations Consortium\", a program overseen by the Media Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).\nIn 1999 he was called upon by Secretary-General Kofi Annan of the United Nations to chair a working group on Information, Communication, Technology (ICT). He was later elected Chairman of the United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force (ICT).\n\nWhile leading the ICT Task Force, in mid-2000 Figueres was appointed Managing Director of the World Economic Forum, and independent international organization dedicated to improving the state of the world by bringing together world leaders to establish alliances that can influence industry, regional and global agendas. Three years later he was appointed the first CEO of the World Economic Forum. His responsibilities included coordinating the prestigious annual meeting of the Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which brings together prominent corporate leaders, heads of State and government, as well as respected personalities from the academic, cultural and religious world. Among his achievements while at the Forum was the strengthening of bonds between the corporate world and governmental and social sectors in order to identify their common long term interests and visions.\n\nFigueres resigned from the World Economic Forum towards the end of 2004, when consulting work with Alcatel appeared in the international media. Andre Schneider, the World Economic Forum's spokesman said that Figueres acknowledged violating the rules of the forum by not declaring that he was being retained as a consultant when he took the post and while he was working at the forum. In his letter of resignation, Figueres apologized to forum founder Klaus Schwab for failing to inform the organization that he had entered the consultancy \"many months before joining the Forum.\" Figueres Resigns as Head of World Economic Forum. In March 2005, Figueres joined the Felipe IV Group (immediately afterward transformed into Concordia 21), in Madrid, Spain as its CEO. This organization supports and collaborates with institutions working in the fields of Development, Dialogue, and Democracy around the world.\n\nAt the same time and since having left government in Costa Rica, Figueres has served on numerous other Boards. He was Chairman of LEAD as well as FUNDES Internacional. He has also served as a director of the, World Wildlife Fund, the Botanic Research Institute Texas, the World Resources Institute (WRI), and the Stockholm Environment Institute.\n\nSince 2008, Figueres has served as Chairman of the Global Fairness Initiative, taking on the role from its Founding Chairman, President Bill Clinton. He is currently a Board member of FRIDE, the Geneva Earth Council, Population Action International, and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of DARA (international organization).\n\nFrom 2009 until 2011, when its mandate was completed, Figueres served on UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's Advisory Group on Climate Change and Energy.\n\nIn 2010, Figueres joined the Carbon War Room as its first Chairman. The organization was founded by Sir Richard Branson and a group of global entrepreneurs. The Carbon War Room is an independent non-profit focused on finding market based solutions to reduce carbon emissions at the gigaton scale, either by creating new business models or identifying policy reforms.\nIn the academic field, Figueres serves on the Dean's Alumni Leadership Council at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and he is a fellow of Thunderbird School of Global Management, where he often participates in global business events.\n\nFigueres is a founding member of the Club de Madrid, an independent non-profit organization composed of more than 100 democratic former Presidents and Prime Ministers from all over the world. The Club de Madrid's objective is to promote \"Democracy that Delivers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40910763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40910763", "title": "Kimshin Myongsuk", "text": "Kimshin Myongsuk\n\nKimshin Myongsuk (, born March 5, 1961) is a South Korean feminism activist and human rights activist, journalist and reporter for If News, a liberal feminist Korean news journal.\n\nIn her early years Kim worked as a \"Dong-a Ilbo\" journalist. In the 1990s she supported feminism movements. She worked for KBS, MBC and other TV broadcasts. In the 2000s she joined If News. Kimshin Myongsuk was appointed as an editor and director there. In 1999, she made controversial appearances on KBS.\n\nShe is known for obtaining the first doctoral degree in the field of 'A theory of Feminine God' in South Korea.\n"}
{"id": "50583326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50583326", "title": "League of American Voters", "text": "League of American Voters\n\nThe League of American Voters is a non-partisan 501(c)4 non-profit organization in the United States founded by conservatives Bob Adams and Dick Morris.\n"}
{"id": "41288418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41288418", "title": "Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida", "text": "Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida\n\nThe Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, often referred to as the Florida Territorial Council or Florida Territorial Legislative Council, was the legislative body governing the American territory of Florida (Florida Territory) before statehood. The territory of Florida was acquired by the U.S. in 1821 under the Adams–Onís Treaty. Replacing the form of martial law that had existed in the territory since Florida was acquired, the U.S. Congress in 1822 established a territorial government consisting of a governor, secretary, thirteen-member Legislative Council, and judiciary, all of whom were appointed by the U.S. president.\n\nCongress changed the Legislative Council's structure many times in the 1820s and 1830s, gradually granting the territory more autonomy. Beginning in 1826, Council members were popularly elected rather than appointed by the president. In 1838, the Council became bicameral and was divided into a Senate and House of Representatives.\n\nThe Council was superseded by the General Assembly of the State of Florida after statehood was granted 1845.\n\nThe Council determined to rotate between the historical capitals of Pensacola, Florida and St. Augustine, Florida. The first legislative session was held at Pensacola on July 22, 1822; this required delegates from St. Augustine to travel 59 days by sea to attend. To get to the second session in St. Augustine, Pensacola members traveled 28 days over land. During this session, the council decided future meetings should be held at a half-way point to reduce the distance; eventually Tallahassee, site of successive Indian settlements until burned by Andrew Jackson, was selected as a half-way point between the former capitals of East and West Florida.\n\nDr. William H. Simmons and John Lee Williams of Pensacola were commissioned by the second Florida Territorial Council to select a central point between St. Augustine and Pensacola to serve as capital of the Florida Territory in 1823.\nThe Florida Territorial Council commissioned John Bellamy, a Monticello, Florida planter, to build Bellamy Road.\n\nOne of the requirements for a United States territory to become a State of the Union is that its constitution be approved by the United States Congress. In order to fulfill that requirement, an Act was passed by the Florida Territorial Council in 1838, approved by Governor Richard Keith Call, calling for the election of delegates in October 1838 to a convention to be held at St. Joseph, Florida. The delegates were to draft a constitution and bill of rights for the Territory of Florida. The Constitutional Convention convened on December 3, 1838 with Robert R. Reid presiding as president and Joshua Knowles secretary. The work of the Convention was carried out by eighteen committees, whose members were familiar with that particular area of government. The process was a relatively simple one, since they used the constitutions of several other Southern states as models. Only on the subject of banking did much debate take place. The Convention adjourned \"sine die\" on January 11, 1839.\n\nJackson County was created by the Florida Territorial Council in 1822 out of Escambia County, along with Duval County out of St. Johns County, making them the third and fourth counties in the Territory. The county was named for Andrew Jackson, who had served as Florida's first military governor for six months in 1821. Jackson County originally extended from the Choctawhatchee River on the west to the Suwannee River on the east. The county had been reduced close to its present boundaries by 1840 through the creation of new counties from its original territory. Minor adjustments to the county boundaries continued through most of the 19th century, however.\n\nRichard Keith Call, Davis Floyd, Charles W. Downing, Jr., Thomas Baltzell, Joseph B. Lancaster, William A. Forward and David Yulee were among those who participated in the Council.\n\nZephaniah Kingsley, a plantation owner, slave trader, and merchant who had polygamous \"marriages\" with four purchased slave women he had emancipated, served a single term and did not run when the Council became elective in 1826. During his time as a Council member, he advocated for the Spanish system of slavery that provided for certain rights to free people of color. Kingsley attempted to influence Florida lawmakers to recognize free people of color and allow mixed-race children to inherit property. Kingsley objected to the law passed by the Council that prohibited mixed-race children from inheriting property. The territory did not recognize interracial marriage or polygamous marriages as legal. The year following Kingsley's death, his sister Martha and her children contested his will as \"defective and invalid\". Kingsley's sister cited Florida law that forbade black people from owning property, and claimed that Anna and Kingsley's other wives had moved to Haiti spontaneously, abandoning the property in Florida to become free people. Anna returned to Florida in 1846 to participate in the Kingsley estate defense, despite the increasingly tense racial climate in Duval County. The court upheld the treaty signed between the U.S. and Spain, stipulating that all free blacks born before 1822 in Florida enjoyed the same legal privileges as they had when Spain controlled East Florida. Anna furthermore asked for, and was granted, the transfer of ownership of slaves who had been sent to the San Jose plantation when the family had moved to Haiti. Her request to rent slaves to other plantations to maximize her profits was rejected by the courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2346997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346997", "title": "Mencap", "text": "Mencap\n\nThe Royal Mencap Society is a charity based in the UK that works with people with a learning disability.\n\nMencap is the UK's leading learning disability charity working with people with a learning disability and their families and carers. Mencap works collaboratively, fighting for equal rights, campaigning for greater opportunities and challenging attitudes and prejudice.\n\nMencap also provides help and support through supported living, supported employment, respite services, organised activities, systemic and individual advocacy, and outreach support.\n\nMencap provides advice and support to meet people's needs throughout their lives, as an individual membership organisation with a local network of more than 450 affiliated groups. Mencap's work is membership-driven, and thanks to its work for the welfare of young people, it is a member of The National Council for Voluntary Youth Services (NCVYS).\n\nMencap, along with 14 other organisations, is a member of the Learning Disability Coalition. The Coalition was formed in May 2007 to campaign for better funding for social care for people with a learning disability in England.\n\nMencap partnered with ENABLE Scotland in a special 'sister charity' relationship to help support people with learning disabilities in Scotland.\n\nSince 1998, at least one-third of the members of the National Assembly must be people with a learning disability.\n\nFrom 1980 the actor Brian Rix represented the charity in a number of positions, including Secretary-General, Chairman and finally President. The chief executive of Mencap is Jan Tregelles, succeeding Mark Goldring in March 2013. Jan first worked at Mencap in 1983 as PA to one of the then directors. Jan has held various posts across Mencap; she has been the director of personal support since 2002 and has grown the business from £80 million turnover to £180 million in that time.\n\nEstablished by Judy Fryd in 1946 as The National Association of Parents of Backwards Children, the organisation changed its name to The National Society for Mentally Handicapped Children in 1955, becoming The Royal Society for Mentally Handicapped Children and Adults following patronage from Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and Elizabeth II in 1981. \n\nFryd had written to \"Nursery World\" magazine inviting other parents to contact her. Many wrote back expressing their anger and sorrow at the lack of services for their children.\n\nSince 1969 the Society has been commonly known by the abbreviation \"Mencap\" (presumably from \"Mentally Handicapped\") and, in 2002, its full legal name was shortened to the Royal Mencap Society. \n\nIn 1955, the Society opened its first project, the Orchard Dene short-stay residential home. In 1958, it launched a ground-breaking project called the Brooklands Experiment. This compared the progress of children with a learning disability who lived in hospital with a group of children who were moved to a small family environment and cared for using educational activities modelled on those in \"ordinary\" nurseries. After two years, the children in the home-like environment showed marked improvements in social, emotional and verbal skills. The success of the experiment was published around the world.\n\nIn 1986, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother became the patron of Mencap and in 2004 the Countess of Wessex became Mencap's patron.\n\nThe charity has several notable supporters such as The Edge, Jo Whiley, Kit Harington, Jodie Whittaker, Mat Horne, Sarah Gordy. \n\nAdditionally, Duran Duran, Christopher Eccleston, Norman Wisdom, Bruce Barrymore Halpenny, Joanne Salley, Jonny Lee Miller and Snow Patrol have all also supported the charity. Another notable fundraiser and supporter is Dame Norma Major, wife of former prime minister Sir John Major.\n\n"}
{"id": "28019678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019678", "title": "Ministry of Rites", "text": "Ministry of Rites\n\nThe Ministry or Board of Rites was one of the Six Ministries of government in late imperial China. It existed from the Tang (7th century) until the 1911 Xinhai Revolution. Along with religious rituals and court ceremonial, the Ministry of Rites also oversaw the imperial examination and China's foreign relations.\n\nUnder the Han, similar functions were performed by the Ministry of Ceremonies. In early medieval China, its functions were performed by other officials including the Grand Herald. Under the Song (10th-13th centuries), its functions were temporarily transferred to the Zhongshu Sheng. Its administration of China's foreign relations was ended by the establishment of the Zongli Yamen in 1861.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "867660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867660", "title": "Missouri Executive Order 44", "text": "Missouri Executive Order 44\n\nMissouri Executive Order 44, also known as the Extermination Order, was an executive order issued on October 27, 1838, by the Governor of Missouri, Lilburn Boggs. The order was issued in the aftermath of the Battle of Crooked River, a clash between members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as Mormons) and a unit of the Missouri State Militia in northern Ray County, Missouri, during the 1838 Mormon War. Claiming that the church members had committed open and avowed defiance of the law and had made war upon the people of Missouri, Governor Boggs directed that \"the Mormons must be treated as enemies, and must be exterminated or driven from the State if necessary for the public peace—their outrages are beyond all description\". The militia and other state authorities—General John B. Clark, among them—used the executive order to violently expel the Mormons from their lands in the state following their capitulation, which in turn led to their subsequent migration to Nauvoo, Illinois. The order was supported by most northwest Missouri citizens but was questioned or denounced by others. However, no determination of the order's legality was ever made. On June 25, 1976, Governor Kit Bond issued an executive order rescinding the Extermination Order, recognizing its legal invalidity and formally apologizing on behalf of the State of Missouri for the suffering it had caused the members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nMissouri Executive Order Number 44, read as follows:\n\nExecutive Order 44 was issued during the 1838 Mormon War, which was caused by friction between the Mormons and their neighbors due to the economic and electoral growth of the Latter-day Saint community and Joseph Smith's vocal opposition to slavery. However, the religious and political views of the Mormons did not sit well with the non-Mormon citizens of the state. Tensions had been steadily rising due to 1833 newspaper articles written in Independence, Missouri, which culminated in a manifesto published by many Missouri public officials.\n\n<poem>We, the undersigned, citizens Jackson County, believing that an important crisis is at hand, as regards our civil society, in consequence of a pretended religious sect of people that have settled, and are still settling in our County, styling themselves Mormons; and intending, as we do, to rid our society, \"peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must,\" and believing as we do, that the arm of the civil law does not afford us a guarantee, or at least a sufficient one against the evils which are now inflicted upon us, and seem to be increasing, by the said religious sect, deem it expedient, and of the highest importance, to form ourselves into a company for the better and easier accomplishment of our purpose—a purpose which we deem it almost superfluous to say, is justified as well by the law of nature, as by the law of self-preservation.\n\nIt is more than two years since the first of these fanatics, or knaves, (for one or the other they undoubtedly are) made their first appearance among us, and pretended as they did, and now do, to hold personal communication and converse face-to-face with the Most High God; to receive communications and revelations direct from heaven; to heal the sick by laying on hands; and, in short, to perform all the wonder-working miracles wrought by the inspired Apostles and Prophets of old.\n\nWe believed them deluded fanatics, or weak and designing knaves, and that they and their pretensions would soon pass away; but in this we were deceived. The arts of a few designing leaders amongst them have thus far succeeded in holding to them together as a society; and since the arrival of the first of them, they have been daily increasing in numbers; and if they had been respectable citizens in society and thus deluded they would have been entitled to our pity rather than to our contempt and hatred; but from their appearance, from their manners, and from their conduct since their coming among us, we have every reason to fear that, with but very few exceptions, they were of the very dregs of that society from which they came, lazy, idle, and vicious. This we can see it is not idle assertion, they fact susceptible of proof, or with these few exceptions above-named, they brought into our country little or no property with them and left less behind them, and we infer that those only yoked themselves to the \"Mormon\" car who had nothing earthly or heavenly to lose by the monad; and we fear that if some of the leaders amongst them, had paid the forfeit due to crime, instead of being chosen ambassadors of the Most High, they would have been inmates of solitary cells. But their conduct here stamps their characters in their true colors. More than a year since, it was ascertained that they had been tampering with our slaves, and endeavoring to sow dissensions and raise seditions amongst them. Of this their \"Mormon\" leaders were informed, and they said they would deal with any of their members who should again in like case offend. But how spacious are appearances. In a late number of the Star, published in Independence by the leaders of the sect, there is an article inviting free Negroes and mulattoes from other states to become \"Mormons,\" and remove and settle among us. This exhibits them in still more odious colors. It manifests a desire on the part of their society, to inflict on our society an injury that they know would be to us entirely insupportable, and one of the surest means of driving us from the country; for it would require none of the supernatural gifts that they pretend to, to see that the introduction of such a caste among us would corrupt our blacks, and instigate them to bloodshed.\n\nThey openly blaspheme the Most High God, and cast contempt on His holy religion, by pretending to receive revelations direct from heaven, by pretending to speak unknown tongues, by direct inspiration, and by diverse pretenses derogatory to God and religion, and to the utter subversion of human reason.\n\nThey declare openly that their God hath given them this county of land, and that sooner or later they must and will have possession of our lands for inheritance; and, in fine, they have conducted themselves on many other occasions, and such a manner, that we believe it a duty we owe to ourselves, our wives, and children, to the cause of public morals, to remove them from among us, as we are not prepared to give up our pleasant places and goodly possessions to them or to receive into the bosom of our families, as fit companions for wives and daughters, the degraded and corrupted free Negroes and mulattos that are now invited to settle among us.\n\nUnder such a state of things, even our beautiful county would cease to be a desirable residence, and our situation intolerable! We, therefore agree (that after timely warning, and receiving an adequate compensation for what little property they cannot take with them, they refuse to leave us in peace, as they found us—we agree to use such means as may be sufficient to remove them, and to that and we each pledge to each other our bodily powers, our lives, fortunes and sacred honors.\n\nWe will meet at the courthouse, at the town of Independence, on Saturday next, the 20th inst., [July], to consult on subsequent movements.\n\nAmong the hundreds of names attached to the document were:\n\nLouis Franklin, jailer\nSamuel C. Owens, County Clerk\nRussel Hicks, Deputy County Clerk\nR.W. Cummins, Indian agent\nJames H. Flournoy, Postmaster\nS.D. Lucas, Colonel and judge of the court\nHenry Chiles, attorney-at-law\nN.K. Olmstead, M.D.\nJohn Smith, justice in peace\nSamuel Westin, justice of the peace\nWilliam Brown, Constable\nAbner F. Staples, Captain\nThomas Pitcher, Deputy Constable\nMoses G. Wilson and Thomas Wilson, merchants</poem>\n\nOn the same day, July 20, 1833, the W.W. Phelps printing press, which published The Evening and the Morning Star in Independence, was destroyed by a mob.\n\nThe destruction was also in retaliation for the publication of portions of the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible, particularly that of the book of Genesis, in a Mormon newspaper The Evening and the Morning Star in August 1832 and in March and April 1833.\n\nEarly July 1833, the Star announced: \"At no very distant period, we shall print the book of Mormon and the [New] Testament, and bind them in one volume.\" However, hopes for this were postponed when the printing press in Independence was destroyed.\n\nThe 1838 Mormon War ended with the expulsion of nearly all Latter-day Saints from the state of Missouri.\n\nExecutive Order 44 is often referred to as the \"Extermination Order\" due to the phrasing used by Governor Boggs.\n\nThe Latter-day Saints had been given a county of their own (Caldwell County) in 1836, following their expulsion from Jackson County in 1833. However, the increasing influx of new church converts moving to northwestern Missouri led them to begin settling in adjacent counties. Other settlers, who had operated under the assumption that the Latter-day Saints would remain confined to Caldwell County, became angry due to these new settlements.\n\nOn July 4, 1838, church leader Sidney Rigdon delivered an oration in Far West, the county seat of Caldwell County. While not desiring or intending to start any trouble with his non-church neighbors, Rigdon wanted to make clear that the Latter-day Saints would meet any attacks on them—such as had already occurred in Jackson County during the summer and fall of 1833, resulting in their forced expulsion from their homes in that locale—with force:\n\nFar from settling tensions, Rigdon's oration had the opposite effect: it terrified and inflamed the residents of surrounding counties. By the Fall of that same year these tensions escalated into open conflict, culminating in the looting and burning of several Latter-day Saint farms and homes, the sacking and burning of Gallatin by the \"Danites\", and the taking of hostages by Cpt. Samuel Bogart and his militia, operating in northern Ray County (to the south of Caldwell). When the Latter-day Saint militia from the town of Far West moved south to the militia camp on the Crooked River, causing rumors of a planned full-scale invasion of Missouri that ran rampant throughout the summer and aroused terror throughout the western part of the state. These rumors only increased as reports of the Battle of Crooked River reached the capital at Jefferson City, with accounts of Latter-day Saints allegedly slaughtering Bogart's militia company, including those who had surrendered. Further dispatches spoke of an impending attacks on Richmond, county seat of Ray County, though in fact no such attack was ever contemplated. After hearing these reports Governor Boggs chose to act.\n\nPreviously, Governor Boggs had received word that Latter-day Saints had driven several citizens of Daviess County (north of Caldwell) from their homes. He had then appointed General John Bullock Clark to lead the state militia in assisting those citizens to return. But after hearing these reports, Governor Boggs issued new orders directing Clark to commence direct military operations and issued Missouri Executive Order 44\n\nWhile the church never made a full accounting of their casualties, their various reports listed rape, gunshot wounds, beatings and exposure. Persecutions against members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints during the 19th century were often violent, vicious, and cruel. Many were murdered and hundreds of surviving refugees died fleeing their persecutors during the Missouri War.\n\nGeneral Clark cited Executive Order 44 soon after the Latter-day Saints surrendered in November 1838, saying that violence would have been used had they chosen not to surrender. Clark furthermore stated, \n\nThe Latter-day Saints had every reason to trust this threat, considering recent activities involving other members of the state militia. Therefore, 15,000 Mormons consisting of men, women and children fled for Illinois immediately in harsh winter conditions. Even still, the question of whether anyone was killed as a direct result of the Extermination Order between October 27 (the date of its issuance) and November 1, 1838 (the date of the Latter-day Saint surrender), has been hotly debated among members of the Church and historians. Most historians state that there is no evidence of any militiamen or other participants using it to justify their behavior during that period.\n\nMany people connect Governor Boggs' order directly to the Haun's Mill massacre. At least one firsthand account asserts local Guardsmen referred to an order issued by the governor that sounds similar to Order 44 as justification for the Haun's Mill massacre. The Haun's Mill massacre was launched by Missouri State Guardsmen from Livingston County on the settlement of Haun's Mill, located in eastern Caldwell County near the Livingston County line, which resulted in the deaths of 18 men and boys, some of whom were murdered after surrendering. The firsthand account explains soldiers stated the governor had ordered their expulsion or extermination if they did not leave at once.\n\nOthers state there is no evidence that the militiamen knew of the Executive Order, and participants in this massacre who spoke of it later never used Governor Boggs' decree to justify their actions. They instead indicate that unnamed church dissenters had told them that the people of Haun's Mill were planning to invade Livingston County. The question of whether the militiamen knew in advance of Boggs' order is still hotly debated today.\n\nA little less debatable is the question of the murder of defenseless, unarmed men and boys. \n\nAligning with the firsthand statements regarding having been stripped of all weapons prior to the attack is the lack of casualties or injuries inflicted upon the attackers. In addition, orders explicitly stated the Mormons were to have their weapons removed.\n\nThe massacre and Governor Boggs' Executive Order are examples of anti-Mormon sentiment in the area.\n\nTo date, financial reparations for the crimes and losses, committed against the Mormons, have yet to come to fruition.\n\nTo put the dollar numbers in modern context: $1,000,000 in 1838 equals $25,604,272.41 in 2018.\n\nAlthough the Latter Day Saint leaders surrendered at Far West on November 1, Latter Day Saints (especially in outlying areas) continued to be subject to harassment and even forced ejection by citizens and renegade militia units. The Latter Day Saints in Caldwell County, as part of their surrender agreement, sign over all of their property to pay the expenses of the campaign against them; although this act was later held unlawful, it became clear to them that departure from the state was the only option state officials were going to allow.\n\nUpon his arrival at Far West, General Clark delivered the following speech to the now-captive Latter Day Saints, in which he directly invoked Order 44:\n\nThough Clark had offered to allow the Latter Day Saints to remain in Missouri until the following spring, the Saints decided to leave right away; according to one account, most had departed within ten days of Clark's speech. Although Governor Boggs belatedly ordered a militia unit under Colonel Sterling Price (later to achieve fame as a Confederate Civil War general) to northern Missouri to stop ongoing depredations against the Latter Day Saints, he refused to repeal Order #44. The Missouri legislature deferred discussion of an appeal by Latter Day Saint leaders to rescind the decree, Nearly all of the approximately 10,000 Latter Day Saints left Missouri by the spring of 1839. The Latter Day Saints would not begin to return to Missouri until approximately 25 years later.\n\nGovernor Boggs himself was excoriated in certain portions of the Missouri press, as well as those of neighboring states, for his action in issuing this order. General David Atchison, a prominent legislator and militia general from western Missouri who had refused to take part in operations, demanded that the Legislature formally state its opinion of Governor Boggs' order, for \"he would not live in any state, where such authority was given\". Although his proposal and similar ones by others went down to defeat, Governor Boggs himself saw his once-promising political career destroyed to the point that, by the next election, his own party was reluctant to be associated with him. After surviving an assassination attempt in 1842, Governor Boggs ultimately emigrated to California, where he died in relative obscurity in the Napa Valley in 1860.\n\nIn late 1975, President Lyman F. Edwards of the Far West stake of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, now known as the Community of Christ, invited then Missouri Governor Kit Bond to participate in the June 25, 1976, stake's annual conference as a good-will gesture for the United States Bicentennial. As part of his address at that conference, 137 years after being signed and citing the unconstitutional nature of Governor Boggs' directive, Governor Bond presented the following Executive Order:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11882110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11882110", "title": "Mitigation of peak oil", "text": "Mitigation of peak oil\n\nThe mitigation of peak oil is the attempt to delay the date and minimize the social and economic effects of peak oil by reducing the consumption of and reliance on petroleum. By reducing petroleum consumption, mitigation efforts seek to favorably change the shape of the Hubbert curve, which is the graph of real oil production over time predicted by Hubbert peak theory. The peak of this curve is known as peak oil, and by changing the shape of the curve, the timing of the peak in oil production is affected. An analysis by the author of the Hirsch report showed that while the shape of the oil production curve can be affected by mitigation efforts, mitigation efforts are also affected by the shape of Hubbert curve.\n\nFor the most part, mitigation involves fuel conservation, and the use of alternative and renewable energy sources. The development of unconventional oil resources can extend the supply of petroleum, but does not reduce consumption.\n\nHistorically, world oil consumption data show that mitigation efforts during the 1973 and 1979 oil shocks lowered oil consumption, while general recessions since the 1970s have had no effect on curbing the oil consumption until 2007. In the United States, oil consumption declines in reaction to high prices.\n\nKey questions for mitigation are the viability of methods, the roles of government and private sector and how early these solutions are implemented. The responses to such questions and steps taken towards mitigation may determine whether or not the lifestyle of a society can be maintained, and may affect the population capacity of the planet.\n\nThe most effective method of mitigating peak oil is to use renewable or alternative energy sources in place of petroleum.\n\nNuclear power, considered by some to be a viable alternative source, can be substituted for petroleum in some cases. China is preparing for the post-peak oil future by building pebble bed reactors configured to produce hydrogen fuel from the electrolysis of water. The use of nuclear power is often a highly contentious issue because of questions of the future availability of fuel and the dangerous nature of nuclear waste. Some current research projects are focused on neutron-free fusion power, in which hydrogen and boron are heated to over 1 billion degrees, though technical and economic barriers still exist.\n\nIn its October 2009 peak oil report, the Government-supported UK Energy Research Centre warned of the risk that 'rising oil prices will encourage the rapid development of carbon-intensive alternatives which will make it difficult or impossible to prevent dangerous climate change and stated that 'early investment in low-carbon alternatives to conventional oil is of considerable importance' in avoiding this scenario.\n\nIceland was the first country to suggest transitioning to 100% renewable energy, using hydrogen for vehicles and its fishing fleet, in 1998, but the actual progress has been very limited.\n\nBecause most oil is consumed for transportation most mitigation discussions revolve around transportation issues.\n\nWhile there is some interchangeability, the alternative energy sources available tend to depend on whether the fuel is being used in static or mobile applications.\n\nThe use of biofuels, which are fuels derived from recently dead biological material, reduces dependence on petroleum and enhances energy security. Biofuels also play significant roles in the \"food vs fuel\" debate, mitigation of oil prices, and energy balance and efficiency. Ethanol is a biofuel produced from crops high in sugar (e.g., sugar cane, sweet sorghum) or starch, (corn/maize). Biofuels can also be produced from plants that contain high amounts of vegetable oil, such as oil palm, soybean, algae, switchgrass, or jatropha. These oils can be burned directly in certain designs of diesel engines, or they can be chemically processed to produce fuels such as biodiesel. Wood and its byproducts can also be converted into biofuels such as woodgas, methanol or ethanol fuel. It is also possible to make cellulosic ethanol from non-edible plant parts, but this can be difficult to accomplish economically. Biofuels are most commonly used in vehicles, and in heating homes, and cooking. Biofuel industries are expanding in Europe, Asia and the Americas.\n\nSeveral firms have successfully created petroleum products in the lab using either solid catalysts or genetically modified microorganisms. As of July, 2008, such firms are producing petroleum products in very small quantities, but hope to increase production over the next few years.\n\nThe substitution of oil with other fossil fuels is theoretically relatively easy when static installations are concerned, as in the case for electricity generation. Reserves of coal are substantial, and the technology to use it is well established. Increasing the use of coal, however, would lead to higher carbon emissions which is likely to be politically unacceptable in many countries due to the implications of global warming, although carbon capture and storage may provide a solution. Natural gas is another alternative, and combined cycle power generation using natural gas is the cleanest source of power available using fossil fuels, producing about 30% less carbon dioxide than burning petroleum and about 45% less than burning coal. The major difficulty in the use of natural gas is transportation and storage because of its low density. Natural gas pipelines are economical, but are impractical across oceans.\n\nDue to its high energy density and ease of handling, oil has a unique role as a transportation fuel. There are, however, a number of possible alternatives. Among the biofuels the use of bioethanol and biodiesel is already established to some extent in some countries.\n\nThe use of hydrogen fuel is another alternative under development in various countries, alongside, hydrogen vehicles though hydrogen is actually an energy storage medium, not a primary energy source, and consequently the use of a non-petroleum source would be required to extract the hydrogen for use. Though hydrogen is currently outperformed in terms of cost and efficiency by battery powered vehicles, there are applications where it would come in useful. Short haul ferries and very cold climates are two examples. Hydrogen fuel cells are about a third as efficient as batteries and double the efficiency of gasoline vehicles.\n\nElectric vehicles powered by batteries are another alternative, and these have the advantage of having the highest well-to-wheels efficiency rate of any energy pathway and thus would allow much greater numbers of vehicles than any other methods. In addition, even if the electricity was sourced from coal-fired power plants, two advantages would remain: first it is cheaper to sequester carbon from a few thousand smokestacks than it is to retrofit hundreds of millions of vehicles, and second encouraging the use of electric vehicles allows a further pathway for scaling up of renewable energy sources.\n\nCurrently the cost of batteries capable powering electric vehicles for a range (comparable to the range of many gasoline vehicles) is prohibitively high, though producing batteries for plug-in hybrids with a range could be done with current technology and current pricing models within the reach of the average person. A plug-in hybrid with a range would have the advantage that it uses no gasoline or diesel at all for the first 40 miles (a distance covering 80% of all vehicle commutes).\n\nUnfortunately there are currently no production models of plug-in hybrids or alternative fuel vehicles (other than flex fuel) available from big manufacturers, though both Toyota and General Motors have promised versions around 2010. Fully electric vehicles are available from Tesla Motors for their high priced sports car and also a small city vehicle from Th!nk in Norway, in limited production runs in Norway and the UK.\n\nThe Airbus A380 flew on alternative fuel for the first time on 1 February 2008. Boeing also plans to use alternative fuel on the 747. Because some biofuels such as ethanol contains less energy, more \"tankstops\" might be necessary for such planes.\n\nThe US Air Force is currently in the process of certifying its entire fleet to run on a 50/50 blend of synthetic fuel derived from the Fischer-Tropsch process and JP-8 jet fuel.\n\nWhen alternative fuels are not available, the development of more energy efficient vehicles becomes an important mitigant. Some ways of decreasing the oil used in transportation include increasing the use of bicycles, public transport, carpooling, electric vehicles, and diesel and hybrid vehicles with higher fuel efficiency.\n\nMore comprehensive mitigations include better land use planning through smart growth to reduce the need for private transportation, increased capacity and use of mass transit, vanpooling and carpooling, bus rapid transit, telecommuting, and human-powered transport from current levels. Rationing and driving bans are also forms of reducing private transportation. The higher oil prices of 2007 and 2008 caused United States drivers to begin driving less in 2007 and to a much greater extent in the first three months of 2008.\n\nIn order to deal with potential problems from peak oil, Colin Campbell has proposed the Rimini protocol, a plan which among other things would require countries to balance oil consumption with their current production.\n\nUnconventional oil is oil produced or extracted using techniques other than the traditional oil well method from sources such as oil sands, oil shale and the conversion of coal or natural gas to liquid hydrocarbons through processes such as Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. Currently, unconventional oil production is less efficient and has a larger environmental impact relative to conventional oil production. Compared to conventional oil, much more energy is required to extract oil from non-conventional sources, so increasing costs and carbon emissions. Technology, such as using steam injection in oil sands deposits, is being developed to increase the efficiency of unconventional oil production.\n\nSynthetic fuel, created via coal liquefaction, requires no engine modifications for use in standard automobiles. As a byproduct of oil embargoes during Apartheid in South Africa, Sasol, using the Fischer-Tropsch process, developed relatively low-cost coal-based fuel. Currently, about 30% of South Africa's transport-fuel (mostly diesel) is produced from coal. With crude-oil prices above US$40 per barrel, this process is now cost-effective.\n\nOne government which is moving forward with mitigation plans is the emirate of Abu Dhabi. The United Arab Emirates economy minister stated in 2007 that the UAE do not believe that relying on oil revenues is sustainable, and so are moving to diversify their economies. Besides allotting land for solar power plants and partnering with Massachusetts Institute of Technology to build an alternative energy research institute, a new city is being constructed east-southeast of the city of Abu Dhabi, which will rely entirely on solar energy, with a sustainable, zero-carbon, zero-waste ecology. Known as Masdar (Arabic for \"source\"), the initiative is headed by the Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company (ADFEC) The project is estimated to take some 10 years to complete, with the first phase complete and habitable in 2009, and a goal of housing 50,000 people and 1,500 businesses. The city is intended to cover , with no point further than 200 m from a solar powered personal rapid transit link, housing energy, science and technology communities, commercial areas, a university, and the headquarters of the Future Energy Company. By relying on sustainable energy sources, keeping cars out of the city, returning to older architectural conventions (such as reducing air conditioning costs with large tents and narrow spaces between buildings), using sewage to produce energy and create soil, taking advantage of all recycling opportunities (including for and from construction), and reusing gray water, Masdar is designed to be a city which will consume no oil.\n\nAnother major factor in petroleum demand is the widespread use of petroleum products such as plastic. These could be partially replaced by bioplastics, which are derived from renewable plant feedstocks such as vegetable oil, corn starch, hemp plants, pea starch, or microbiota. They are used either as a direct replacement for traditional plastics or as blends with traditional plastics. The most common end use market is for packaging materials. Japan has also been a pioneer in bioplastics, incorporating them into electronics and automobiles.\n\nPart of the current debate revolves around energy policy, and whether to shift funding to increasing energy conservation, fuel efficiency, or other energy sources like solar, wind, and nuclear power. At congressional peak oil hearings, Rep. Tom Udall argued that while rising oil prices would encourage alternatives (both on the supply and demand side), the costs and impacts of other issues involved with petroleum based personal transportation (such as pollution, the economic effects of global warming, security threats caused by sending vast amounts of money to the Middle East, and the costs of road maintenance) should also be taken into account. \"Because the price of oil is artificially low, significant private investment in alternative technologies that provide a long-term payback does not exist. Until oil and its alternatives compete in a fair market, new technologies will not thrive.\"\n\nIn 2005, the Congressional Budget Office suggested that, \"the federal government could more effectively increase the efficiency of the nation's automotive fleet by raising gasoline taxes, imposing user fees on the purchase of low-mileage-per-gallon vehicles, or both.\" This would give automakers more incentive to research alternative fuel technology and increased efficiency (through lighter vehicles, better aerodynamics, and less wasted energy).\n\nHans-Holger Rogner, a section head at the IAEA, warned in 1997 that the level of incentive required for market driven research and development will actually rise. Because production costs are not expected to decrease and because of the continued emphasis companies give to short-term profits, \"a regional breakdown for 11 world regions indicates that neither hydrocarbon resource availability nor costs are likely to become forces that automatically would help wean the global energy system from the use of fossil fuel during the next century.\"\n\nThe problems of privately funded research and development are not unique to peak oil mitigation. Bronwyn H. Hall, graduate economics professor at the Haas School of Business, points out that, \"even if problems associated with incomplete appropriability of the returns to R&D are solved using intellectual property protection, subsidies, or tax incentives, it may still be difficult or costly to finance R&D using capital from sources external to the firm or entrepreneur. That is, there is often a wedge, sometimes large, between the rate of return required by an entrepreneur investing his own funds and that required by external investors.\" The severity of the problem for energy is echoed in the International Energy Agency's latest report\n\nIn the US, transportation by car is guided more by the government than by an invisible hand. Roads and the interstate highway system were built by local, state and federal governments and paid for by income taxes, property taxes, fuel taxes, and tolls. The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is designed to offset market imbalances. Municipal parking is frequently subsidized. Emission standards regulate pollution by cars. US fuel economy standards exist but are not high enough to have effect. There is also a gas guzzler tax of limited scope. The United States offers tax credits for certain vehicles and these frequently are hybrids or compressed natural gas cars (see Energy Policy Act of 2005).\n\nIn order to be profitable, many alternatives to oil require the price of oil to remain above some level. Investors in these alternatives must gamble with the limited data on oil reserves available. This imperfect information can lead to a market failure caused by a move by nature. One explanation for this is Hotelling's rule for non-renewable resources. Even with perfect information the price of oil correlates with spare capacity and spare capacity does not warn of a peak. For example, in the early 1960s (10 years before oil production peaked in the United States), there was enough spare capacity in US production that Hubbert's predicted peak of 1966-1971 was \"at the very least completely unrealistic to most people,\" preventing the necessary steps being taken to mitigate the situation. The absence of accurate information about spare production capacity exacerbates the current situation.\n\nLester Brown believes this problem might be solved by the government establishing a price floor for oil. A tax shift raising gas taxes is the same idea. Opponents of such a price floor argue that the markets would distrust the government's ability to keep the policy when oil prices are low.\n\nIn 2007, a Pentagon Report, \"Space-Based Solar Power: An Opportunity for Strategic Security\" proposed Space-Based Solar Power as a macro solution to peak oil and fossil fuel depletion. Recently a proposal for US leadership in SBSP won the SECDEF D3 competition. Engineer Keith Henson discussed the scale in \"Dollar a Gallon Gasoline\". Mike Snead has recently assessed prospects for US fossil fuels and SSP in \"US fossil fuel energy insecurity and space solar power\". Snead and Henso recently put out a video.\n\nAccording to the Hirsch report prepared for the U.S. Department of Energy in 2005, a global decline in oil production would have serious social and economic implications without due preparation. Initially, an unmitigated peak in oil production would manifest itself as rapidly escalating prices and a worldwide energy crisis. While past oil shortages stemmed from a temporary insufficiency of supply, crossing Hubbert's Peak means that the production of oil continues to decline, so demand must be reduced to meet supply. If alternatives or conservation (orderly demand destruction) are not forthcoming, then disorderly demand destruction will occur, with the possible effect that the many products and services produced with oil become scarcer, leading to lower living standards.\nShipping costs are particularly relevant to a country like Japan that has greater food miles.\nUS indications of economic volatility have manifested themselves in the largest increase in inflation rates in 15 years (Sept. 2005), due mostly to higher energy costs.\n\nThose who feel that much more drastic imminent social and cultural changes will occur from oil shortages are known as doomers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23143191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23143191", "title": "National Conference on Citizenship", "text": "National Conference on Citizenship\n\nThe National Conference on Citizenship (NCoC) is a non-partisan, non-profit organization dedicated to strengthening civic life in America. They pursue their mission through a nationwide network of partners involved in a cutting-edge Civic Health Initiative, annual cross-sector conferences, and engagement with a broad spectrum of individuals and organizations interested in utilizing civic engagement principles and practices to enhance their work. Connecting people for the purpose of strengthening civic life is NCoC's goal. At the core of NCoC's joint efforts is the belief that every person has the ability to help his or her community and country thrive.\n\nNCoC was chartered by Congress in 1953 to harness the patriotic energy and national civic involvement surrounding World War II. In 2009, Congress named NCoC in the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, expanding their Civic Health Initiative to become the nation’s largest measure of civic engagement.\n\nFor the past 10 years NCoC, together with the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) and state and community level collaborative networks across the nation, has documented the state of civic life in America in city, state, and national Civic Health Index (CHI) reports. NCoC plans to establish CHI partnerships in all 50 states and the District of Columbia by 2020.\n\nThe Civic Health Initiative has been an incubator for programs such as the Civic Data Challenge and The Civic 50. The Civic Data Challenge was a national competition to turn the raw data of civic health into useful applications and visualizations. The Civic 50 is an initiative to identify the 50 most community-minded companies in the nation.\n\nThe Annual Conference on Citizenship is NCoC's signature event. Held in proximity to Citizenship Day (also known as Constitution Day) in the fall, NCoC convenes leaders in the field of civic engagement to exchange information and to discuss ways to progress their shared mission of encouraging Americans to become fully involved citizens. In addition to the Annual Conference, NCoC has partnered with institutions to host and convene programs, events, webinars, and discussions throughout the year.\n\nAfter 2013, NCoC expanded their programs to promote national service. They took a leading role in the creation of the Service Year technology platform. They worked in partnership with the Franklin Project at the Aspen Institute. The platform is an online marketplace designed to increase service opportunities for Americans between 18–28 years old. It brings together young people seeking service positions, organizations seeking service members, and funders looking to support these efforts.\nNCoC is a congressionally chartered organization dedicated to strengthening civic life in America. We believe every person has the power to help their community and country thrive.\n\nPurpose of NCoC: To Support and Strengthen the Efforts of the People in Maintaining the Blessings of Freedom and Justice and in Protecting and Perpetuating the Principles and Ideals upon which this Nation is Founded; to Develop a More Thorough Knowledge of Citizenship Rights and Responsibilities; to Inspire a Deeper Devotion to Citizenship Obligations; to Encourage Ever More Effective Participation in Citizenship Activities and to Promote a Spirit of Cooperation on the Part of all Citizens – to these High Purposes, the National Conference on Citizenship is Dedicated.\n\nFounded in 1946, in the aftermath of the Second World War, NCoC was inspired by efforts of a diverse group of Americans and created with the goal of capturing and perpetuating, in peacetime, the spirit of cooperation and civic energy fostered during wartime. With the collective attention of the nation returning to domestic affairs, NCoC was imagined as a vehicle to highlight the critical importance of civic responsibility to the health of our republic so that all citizens might dedicate themselves to upholding continuously our concept of government and the democratic way of life.\n\nThe First National Conference on Citizenship was held on May 17–18, 1946 in Philadelphia, PA\n\nOn August 13, 1953, President Dwight Eisenhower signed a bill that was passed by both houses of Congress that incorporated the Conference; allowing the NCoC to now operate under a Federal Charter. A Federal Charter is federal statue that establishes a co-operation between the government and organizations, agencies, or institutions.\nIn 1953, the goal of the Congressional Charter was to empower “the NCoC to translate its ideals and objectives into realities. Plans for the future include both long-range and immediate projects and activates. The Conference will initiate and conduct some of these activities directly. Other, it will encourage and assist organizations and agencies in States and communities to initiate and carry on.”\nThere are approximately 1,478,000 non-profits in America—94 of them are chartered by Congress.\n\nIn 2006, NCoC convened a working group to create the first “America’s Civic Health Index.” Utilizing a variety of indicators, the Civic Health Index (CHI) provides insight into civic trends at the national, state, city, and demographic level.\n\nIn 2009, Congress named NCoC in the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act. This legislation codified and expanded NCoC's CHI helping it become the nation’s largest and most definitive measure of civic engagement.\n\nIn 2012, NCoC launched two new programs:\n\nIn 2013, NCoC started its partnership with the Franklin Project at the Aspen Institute to develop a Service Year technology platform. This system aims to be a 21st-century tool that will increase the number of organizations that can provide national service opportunities and make it easier for young Americans to identify those positions.\n\nIn 2016, NCoC and Service Year Alliance ended their partnership. They continue to support each other's efforts.\n\nThe National Conference on Citizenship's current Board of Directors consists of Barry Byrd, Lattie Coor, Philip Duncan, Paula Ellis, Eric Federing, Garrett Graff (Chair), Hon. Bob Graham, Gail Leftwich Kitch, A.G. Newmyer, Craig Turk, Michael Weiser (Chair Emeritus), and Erica Williams.\n\nThe National Conference on Citizenship's Board of Advisors consists of the following individuals:\n\nNCoC's current programming includes the Civic Health Initiative, consisting of the Civic Health Index, and the Annual Conference on Citizenship.\n\nThe Civic Health Index (CHI) is at the center of NCoC's work. At NCoC, “civic health” is considered the way that communities are organized to define and address public problems. Communities with strong indicators of civic health have higher employment rates, stronger schools, better physical health, and more responsive governments. For the past 10 years NCoC, together with the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) and state and community level collaborative networks across the nation, has documented the state of civic life in America in city, state, and national CHI reports. CHIs use a range of indicators including volunteering, voting, connections to civic and religious organizations, trust in other Americans and key institutions, and other civic behavior and attitudes.\n\nCHI partnerships have changed the way governments go about their work, reintroduced civics to classrooms, redirected investments, influenced national and local conversations resulting in enhancing civic life, and bolstered a network of civic leaders across the country. By 2020, NCoC's goal is to integrate this pioneering initiative into ongoing partnerships in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nAmerica’s Civic Health Index received a new level of recognition through its inclusion in the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, which was signed into law in May 2009. The Act formalized a partnership between NCoC, the U.S. Census Bureau, and the Corporation for National and Community Service to develop, refine, and implement an annual civic health assessment.\n\nIn addition to the America’s Civic Health Index report, the National Conference on Citizenship partners with local institutions to release state and city specific reports. NCoC currently works with over 30 local partners.\n\nThe National Conference on Citizenship hosts an annual conference on or around Citizenship Day. NCoC convenes leaders in the field of civic engagement along with other individuals and organizations interested in utilizing civic engagement principles and practices to enhance their work. Connecting people for the purpose of strengthening civic life is the goal. Each year’s conference revolves around a different theme that concerns various aspects of civic engagement on a multitude of levels, including corporate, institutional, and individual responsibility.\n\nFeatured Annual Conference Speakers have included: Justice Antonin Scalia, former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Justice Anthony Kennedy, Senator Robert Byrd, Senator Harris Wofford, Senator Bob Graham, Jean Case, Sonal Shah, Minnesota Secretary of State Mark Ritchie, Scott Heiferman, Craig Newmark, & Sean Parker.\n\n1953 – 8th Annual Conference – What Price, Freedom?\n\n1954 – 9th Annual Conference – The Three Branches of our Federal Government, Yesterday, Today, & Tomorrow.\n\n1956 – 11th Annual Conference – The Voting Citizen\n\n1957 – 12th Annual Conference – Imperatives for Peace\n\n1958 – 13th Annual Conference – Citizenship in a Changing World\n\n1959 - 14th Annual Conference - US Citizenship: Know It, Cherish It, Live It\n\n1960 – 15th Annual Conference – America: A Government of the People, for the People, by the People.\n\n1961 – 16th Annual Conference – What We as Citizens Can Do for Our Country\n\n1962 – 17th Annual Conference – What Can I Do for My Country in a Changing World?\n\n1963 – 18th Annual Conference – American Citizenship: Showcase for Freedom\n\n1966 – 19th Annual Conference – Supports of Freedom: The Law & The Ballot\n\n1968- 23rd Annual Conference - Creative Citizenship and Its Applications\n\n1969- 24th Annual Conference - Youth Engagement\n\n2004 - 59th Annual Conference\n\n2005 - 60th Annual Conference\n\n2007 - 62nd Annual Conference\n\n2008 - 63rd Annual Conference - Beyond the Vote\n\n2009 - 64th Annual Conference - Sustainable Impact: A Civic Return on Investment\n\n2010 - 65th Annual Conference - BIG Citizenship: Citizens as Catalysts and Innovators\n\n2011 - 66th Annual Conference - Redefining America's Social Impact *First year the Conference was held outside of Washington, D.C.\n\n2012 - 67th Annual Conference - Jobs, Jobs, Jobs: Exploring the link between civic engagement and employment\n\n2013 - 68th Annual Conference - America's Charter: Past, Present, and Future\n\n2016 - Civic Life, Civic Health and Civic Renewal: Through the Lens of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion *Co-hosted by Tufts University's Tisch College of Civic Life \n\n2017 - Strengthening Civic Life in America\n\nNamed for NCoC’s long-time chairman, the Citizen of the Year Award is granted to a private citizen who has exemplified active citizenship in contributing to the public good.\n\nPast winners have included: David Rubenstein, Co-Founder and Co-CEO of The Carlyle Group (2013), Jack Miller, philanthropist, businessman, and chairman of the Jack Miller Center for Teaching America’s Founding Principles and History (2012), Jean Case and Steve Case (2011), TIME Managing Editor Rick Stengel (2010), Philanthropists Eugene Lang (2008) & Ray Chambers (2007), Educational Pioneer Irasema Salcido (2006), Congressman Lee H. Hamilton (2005), and Senator Harris Wofford (2004).\n\nThe Franklin Award is given to outstanding individuals in federal service who are working to strength citizenship in America. The award bears the famous Franklin quote, “A Republic if you can keep it\", his response when asked what style of government the Constitution would create.\n\nPast winners have included General Ann Dunwoody (2013), Honorable Norman Y. Mineta (2012), Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (2011), Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg (2010), Justice Antonin Scalia (2009), former Justice Sandra Day O’Connor (2008), Justice Stephen Breyer (2007), Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia (2006), and Senator Lamar Alexander (2005)\n\nThis award recognizes a notable veteran who defines their citizenship and service to our country, both in uniform and beyond.\n\nPast winners are Honorable Tulsi Gabbard (2013), Chris Marvin (2012), Eric Hilleman (2011), Derek Blumke (Student Veterans of America) (2010).\n\nThe Role Model of the Year Award is designed to recognize individuals who use their public presence to inspire others and give back to their community. Past winners include Alfred Morris, Running Back for the Washington Redskins (2013), and Nnamdi Asomugha, Defensive Back for the Philadelphia Eagles (2012).\n\nJane Addams Award, Scott Heiferman (2005); Young Citizen of the Year Award, Robbie Bergquist and Brittany Bergquist (2007).\n\nNCoC partnered with the Franklin Project at The Aspen Institute to develop a national service technology platform called the Service Year Exchange. The system is a 21st-century tool to increase the number of organizations that can provide national service opportunities and make it easier for young Americans to identify those positions. In January 2016, the Service Year Exchange project merged with ServiceNation and the Franklin Project at the Aspen Institute to form Service Year Alliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "862521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862521", "title": "National Trails System", "text": "National Trails System\n\nThe National Trails System was created by the National Trails System Act (), codified at \"et seq.\"\n\nThe Act created a series of National trails \"to promote the preservation of, public access to, travel within, and enjoyment and appreciation of the open-air, outdoor areas and historic resources of the Nation.\" Specifically, the Act authorized three types of trails: the National Scenic Trails, National Recreation Trails and connecting-and-side trails. The 1968 Act also created two national scenic trails: the Appalachian and the Pacific Crest; and requested that an additional fourteen trail routes be studied for possible inclusion.\n\nIn 1978, as a result of the study of trails that were most significant for their historic associations, a fourth category of trail was added: the National Historic Trails. Since 1968, over forty trail routes have been studied for inclusion in the system. Of these studied trails, twenty-one have been established as part of the system. Today, the National Trails System consists of 30 National Scenic and Historic Trails and over 1,000 National Recreation Trail and two connecting-and-side trails, with a total length of more than . These National Trails are more than just for hiking, many are also open for horseback riding, mountain biking and camping.\n\nAs Congressionally established long-distance trails, each one is administered by a federal agency, either the Bureau of Land Management, United States Forest Service, or National Park Service. Two of the trails are jointly administered by the BLM and the NPS. Occasionally, these agencies acquire lands to protect key sites, resources and viewsheds. More often than not, they work in partnership with the states, local units of government, land trusts and private landowners, to protect lands and structures along these trails, enabling them to be accessible to the public. National Recreation Trails and connecting-and-side trails do not require Congressional action, but are recognized by actions of the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture. All of the National Trails are supported by private non-profit organizations that work with the various federal agencies under the Partnership for the National Trails System (PNTS).\n\nThe Act is codified as . However, it has been amended numerous times since its passage, most recently on October 18, 2004 ().\n\nNational Scenic Trails are established to provide access to \"spectacular natural beauty and to allow the pursuit of healthy outdoor recreation\". The National Scenic Trail system provides access to the crest of the Appalachian Mountains in the east, on the Appalachian Trail, to the Rocky Mountains of the west on the Continental Divide Trail. These provide access to viewing the subtle beauties of the southern wetlands and Gulf Coast on the Florida Trail, wandering the North Woods from New York to North Dakota on the North Country Trail, or experiencing the vast diversity of landscapes of the southwest on the Arizona National Scenic Trail. Of the eleven national scenic trails, Appalachian, Natchez Trace, and Potomac Heritage are official units of the NPS. \n\n\nNational Historic Trails are designated to protect the remains of significant overland or water routes to reflect the history of the nation. They represent the earliest travels across the continent on the Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail; the nation's struggle for independence on the Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail; epic migrations on the Mormon & Oregon Trails and the development of continental commerce on the Santa Fe Trail. They also commemorate the forced displacement and hardships of the Native Americans, on the Trail of Tears. There are 19 Historic Trails. Most of them are scenic routes instead of non-motorized trails.\n\n\n\nThe act also established a category of trails known as connecting and side trails. To date, only two national side trails have been designated, both in 1990: The Timms Hill Trail, which connects the Ice Age Trail to Wisconsin's highest point, Timms Hill, and the 86-mile Anvik Connector, which joins the Iditarod Trail to the village of Anvik, Alaska.\n\n\nThe first National Geologic Trail was established by the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3433011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3433011", "title": "Naval conference", "text": "Naval conference\n\nThe term naval conference can refer to various conferences that took place during the early 20th century that aimed to regulate naval warfare and armaments. These agreements were completely abandoned by the time World War II had started in 1939. The following conferences can be included under this definition:\n\n"}
{"id": "21409921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21409921", "title": "Pornocracy", "text": "Pornocracy\n\nPornocracy (from Greek \"πόρνη\" \"female prostitute\" + \"-κρατία\" \"-cracy\" a suffix indicating government or rule) is a government ruled by prostitutes or by corrupt officials (who metaphorically \"prostitute\" themselves for power).\nIt may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1043001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043001", "title": "Probate", "text": "Probate\n\nProbate is the judicial process whereby a will is \"proved\" in a court of law and accepted as a valid public document that is the true last testament of the deceased, or whereby the estate is settled according to the laws of intestacy in the state of residence [or real property] of the deceased at time of death in the absence of a legal will.\n\nThe granting of probate is the first step in the legal process of administering the estate of a deceased person, resolving all claims and distributing the deceased person's property under a will. A probate court decides the legal validity of a testator's (deceased person's) will and grants its approval, also known as granting probate, to the executor. The probated will then becomes a legal instrument that may be enforced by the executor in the law courts if necessary. A probate also officially appoints the executor (or personal representative), generally named in the will, as having legal power to dispose of the testator's assets in the manner specified in the testator's will. However, through the probate process, a will may be contested.\n\nAn executor is the person appointed by a will to act on behalf of the estate of the will maker (the \"testator\") upon his or her death. An executor is the legal personal representative of a deceased person's estate. The appointment of an executor only becomes effective after the death of the testator. After the testator dies, the person named in the will as executor can decline or renounce the position, and if that is the case should very quickly notify the probate court registry accordingly. There is no legal obligation for that person to accept the appointment.\n\nExecutors \"step into the shoes\" of the deceased and have similar rights and powers to wind up the personal affairs of the deceased. This may include continuing or filing lawsuits to which the deceased was entitled to bring, making claims for wrongful death, paying off creditors, or selling or disposing of assets not particularly gifted in the will, among others. But the role of the executor is to resolve the testator's estate and to distribute the estate to the beneficiaries or those otherwise entitled.\n\nSometimes, in England and Wales, a professional executor is named in the will – not a family member but (for example) a solicitor, bank or other financial institution. Professional executors will charge the estate for carrying out duties related to the administration of the estate; this can leave the family facing additional and unexpected costs. It is possible to get a professional executor to renounce their role meaning they will have no part in dealing with the estate; or to reserve their power which means the remaining executors will carry out the related duties, but without the involvement of the professional executor.\n\nWhen a person dies without a will then the legal personal representative is known as the \"administrator\".\nThis is commonly the closest relative, although that person can renounce their right to be Administrator in which case the right moves to the next closest relative. This often happens when parents or grandparents are first in line to become the administrator but renounce their rights as they are old, don’t have knowledge of estate law and feel that someone else is better suited to the task.\n\nThe appointment of an administrator follows a codified list establishing priority appointees. Classes of persons named higher on the list receive priority of appointment to those lower on the list. Although appointees named in the will and relatives of the deceased frequently receive priority over all others, creditors of the deceased and 'any other citizen [of that jurisdiction]' may act as an administrator if there is some cognizable reason or relationship to the estate. Alternatively, if no other person qualifies or no other person accepts appointment, the court will appoint a representative from the local public administrator's office.\n\nA representative example of a complete probate clause, from the 14th century (or earlier) onwards, added at the bottom of the office transcribed copy of a will is as follows, taken from the will of Anthony Bathurst, 1697, PROB 11/438:\n\n\"PROBATUM fuit huiusmodi testamentum apud Londinium coram venerabili et egregio viro domino Richardo Raines, milite, legum doctore curiae praerogativae Cantuariensis magistro custodis sive commissarii legitime constituti vicesimo tertio die mensis Junii Anno Domini Millesimo Sexcenti Nonaginta Septimo juramento Mariae Bathurst relictae et executricis in dicto testamento nominata cui commissa fuit administratio omnium et singulorum bonorum, jurium et creditorum dicti defuncti de bene et fideliter administrando eadem ad sancta Dei Evangelis jurat. Examinatur\". \n\nTranslated literally as: \n\nThis will was proved at London before the worshipful Sir Richard Raines, knight, Doctor of Laws, Master Keeper or Commissary of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, lawfully constituted, on the twenty third day of the month of June in the year of our Lord one thousand six hundred and ninety seven, by the oath of Mary Bathurst, relict and executrix named in the said will, to whom administration was granted of all and singular the goods, rights and credits of the said deceased, sworn on the holy Gospel of God to well and faithfully administer the same. It has been examined\". \nThe English noun \"probate\" derives directly from the Latin verb \"probare\", to try, test, prove, examine, more specifically from the verb's past participle nominative neuter \"probatum\", \"having been proved\". Historically during many centuries a paragraph in Latin of standard format was written by scribes of the particular probate court below the transcription of the will, commencing with the words (for example): \"Probatum Londini fuit huismodi testamentum coram venerabili viro\" (name of approver) \"legum doctore curiae prerogativae Cantuariensis...\" (\"A testament of such a kind was proved at London in the presence of the venerable man ... doctor of law at the Prerogative Court of Canterbury...\") The earliest usage of the English word was in 1463, defined as \"the official proving of a will\". The term \"probative,\" used in the law of evidence, comes from the same Latin root but has a different English usage.\n\nProbate is a process of improvement that proves a will of a deceased person is valid, so their property can in due course be retitled (US terminology) or transferred to beneficiaries of the will. As with any legal proceeding, there are technical aspects to probate administration:\n\nLocal laws governing the probate process often depend on the value and complexity of the estate. If the value of the estate is relatively small, the probate process may be avoided. In some jurisdictions and/or at a certain threshold, probate must be applied for by the Executor/Administrator or a Probate lawyer filing on their behalf.\n\nA probate lawyer offers services in probate court, and may be retained to open an estate or offer service during the course of probate proceedings on behalf of the administrator or executor of the estate. Probate lawyers may also represent heirs, creditors and other parties who have a legal interest in the outcome of the estate.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, probate (\"official proving of a will\") is obtained by executors of a will while letters of administration are granted where there are no executors.\n\nIn Australia, probate refers to the process of proving of the will of a deceased person and also to a Grant of Probate, the legal document that is obtained.\n\nThere is a Supreme Court probate registry in each jurisdiction that deals with probate applications. However, each State and Territory has slightly different laws and processes in relation to probate. The main probate legislation is as follows:\n\nOnly the executor(s) of a will can apply for a Grant of Probate. It is the duty of the executor(s) of the will to obtain probate in a timely manner. The executor(s) can apply for probate themselves (which is often done to reduce legal fees) or be represented by a lawyer.\n\nTo obtain a grant of probate, there must have been a valid will and assets left by the deceased person. Usually, asset holders require a Grant of Probate unless:\n\nAfter probate is granted, the executor(s) is also responsible for distributing the assets in accordance with the will. Some Australian jurisdictions require a notice of intended distribution to be published before the estate is distributed.\n\nThe main source of English law is the Wills Act 1837. Probate, as with the law of family settlements (trusts), was handled by the Court of Chancery. When that court was abolished in 1873, their jurisdiction passed to the Chancery Division of the High Court.\n\nWhen someone dies, the term \"probate\" usually refers to the legal process whereby the deceased's assets are collected together and, following various legal and fiscal steps and processes, eventually distributed to the beneficiaries of the estate. Technically the term has a particular legal meaning, but it is generally used within the English legal profession as a term to cover all procedures concerned with the administration of a deceased person's estate. As a legal discipline the subject is vast and it is only possible in an article such as this to cover the most common situations, but even that only scratches the surface.\n\nAll legal procedures concerned with probate (as defined above) come within the jurisdiction of the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice by virtue of Section 25 of the Senior Courts Act 1981. The High Court is, therefore, the only body able to issue documents that confer on someone the ability to deal with a deceased person's estate—close bank accounts or sell property. It is the production and issuing of these documents, known collectively as \"grants of representation\", that is the primary function of the Probate Registries, which are part of the High Court, which the general public and probate professionals alike apply to for grants of representation.\n\nThere are many different types of grants of representation, each one designed to cover a particular circumstance. The most common cover the two most common situations—either the deceased died leaving a valid will or they did not. If someone left a valid will, it is more than likely that the grant is a \"grant of probate\". If there was no will, the grant required is likely to be a \"grant of administration\". There are many other grants that can be required in certain circumstances, and many have technical Latin names, but the general public is most likely to encounter grants of probate or administration. If an estate has a value of less than £5,000.00 or if all assets are held jointly and therefore pass by survivorship, for example to a surviving spouse, a grant is not usually required.\n\nA will includes the appointment of Executor(s). One of their duties is to apply to the Probate Division of the High Court for a Grant of Probate. An Executor can apply to a local probate registry for a grant themselves but most people use a probate practitioner such as a solicitor. If an estate is small, some banks and building societies allow the deceased's immediate family to close accounts without a grant, but there usually must be less than about £15,000 in the account for this to be permitted.\n\nThe persons who are actually given the job of dealing with the deceased's assets are called \"personal representatives\" or \"PRs\". If the deceased left a valid will, the PRs are the \"executors\" appointed by the will—\"I appoint X and Y to be my executors etc.\" If there is no will or if the will does not contain a valid appointment of executors (for example if they are all dead) then the PRs are called \"administrators\". So, executors obtain a grant of probate that permits them to deal with the estate and administrators obtain a grant of administration that lets them do the same. Apart from that distinction, the function of executors and administrators is exactly the same.\n\nA requirement of the Probate process is the valuation of the Estate.\n\nFor an explanation of the intestacy probate process in England and Wales, see Administration of an estate on death.\n\nAn applicant may challenge the validity of a person’s will after they have died by lodging a Caveat and requisite fee at the probate registry. This prevents anyone from obtaining a grant of probate for that person’s estate for six months, which the applicant can shortly before that point apply to extend. A caveat is not be used to extend the time for bringing a claim for financial provision from a person’s estate, such as under the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975. The court can order costs against an applicant using a caveat for that purpose.\n\nTo challenge the caveat, the intended executor sends a completed “Warning” form to the probate registry. This document will be sent to the person who entered the caveat, and for the caveat to remain, they will have to enter an Appearance at the probate registry. This is not a physical appearance; it is a further document to send to the probate registry within eight days of receiving the warning.\n\nThe equivalent to probate in Scotland is confirmation, although there are considerable differences between the two systems because of the separate Scottish legal system. Appointment as an executor does not in itself give confer authority to ingather and distribute the estate of the deceased; the executor(s) must make an application to the sheriff court for a grant of confirmation. This is a court order authorising them to \"uplift, receive, administer and dispose of the estate and to act in the office of executor\". A grant of confirmation gives the executor(s) authority to uplift money or other property belonging to a deceased person (e.g. from a bank), and to administer and distribute it according to either the deceased's will or the law on intestacy.\n\nMost estates in the United States include property that is subject to probate proceedings. If the property of an estate is not automatically devised to a surviving spouse or heir through principles of joint ownership or survivorship, or otherwise by operation of law, and was not transferred to a trust during the decedent's lifetime, it is generally necessary to \"probate the estate\", whether or not the decedent had a valid will.\n\nSome states have procedures that allow for the transfer of assets from small estates through affidavit or through a simplified probate process. For example, California has a “Small Estate Summary Procedure” to allow the summary transfer of a decedent’s asset without a formal Probate proceeding. The dollar limit by which the Small Estate procedure can be effectuated is $150,000.\n\nFor estates that do not qualify for simplified proceedings, a court having jurisdiction of the decedent's estate (a probate court) supervises the probate process to ensure administration and disposition of the decedent's property is conducted in accord with the law of that jurisdiction, and in a manner consistent with decedent's intent as manifested in his will. Distribution of certain estate assets may require selling assets, including real estate.\n\nSome of the decedent's property may never enter probate because it passes to another person contractually, such as the death proceeds of an insurance policy insuring the decedent or bank or retirement account that names a beneficiary or is owned as \"payable on death\", and property (sometimes a bank or brokerage account) legally held as \"jointly owned with right of survivorship\".\n\nProperty held in a revocable or irrevocable trust created during the grantor's lifetime also avoids probate. In these cases in the U.S. no court action is involved and the property is distributed privately, subject to estate taxes.\n\nThe best way to determine which assets are probate assets (requiring administration) is to determine whether each asset passes outside of probate.\n\nIn jurisdictions in the U.S. that recognize a married couple's property as tenancy by the entireties, if a spouse (or partner in Hawaii) dies intestate (owning property without a will), the portion of his/her estate so titled passes to a surviving spouse without a probate.\n\nIf the decedent dies without a will, known as intestacy, the estate is distributed according to the laws of the state where the decedent resided.\n\nIf the decedent died with a will, the will usually names an executor (personal representative), who carries out the instructions laid out in the will. The executor marshals the decedent's assets. If there is no will, or if the will does not name an executor, the probate court can appoint one. Traditionally, the representative of an estate is called an \"administrator\". If the decedent died with a will, but only a copy of the will can be located, many states allow the copy to be probated, subject to the rebuttable presumption that the testator destroyed the will before death.\n\nIn some cases, where the person named as executor cannot administer the probate, or wishes to have someone else do so, another person is named administrator. An executor or an administrator may receive compensation for his service. Additionally, beneficiaries of an estate may be able to remove the appointed executor if he or she is not capable of properly fulfilling his or her duties.\n\nThe representative of a testate estate who is someone other than the executor named in the will is an \"administrator with the will annexed\", or administrator c.t.a. (from the Latin \"cum testamento annexo\".) The generic term for executors or administrators is personal representative.\n\nThe probate court may require that the executor provide a fidelity bond, an insurance policy in favor of the estate to protect against possible abuse by the executor.\n\nAfter opening the probate case with the court, the personal representative inventories and collects the decedent's property. Next, he pays any debts and taxes, including estate tax in the United States, if the estate is taxable at the federal or state level. Finally, he distributes the remaining property to the beneficiaries, either as instructed in the will, or under the intestacy laws of the state.\n\nA party may challenge any aspect of the probate administration, such as a direct challenge to the validity of the will, known as a will contest, a challenge to the status of the person serving as personal representative, a challenge as to the identity of the heirs, and a challenge to whether the personal representative is properly administering the estate. Issues of paternity can be disputed among the potential heirs in intestate estates, especially with the advent of inexpensive DNA profiling techniques. In some situations, however, even biological heirs can be denied their inheritance rights, while non-biological heirs can be granted inheritance rights.\n\nThe personal representative must understand and abide by the fiduciary duties, such as a duty to keep money in interest bearing account and to treat all beneficiaries equally. Not complying with the fiduciary duties may allow interested persons to petition for the removal of the personal representative and hold the personal representative liable for any harm to the estate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46718688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46718688", "title": "Resistance International", "text": "Resistance International\n\nResistance International was an international anti-communist organisation that existed between 1983 and 1988. It anticipated and embodied the so-called Reagan Doctrine which took final shape in 1985. Resistance International was set up in France in May 1983 on the initiative of Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky and Armando Valladares, a representative of the Cuban dissident movement.\n\n\"Today few traces remain of the activities of Resistance International\", writes Galina Akkerman in a memoir describing her work for writer Vladimir Maximov at the organisation's \"tiny office on the Champs Elysée\" in Paris. \"The internet was still unknown and to restore the history of this organisation I must turn to the few things I can recall\".\n\nVladimir Bukovsky was chosen president and the organisation was run by former Soviet dissidents. Everyday organisation was then in the hands of the executive director Vladimir Maximov, writer and editor of the \"Kontinent\" quarterly. Galina Akkerman describes how Eduard Kuznetsov later took over part of Maximov's role and recalls the involvement of Armand Maloumian, a post-war inmate of Stalin's Gulag.\n\nAmong the members of the International's advisory committee were Cornelia Gerstenmaier, Lord Nicholas Bethell, Winston Churchill Jr, Mstislav Rostropovich, and Simon Wiesenthal. By 1986 they had been joined by Saul Bellow, Bruno Bettleheim, Robert Conquest and others.\n\nThe aim of the organisation was to coordinate the activities of anti-communist movements in the Socialist bloc and in the Third World and challenge the legitimacy of Communist governments everywhere. In a 1991 interview Bukovsky commented, \"We didn't do that much, but the little we did all worked and had a considerable effect.\" \n\nIn particular Resistance International directed its efforts towards Afghanistan, where tens of thousands of Soviet troops had been based since the invasion of December 1979. The International organised Radio Free Kabul, providing 25 portable transmitters that served not only as a means of transmitting radio propaganda in local languages, but also as a means of communication between the mujahideen forces. Resistance International helped Soviet deserters and prisoners of war leave the country. To spread information among Soviet forces serving in Afghanistan the organisation issued a newspaper that bore an external resemblance to Krasnaya Zvezda, the daily published by the Soviet Ministry of Defence.\n\nResistance International was also said to have carried out propaganda work among the Cuban troops deployed in Angola.\n\nWith the aid of the Solidarity movement in Poland, it sent propaganda videos to the USSR concealed in Polish trucks.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1987 Resistance International organised major events in Western Europe, two in Paris and one in Vienna, to draw attention to the lack of free speech and human rights in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe first event was timed to coincide with Mikhail Gorbachev's first visit to Paris in October 1985. As an alternative to the official events of the Soviet leader's visit a large gathering was held at the Grand Palais.\n\nThe second event, an exhibition entitled a \"Helsinki Mirror\" and a press conference, took place in Vienna from 4 to 6 November 1986 as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) which produced the 1975 Helsinki Accords was transformed into the permanent Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).\n\nThe third and last major public event of Resistance International was the Paris Forum, \"Literature without borders\", held in November 1987 and organised jointly by the French Pen Club, Resistance International and the Russian and French editions of the \"Kontinent\" quarterly. \"Freedom of speech in the USSR and Eastern Europe\", noted Galina Akkerman, \"was something more people could agree on than aid for the Contras or the Afghan mujahideen,\" and forty famous writers attended, including Joseph Brodsky, Czeslaw Milosz and Georgy Vladimov. This would prove, in Akkerman's words, to be the \"swan song\" of Resistance International. It closed down the following year.\n\nResistance International initially had funding from the US Congress (from which it received 6 million dollars in 1983) and from private American foundations. In 1985 the organisation was put on a more serious footing with the establishment of the American Foundation for Resistance International which had a roster of famous names and influential right-wing politicians on its advisory committee (among them Saul Bellow, William F. Buckley Jr, and, later, Richard Perle), while Jeane Kirkpatrick served with Bukovsky and Albert Jolis on its board. For the next three years this body raised funds for Resistance International and expanded the scope of its activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47554936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47554936", "title": "Ronggo", "text": "Ronggo\n\nRonggo was an administrative title used by the Dutch in the Dutch East Indies in Indonesia (specifically Java and Borneo.)\n\nRonggo of \"Afdeeling\" Bandjarmasin was held by Kiahi Mas Djaja Samoedra (circa 1899) (EYD or \"advanced spelling\": Kiai Mas Jaya Samudera). The region saw much international trade with Asia and the Middle East. After a period of warfare dominated much of the late 1500s to mid 1600s, Portugal controlled the area for a short time.\n\nFollowing Portuguese control, the Dutch East India Company awarded a monopoly on trade and colonization in the area utilizing an exceptional financial backing, better organization, strategy, weapons and ships, but were still unable to completely dominate the Indonesian spice trade. In the 1800s, the Dutch East India Company dissolved due to bankruptcy and the Netherlands turned it into a nationalized colony.\n\nBandjarmasi leadership structure:\n\n\n\nhttp://european-heritage.org/netherlands/alkmaar/dutch-east-india-company\n\nhttp://www.abbreviations.com/EYD\n\nhttp://www.worldatlas.com/webimage/countrys/asia/id2.htm#page\n"}
{"id": "47258007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47258007", "title": "Saltwater soap", "text": "Saltwater soap\n\nSaltwater soap, also called sailors' soap, is a potassium-based soap for use with seawater. Inexpensive common regular commercial soap will not lather or dissolve in seawater due to high levels of sodium chloride in the water. Similarly, common soap does not work as well as potassium-based soap in hard water where calcium replaces the sodium, making residual insoluble \"scum\" due to the insolubility of the soap residue. To be an effective cleaning agent, soap must be able to dissolve in water.\n\nOrdinary soap is a salt of a fatty acid. Soaps are mainly used as surfactants for washing, bathing, and cleaning. Soaps for cleansing are made by treating vegetable or animal oils and fats with a strongly alkaline solution. Fats and oils are composed of triglycerides; three molecules of fatty acids are attached to a single molecule of glycerol. The alkaline solution, which is often called lye (although the term \"lye soap\" refers almost exclusively to soaps made with sodium hydroxide), brings about a chemical reaction known as saponification. In this reaction, the triglyceride fats are first hydrolyzed into free fatty acids, and then these combine with the alkali to form crude soap: a combination of various soap salts, excess fat or alkali, water, and liberated glycerol (glycerin).\n\nSaltwater soaps use potassium salts as found naturally in plant ashes (hence the element name \"potassium\" as derived from the term \"potash\", for the ashes left in a pot after burning wood or other plant materials), instead of the sodium salts found in commercial lye. Potassium is a alkali metal similar to sodium but more active. Similarly to sodium, potassium also can react with long fatty acid tails to make soap molecules. Potassium soaps dissolve and make salt water soap work better than sodium in salt waters such as in seawater. \n\nIn places that do not have fresh water or need to conserve it, cleaning can be done with the use of salt water and saltwater soap.\n\n"}
{"id": "55915111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55915111", "title": "Sivanxai Phommalath", "text": "Sivanxai Phommalath\n\nSivanxai Phommalath is a vegetable vendor who became an activist in Laos. She was jailed for protesting the Government of Laos seizing her land for development.\n\nSivanxai Phommalath was a small vegetable vendor who sold vegetables grown in her own garden by her house in Yommalath district, Khammuane province, Laos. She was married with one child. The government of Laos decided to built Nam Theun II dam in Yommalath district to generate hydroelectricity. Her home and land like many of her neighbors were expropriated by the Government of Laos, like many of her neighbors. Those with connections to the government were able to secure good compensation which Sivanxai was not able to do. She received 900 dollars for her piece of land and the government said that it was enough to cover another piece of land she owned near the site. She demanded fair compensation that was market price of the land. She tried to organize a protest near the border of Thailand, which did not work but she was arrested and imprisoned in Thamkhikai. The police accused her of causing public disturbance and was asked to name the government official she meant to meet at the border which she did not know. She was released after being fined 88 dollars. After being released from jail she decided to fight the government and settled down on her second plot, building a house and paying property taxes.\n"}
{"id": "3875331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875331", "title": "Social determinants of health", "text": "Social determinants of health\n\nThe social determinants of health are the economic and social conditions that influence individual and group differences in health status. They are the health promoting factors found in one's living and working conditions (such as the distribution of income, wealth, influence, and power), rather than individual risk factors (such as behavioral risk factors or genetics) that influence the risk for a disease, or vulnerability to disease or injury. The distributions of social determinants are often shaped by public policies that reflect prevailing political ideologies of the area. The World Health Organization says, \"This unequal distribution of health-damaging experiences is not in any sense a 'natural' phenomenon but is the result of a toxic combination of poor social policies, unfair economic arrangements [where the already well-off and healthy become even richer and the poor who are already more likely to be ill become even poorer], and bad politics.\"\n\nThere is no single definition of the social determinants of health, but there are commonalities, and many governmental and non-governmental organizations recognize that there are social factors which impact the health of individuals.\n\nIn 2003, the World Health Organization (WHO) Europe suggested that the social determinants of health included:\n\nIn Canada, these social determinants of health have gained wide usage.\n\nThese social determinants of health are related to health outcomes, public policy, and are easily understood by the public to impact health. They tend to cluster together – for example, those living in poverty experience a number of negative health determinants.\n\nIn 2008, the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health published a report entitled \"Closing the Gap in a Generation.\" This report identified two broad areas of social determinants of health that needed to be addressed. The first area was daily living conditions, which included healthy physical environments, fair employment and decent work, social protection across the lifespan, and access to health care. The second major area was distribution of power, money, and resources, including equity in health programs, public financing of action on the social determinants, economic inequalities, resource depletion, healthy working conditions, gender equity, political empowerment, constitution of reserves and a balance of power and prosperity of nations.\n\nThe 2011 World Conference on Social Determinants of Health brought together delegations from 125 member states and resulted in the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health. This declaration involved an affirmation that health inequities are unacceptable, and noted that these inequities arise from the societal conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age, including early childhood development, education, economic status, employment and decent work, housing environment, and effective prevention and treatment of health problems.\n\nThe United States Centers for Disease Control defines social determinants of health as \"life-enhancing resources, such as food supply, housing, economic and social relationships, transportation, education, and health care, whose distribution across populations effectively determines length and quality of life\". These include access to care and resources such as food, insurance coverage, income, housing, and transportation. Social determinants of health influence health-promoting behaviours, and health equity among the population is not possible without equitable distribution of social determinants among groups.\n\nSteven H. Woolf, MD of the Virginia Commonwealth University Center on Human Needs states, \"The degree to which social conditions affect health is illustrated by the association between education and mortality rates\". Reports in 2005 revealed the mortality rate was 206.3 per 100,000 for adults aged 25 to 64 years with little education beyond high school, but was twice as great (477.6 per 100,000) for those with only a high school education and 3 times as great (650.4 per 100,000) for those less educated. Based on the data collected, the social conditions such as education, income, and race were dependent on one another, but these social conditions also apply to independent health influences..\n\nMarmot and Bell of the University College London found that in wealthy countries, income and mortality are correlated as a marker of relative position within society, and this relative position is related to social conditions that are important for health including good early childhood development, access to high quality education, rewarding work with some degree of autonomy, decent housing, and a clean and safe living environment. The social condition of autonomy, control, and empowerment turns are important influences on health and disease, and individuals who lack social participation and control over their lives are at a greater risk for heart disease and mental illness.\n\nEven in the wealthiest countries, there are health inequalities between the rich and the poor. Researchers Labonte and Schrecker from the Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine at the University of Ottawa emphasize that globalization is key to understanding the social determinants of health, and as Bushra (2011) posits, the impacts of globalization are unequal. Globalization has caused an uneven distribution of wealth and power both within and across national borders, and where and in what situation a person is born has an enormous impact on their health outcomes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development found significant differences among developed nations in health status indicators such as life expectancy, infant mortality, incidence of disease, and death from injuries. Migrants and their family members also experience significant negatives health impacts.\n\nThese inequalities may exist in the context of the health care system, or in broader social approaches. According to the WHO's Commission on Social Determinants of Health, access to health care is essential for equitable health, and it argued that health care should be a common good rather than a market commodity. However, there is substantial variation in health care systems and coverage from country to country. The Commission also calls for government action on such things as access to clean water and safe, equitable working conditions, and it notes that dangerous working conditions exist even in some wealthy countries. In the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health, several key areas of action were identified to address inequalities, including promotion of participatory policy-making processes, strengthening global governance and collaboration, and encouraging developed countries to reach a target of 0.7% of gross national product (GNP) for official development assistance.\n\nThe UK \"Black\" and \"The Health Divide\" reports considered two primary mechanisms for understanding how social determinants influence health: cultural/behavioral and materialist/structuralist The cultural/behavioral explanation is that individuals' behavioral choices (e.g., tobacco and alcohol use, diet, physical activity, etc.) were responsible for their development and deaths from a variety of diseases. However, both the \"Black\" and \"Health Divide\" reports found that behavioral choices are determined by one's material conditions of life, and these behavioral risk factorsaccount for a relatively small proportion of variation in the incidence and death from various diseases.\n\nThe materialist/structuralist explanation emphasizes the people's material living conditions. These conditions include availability of resources to access the amenities of life, working conditions, and quality of available food and housing among others. Within this view, three frameworks have been developed to explain how social determinants influence health. These frameworks are: (a) materialist; (b) neo-materialist; and (c) psychosocial comparison. The materialist view explains how living conditions – and the social determinants of health that constitute these living conditions – shape health. The neo-materialist explanation extends the materialist analysis by asking how these living conditions occur. The psychosocial comparison explanation considers whether people compare themselves to others and how these comparisons affect health and wellbeing.\n\nA nation's wealth is a strong indicator of the health of its population. Within nations, however, individual socio-economic position is a powerful predictor of health. Material conditions of life determine health by influencing the quality of individual development, family life and interaction, and community environments. Material conditions of life lead to differing likelihood of physical (infections, malnutrition, chronic disease, and injuries), developmental (delayed or impaired cognitive, personality, and social development), educational (learning disabilities, poor learning, early school leaving), and social (socialization, preparation for work, and family life) problems. Material conditions of life also lead to differences in psychosocial stress. When the fight-or-flight reaction is chronically elicited in response to constant threats to income, housing, and food availability, the immune systemis weakened, insulin resistanceis increased, and lipid and clotting disorders appear more frequently.\n\nThe materialist approach offers insight into the sources of health inequalities among individuals and nations. Adoption of health-threatening behaviours is also influenced by material deprivation and stress.Environments influence whether individuals take up tobacco, use alcohol, consume poor diets, and have low levels of physical activity. Tobacco use, excessive alcohol consumption, and carbohydrate-dense diets are also used to cope with difficult circumstances. The materialist approach seeks to understand how these social determinants occur. \n\nThe neo-materialist approach is concerned with how nations, regions, and cities differ on how economic and other resources are distributed among the population. This distribution of resources can vary widely from country to country. The neo-materialist view focuses on both the social determinants of health and the societal factors that determine the distribution of these social determinants, and especially emphasizes how resources are distributed among members of a society. \n\nThe social comparison approach holds that the social determinants of health play their role through citizens' interpretations of their standings in the social hierarchy. There are two mechanisms by which this occurs. At the individual level, the perception and experience of one's status in unequal societies lead to stress and poor health. Feelings of shame, worthlessness, and envy can lead to harmful effects upon neuro-endocrine, autonomic and metabolic, and immune systems. Comparisons to those of a higher social class can also lead to attempts to alleviate such feelings by overspending, taking on additional employment that threaten health, and adopting health-threatening coping behaviours such as overeating and using alcohol and tobacco. At the communal level, widening and strengthening of hierarchy weakens social cohesion, which is a determinant of health. The social comparison approach directs attention to the psychosocial effects of public policies that weaken the social determinants of health. However, these effects may be secondary to how societies distribute material resources and provide security to its citizens, which are described in the materialist and neo-materialist approaches.\n\nLife-course approaches emphasize the accumulated effects of experience across the life span in understanding the maintenance of health and the onset of disease. The economic and social conditions – the social determinants of health – under which individuals live their lives have a cumulative effect upon the probability of developing any number of diseases, including heart disease and stroke. Studies into the childhood and adulthood antecedents of adult-onset diabetes show that adverse economic and social conditions across the life span predispose individuals to this disorder. \n\nHertzman outlines three health effects that have relevance for a life-course perspective. Latent effects are biological or developmental early life experiences that influence health later in life. Low birth weight, for instance, is a reliable predictor of incidence of cardiovascular disease and adult-onset diabetes in later life. Nutritional deprivation during childhood has lasting health effects as well.\n\nPathway effects are experiences that set individuals onto trajectories that influence health, well-being, and competence over the life course. As one example, children who enter school with delayed vocabulary are set upon a path that leads to lower educational expectations, poor employment prospects, and greater likelihood of illness and disease across the lifespan. Deprivation associated with poor-quality neighbourhoods, schools, and housing sets children off on paths that are not conducive to health and well-being.\n\nCumulative effects are the accumulation of advantage or disadvantage over time that manifests itself in poor health, in particular between women and men. These involve the combination of latent and pathways effects. Adopting a life-course perspective directs attention to how social determinants of health operate at every level of development – early childhood, childhood, adolescence, and adulthood – to both immediately influence health and influence it in the future. .\n\nStressis hypothesized to be a major influence in the social determinants of health. There is a relationship between experience of chronic stress and negative health outcomes. This relationship is explained through both direct and indirect effects of chronic stress on health outcomes.\n\nThe direct relationship between stress and health outcomes is the effect of stress on human physiology. The long term stress hormone, cortisol, is believed to be the key driver in this relationship. Chronic stress has been found to be significantly associated with chronic low-grade inflammation, slower wound healing, increased susceptibility to infections, and poorer responses to vaccines. Meta-analysis of healing studies has found that there is a robust relationship between elevated stress levels and slower healing for many different acute and chronic conditions However, it is also important to note that certain factors, such as coping styles and social support, can mitigate the relationship between chronic stress and health outcomes.\n\nStress can also be seen to have an indirect effect on health status. One way this happens is due to the strain on the psychological resources of the stressed individual. Chronic stress is common in those of a low socio-economic status, who are having to balance worries about financial security, how they will feed their families, housing status, and many other concerns. Therefore, individuals with these kinds of worries may lack the emotional resources to adopt positive health behaviours. Chronically stressed individuals may therefore be less likely to prioritize their health.\n\nIn addition to this, the way that an individual responds to stress can influence their health status. Often, individuals responding to chronic stress will develop potentially positive or negative coping behaviors. People who cope with stress through positive behaviors such as exercise or social connections may not be as affected by the relationship between stress and health, whereas those with a coping style more prone to over-consumption (i.e. emotional eating, drinking, smoking or drug use) are more likely to be see negative health effects of stress.\n\nThe detrimental effects of stress on health outcomes are hypothesised to partly explain why countries that have high levels of income inequality have poorer health outcomes compared to more equal countries. Wilkinson and Picket hypothesise in their book that the stressors associated with low social status are amplified in societies where others are clearly far better off. \n\nReducing the health gap requires that governments build systems that allow a healthy standard of living for every resident. \n\nThree common interventions for improving social determinant outcomes as identified by the WHO are education, social security and urban development. However, evaluation of interventions has been difficult due to the nature of the interventions, their impact and the fact that the interventions strongly affect children's health outcomes.\n\n\nThe Commission on Social Determinants of Health made recommendations in 2005 for action to promote health equity based on three principles: \"improve the circumstances in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age; tackle the inequitable distribution of power, money, and resources, the structural drivers of conditions of daily life, globally, nationally, and locally; and measure the problem, evaluate action, and expand the knowledge base.\" These recommendations would involve providing resources such as quality education, decent housing, access to affordable health care, access to healthy food, and safe places to exercise for everyone despite gaps in affluence. Expansion of knowledge of the social determinants of health, including among healthcare workers, can improve the quality and standard of care for people who are marginalized, poor or living in developing nations by preventing early death and disability while working to improve quality of life.\n\nMany economic studies have been conducted to measure the effectiveness and value of social determinant interventions but are unable to accurately reflect effects on public health due to the multi-faceted nature of the topic. While neither cost-effectiveness nor cost-utility analysis is able to be used on social determinant interventions, cost-benefit analysis is able to better capture the effects of an intervention on multiple sectors of the economy. For example, tobacco interventions have shown to decrease tobacco use, but also prolong lifespans, increasing lifetime healthcare costs and is therefore marked as a failed intervention by cost-effectiveness, but not cost-benefit. Another issue with research in this area is that most of the current scientific papers focus on rich, developed countries, and there is a lack of research in developing countries.\n\nPolicy changes that affect children also present the challenge that it takes a significant amount of time to gather this type of data. In addition, policies to reduce child povertyare particularly important, as elevated stress hormones in children interfere with the development of brain circuitry and connections, causing long term chemical damage. In most wealthy countries, the relative child poverty rate is 10 percent or less; in the United States, it is 21.9 percent. The lowest poverty rates are more common in smaller well-developed and high-spending welfare states like Sweden and Finland, with about 5 or 6 percent. Middle-level rates are found in major European countries where unemployment compensation is more generous and social policies provide more generous support to single mothers and working women (through paid family leave, for example), and where social assistance minimums are high. For instance, the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium and Germany have poverty rates that are in the 7 to 8 percent range.\n\nThe Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health embraces a transparent, participatory model of policy development that, among other things, addresses the social determinants of health leading to persistent health inequalities for indigenous peoples. In 2017, citing the need for accountability for the pledges made by countries in the Rio Political Declaration on Social Detereminants of Health, the World Health Organization and United Nations Children's Fund called for the monitoring of intersectoral interventions on the social detereminants of health that improve health equity. \n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services includes social determinants in its model of population health, and one of its missions is to strengthen policies which are backed by the best available evidence and knowledge in the field \nSocial determinants of health do not exist in a vacuum. Their quality and availability to the population are usually a result of public policy decisions made by governing authorities. For example, early life is shaped by availability of sufficient material resources that assure adequate educational opportunities, food and housing among others. Much of this has to do with the employment security and the quality of working conditions and wages. The availability of quality, regulated childcare is an especially important policy option in support of early life. These are not issues that usually come under individual control but rather they are socially constructed conditions which require institutional responses. A policy-oriented approach places such findings within a broader policy context. In this context, Health in All Policies has seen as a response to incorporate health and health equity into all public policies as means to foster synergy between sectors and ultimately promote health.\n\nYet it is not uncommon to see governmental and other authorities individualize these issues. Governments may view early life as being primarily about parental behaviours towards their children. They then focus upon promoting better parenting, assist in having parents read to their children, or urge schools to foster exercise among children rather than raising the amount of financial or housing resources available to families. Indeed, for every social determinant of health, an individualized manifestation of each is available. There is little evidence to suggest the efficacy of such approaches in improving the health status of those most vulnerable to illness in the absence of efforts to modify their adverse living conditions.\n\nA team of the Cochrane Collaboration conducted the first comprehensive systematic review of the health impact of unconditional cash transfers, as an increasingly common up-stream, structural social determinant of health. The review of 21 studies, including 16 randomized controlled trials, found that unconditional cash transfers may not improve health services use. However, they lead to a large, clinically meaningful reduction in the likelihood of being sick by an estimated 27%. Unconditional cash transfers may also improve food security and dietary diversity. Children in recipient families are more likely to attend school, and the cash transfers may increase money spent on health care.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref>\n\nOne of the recommendations by the Commission on the Social Determinants of Health is expanding knowledge – particularly to health care workers.\n\nAlthough not addressed by the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health, sexual orientation and gender identity are increasingly recognized as social determinants of health.\n\n"}
{"id": "23003361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23003361", "title": "Sufan movement", "text": "Sufan movement\n\nThe Sufan movement (肅反, \"against counterrevolutionaries\") was a political campaign against political opponents in the People's Republic of China under Mao Zedong. The term \"sufan\" is short for \"肅清暗藏的反革命分子\", and can roughly be taken as referring to a 'purge' of hidden counterrevolutionaries. Historically, the earliest Chinese communist Sufan had been initiated by Zhang Guotao in 1932. The Sufan movement lasted from August 1955 to late 1956.\n\nOn 1 July 1955, the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee issued a \"Directive on launching a struggle to cleanse out hidden counter-revolutionary elements\" (關於開展鬥爭肅 清暗藏的反革命分子的指示). On 25 August 1955，it issued \"The directive on the thorough purge and cleansing of hidden counter revolutionaries\" (關於徹底肅清暗藏反革命分子的指示). The targets of directives like these were individuals inside the communist party, the government bureaucracy, and military personnel. This was in contrast to the earlier Zhen Fan movement that had mainly targeted former Kuomintang personnel.\n\nThe \"People's Daily\", in an attempt to provide justification for the purge, reported that ten percent of Communist Party members were secret traitors and needed to be purged. This number appears to have been taken as a quota for the number of arrests that needed to occur.\n\nThere were three categories of Sufan targets:\n\nIn many if not all parts of China, the Sufan movement ended in late 1956. Jean-Louis Margolin writes in \"The Black Book of Communism\" that one source indicates 81,000 arrests during the campaign (which he claims is rather modest), while another gives 770,000 deaths. He concludes that there is no way to determine which is accurate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20962298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962298", "title": "Swedish Customs Service", "text": "Swedish Customs Service\n\nThe Swedish Customs (, literally \"\") is the customs service of Sweden. It is a department of the Government of Sweden. It is one of the oldest governmental agencies in Sweden, as it was founded in 1636. It is also Sweden's \"de facto\" border guard.\n\nCustoms duties have existed in Sweden since the twelfth century, and the current organisation was created in 1636. During this period, the Swedish administration was being developed as Sweden was then a great power. The first Collector-General or Head of Customs was . \n\nCustoms duties, known as \"fiscal tolls\", were first introduced to raise revenue for the state. Other tolls were introduced later to protect Swedish industry, so-called \"protective tariffs\". In earlier times, most goods were transported by sea. Vessels arriving in Sweden had to pass through the \"Great Sea Toll\" where customs duties were paid. There was also a domestic toll, known as the \"Little Toll\". In the case of the Little Toll, Swedes were forced to pay duty on goods they brought into towns to sell, an important source of income for the Swedish monarchy.\n\nIn line with the arrival of duties, so came the rise of smuggling. Different goods have been smuggled at different times. From the 18th Century to the mid 19th Century, it was common to smuggle cloth. This was because the government was keen to encourage a textiles industry in Sweden and introduced customs duties and an import ban to prevent foreign cloth coming into the country. In the period between the two world wars, 1920-1939, alcohol was the item most smuggled. From the 1960s drug smuggling started to become a problem in Sweden, and remains one today.\n\nAnother clear trend is the growing trade with other countries with the aid of new technology, such as the internet. Goods ordered from countries outside the EU through the internet are also subject to duty and other charges.\n\nUpon joining the European Union in 1995, Sweden also joined the EU customs union, which means the customs regulations are standardised throughout the EU. The joint customs union is slightly different from that of the Schengen Area covering free-travel.\n\nApproximately 75 million travellers, ships, containers and vehicles cross Sweden's frontiers every year. Swedish Customs works in the midst of this flow of goods and people.\n\nThe work of Swedish Customs within the law-enforcement field extends across the entire chain of a criminal investigation, from intelligence and checks at the customs channel to a completed preliminary investigation. Border protection officers, customs investigators and customs prosecutors work together to combat criminal activity. Customs officers have the right to stop and search individuals, interview, investigate and to search premises. Customs officers can also be trained to be a Search Dog handler.When the dog retires, at about 10 years of age, the Customs Officer is offered the dog as a gift, and then can continue, either as a dog handler with another dog, a dog handling instructor, or a regular customs officer. \n\n"}
{"id": "666601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666601", "title": "Synarchism", "text": "Synarchism\n\nSynarchism generally means \"joint rule\" or \"harmonious rule\". Beyond this general definition, both \"synarchism\" and synarchy have been used to denote rule by a secret elite in Vichy France, Italy, China, Hong Kong and Mexico.\n\nThe earliest recorded use of the term \"synarchy\" is attributed to Thomas Stackhouse (1677–1752), an English clergyman who used the word in his \"New History of the Holy Bible from the Beginning of the World to the Establishment of Christianity\" (published in two folio volumes in 1737). The attribution can be found in the Webster's Dictionary (the American Dictionary of the English Language, published by Noah Webster in 1828). Webster's definition for \"synarchy\" is limited entirely to \"joint rule or sovereignty\". The word is derived from the Greek stems \"syn\" meaning \"with\" or \"together\" and \"archy\" meaning \"rule\".\n\nThe most substantial early use of the word \"synarchy\" comes from the writings of Alexandre Saint-Yves d'Alveydre (1842–1909), who used the term in his book \"La France vraie\" to describe what he believed was the ideal form of government. In reaction to the emergence of anarchist ideologies and movements, Saint-Yves elaborated a political formula which he believed would lead to a harmonious society. He defended social differentiation and hierarchy with collaboration between social classes, transcending conflict between social and economic groups: synarchy, as opposed to anarchy. Specifically, Saint-Yves envisioned a Federal Europe (as well as all the states it has integrated) with a corporatist government composed of three councils, one for academia, one for the judiciary, and one for commerce.\n\nSome conspiracy theorists (especially in the French-speaking and Spanish-speaking world) use the word \"synarchy\" to describe a shadow government or deep state, a form of government where political power effectively rests with a secret elite, in contrast to an \"oligarchy\" where the elite is or could be known by the public.\n\nAccording to former OSS officer William Langer, some French industrial and banking interests\n\neven before the war, had turned to Nazi Germany and had looked to Hitler as the savior of Europe from Communism. These people were as good fascists as any in Europe. Many of them had extensive and intimate business relations with German interests and were still dreaming of a new system of \"synarchy\", which meant government of Europe on fascist principles by an international brotherhood of financiers and industrialists.\n\nThis theory allegedly originated with the discovery of a document called \"Pacte Synarchique\" following the death (May 19, 1941) of Jean Coutrot, former member of Groupe X-Crise, on May 15, 1941. According to this document, a \"Mouvement Synarchique d'Empire\" had been founded in 1922, with the aim of abolishing parliamentarianism and replacing it with synarchy. This led to the belief that La Cagoule, a far-right organisation, was the armed branch of French synarchism, and that some important members of the Vichy Regime were synarchists. The Vichy government ordered an investigation, leading to the \"Rapport Chavin\" but no evidence for the existence of the \"Mouvement Synarchiste d'Empire\" was found. Most of the presumed synarchists were either associated with the Banque Worms or with Groupe X-Crise; they were close to Admiral François Darlan (Vichy prime minister 1941–1942), and this has led to the belief that synarchists had engineered the military defeat of France for the profit of Banque Worms.\n\nThis belief system has been dismissed as a \"work of a paranoid imagination which wove together the histories of three disparate groups of activists, creating a conspiracy among them where none existed\". Most historians suspect that the \"Pacte Synarchique\" was a hoax created by some members of La Cagoule to weaken Darlan and his technocrats. Only a few far-left historians defend the idea that the synarchy existed.\n\nThe Italian Propaganda Due pseudo-Masonic lodge (P2) was a \"textbook example\" of an attempt to establish a synarchy, as it united politicians, the Catholic Church, and the Mafia-controlled drug economy.\n\nLyndon LaRouche, leader of the LaRouche movement, describes a wide-ranging historical phenomenon, starting with Alexandre Saint-Yves d'Alveydre and the Martinist Order followed by important individuals, organizations, movements and regimes that are alleged to have been synarchist, including the government of Nazi Germany. He claims that during the Great Depression an international coalition of financial institutions, raw materials cartels, and intelligence operatives installed fascist regimes throughout Europe (and tried to do so in Mexico) to maintain world order and prevent the repudiation of international debts. LaRouche identifies the former U.S. Vice President and former PNAC member Dick Cheney as a modern \"synarchist\", and claims that \"synarchists\" have \"a scheme for replacing regular military forces of nations, by private armies in the footsteps of a privately financed international Waffen-SS-like scheme, a force deployed by leading financier institutions, such as the multi-billions funding by the U.S. Treasury, of Cheney's Halliburton gang.\"\n\nHarvard historian and sinologist John K. Fairbank used the word \"synarchy\" in his 1953 book \"Trade and Diplomacy on the China Coast: The Opening of the Treaty Ports, 1842–1854\", and in later writings, to describe the mechanisms of government under the Qing dynasty in China. Fairbank's synarchy is a form of joint rule by co-opting existing Manchu and Han Chinese elites and bringing the foreign powers into the system and legitimizing them through a schedule of rituals and tributes that gave them a stake in the Qing dynasty rule. He believed that the Qing, who were considered outside rulers because of their Manchu origins, developed this strategy out of necessity because they did not have a strong political base in China. Not all historians of China find this persuasive, but it is a , mainstream view.\n\nIn 2011, Hu Jintao, proclaimed the \"Harmonious Society\" as a policy goal of the CCP.\n\nThe term is also used by some political scientists to describe the British colonial government in Hong Kong (1842–1997). Ambrose King, in his 1975 paper \"Administrative Absorption of Politics in Hong Kong\", described colonial Hong Kong's administration as \"elite consensual government\". In it, he claimed, any coalition of elites or forces capable of challenging the legitimacy of Hong Kong's administrative structure would be co-opted by the existing apparatus through the appointment of leading political activists, business figures and other elites to oversight committees, by granting them British honours, and by bringing them into elite institutions like Hong Kong's horse racing clubs. He called this \"synarchy\", by extension of Fairbank's use of the word.\n\n\"Synarchy\" is also the name of the ideology of a political movement in Mexico dating from the 1930s. In Mexico, it was historically a movement of the Roman Catholic extreme right, in some ways akin to fascism, violently opposed to the populist and secularist policies of the revolutionary (PNR, PRM, and PRI) governments that ruled Mexico from 1929 to 2000.\n\nThe National Synarchist Union \"(Unión Nacional Sinarquista,\" UNS) was founded in May 1937 by a group of Catholic political activists led by José Antonio Urquiza, who was murdered in April 1938, and Salvador Abascal. In 1946, a faction of the movement loyal to deposed leader Manuel Torres Bueno regrouped as the Popular Force Party (Partido Fuerza Popular). Synarchism revived as a political movement in the 1970s through the Mexican Democratic Party (PDM), whose candidate, Ignacio González Gollaz, polled 1.8 percent of the vote at the 1982 presidential election. In 1988 Gumersindo Magaña polled a similar proportion, but the party then suffered a split, and, in 1992, lost its registration as a political party. It was dissolved in 1996.\n\nThere are now two organisations, both calling themselves the Unión Nacional Sinarquista, one apparently right-wing in orientation, the other apparently left-wing. Carlos Abascal, son of Salvador Abascal, was Mexico's Secretary of the Interior during Vicente Fox's presidency. Many \"sinarquistas\" are now militant in the National Action Party, PAN, of former presidents Vicente Fox (2000–2006) and Felipe Calderon (2006–2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24898380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24898380", "title": "Terror-free investing", "text": "Terror-free investing\n\nTerror-free investing describes an investment strategy which seeks to maximize financial return while assuring investors that the financial instruments in the portfolio are \"terror-free\".\n\nThe Center for Security Policy, a Washington-based neoconservative think tank, is a major force behind the movement. \"Terror-free investment is a train that we believe is picking up steam,\" according to Frank Gaffney, Jr., a Reagan-era Defense Department official, and president of the Center for Security Policy. Gaffney claims that one fifth of the portfolios of the largest American pension funds are in companies doing business in countries listed by the US as state sponsors of terrorism: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria.\n\nThe Global Security Risk Monitor of the Conflict Securities Advisory Group is a research group established to attract clients interested in \"Terror-Free Investing,\" by assuring them that none of their investments will aid groups or states that are considered by the US as sponsors of terrorism.\n\nEighteen American states have passed laws requiring the divestment of state pension funds from firms doing business with Iran, due in part to accusations that Iran supports terrorist organizations, and partially due to its controversial nuclear program.\n\n"}
{"id": "8523154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8523154", "title": "The 100-Mile Diet", "text": "The 100-Mile Diet\n\nThe 100-Mile Diet: A Year of Local Eating (or Plenty: One Man, One Woman, and a Raucous Year of Eating Locally) is a non-fiction book written by Canadian writers Alisa Smith and J.B. MacKinnon. In the book, the authors recount their experiences, including motivations and challenges, on restricting their diet, for one year, to include only foods grown within 100 miles of their residence. Beginning in March 2005, with little preparation the urban couple began only purchasing foods with ingredients they knew were all from within 100 miles. Finding little in grocery stores, they relied on farmers' markets and visits to local farms. Staples in their diet included seafood, chicken, root vegetable, berries, and corn. They lacked cooking oils, rice, and sugar. They preserved foods for use in the winter but ended with extra supplies.\n\nThe couple first wrote about the experience in articles for the online magazine \"The Tyee\". The popularity of the articles led to a book deal. In the book, Smith and MacKinnon each write alternate chapters, 12 in total. The first chapter is written by MacKinnon and focuses on the first month of their experience. They write in the first person as a memoir that explores their own dietary experiences and personal feelings.\n\nIn the Canadian market, the book spent five weeks on \"Maclean's\" nonfiction bestseller list. The book spent 20 weeks on \"The Vancouver Sun's\" nonfiction bestseller list.The authors won the Roderick Haig-Brown Regional Prize from the British Columbia Booksellers Association for the best contribution to the enjoyment and understanding of British Columbia. The 100-mile diet concept, along with advocates of local food, were covered by media across North America. In 2009, Food Network Canada aired \"The 100 Mile Challenge\", a television series co-created by MacKinnon and Smith and based on the book.\n\nAlisa Smith and J. B. MacKinnon's idea of local eating began while visiting their cabin in northern British Columbia in August 2004. Their food supplies were nearly exhausted so to feed their dinner guests they scrounged the surrounding land for food. Their dinner of Dolly Varden trout, wild mushrooms, dandelion leaves, apples, sour cherries, and rose hips, along with potatoes and garlic from the garden, so impressed the couple that once back home, in their Kitsilano apartment in Vancouver, they pursued the idea of eating only local food. They eventually decided to try a diet consisting of eating food, for one year, grown within 100 miles of their home. They began the diet symbolically on the first day of spring, March 21. Beginning in June, they wrote articles for \"The Tyee\" about their experience. The couple, both in their 30s, each had experience in writing: Smith as a freelance journalist who had taught non-fiction writing, and MacKinnon as the author of the award-winning historical non-fiction book \"Dead Man in Paradise\" and a past editor of \"Adbusters\" magazine.\n\nThey were overwhelmed by the response, first from other locavores and then from local and international news media. Eleven articles were published in \"The Tyee\" series over the year, plus an additional four articles afterwards, between August 2006 and May 2007. They launched an independent website, 100milediet.org, in April 2006 and began writing the book. Random House published the hardcover version on 12 March 2007 in Canada as \"The 100 Mile Diet: A Year of Local Eating\" and on 24 April in the United States as \"Plenty: One Man, One Woman, and a Raucous Year of Eating Locally\". The trade paperback was released in Canada by Random House's Vintage Canada imprint on 2 October and in the United States by the Three Rivers Press imprint on 22 April 2008.\n\nThe book consists of twelve chapters, plus an Epilogue and an Acknowledgements section at the end. Smith and MacKinnon individually write alternating chapters, each of which covers one month from March 2005 to February 2006. In the first chapter MacKinnon tells how his idea for the 100-mile diet began and Smith agrees to try it for one year. They begin symbolically on the first day of Spring, March 21, and define 'local' as 100 miles, a convenient radius that would include the Lower Mainland, the southern half of Vancouver Island, and Whatcom County and Skagit County in Washington State. Their exceptions to this rule include meals eaten while traveling, meals prepared by friends, and business lunches. Their initial month was expensive as they scoured grocery stores for whatever they could find. In the second chapter, Smith describes her and MacKinnon as an unwed urban couple in their early thirties with no children and living in a rented apartment. They recount how eating impacted their relationship before and after the diet, the anonymity of prepackaged foods, the traceability of their diet, and the diets of the Coast Salish.\n\nThe farmers' market opens in May and they are able to buy local honey to replace sugar. Seafood from the Strait of Georgia becomes a staple in their diet. The couple spend August at their cabin in northwestern BC where they fish the Skeena River, pick wild berries, and eat whatever grows in their garden. Back in the Lower Mainland, the September harvest provides them with melons, peppers, eggplant, grapes, and tomatoes. To prepare for winter they preserved corn and tomatoes, made jam from berries, collected herbs from their community garden, and bought many potatoes.\n\nDuring the fall, each write on the troubles in their relationship. David Beers, the founder of the \"Tyee\", hosts a 100-mile Thanksgiving dinner for Smith while MacKinnon was away. In November, during a family emergency, MacKinnon travels to Kamloops where he suspends his 100-mile diet a few days. They finally find a source of flour when they discover a farmer on Vancouver Island who grows his own fruits, vegetables, meats, and wheat. In December, Smith travels to Edmonton where her grandmother feeds her microwaved pasta which she accepts.\n\nIn January they find a restaurant that specializes in local cuisine and, previously vegetarians, they cook and eat beef for the first time in years. Working in Malawi, MacKinnon is struck by the contrast between their western diet and that of the poor country's: there is ample food supplies in Malawi but most is exported to Canada and the United States who buy the food they do not require. The couple learn about Mexican and Maya cuisine while in Merida, Mexico for a wedding. The book ends with an epilogue, written by both Smith and MacKinnon six months after their one-year diet. They make a symbolic journey to Bamfield, within their 100-mile radius, to collect sea water for its salt and prove they could obtain their own salt supply.\n\nThe book uses a first person memoir style with Smith and MacKinnon taking turns writing each chapter. The authors purposely avoided writing a self-help book in favour of the memoir style, saying, \"We wanted to show readers that process, and how it affected us and let them see it through our eyes.\" The topics sometimes go beyond the motivations and challenges of the diet into more personal relationship issues. Prior to writing the book they created a general plan on where the narrative would lead. They took turns writing so they could monitor each other's progress. As the two alternate there are shifts in perspectives, though the overall theme of \"traceability\" persisted. The general tone has been described as charming, innocent, and sometimes funny. Smith's chapters have been said to demonstrate more honesty and vulnerability, while MacKinnon's were more \"show pieces, little tours de force\". The final chapter was authored together by Smith and MacKinnon writing as a disembodied third-person narrator to summarize and conclude the book.\n\nIn the Canadian market, \"The 100-Mile Diet\" debuted at #10 on \"Maclean's\" nonfiction bestseller list on May 14. It spent five weeks on the list, peaking at #4. In the Vancouver market, the book spent 20 weeks on \"The Vancouver Sun\"s nonfiction bestseller list, peaking at #5. At the British Columbia Booksellers Association's BC Book Prizes, in April 2008, the book was short-listed for the Hubert Evans Non-Fiction Prize, while the authors won the Roderick Haig-Brown Regional Prize, awarded to the authors of the book that best contributes to the enjoyment and understanding of British Columbia.\n\nThe book has been called engagingly written, wisely researched, and honestly told. Critics admired the wit and humour. The book reviewer for \"The Globe and Mail\" admitted he grew impatient with the grand and repetitive statements about the changing global food system and the authors' hyperbole regarding their modest culinary discoveries. Compared to Kingsolver's \"Animal, Vegetable, Miracle\", \"The 100-Mile Diet\" was found to be more compelling and easier to read, with Smith and MacKinnon more relatable and sympathetic than Kingsolver.\n\nWhile the concept of only eating locally grown food is not new, the book coincided with the emerging popularity of the locavore movement and farmer's markets. Media outlets in North America examined the feasibility of only eating food produced locally, local food-themed events, and locavore groups. During World Food Day in 2006, playing off the popularity of Smith and MacKinnon's articles in \"The Tyee\", the Vancouver City Hall held a 100-mile themed breakfast. Locavore groups have held local-only dinner parties and week-long challenges. Some restaurants and caterers offered 100-mile menus, one being The Herbfarm Restaurant in Woodinville, Washington. Some farmers, gardeners, or regional food producers began offering subscription services to deliver produce or urban farming or gardening services. The 100-mile diet spawned many variations to allow for various circumstances and motivations. Examples include the allowance of a few non-local items, like Barbara Kingsolver chose to include spices into her local diet, or expanding the geographic area to more convenient boundaries, like the economic region, or the entire state or province. A 'made-in-Manitoba' diet challenge led to a government Manitoba Food Charter recognizing and encouraging local food markets.\n\nIn 2014, the American writer Vicki Robin published \"Blessing the Hands That Feed Us\" which described her experiment to eat food sourced within a ten-mile radius of her home in Washington State.\n\n"}
{"id": "53341722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53341722", "title": "Tomlinson D. Todd", "text": "Tomlinson D. Todd\n\nTomlinson D. Todd was a civil rights activist located in Washington, D.C. He was the acting director for the Institute on Race in 1941–1951 and the creator/host of the radio program \"American All\", which focused on education reform and implementing strategies for political empowerment.\n\nTomlinson was born in Reading, PA but was raised in Washington, D.C.\n\nTomlinson was credited for bringing many issues to light, and worked to bring an end to segregation and the Jim Crow laws through non-violent demonstrations. His work as president-elect of the Institute on Race lead him to discover laws from 1872 (entitled \"Lost Laws\") where it was legal for restaurants and other public spaces to discriminate against African Americans after the Civil War. Once discovered, these issues were able to be addressed and segregation soon ended for restaurants in the 1950s.\n\nIn his later life he ended up serving the Washington, D.C. community as a drivers education teacher, before passing away at the age of 76.\n"}
