{"id": "10791255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10791255", "title": "1561 in music", "text": "1561 in music\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172089", "title": "1956 in film", "text": "1956 in film\n\nThe following is an overview of 1956 in film, including significant events, a list of films released and notable births and deaths.\n\n\nAcademy Awards:\n\nGolden Globe Awards:\n\nPalme d'Or (Cannes Film Festival):\n\nGolden Lion (Venice Film Festival): Not awarded\n\nGolden Bear (Berlin Film Festival):\n\n\n\n\n\nU.S.A. unless stated\n\nA\nB\nC\nD\nE\nF\nG\nH\nI\nJ\nK\nL\nM\nN\nO\nP-Q\nR\nS\nT-V\nW\nX-Z\n\n\n\nEnding this year\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147847", "title": "Abstract expressionism", "text": "Abstract expressionism\n\nAbstract expressionism is a post–World War II art movement in American painting, developed in New York in the 1940s. It was the first specifically American movement to achieve international influence and put New York City at the center of the western art world, a role formerly filled by Paris. Although the term \"abstract expressionism\" was first applied to American art in 1946 by the art critic Robert Coates, it had been first used in Germany in 1919 in the magazine \"Der Sturm\", regarding German Expressionism. In the United States, Alfred Barr was the first to use this term in 1929 in relation to works by Wassily Kandinsky.\n\nTechnically, an important predecessor is surrealism, with its emphasis on spontaneous, automatic, or subconscious creation. Jackson Pollock's dripping paint onto a canvas laid on the floor is a technique that has its roots in the work of André Masson, Max Ernst, and David Alfaro Siqueiros. The newer research tends to put the exile-surrealist Wolfgang Paalen in the position of the artist and theoretician who fostered the theory of the viewer-dependent possibility space through his paintings and his magazine \"DYN\". Paalen considered ideas of quantum mechanics, as well as idiosyncratic interpretations of the totemic vision and the spatial structure of native-Indian painting from British Columbia and prepared the ground for the new spatial vision of the young American abstracts. His long essay \"Totem Art\" (1943) had considerable influence on such artists as Martha Graham, Isamu Noguchi, Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko and Barnett Newman. Around 1944 Barnett Newman tried to explain America's newest art movement and included a list of \"the men in the new movement.\" Paalen is mentioned twice; other artists mentioned are Gottlieb, Rothko, Pollock, Hofmann, Baziotes, Gorky and others. Motherwell is mentioned with a question mark. Another important early manifestation of what came to be abstract expressionism is the work of American Northwest artist Mark Tobey, especially his \"white writing\" canvases, which, though generally not large in scale, anticipate the \"all-over\" look of Pollock's drip paintings.\n\nThe movement's name is derived from the combination of the emotional intensity and self-denial of the German Expressionists with the anti-figurative aesthetic of the European abstract schools such as Futurism, the Bauhaus, and Synthetic Cubism. Additionally, it has an image of being rebellious, anarchic, highly idiosyncratic and, some feel, nihilistic. In practice, the term is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even to work that is neither especially abstract nor expressionist. California abstract expressionist Jay Meuser, who typically painted in the non-objective style, wrote about his painting \"Mare Nostrum\", \"It is far better to capture the glorious spirit of the sea than to paint all of its tiny ripples.\" Pollock's energetic \"action paintings\", with their \"busy\" feel, are different, both technically and aesthetically, from the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning's figurative paintings and the rectangles of color in Mark Rothko's Color Field paintings (which are not what would usually be called expressionist, and which Rothko denied were abstract). Yet all four artists are classified as abstract expressionists.\n\nAbstract expressionism has many stylistic similarities to the Russian artists of the early 20th century such as Wassily Kandinsky. Although it is true that spontaneity or the impression of spontaneity characterized many of the abstract expressionists' works, most of these paintings involved careful planning, especially since their large size demanded it. With artists such as Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, Emma Kunz, and later on Rothko, Barnett Newman, and Agnes Martin, abstract art clearly implied expression of ideas concerning the spiritual, the unconscious, and the mind.\n\nWhy this style gained mainstream acceptance in the 1950s is a matter of debate. American social realism had been the mainstream in the 1930s. It had been influenced not only by the Great Depression, but also by the muralists of Mexico such as David Alfaro Siqueiros and Diego Rivera. The political climate after World War II did not long tolerate the social protests of these painters. Abstract expressionism arose during World War II and began to be showcased during the early forties at galleries in New York such as The Art of This Century Gallery. The McCarthy era after World War II was a time of artistic censorship in the United States, but if the subject matter were totally abstract then it would be seen as apolitical, and therefore safe. Or if the art was political, the message was largely for the insiders.\n\nWhile the movement is closely associated with painting, and painters such as Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, Clyfford Still, Hans Hofmann, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and others, collagist Anne Ryan and certain sculptors in particular were also integral to abstract expressionism. David Smith, and his wife Dorothy Dehner, Herbert Ferber, Isamu Noguchi, Ibram Lassaw, Theodore Roszak, Phillip Pavia, Mary Callery, Richard Stankiewicz, Louise Bourgeois, and Louise Nevelson in particular were some of the sculptors considered as being important members of the movement. In addition, the artists David Hare, John Chamberlain, James Rosati, Mark di Suvero, and sculptors Richard Lippold, Raoul Hague, George Rickey, Reuben Nakian, and even Tony Smith, Seymour Lipton, Joseph Cornell, and several others were integral parts of the abstract expressionist movement. Many of the sculptors listed participated in the Ninth Street Show, a famous exhibition curated by Leo Castelli on East Ninth Street in New York City in 1951. Besides the painters and sculptors of the period the New York School of abstract expressionism also generated a number of supportive poets, including Frank O'Hara and photographers such as Aaron Siskind and Fred McDarrah, (whose book \"The Artist's World in Pictures\" documented the New York School during the 1950s), and filmmakers—notably Robert Frank—as well.\n\nAlthough the abstract expressionist school spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and the San Francisco Bay area of California.\n\nIn the 1940s there were not only few galleries (The Art of This Century, Pierre Matisse Gallery, Julien Levy Gallery and a few others) but also few critics who were willing to follow the work of the New York Vanguard.\nThere were also a few artists with a literary background, among them Robert Motherwell and Barnett Newman, who functioned as critics as well.\n\nWhile New York and the world were yet unfamiliar with the New York avant-garde by the late 1940s, most of the artists who have become household names today had their well-established patron critics: Clement Greenberg advocated Jackson Pollock and the color field painters like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and Hans Hofmann; Harold Rosenberg seemed to prefer the action painters such as Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline, as well as the seminal paintings of Arshile Gorky; Thomas B. Hess, the managing editor of \"ARTnews\", championed Willem de Kooning.\n\nThe new critics elevated their protégés by casting other artists as \"followers\" or ignoring those who did not serve their promotional goal.\n\nIn 1958, Mark Tobey became the first American painter since Whistler (1895) to win top prize at the Venice Biennale.\n\nBarnett Newman, a late member of the Uptown Group, wrote catalogue forewords and reviews, and by the late 1940s became an exhibiting artist at Betty Parsons Gallery. His first solo show was in 1948. Soon after his first exhibition, Barnett Newman remarked in one of the Artists' Sessions at Studio 35: \"We are in the process of making the world, to a certain extent, in our own image.\" Utilizing his writing skills, Newman fought every step of the way to reinforce his newly established image as an artist and to promote his work. An example is his letter on April 9, 1955, \"Letter to Sidney Janis: — it is true that Rothko talks the fighter. He fights, however, to submit to the philistine world. My struggle against bourgeois society has involved the total rejection of it.\"\n\nStrangely the person thought to have had most to do with the promotion of this style was a New York Trotskyist; Clement Greenberg. As long-time art critic for the \"Partisan Review\" and \"The Nation\", he became an early and literate proponent of abstract expressionism. The well-heeled artist Robert Motherwell joined Greenberg in promoting a style that fit the political climate and the intellectual rebelliousness of the era.\n\nClement Greenberg proclaimed abstract expressionism and Jackson Pollock in particular as the epitome of aesthetic value. He supported Pollock's work on formalistic grounds as simply the best painting of its day and the culmination of an art tradition going back via Cubism and Cézanne to Monet, in which painting became ever-'purer' and more concentrated in what was 'essential' to it, the making of marks on a flat surface.\n\nJackson Pollock's work has always polarised critics. Harold Rosenberg spoke of the transformation of painting into an existential drama in Pollock's work, in which \"what was to go on the canvas was not a picture but an event\". \"The big moment came when it was decided to paint 'just to paint'. The gesture on the canvas was a gesture of liberation from value—political, aesthetic, moral.\"\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was \"The New York Times\" art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract expressionism. During the early-to-mid-sixties younger art critics Michael Fried, Rosalind Krauss, and Robert Hughes added considerable insights into the critical dialectic that continues to grow around abstract expressionism.\n\nDuring the period leading up to and during World War II, modernist artists, writers, and poets, as well as important collectors and dealers, fled Europe and the onslaught of the Nazis for safe haven in the United States. Many of those who didn't flee perished. Among the artists and collectors who arrived in New York during the war (some with help from Varian Fry) were Hans Namuth, Yves Tanguy, Kay Sage, Max Ernst, Jimmy Ernst, Peggy Guggenheim, Leo Castelli, Marcel Duchamp, André Masson, Roberto Matta, André Breton, Marc Chagall, Jacques Lipchitz, Fernand Léger, and Piet Mondrian. A few artists, notably Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and Pierre Bonnard remained in France and survived.\n\nThe post-war period left the capitals of Europe in upheaval, with an urgency to economically and physically rebuild and to politically regroup. In Paris, formerly the center of European culture and capital of the art world, the climate for art was a disaster, and New York replaced Paris as the new center of the art world. In Europe after the war there was the continuation of Surrealism, Cubism, Dada, and the works of Matisse. Also in Europe, Art brut, and Lyrical Abstraction or Tachisme (the European equivalent to abstract expressionism) took hold of the newest generation. Serge Poliakoff, Nicolas de Staël, Georges Mathieu, Vieira da Silva, Jean Dubuffet, Yves Klein, Pierre Soulages and Jean Messagier, among others are considered important figures in post-war European painting. In the United States, a new generation of American artists began to emerge and to dominate the world stage, and they were called \"Abstract Expressionists\".\n\nThe 1940s in New York City heralded the triumph of American abstract expressionism, a modernist movement that combined lessons learned from Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Surrealism, Joan Miró, Cubism, Fauvism, and early Modernism via great teachers in America such as Hans Hofmann from Germany and John D. Graham from Ukraine. Graham's influence on American art during the early 1940s was particularly visible in the work of Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and Richard Pousette-Dart among others. Gorky's contributions to American and world art are difficult to overestimate. His work as lyrical abstraction was a \"new language. He \"lit the way for two generations of American artists\". The painterly spontaneity of mature works such as \"The Liver is the Cock's Comb\", \"The Betrothal II\", and \"One Year the Milkweed\" immediately prefigured Abstract expressionism, and leaders in the New York School have acknowledged Gorky's considerable influence. The early work of Hyman Bloom was also influential. American artists also benefited from the presence of Piet Mondrian, Fernand Léger, Max Ernst, and the André Breton group, Pierre Matisse's gallery, and Peggy Guggenheim's gallery \"The Art of This Century\", as well as other factors. Hans Hofmann in particular as teacher, mentor, and artist was both important and influential to the development and success of abstract expressionism in the United States. Among Hofmann's protégés was Clement Greenberg, who became an enormously influential voice for American painting, and among his students was Lee Krasner, who introduced her teacher, Hofmann, to her husband, Jackson Pollock.\n\nDuring the late 1940s, Jackson Pollock's radical approach to painting revolutionized the potential for all Contemporary art that followed him. To some extent, Pollock realized that the journey toward making a work of art was as important as the work of art itself. Like Pablo Picasso's innovative reinventions of painting and sculpture near the turn of the century via Cubism and constructed sculpture, with influences as disparate as Navaho sand paintings, surrealism, Jungian analysis, and Mexican mural art, Pollock redefined what it was to produce art. His move away from easel painting and conventionality was a liberating signal to the artists of his era and to all that came after. Artists realized that Jackson Pollock's process—the placing of unstretched raw canvas on the floor where it could be attacked from all four sides using artist materials and industrial materials; linear skeins of paint dripped and thrown; drawing, staining, brushing; imagery and non-imagery—essentially took art-making beyond any prior boundary. Abstract expressionism in general expanded and developed the definitions and possibilities that artists had available for the creation of new works of art.\n\nThe other abstract expressionists followed Pollock's breakthrough with new breakthroughs of their own. In a sense the innovations of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Ad Reinhardt, Richard Pousette-Dart, Robert Motherwell, Peter Voulkos, and others opened the floodgates to the diversity and scope of all the art that followed them. The new art movements of the 1960s essentially followed the lead of abstract expressionism and in particular the innovations of Pollock, De Kooning, Rothko, Hofmann, Reinhardt, and Newman. The radical Anti-Formalist movements of the 1960s and 1970s including Fluxus, Neo-Dada, Conceptual art, and the feminist art movement can be traced to the innovations of abstract expressionism. Rereadings into abstract art, done by art historians such as Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and Catherine de Zegher critically shows, however, that pioneer women artists who have produced major innovations in modern art had been ignored by the official accounts of its history, but finally began to achieve long overdue recognition in the wake of the abstract expressionist movement of the 1940s and 1950s. Abstract expressionism emerged as a major art movement in New York City during the 1950s and thereafter several leading art galleries began to include the abstract expressionists in exhibitions and as regulars in their rosters. Some of those prominent 'uptown' galleries included: the Charles Egan Gallery, the Sidney Janis Gallery, the Betty Parsons Gallery, the Kootz Gallery, the Tibor de Nagy Gallery, the Stable Gallery, the Leo Castelli Gallery as well as others; and several downtown galleries known at the time as the Tenth Street galleries exhibited many emerging younger artists working in the abstract expressionist vein.\n\nAction painting was a style widespread from the 1940s until the early 1960s, and is closely associated with abstract expressionism (some critics have used the terms action painting and abstract expressionism interchangeably). A comparison is often drawn between the American action painting and the French tachisme.\n\nThe term was coined by the American critic Harold Rosenberg in 1952 and signaled a major shift in the aesthetic perspective of New York School painters and critics. According to Rosenberg the canvas was \"an arena in which to act\". While abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Willem de Kooning had long been outspoken in their view of a painting as an arena within which to come to terms with the act of creation, earlier critics sympathetic to their cause, like Clement Greenberg, focused on their works' \"objectness.\" To Greenberg, it was the physicality of the paintings' clotted and oil-caked surfaces that was the key to understanding them as documents of the artists' existential struggle.\nRosenberg's critique shifted the emphasis from the object to the struggle itself, with the finished painting being only the physical manifestation, a kind of residue, of the actual work of art, which was in the act or process of the painting's creation. This spontaneous activity was the \"action\" of the painter, through arm and wrist movement, painterly gestures, brushstrokes, thrown paint, splashed, stained, scumbled and dripped. The painter would sometimes let the paint drip onto the canvas, while rhythmically dancing, or even standing in the canvas, sometimes letting the paint fall according to the subconscious mind, thus letting the unconscious part of the psyche assert and express itself. All this, however, is difficult to explain or interpret because it is a supposed unconscious manifestation of the act of pure creation.\n\nIn practice, the term abstract expressionism is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even applied to work which is not especially abstract nor expressionist. Pollock's energetic action paintings, with their \"busy\" feel, are different both technically and aesthetically, to the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning. \"Woman V\" is one of a series of six paintings made by de Kooning between 1950 and 1953 that depict a three-quarter-length female figure. He began the first of these paintings, \"Woman I,\" collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, in June 1950, repeatedly changing and painting out the image until January or February 1952, when the painting was abandoned unfinished. The art historian Meyer Schapiro saw the painting in de Kooning's studio soon afterwards and encouraged the artist to persist. De Kooning's response was to begin three other paintings on the same theme; \"Woman II\", collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, \"Woman III,\" Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, \"Woman IV,\" Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri. During the summer of 1952, spent at East Hampton, de Kooning further explored the theme through drawings and pastels. He may have finished work on \"Woman I\" by the end of June, or possibly as late as November 1952, and probably the other three women pictures were concluded at much the same time. The \"Woman series\" are decidedly figurative paintings.\n\nAnother important artist is Franz Kline. As with Jackson Pollock and other abstract expressionists, Kline was labelled an \"action painter because of his seemingly spontaneous and intense style, focusing less, or not at all, on figures or imagery, but on the actual brush strokes and use of canvas; as demonstrated by his painting \"Number 2\" (1954). \nAutomatic writing was an important vehicle for action painters Franz Kline (in his black and white paintings), Jackson Pollock, Mark Tobey and Cy Twombly, who used gesture, surface, and line to create calligraphic, linear symbols and skeins that resemble language, and resonate as powerful manifestations from the Collective unconscious. Robert Motherwell in his \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" series also painted powerful black and white paintings using gesture, surface and symbol evoking powerful emotional charges.\n\nMeanwhile, other action painters, notably Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Norman Bluhm, Joan Mitchell, and James Brooks, used imagery via either abstract landscape or as expressionistic visions of the figure to articulate their highly personal and powerful evocations. James Brooks' paintings were particularly poetic and highly prescient in relationship to Lyrical Abstraction that became prominent in the late 1960s and the 1970s.\n\nClyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and the serenely shimmering blocks of color in Mark Rothko's work (which is not what would usually be called expressionist and which Rothko denied was abstract), are classified as abstract expressionists, albeit from what Clement Greenberg termed the Color field direction of abstract expressionism. Both Hans Hofmann and Robert Motherwell can be comfortably described as practitioners of action painting and Color field painting. In the 1940s Richard Pousette-Dart's tightly constructed imagery often depended upon themes of mythology and mysticism; as did the paintings of Adolph Gottlieb, and Jackson Pollock in that decade as well.\n\nColor Field painting initially referred to a particular type of abstract expressionism, especially the work of Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell, Adolph Gottlieb, Ad Reinhardt and several series of paintings by Joan Miró. Art critic Clement Greenberg perceived Color Field painting as related to but different from Action painting. The Color Field painters sought to rid their art of superfluous rhetoric. Artists like Robert Motherwell, Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Adolph Gottlieb, Hans Hofmann, Helen Frankenthaler, Sam Francis, Mark Tobey, and especially Ad Reinhardt and Barnett Newman, whose masterpiece \"Vir heroicus sublimis\" is in the collection of MoMA, used greatly reduced references to nature, and they painted with a highly articulated and psychological use of color. In general these artists eliminated recognizable imagery, in the case of Rothko and Gottlieb sometimes using symbol and sign as replacement of imagery. Certain artists quoted references to past or present art, but in general color field painting presents abstraction as an end in itself. In pursuing this direction of modern art, artists wanted to present each painting as one unified, cohesive, monolithic image.\n\nIn distinction to the emotional energy and gestural surface marks of abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, the Color Field painters initially appeared to be cool and austere, effacing the individual mark in favor of large, flat areas of color, which these artists considered to be the essential nature of visual abstraction, along with the actual shape of the canvas, which later in the 1960s Frank Stella in particular achieved in unusual ways with combinations of curved and straight edges. However Color Field painting has proven to be both sensual and deeply expressive albeit in a different way from gestural abstract expressionism.\n\nAlthough abstract expressionism spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and California, especially in the New York School, and the San Francisco Bay area. Abstract expressionist paintings share certain characteristics, including the use of large canvases, an \"all-over\" approach, in which the whole canvas is treated with equal importance (as opposed to the center being of more interest than the edges). The canvas as the \"arena\" became a credo of Action painting, while the \"integrity of the picture plane\" became a credo of the Color field painters. Younger artists began exhibiting their abstract expressionist related paintings during the 1950s as well including Alfred Leslie, Sam Francis, Joan Mitchell, Helen Frankenthaler, Cy Twombly, Milton Resnick, Michael Goldberg, Norman Bluhm, Grace Hartigan, Friedel Dzubas, and Robert Goodnough among others.\nAlthough Pollock is closely associated with Action Painting because of his style, technique, and his painterly \"touch\" and his physical application of paint, art critics have likened Pollock to both Action painting and color field painting. Another critical view advanced by Clement Greenberg connects Pollock's allover canvasses to the large-scale Water Lilies of Claude Monet done during the 1920s. Greenberg, art critic Michael Fried, and others have observed that the overall feeling in Pollock's most famous works – his \"drip\" paintings – read as vast fields of built-up linear elements often reading as vast complexes of similar valued paint skeins that read as all over fields of color and drawing, and are related to the mural-sized late Monets that are constructed of many passages of close valued brushed and scumbled marks that also read as close valued fields of color and drawing that Monet used in building his picture surfaces. Pollock's use of all-over composition lend a philosophical and a physical connection to the way the color field painters like Newman, Rothko and Still construct their unbroken and in Still's case broken surfaces. In several paintings that Pollock painted after his classic \"drip\" painting period of 1947–1950, he used the technique of staining fluid oil paint and house paint into raw canvas. During 1951 he produced a series of semi-figurative black stain paintings, and in 1952 he produced stain paintings using color. In his November 1952 exhibition at the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York City Pollock showed \"Number 12, 1952\", a large, masterful stain painting that resembles a brightly colored stained landscape (with an overlay of broadly dripped dark paint); the painting was acquired from the exhibition by Nelson Rockefeller for his personal collection. In 1960 the painting was severely damaged by fire in the Governors Mansion in Albany that also severely damaged an Arshile Gorky painting and several other works in the Rockefeller collection. However, by 1999 it had been restored and was installed in Albany Mall.\n\nWhile Arshile Gorky is considered to be one of the founding fathers of abstract expressionism and a surrealist, he was also one of the first painters of the New York School who used the technique of \"staining.\" Gorky created broad fields of vivid, open, unbroken color that he used in many of his paintings as \"grounds.\" In Gorky's most effective and accomplished paintings between the years 1941–1948, he consistently used intense stained fields of color, often letting the paint run and drip, under and around his familiar lexicon of organic and biomorphic shapes and delicate lines. Another abstract expressionist whose works in the 1940s call to mind the stain paintings of the 1960s and the 1970s is James Brooks. Brooks regularly used stain as a technique in his paintings from the late 1940s. Brooks began diluting his oil paint in order to have fluid colors with which to pour and drip and stain into the mostly raw canvas that he used. These works often combined calligraphy and abstract shapes. During the final three decades of his career, Sam Francis' style of large-scale bright abstract expressionism was closely associated with Color field painting. His paintings straddled both camps within the abstract expressionist rubric, Action painting and Color Field painting.\n\nHaving seen Jackson Pollock's 1951 paintings of thinned black oil paint stained into raw canvas, Helen Frankenthaler began to produce \"stain paintings\" in varied oil colors on raw canvas in 1952. Her most famous painting from that period is \"Mountains and Sea\". She is one of the originators of the Color Field movement that emerged in the late 1950s. Frankenthaler also studied with Hans Hofmann.\n\nHofmann's paintings are a symphony of color as seen in \"The Gate,\" 1959–1960. Hofmann was renowned not only as an artist but also as a teacher of art, both in his native Germany and later in the U.S. Hans Hofmann, who came to the United States from Germany in the early 1930s, brought with him the legacy of Modernism. Hofmann was a young artist working in Paris who painted there before World War I. Hofmann worked in Paris with Robert Delaunay, and he knew firsthand the innovative work of both Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. Matisse's work had an enormous influence on him, and on his understanding of the expressive language of color and the potentiality of abstraction. Hofmann was one of the first theorists of color field painting, and his theories were influential to artists and to critics, particularly to Clement Greenberg, as well as to others during the 1930s and 1940s. In 1953 Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland were both profoundly influenced by Helen Frankenthaler's stain paintings after visiting her studio in New York City. Returning to Washington, DC., they began to produce the major works that created the \"color field movement\" in the late 1950s.\n\nIn 1972 then Metropolitan Museum of Art curator Henry Geldzahler said:\n\nIn abstract painting during the 1950s and 1960s, several new directions, like the Hard-edge painting exemplified by John McLaughlin, emerged. Meanwhile, as a reaction against the subjectivism of abstract expressionism, other forms of Geometric abstraction began to appear in artist studios and in radical avant-garde circles. Clement Greenberg became the voice of \"Post-painterly abstraction;\" by curating an influential exhibition of new painting that toured important art museums throughout the United States in 1964. Color field painting, Hard-edge painting and Lyrical Abstraction emerged as radical new directions.\n\nSince the mid-1970s it has been argued by revisionist historians that the style attracted the attention, in the early 1950s, of the CIA, who saw it as representative of the USA as a haven of free thought and free markets, as well as a challenge to both the socialist realist styles prevalent in communist nations and the dominance of the European art markets. The book by Frances Stonor Saunders, \"The Cultural Cold War—The CIA and the World of Arts and Letters\", (published in the UK as \"Who Paid the Piper?: CIA and the Cultural Cold War\") details how the CIA financed and organized the promotion of American abstract expressionists as part of cultural imperialism via the Congress for Cultural Freedom from 1950 to 1967. Notably Robert Motherwell's series \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" addressed some of those political issues. Tom Braden, founding chief of the CIA's International Organizations Division (IOD) and ex-executive secretary of the Museum of Modern Art said in an interview, \"I think it was the most important division that the agency had, and I think that it played an enormous role in the Cold War.\"\n\nAgainst this revisionist tradition, an essay by Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of \"The New York Times\", called \"Revisiting the Revisionists: The Modern, Its Critics and the Cold War\", argues that much of this information (as well as the revisionists' interpretation of it) concerning what was happening on the American art scene during the 1940s and 50s is flatly false, or at best (contrary to the revisionists' avowed historiographic principles) decontextualized. Other books on the subject include \"Art in the Cold War\" by Christine Lindey, which also describes the art of the Soviet Union at the same time; and \"Pollock and After\" edited by Francis Frascina, which reprinted the Kimmelman article.\n\nCanadian painter Jean-Paul Riopelle (1923–2002), a member of the Montreal-based surrealist-inspired group Les Automatistes, helped introduce a related style of abstract impressionism to the Parisian art world from 1949. Michel Tapié's groundbreaking book, \"Un Art Autre\" (1952), was also enormously influential in this regard. Tapié was also a curator and exhibition organizer who promoted the works of Pollock and Hans Hofmann in Europe. By the 1960s, the movement's initial affect had been assimilated, yet its methods and proponents remained highly influential in art, affecting profoundly the work of many artists who followed. Abstract expressionism preceded Tachisme, Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Fluxus, Pop Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Neo-expressionism, and the other movements of the sixties and seventies and it influenced all those later movements that evolved. Movements which were direct responses to, and rebellions against abstract expressionism began with Hard-edge painting (Frank Stella, Robert Indiana and others) and Pop artists, notably Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg and Roy Lichtenstein who achieved prominence in the US, accompanied by Richard Hamilton in Britain. Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns in the US formed a bridge between abstract expressionism and Pop art. Minimalism was exemplified by artists such as Donald Judd, Robert Mangold and Agnes Martin.\n\nHowever, many painters, such as Jules Olitski, Joan Mitchell and Antoni Tàpies continued to work in the abstract expressionist style for many years, extending and expanding its visual and philosophical implications, as many abstract artists continue to do today, in styles described as Lyrical Abstraction, Neo-expressionist and others.\n\nIn the years after World War II, a group of New York artists started one of the first true schools of artists in America, bringing about a new era in American artwork: abstract expressionism. This led to the American art boom that brought about styles such as Pop Art. This also helped to make New York into a cultural and artistic hub.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12465661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12465661", "title": "Acquired taste", "text": "Acquired taste\n\nAn acquired taste is an appreciation for something unlikely to be enjoyed by a person who has not had substantial exposure to it. In the case of food and drink, this may be due to a strong odor (such as certain types of cheese, durian, hákarl, black salt, nattō, asafoetida, surströmming, or stinky tofu), taste (alcoholic beverages, Vegemite or Marmite, bitter teas, salty liquorice, malt bread, unsweetened chocolate, sushi, garnatálg), mouthfeel (such as sashimi and sushi featuring uncooked seafood), appearance, or association (such as eating insects or organ meat).\n\nThe process of acquiring a taste can involve developmental maturation, genetics (of both taste sensitivity and personality), family example, and biochemical reward properties of foods. Infants are born preferring sweet foods and rejecting sour and bitter tastes, and they develop a preference for salt at approximately 4 months. Neophobia (fear of novelty) tends to vary with age in predictable, but not linear, ways. Babies just beginning to eat solid foods generally accept a wide variety of foods, toddlers and young children are relatively neophobic towards food, and older children, adults, and the elderly are often adventurous eaters with wide-ranging tastes. \n\nThe general personality trait of novelty-seeking does not necessarily correlate highly with willingness to try new foods. Level of food adventurousness may explain much of the variability of food preferences observed in \"supertasters\". Supertasters are highly sensitive to bitter, spicy, and pungent flavours, and some avoid them and like to eat only mild, plain foods, but many supertasters who have high food adventurousness enjoy these intense flavors and seek them out. Some chemicals or combinations of chemicals in foods provide both flavor and beneficial or enjoyable effects on the body and mind and may be reinforcing, leading to an acquired taste. A study that investigated the effect of adding caffeine and theobromine (active compounds in chocolate) vs. a placebo to identically-flavored drinks that participants tasted several times, yielded the development of a strong preference for the drink with the compounds.\n\nIntentionally changing one's preferences can be hard to accomplish. It usually requires a deliberate effort, acting as if one likes something in order to have the responses and feelings that will produce the desired taste. The challenge becomes one of distinguishing authentic or legitimate acquired tastes as a result of deeply considered preference changes from inauthentic ones motivated by status or conformity.\n\n"}
{"id": "37205291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37205291", "title": "Aesthetics of nature", "text": "Aesthetics of nature\n\nAesthetics of nature is a sub-field of philosophical ethics, and refers to the study of natural objects from their aesthetical perspective.\n\nAesthetics of nature developed as a sub-field of philosophical ethics. In the 18th and 19th century, the aesthetics of nature advanced the concepts of disinterestedness, the pictures, and the introduction of the idea of positive aesthetics. The first major developments of nature occurred in the 18th century. The concept of disinterestedness had been explained by many thinkers. Anthony Ashley-Cooper introduced the concept as a way of characterizing the notion of the aesthetic, later magnified by Francis Hutcheson, who expanded it to exclude personal and utilitarianism interests and associations of a more general nature from aesthetic experience. This concept was further developed by Archibald Alison who referred it to a particular state of mind.\n\nThe theory of disinterestedness opened doors for a better understanding of the aesthetics dimensions of nature in terms of three conceptualizations: \n\nObjects experienced as beautiful tend to be small, smooth, and fair in color. In contrast, objects viewed as sublime tend to be powerful, intense and terrifying. Picturesque items are a mixture of both, which can be seen as varied and irregular, rich and forceful, and even vibrant.\n\nCognitive and non-cognitive approaches of nature have directed their focus from natural environments to the consideration of human and human influenced environments and developed aesthetic investigations of everyday life.(Carlson and Lintott, 2007; Parsons 2008a; Carlson 2010)\n\nPeople may be mistaken by the art object analogy. For instance, a sandhill crane is not an art object; an art object is not a sandhill crane. In fact, an art object should be called an \"artifact\". The crane is wildlife on its own and is not an art object. This can be related to Satio's definition of the cognitive view. In elaboration, the crane lives through various ecosystems such as Yellowstone. Nature is a living system which includes animals, plants, and Eco-systems. In contrast, an art object has no regeneration, evolutionary history, or metabolism. An individual may be in the forest and perceive it as beautiful because of the plethora of colors such as red, green, and yellow. This is a result of the chemicals interacting with chlorophyll. An individual's aesthetic experience may increase; however, none of the things mentioned have anything to do with what is really going on in the forest. The chlorophyll is capturing solar energy and the residual chemicals protect the trees from insect grazing.\n\nAny color perceived by human visitors for a few hours is entirely different from what is really happening. According to Leopold, the three features of ecosystems that generate land ethic are integrity, stability and beauty. None of the mentioned features are real in nature. Ecosystems are not stable: they are dramatically changing and they have little integration; ergo, beauty is in the eye of the beholder.\n\nIn a Post-Modern approach, when an individual engages in aesthetically appreciating a natural thing, we give meaning to the thing we appreciate and in that meaning, we express and develop our own attitudes, values and beliefs. Our interest in natural things are not only a passive reflection of our inclinations, as Croce describes as the appreciation of nature as looking in a mirror, or what we might call our inward life; but may instead be the things we come across in nature that engage and stimulate our imagination. As a result, we are challenged to think differently and apply thoughts and associations to in new situations and ways.\nAs a characterization of the appreciation of art, nature aestheticists argue that post modernism is a mistaken view because we do not have a case of anything goes.The aesthetics appreciation of art is governed by some normative standards. In the world of art, criticism may take place when people come together and discuss books and films or critics write appraisals for publications. On the contrary, there are not obvious instances of debate and appraisals where different judgments about the aesthetics of character of nature are evaluated.\n"}
{"id": "9702296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9702296", "title": "Altavista petroglyph complex", "text": "Altavista petroglyph complex\n\nThe Altavista petroglyph complex is located near the village and beach-town of Chacala, south of the Compostela Municipality, in Nayarit Mexico.\n\nThe area is known as \"La Pila del Rey\", \"Chacalán\", \"El Santuario\", \"The Petroglyphs” or \"the Altavista petroglyphs\", near the Jaltemba Bay, in the Pacific Ocean of Nayarit.\n\nThis region was originally home to the largely unstudied Tecoxquin (Tequectequi) native culture dating from approximately 2000 BC to 2300 BCE. It contains 56 petroglyphs whose antiquity cannot be accurately determined. Aside from its cultural and archeological importance, the site remains an important religious center for the Huicholes who still leave offerings and perform ceremonies here.\n\nIn prehispanic times, the Compostela municipality area was inhabited by the Mazatán peoples, tributary of Xalisco-Zacualpan Kingdom.\n\nThe Tecoxquines (Aztec Group) engraved images in volcanic stone over two thousand years ago near Las Piletas. These petroglyphs perhaps were symbolic elements of everyday life, as far as health, fertility, rains, and crops. The rock carvings might have been meant as prayers or offerings to the gods responsible for these things.\n\nThere are fifteen signs (Spanish & English posted along entrance path, a brief summary is provided below:\n\nAltavista petroglyphs archaeological site, located along the sides of a creek on the slopes the Copo volcano. Covers an area of approximately 80 hectares, with a large concentration of petroglyphs. (More than 2000 engravings identified)\n\nOriginal Altavista inhabitants. This native group inhabited a vast region covering the South coast of Nayarit, neighbouring coasts, and mountainous regions of Jalisco, Mexico. They were mainly farmers, fishermen, salt producers and traders of cocoa and cotton. The Tecoxquines were organized in a number of villages under the control of Teuzacualpan Chila Valley (modern city of Zacualpan). Business links allowed them to develop an intensive trade, reached Sinaloa to the north and Colima and Michoacán to the South and East.\n\nNo doubt, many religious ceremonies at this site were based on nahualism. Nahualism or Shamanism as former religious practices whereby people communicated with their gods and spirits during altered states of consciousness. This tradition has deep roots in the region; the Nayarit word derives from the word \"nahualli\". The Tecoxquines used psychotropic plants and tobacco plants to achieve states of ecstasy and communicate with their gods.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the Tecoxquines completely annihilated by epidemics and forced labor. Today native cities of the region still talk about \"white Indians,\" ghosts appearing from the mountains to honor their ancient gods.\n\nThe Tecoxquin ancient villages, as far as the Ixtapa salt producers, were populated by Tecuales, ancestors of the current Huichol.\n\nNayarit State is characterized by heavy rainfall. Rainfall is concentrated between May and October. The Altavista mountains attract heavy rains leaving drier areas to the East (desert weather at the opposite side). Perhaps because of this abundance of water, Altavista was considered a special place.\n\nTamoanchan is a mythical paradisiac location known to the Mesoamerican cultures of the central Mexican region in the Late Postclassical period, is a central part of the ancient Mesoamerican cosmology. Tamoanchan is the cosmic tree that connects life and supports the world. Its roots are underground in the water and fertility field. Its trunk is between human beings above ground and heavens. The Crown of the tree is in heaven, the kingdom of gods and rain. Tamoanchan was represented by the Ceiba tree.\n\nThe \"Guerra Florida \" (flower war) was one of the main religious practices associated with the Tecoxquines. The aim was not to conquer. Rather, get warriors prisoners for ritual sacrifice, and whose heads were cut and then offered to the gods. These wars were usually produced locally, but also conducted in places as far away as the Talpa and Mascota Valleys and Mochitiltic Canyon in Jalisco.\n\nwater was thought to be underground in ancient Mesoamerica, hence the underworld was considered a fertile place. Tlalocan was the \"water\"paradise underground. It was inhabited by the “Chanes”, or water spirits, as well as the spirits of people drowned or whose death was water related. Tlalocan also was the site of the legendary crocodile Cipactli, a \"earth monster\", symbolizing fertility.\n\nThe first historical references of the archaeological site of Altavista date from 1612. These describe many crosses, and above all, a devout Christ that local people venerates. This is possibly a reference to the \"corn man\", a figure that symbolizes fertility and growth. Local farmers leave offerings of candles and gourd bowls of salt to this figure in order to obtain fertility for their coffee and tobacco crops.\n\nDuring the early 17TH century, Spaniards believed that the Apostle Matthew traveled to the new world in prehispanic times to evangelize natives. This is thought to explain the crosses engraved in the Altavista rocks.\n\nFor Tecoxquines, as well as for most ancient Mesoamerican, the cross actually was a mental map of the cosmos. Symbolizes five sacred directions: the four cardinal points and the center. Each is associated with certain gods, colors, and sacred kingdoms, as well as each of the four trees that formed the tamoanchan kingdoms. The idea of the universe of four corners is still present among native Mexico today, symbolized by crosses, diamonds and other similar forms.\n\nThe Altavista rocks were probably associated with the mythical Tamoanchan trees connecting the underworld, earth and heaven. The prayers of the people went up through the sap of the trunks into the realm of the gods. In turn, the gifts of the gods, rain, fertility and good health returned to land the same way. For the Tecoxquines the Altavista rocks would have served the same purpose, a means of communication between the people and their gods.\n\nSpirals, wavy lines, and other symbols carved in the Altavista rocks probably constitute a ritual prayer language for the gods. As an agricultural culture, the Tocoxquines would have been concerned with rain, fertility of the land and the continuity of the seasonal rhythms that they relied on. While the exact meaning of symbols will never be known, spirals have been interpreted as the Sun, storm, the wind, the spiral snake, or as a symbol of the natural cycle of station rainy and dry.\n\nHuichol natives occasionally visit Altavista originally lived in the Nayar mountains, recently a group moved to the Las Varas area. They present offerings and perform ceremonies for Nakahue, \"our fertility grandmother\" and Tatevari, \"our grandfather of fire\". Some Huicholes also travel to the nearby Chacala Port, where ancient petroglyphs are present and leave offerings for Tatei Aramara “our mother Ocean”.\n"}
{"id": "2010548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010548", "title": "America Was Here", "text": "America Was Here\n\nHolidays in the Danger Zone: America Was Here is a four-part travel documentary on Central America and South East Asia, part of the \"Holidays in the Danger Zone\" series, produced and broadcast by BBC This World. Written and presented by Ben Anderson, and produced by Will Daws. It was first broadcast in Jun 2007, on BBC Four.\n\n\nIn the series, Anderson visits a series of countries that the United States has either invaded, interfered with or occupied during the Cold War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29938933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29938933", "title": "Avenida de Colores", "text": "Avenida de Colores\n\nAvenida de Colores, Inc. was founded in 2010 by Denise Kowal as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation based in Sarasota, Florida in the United States. The corporation is organized for the purpose of providing students with experiences and instruction in the visual and performing arts and to enrich communities with cultural events. The corporation produces the Sarasota Chalk Festival, a cultural event designed to that celebrate the sixteenth century performance art of Italian street painting. The corporation functions solely on donations from patrons, sponsorships, and grants and it is a fully volunteer organization.\n\nWhile pursuing its mission to create cultural events, in 2010, the Avenida de Colores made history by producing the first international street painting festival in the United States, called the \"Sarasota Chalk Festival\". Street painting festivals started in the United States in 1987, but this festival was the first to attract many renowned street painting artists from all over the world to participate. The festival had notable Guinness World Record holders Edgar Mueller from Germany, Leon Keer from Netherlands, and Tracy Lee Stum from the USA. Genna Panzarella from the USA, who was the first woman to receive Italy's honorable Maestra Madonnari title at the International Grazi di Curtatone competition, participated as well as Vera Bugatti from Italy, who also holds the Maestra Madonnari title. Maestro Madonnaro Edgar Mueller created a 100' x 40' 3-D street painting that is the first known contemporary street painting that metamorphosed from one image to another with the change from day to night because the painter used photoluminescent paints. The Sarasota Chalk Festival also was the first street painting festival to have a Halloween-theme for the artists work as well as three oversized 3-D installations, one of which incorporating two-point perspective.\nA catalogue \"(right)\" entitled, Sarasota Chalk Festival, was published by Avenida de Colores following the 2010 festival. Exceeding two hundred pages, it provides an extensive history of the street painting it features at the festival and discusses many of the artists who have become famous for performing the art at various locations around the world. Many of these artists performed at the debut of the new international status of the festival. The catalogue provides examples of their work—either here or abroad, some being works produced at the 2010 festival, which had a festive Halloween theme. It also describes the music and arts present in Sarasota, which has earned the area the reputation as the \"Cultural Coast\" of Florida. It also presents information about many of the attractive Sarasota beaches has on the Gulf of Mexico. This catalogue has been available at each festival since its publication and is available at the festival offices throughout the year. \n\nAs president of the Burns Square Property Owners Association, Inc., in 2007, Kowal founded a nonprofit corporation, the Avenida de Colores Chalk Festival, a street painting festival held on South Pineapple Avenue in the downtown Sarasota historic area known as Burns Square. Only twenty-two artists participated in this first festival. Lori Escalera, a leading modern Madonnari from the USA was the only professional street painter who participated.\n\nIn 2009, the second Avenida de Colores Chalk Festival was held with approximately one hundred street painters participating, who were drawn from all over the USA, and more than two hundred local stage performers.\n\nIn 2010, the Burns Square Property Owners Association relinquished the Avenida de Colores Chalk Festival to the Avenida de Colores nonprofit corporation. The street painting festival was renamed the Sarasota Chalk Festival and has grown into one of the most important street painting festivals in the world. The festival expanded several blocks in Burns Square to accommodate the two hundred and fifty street painters who participated, being drawn from all over the world, which made the Sarasota Chalk Festival the first international street painting festival in the United States. \n\nThe festival has been relocated to Venice (also in Sarasota County) where more space is available to accommodate the large crowds attracted to the event. \n\n"}
{"id": "11436091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11436091", "title": "Babies switched at birth", "text": "Babies switched at birth\n\nBabies switched at birth are babies who, because of either error or malice, are interchanged with each other at birth or very soon thereafter, leading to the babies being unknowingly raised by parents who are not their biological parents. The occurrence is not unknown but rarely discovered in real life, but is much more common as a plot device in novels and films, such as the TV series \"Switched at Birth\" and \"Autumn in My Heart\".\n\nThe plot device of babies who are switched at birth, or in their cradles, has been a common one in American fiction since the 18th century. It is one of the several identifiable characteristics of melodrama that are plot devices dealing with situations that are highly improbable in real life.\n\nThe use of this common theme has continued ever since. The device was used a number of times by W. S. Gilbert, including in the Gilbert and Sullivan comic operas \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" and \"The Gondoliers\". In both cases, well-born babies were switched with commoners. Mark Twain later used this plot device in \"The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson\" (1893), where two babies, one white and one black, are switched at birth, resulting in both passing for races that they are not. It is one of the themes that television films regularly exploited in the 1970s and 1980s. It continues to be a popular theme in the 1990s and 21st century with (for examples) it being employed as a plot device in \"Veronica Mars\" (the characters Cindy \"Mac\" Mackenzie and Madison Sinclair), in \"Neighbours\" (the characters Bree Timmins and Anne Baxter), \"Night and Day\" (the characters Jane Harper and Della Wells) and in \"The Young and the Restless\" (children of Lauren Fenmore Baldwin and Sheila Carter). A non-human example occurs in the \"Planet of the Apes\" franchise, when the son of intelligent apes Zira and Cornelius is swapped with a 20th-century circus ape's infant, in order to assure the survival of the offspring that can become sentient. In \"Desperate Housewives\" the characters Juanita Solis and Grace Sanchez were switched at birth by a nurse named Teresa Pruitt. In the Philippine television series, \"Mara Clara\", the characters Mara Davis/David and Clara del Valle were switched at birth by Gary for revenge after his former lover was married to another man. On the ABC Family series \"Switched at Birth\", the characters Bay and Daphne were switched at birth.\n\nBaby switching storylines are a staple of daytime drama, as in the case of \"The Young and the Restless\" mentioned above. Other notable switched-at-birth storylines on American soaps include \"One Life to Live\"s story, begun in 1979, in which prostitute Katrina Karr, who had planned to put her child up for adoption as soon as it was born, and former nun Jenny Vernon both gave birth to girls at the same hospital, at the same time. Jenny's baby died in the maternity ward as Karen Wolek and Marco Dane (posing as a doctor) visited the child. As they knew Katrina had planned to give up her baby girl, Karen and Marco switched the newborns. It was not until 1982 that the truth came out and Jenny tearfully gave baby Mary back to Katrina.\n\nIn 2008, another \"One Life to Live\" storyline saw Starr Manning pregnant with Cole Thornhart's baby. Her cousin Jessica Brennan was also pregnant with her late husband's baby. Starr went into labor as her father Todd Manning (later revealed to be his twin brother Victor) planned to kidnap his grandchild and raise the baby secretly with Cole's amnesiac mother Marty Saybrooke. Tess, one of Jessica's alter personalities, had taken control of Jessica's life and went into premature labor. Starr, with the help of the baby's adoptive mother Marcie McBain and Starr's mother Blair Manning, gave birth to a healthy girl, whom she named Hope. Tess's child, named Chloe, was stillborn. The trauma of Chloe's death resulted in the emergence of another alter, Bess, who took Jessica's deceased baby to the hospital and switched her with Starr's healthy child. Seven months later, Jessica realized what had happened and told the truth to her cousin.\n\nPossibly the most complex storyline involving the switched-at-birth plot device ran simultaneously on \"All My Children\" and \"One Life to Live\". Involved were \"All My Children\"s Bianca Montgomery and Babe Chandler, and \"One Life to Live\"s Kelly Cramer Buchanan, as well as many other characters.\n\nIn George R. R. Martin's \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" series, the baby Aegon Targaryen was switched with a commoner's baby at some point prior to the Sack of King's Landing in order to save him from being killed during the rebellion against the Targaryen dynasty. After the commoner's baby is killed, everyone believes that Aegon is dead when in fact he is preparing to take back his grandfather's throne.\n\nIn the 1971 manga/anime \"Wandering Sun / Nozomi in the Sun\" (\"Sasurai no Taiyou\"), Miki and Nozomi are two girls who were switched at birth by the nurse Michiko Nohara, who holds a personal grudge against one of the families involved. Miki should've been raised as the daughter of the poor but loving Mine family but instead is taken in by the rich and snobbish Kouda clan, and Nozomi the opposite. The deceit isn't properly revealed until almost the end of the series.\n\nIn the \"Umineko no naku koro ni\" visual novels, Rudolf Ushiromiya's wife Asumu and mistress/later second wife Kyrie were pregnant and gave birth at roughly the same time. Rudolf had the children switched when Asumu's child was stillborn so the affair wouldn't be uncovered, and after Asumu's death from an illness, he married Kyrie. The surviving child grows into the protagonist of the games, Battler Ushiromiya, who believes himself to be Asumu and Rudolf's son until later in the story.\n\nIn the game \"Tales of the Abyss\", Princess Natalia Luzu Kimlasca-Lanvaldear died few after birth so her nanny Maggie switched her with her also newborn granddaughter, Meryl Oakland. This causes Meryl's mother Sylvia (Maggie's own daughter) to commit suicide out of grief, and her father Badaq soon became the enemy general Largo the Black Lion. Meryl, now Natalia, is raised as the Princess and doesn't find out the truth until she's a teenager.\n\nIn real life, such a switch occurs rarely. Since many cases of babies switched at birth are likely undocumented or unknown, the following is presumably not an exhaustive list.\n\n\nSome hospitals take fingerprints, foot prints, or palm prints of newborns to prevent babies from being mixed up. Nurses also double check with the mother, checking the identity of that person as well, in order to prevent errors. Many hospitals also have policies in which a medical record number is assigned to an infant at birth, and bands with this number as well as the last name of the mother of the infant, the sex of the infant, and the date and time of birth are placed on the infant and the mother immediately after parturition before the mother and child are separated. A band may also be placed on the father (or other person chosen by the mother) at the time of birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "39230833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39230833", "title": "Benny Award", "text": "Benny Award\n\nThe Benny Award is the highest honour that can be bestowed to a New Zealand variety entertainer. It is presented annually by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand, a non-for-profit organisation and showbusiness club, founded in 1966 and awarded to a variety performer who has achieved \"A lifetime of excellence in their field of the performing arts\".\n\nNominations for the Benny Award are accepted from VAC members and the recipient ultimately decided upon by past Benny recipients, making its presentation recognition of the highest degree by the New Zealand entertainment industry.\n\nThe Benny Award was named after its first recipient, legendary New Zealand variety performer Edgar Benyon (1902-1978) in 1969. The Benny statuette was designed and sculptured by magician Jon Zealando and features Greek muses Melpomene and Thalia - the traditional symbols of comedy and tragedy.\n\nRecipients of the Benny Award include many New Zealand household names and figureheads of entertainment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "692992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692992", "title": "Chinese folklore", "text": "Chinese folklore\n\nChinese folklore encompasses the folklore of China, and includes songs, poetry, dances, puppetry, and tales. It often tells stories of human nature, historical or legendary events, love, and the supernatural, or stories explaining natural phenomena and distinctive landmarks. Along with Chinese mythology it forms an important element in Chinese popular religion.\n\nThe main influences on Chinese folk tales have been Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism. Some folktales may have arrived from Germany; others have no known western counterparts, but are widespread throughout East Asia. Chinese folktales include a vast variety of forms such as myths, legends, fables, etc. A number of collections of such tales, such as Pu Songling's \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\", now remain popular. \n\nChinese folklore contains many symbolic folk meanings for the objects and animals within the folktales. One example of this is the symbolic meaning behind frogs and toads. In the \"Chinese myth of the Moon Goddess, Chang E\", frogs and toads are a symbol of wealth and prosperity as well as symbolize fertility, regeneration, yin, and immortality. Each Chinese folktale includes this kind of representation of various objects and animals and uses symbolic messages through its characters and usually strives to convey a message that instills the reader with some sort of virtuous insight. These messages are vital to Chinese culture and through these folktales, they will be passed down to future generations to also learn from.\n\nChinese folklore has provided inspiration for Chinese writers and poets for centuries. Folk songs which were originally partnered with dance and other styles of performing arts, provided inspiration for courtly poetry. Classical fiction began in the Han Dynasty and was modeled after oral traditions, while Yuan and Ming era dramatic plays were influenced by folk plays.\n\nChinese folklore has provided inspiration for visual imagery by Chinese weavers, painters and watercolorists, florists. One of the most striking examples is a silk funerary banner (circa 168 BC) that contains a number of stories from early China.\n\nModern iterations of traditional Chinese stories can be found internationally as well as in native Chinese literature. Laurence Yep's \"The Magic Paintbrush\", Maxine Hong Kingston's \"The Woman Warrior\", and Walt Disney Pictures' \"Mulan\" all borrow from Chinese folklore traditions.\n\nThe \"Classic of Poetry\", the earliest known Chinese collection of poetry, contains 160 folk songs in addition to courtly songs and hymns. One tradition holds that Confucius himself collected these songs, while another says that an emperor compiled them as a means to gauge the mood of the people and the effectiveness of his rule.\n\nIt is believed that Confucius did encourage his followers to study the songs contained in the \"Classic of Poetry\", helping to secure the \"Classic of Poetry\"'s place among the \"Five Classics\". After Confucian ideas became further entrenched in Chinese culture (after about 100 BCE), Confucius's endorsement led many scholars to study the lyrics of the \"Classic of Poetry\" and interpret them as political allegories and commentaries.\n\nAround the 1910s, Chinese folklore began to gain popularity as an area of study with the beginnings of the movement to formally adopt Vernacular Chinese as the language of education and literature. Because Vernacular Chinese was the dialect in which most folklore was created, this movement brought to scholars' attention the influences that Vernacular Chinese folklore had upon classical literature. Hu Shih of the Peking University, who had published several articles in support of the adoption of Vernacular Chinese, concluded that when Chinese writers drew their inspiration from folk traditions such as traditional tales and songs, Chinese literature experienced a renaissance. When writers neglected these sources, they lost touch with the people of the nation. A new emphasis on the study of folklore, Hu concluded, could therefore usher in a new renaissance of Chinese literature.\n\nThe Folksong Studies Movement became a key contributor to establishing Chinese Folklore as a modern academic discipline. This movement was founded by students and professors at Peking University in 1918. They were successful in creating a field of study that focused on literature pertaining to Chinese folklore and attempted to bring to light the early traditions and culture of Chinese folklore in order to reestablish China's national spirit. \n\nA rising sense of national identity was also partially responsible for spurring the new interest in traditional folklore. The first issue of the \"Folk-Song Weekly\", a publication issued by the Folk-Song Research Society, stated that \"Based on the folk songs, on the real feeling of the nation, a kind of new national poetry may be produced.\"\n\nSome folklore enthusiasts also hoped to further social reforms by their work. To help improve the condition of the Chinese people, it was believed, it was necessary to understand their ideas, beliefs, and customs. After China emerged from the Maoist period in the late 1970s, the state had an increasingly more accepting position toward academic research on China’s cultural traditions and folklore. Forbidden traditions and practices in early Chinese history were at this point in time becoming more relevant and accepted within the Chinese culture.\n\nPre-Communist and Communist thinkers were especially energetic in this belief. In the time leading up to the founding of the Communist Party of China, many folk songs and stories were collected by Communist thinkers and scholars. Often, they were reinvented and reinterpreted to emphasize such themes as the virtue of the working commoner and the evil of aristocracy, while stories that expressed praise for the emperor were frequently left out of Communist collections. Some folk tales and folk plays that exist today may in fact have been deliberately written by Communist authors to emphasize particular social morals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323045", "title": "Cinema of Africa", "text": "Cinema of Africa\n\nAfrican cinema is film production in Africa. It dates back to the early 20th century, when film reels were the primary cinematic technology in use. During the colonial era, African life was shown only by the work of white, colonial, Western filmmakers, who depicted blacks in a negative fashion, as exotic \"others\". There is no one single African cinema; there are differences between North African and Sub-Saharan cinema, and between the cinemas of different countries.\n\nThe cinema of Egypt is one of the oldest in the world. Auguste and Louis Lumière screened their films in Alexandria and Cairo in 1896 and the first short documentary was filmed by Egyptians in 1907. In 1935 the studio in Cairo began producing mostly formulaic comedies and musicals, but also films like Kamal Selim's The Will (1939). Egyptian cinema flourished in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, considered its golden age. Youssef Chahine's seminal \"Cairo Station\" (1958) foreshadowed Hitchcock's Psycho, and laid a foundation for Arab film.\n\nThe Nigerian film industry is the largest in Africa in terms of value, number of annual films, revenue and popularity. It is also the second largest film producer in the world. In 2016 Nigeria's film industry contributed 2.3% of its gross domestic product (GDP).\n\nDuring the colonial era, Africa was represented exclusively by Western filmmakers. In the first decades of the twentieth century, Western filmmakers made films that depicted black Africans as \"exoticized\", \"submissive workers\" or as \"savage or cannibalistic\". For example, see \"Kings of the Cannibal Islands\" in 1909, \"Voodoo Vengeance\" (1913) and \"Congorilla\" (1932). Colonial era films portrayed Africa as exotic, without history or culture. Examples abound and include jungle epics based on the Tarzan character created by Edgar Rice Burroughs and the adventure film \"The African Queen\" (1951), and various adaptations of H. Rider Haggard's novel \"King Solomon's Mines\" (1885). Much early ethnography \"focused on highlighting the differences between indigenous people and the white civilised man, thus reinforcing colonial propaganda\". Marc Allégret's first film,\"Voyage au Congo\" (1927) respectfully portrayed the Masa people, in particular a young African entertaining his little brother with a baby crocodile on a string. Yet the Africans were portrayed as human but not equals; a dialogue card for example referred to the movements of a traditional dance as naive. His lover, writer André Gide, accompanied Allégret and wrote a book also titled \"Voyage au Congo\". Allégret later made \"Zouzou\", starring Josephine Baker, the first major film starring a black woman. Baker had caused a sensation in the Paris arts scene by dancing in the clad only in a string of bananas.\n\nIn the French colonies Africans were prohibited by the 1943 Laval Decree from making films of their own. The ban stunted the growth of film as a means of African expression, political, cultural, and artistic. Congolese Albert Mongita did make \"The Cinema Lesson\" in 1951 and in 1953 Mamadou Touré made \"Mouramani\" based on a folk story about a man and his dog. In 1955, Paulin Soumanou Vieyra originally from Benin, but educated in Senegal along with his colleagues from Le Group Africain du Cinema, shot a short film in Paris, \"Afrique-sur-Seine\" (1955). Vieyra was trained in filmmaking at the Institut des hautes études cinématographiques (IDHEC) in Paris, and despite the ban on filmmaking in Africa, was granted permission to make a film in France. Considered the first film directed by a black African, \"Afrique Sur Seine\" explores the difficulties of being an African in 1950s France.\n\nPortuguese colonies came to independence with no film production facilities at all, since the colonial government there restricted film-making to colonialist propaganda, emphasizing the inferiority of indigenous populations. Therefore little thought was given until independence to developing authentic African voices.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, the Bantu Educational Kinema Experiment was conducted in an attempt to \"educate the Bantu, mosstly about hygiene. Only three films from the this project survive; they are kept at the British Film Institute.\n\nBefore the colonies' independence, few anti-colonial films were produced. Examples included Statues Also Die (\"Les statues meurent aussi\") by Chris Marker and Alain Resnais, about European theft of African art. The second part of this film was for 10 years banned in France.) \"Afrique 50\" by René Vautier, showed anti-colonial riots in Côte d'Ivoire and in Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso).\n\nAlso doing film work in Africa at this time was French ethnographic filmmaker Jean Rouch, controversial with both French and African audiences. Film documentaries such as \"Jaguar\" (1955), \"Les maitres fous\" (1955), \"Moi, un noir\" (1958) and \"La pyramide humaine\" (1959). Rouch's documentaries were not explicitly anti-colonial, but did challenge perceptions of colonial Africa and give a new voice to Africans. Although Rouch was accused by Ousmane Sembene and others of seeing Africans \"as if they are insects,\" Rouch was an important figure in the developing field of African film and was the first person to work with Africans, of whom many had important careers in African cinema (Oumarou Ganda, Safi Faye and Moustapha Alassane, and others).\n\nBecause most films made prior to independence were egregiously racist in nature, African filmmakers of the independence era such as Ousmane Sembene and Oumarou Ganda, among others saw filmmaking as an important political tool for rectifying the erroneous image of Africans put forward by Western filmmakers and for reclaiming the image of Africa for Africans.\n\nThe first African film to win international recognition was Sembène Ousmane's \"La Noire de...\" also known as \"Black Girl\". It showed the despair of an African woman who has to work as a maid in France. It won the Prix Jean Vigo in 1966. Initially a writer, Sembène had turned to cinema to reach a wider audience. He is still considered the \"father of African cinema\". Sembène's native Senegal continued to be the most important place of African film production for more than a decade.\n\nWith the creation of the African film festival FESPACO in Burkina Faso in 1969, African film created its own forum. FESPACO now takes place every two years in alternation with the Carthago film festival in Tunisia.\n\nThe Pan African Federation of Filmmakers (Fédération Panafricaine des Cinéastes, or FEPACI) was formed in 1969 to promote African film industries in terms of production, distribution and exhibition. From its inception, FEPACI was seen as a critical partner organization to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), now the African Union. FEPACI looks at the role of film in the politico-economic and cultural development of African states and the continent as a whole.\n\nMed Hondo's \"Soleil O\", shot in 1969, was immediately recognized. No less politically engaged than Sembène, he chose a more controversial filmic language to show what it means to be a stranger in France with the \"wrong\" skin colour.\n\nSouleymane Cissé's \"Yeelen\" (Mali, 1987) was the first film made by a Black African to compete at Cannes. Cheick Oumar Sissoko's \"Guimba\" (Mali, 1995) was also well received in the west. Some critics criticized the filmmakers for adapting to the exotic tastes of western audiences.\n\nMany films of the 1990s, including \"Quartier Mozart\" by Jean-Pierre Bekolo (Cameroon, 1992), are situated in the globalized African metropolis.\n\nNigerian cinema experienced a large growth in the 1990s with the increasing availability of home video cameras in Nigeria, and soon put Nollywood in the nexus for West African English-language films. Nollywood produced 1844 movies in 2013 alone.\n\nThe last movie theatre in Kinshasa shut down in 2004. Many of the former cinemas were converted to churches. In 2009 the UN refugee agency screened \"Breaking the Silence\" in South Kivu and Katanga Province. The film deals with rape in the Congolese civil wars.\nHowever a 200-seat cinema, MTS Movies House, opened in 2016 in Brazzaville. In April 2018, construction began on a new cinema in Brazzaville.\n\nA first African Film Summit took place in South Africa in 2006. It was followed by FEPACI 9th Congress.\n\nThe African Movie Academy Awards were launched in 2004, marking the growth of local film industries like that of Nigeria as well as the development and spread of the film industry culture in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nAfrican cinema focuses on social and political themes rather than any commercial interests, and explores the conflicts between the traditional past and modern times. The political approach of African filmmakers is clearly evident in the Charte du cinéaste africain (Charter of the African cinéaste), which the Pan African Federation of Filmmakers (FEPACI) adopted in Algiers in 1975. The filmmakers start by recalling the neocolonial condition of African societies. \"The situation contemporary African societies live in is one in which they are dominated on several levels: politically, economically and culturally.\" African filmmakers stressed their solidarity with progressive filmmakers in other parts of the world. African cinema is often seen a part of Third Cinema.\n\nSome African filmmakers, for example Ousmane Sembène, try to give African history back to African people by remembering the resistance to European and Islamic domination.\n\nThe African filmmaker is often compared to the traditional griot. Like griots, filmmakers' task is to express and reflect communal experiences. Patterns of African oral literature often recur in African films. African film has also been influenced by traditions from other continents, such as Italian neorealism, Brazilian Cinema Novo and the theatre of Bertolt Brecht.\n\nSenegalese ethnologist and filmmaker Safi Faye was the first African woman film director to gain international recognition.\n\nIn 1972, Sarah Maldoror shot her film \"Sambizanga\" about the 1961–74 war in Angola. Surviving African women of this war are the subject of the documentary \"Les Oubliées\" (The forgotten women), made by Anne-Laure Folly 20 years later. \n\nIn 1995, Wanjiru Kinyanjui made the feature film \"The Battle of the Sacred Tree\" in Kenya.\n\nIn 2008, Manouchka Kelly Labouba became the first woman in the history of Gabonese cinema to direct a fictional film. Her short film \"Le Divorce\" addresses the impact of modern and traditional values on the divorce of a young Gabonese couple.\n\nKemi Adetiba, hitherto a music video director, made her directorial debut in 2016 with \"The Wedding Party\". The film, about the events involved in the celebration of an aristocratic wedding, would go on to become the most successful Nollywood film in the history of her native Nigeria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9188344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9188344", "title": "Cleo Madison", "text": "Cleo Madison\n\nCleo Madison (March 26, 1883 – March 11, 1964) was a theatrical and silent film actress, screenwriter, producer, and director who worked heavily in early Hollywood in a career spanning from the late 1910s to the mid-1920s.\n\nMadison began her career on the stage. By 1910, she had begun performing as part of a theatre troupe known as the Santa Barbara Stock Company in California. In 1913, she was contracted by the Universal Film Manufacturing Company to begin appearing in feature films. Madison established a name for herself as an actress with performances in films such as \"The Trey o' Hearts\" (1914). She is also considered a pioneering female director with a number of shorts and two feature films, \"A Soul Enslaved\" (1916) and \"Her Bitter Cup\" (1916), to her credit.\n\nShe made several efforts to set up a production company before leaving show business in 1924. She died from a heart-attack in 1964 at the age of 80.\n\nCleo Madison was born Lulu Bailey in Bloomington, Illinois on March 26, 1883. She attended Illinois State Normal University (which became Illinois State University in 1965) in Normal, Illinois. After completing her education, she moved to California in order to pursue her dream of performing professionally.\n\nShe began her acting career on stage with the Santa Barbara Stock Company. She made her first professional appearances on the stages of the Burbank Theatre and the Belasco in 1911. She played the role of the mother in \"Captain Swift\". In March 1912 she debuted as the leading female player in Ernest Shipman's stock company in Phoenix, Arizona; her first production was \"When We Were Twenty-One\". She toured on vaudeville briefly.\n\nIn 1913 Madison signed with Universal Pictures and achieved star status the following year in \"The Trey o' Hearts\" (1914), a 15-episode film serial for Universal. Madison played three roles in the serial, portraying both the protagonist, Judith Trine, and the villain, her evil twin Rose, as well as the twins' mother.\n\nMadison's performances were based on an acting style she developed during her time as a vaudeville performer, relying on large gestures and melodramatic facial expressions. She did not avoid physical exertion in pursuit of convincing portrayal, as demonstrated in \"The Trey of Hearts\" (1914) in which her character endured a number of physical challenges such as being in a car crash, being shot at, and escaping a forest fire. Her characters often defied stereotypical roles of women in film and encompassed heroines, free-thinkers, villains, temptresses, and adventurers. Madison's acting style employed her total commitment and passion to each role, and her performances were often acclaimed as such. Journalist William M. Henry, writing for \"Photoplay\", highlighted her skill by contrasting her emotional performances with her calculating and business-like persona in real-life: \"... to see Madison in pictures tells you absolutely nothing about her character. Before the camera she smiles and weeps with the wonderful sympathy of which only a woman is capable.\"\n\nBy 1915, Madison had become well known as one of the foremost women working in Hollywood, and she began to seek new challenges within the industry such as screenwriting, producing, and directing.\n\nIn 1915, Madison became one of the few women in Hollywood to begin directing her own short and feature films. Madison was among the unprecedented wave of female directors employed by Universal that included Grace Cunard, Jeanie MacPherson and Lois Weber. Madison, known for her progressive views, was eager to begin work and was confident in her own ability. She was quoted in \"Photoplay\" magazine:\n\nMadison directed sixteen shorts and two feature-length films in a directorial career lasting only one year. Her most notable credits included the short films \"Her Defiance\" (1916), \"Eleanor's Catch\" (1916), and \"Triumph of Truth\" (1916). \"Eleanor's Catch\" was notable from a directorial perspective as one of the first films to use the twist ending; in it, Madison as the heroine is ultimately revealed to be an undercover government agent.\n\nBoth of Madison's feature film efforts have been praised in recent history by film historians; \"Her Bitter Cup\" (1916) is the underdog tale of unionized workers led by Madison's character staging a protest against their oppressive boss. \"A Soul Enslaved\" (1916) features a desperate heroine becoming a rich man's mistress to escape poverty, and afterward suffering the consequences of her actions in a later, conventional relationship.\n\nMadison's role as director allowed her to incorporate themes previously ignored by mainstream Hollywood such as oppression, sexuality, and power from a female perspective. She believed being female positively influenced her directing style, remarking once that each of her directed pieces had to have a certain \"feminine touch\".\n\nMadison's directorial credits end after 1916 for unknown reasons, although film historians have speculated that her status and workload led to a nervous breakdown that forced her into an early retirement.\n\nReports in 1916–1917 indicated she was forming a production company with Isadore Bernstein which ultimately failed to materialize; in 1919 she was again reported to be forming her own production studio. During these years she continued to act in films such as \"Black Orchids\" (1917), \"The Romance of Tarzan\" (1918), \"The Girl From Nowhere\" (1919) and \"The Great Radium Mystery\" (1919).\n\nBy the early 1920s, Madison's career had been steadily declining. Although she remained active with bit parts in several Universal shorts, she no longer possessed the star power necessary to inhabit lead roles. Many film historians point to her enormous output of work throughout the mid-1910s as a cause of exhaustion and exasperation for Madison.\n\nShe was rumored to have suffered a nervous breakdown in 1922, attempted a career-comeback in 1923, and by 1924 had permanently withdrawn from the film industry.\n\nShe was enthusiastic about cars and driving. Madison purchased a 1915 auto manufactured by the Haynes Automobile Company in December 1914. In her work for the Universal Gold Seal Company she occasionally drove a car.\n\nMany accounts that go into detail about Madison's life don't note her November 1916 marriage to Don Peake of San Francisco, California. He was western sales manager of the Briscoe Motor Corporation. The marriage certificate lists the bride as Lulu Bailey, and evidence points to Lulu Bailey being Madison's birth name. Her sister's name was Helen Bailey, and the divorce certificate lists Bailey as an actress. Before her marriage she resided with her sister, Helen, in a bungalow in Hollywood. Helen, nicknamed \"Sunshine\" for her bright disposition, was disabled and used a wheelchair. By 1916 she had been an invalid for eight years. Madison was especially devoted to her care.\n\nAfter leaving the film industry, she lived her remaining years in California with her husband, Don Peake. In 1964, Madison suffered a heart attack and died at the age of 80. She is buried in Glendale's Grand View Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "33270284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33270284", "title": "Coventry Sallet", "text": "Coventry Sallet\n\nThe Coventry Sallet is a 15th-century helmet now on display at Herbert Art Gallery and Museum. English sallets have been considered both rare and important.\n\nThe Sallet is 11 inches (27.9 cm) in height, 12.25 inches (31.1 cm) from front to back and is 7.75 inches (17.9 cm) wide. It weighs 5.25 pounds (2.4 kg). It has a short tail and a jawbone type visor with a brow reinforcing. Stylistically, it is termed a \"high crowned\" helmet, different from the style usually seen in Italy or Germany. A plume holder was added to the helmet at some time after its manufacture.\n\nThe helmet was made around 1460, during the period of English civil conflict known as the Wars of the Roses, and the armourer's marks suggest that it was made by an artisan originating from Italy. During the 19th century it was used in Coventry’s Godiva Procession. For a period it was kept on display at St Mary's Hall, Coventry, and is now shown at the city's Herbert Art Gallery and Museum.\n\nVery few pieces of English-made armour survive from this period; the Coventry Sallet is believed to be the only example of its type in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "8894712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8894712", "title": "Creative Time", "text": "Creative Time\n\nCreative Time is a New York-based nonprofit arts organization. It was founded in 1973 to support the creation of innovative, site-specific, socially engaged artworks in the public realm, particularly in vacant spaces of historical and architectural interest. \n\nCreative Time came to life amidst the deterioration of New York City's infrastructure and social fabric, combined with the mission of the newly established National Endowment for the Arts to promote the role of artists in democratic society and introduce new audiences to contemporary art. Artists in the late 1960s and early 70s were already experimenting with new media and new forms of art that could exist in the public sphere, outside the purview conventional art galleries and museums.\n\nEarly Creative Time programs took over abandoned storefronts and neglected public spaces, such as the Brooklyn Bridge Anchorage and the Great Hall of the Chamber of Commerce in Lower Manhattan. Both landmarks had been unused for years before Creative Time reinvigorated them, through programs like \"Art in the Anchorage\" (1983-2001) and \"Projects at the Chamber\" (1982).\n\nCreative Time initially gained widespread recognition for organizing ‘’Art on the Beach,’’ a project which brought together practitioners of many mediums and allowed for the creation of large scale public works in Battery Park City between 1978 and 1985. For three months each summer ‘’Art on the Beach’’ offered site-specific sculpture and performances that were open to the public and free of cost.\n\nThroughout the duration of ‘’Art on the Beach”, Creative Time was led by co-founder Anita Contini, who served as director until Cee Scott Brown took over in 1987. Anne Pasternak took the reins as director from 1993 to September, 2015. Taking her place as the current director is Katie Hollander. To this day, Creative Time continues to grow and prosper, each year giving both emerging and established artists unmatched opportunities to broaden their repertoires and explore the practice of art in the public realm. With these artists’ creations, Creative Time also allows millions of people of all ages and backgrounds to come in contact with contemporary art, enlivening the city around them. Since its founding, Creative Time has collaborated with over 2000 artists, producing more than 335 public art projects.\n\nCreative Time produces, presents, and sponsors programs in the visual and performing arts that encourage dialogue between artists and communities. Creative Time's projects expand the definition of public art by employing artists concerned with enhancing the viewer's perception of a particular environment, sharing the creative process with the public, and using densely populated locations lacking in cultural amenities.\n\nInstead of having a readily identifiable home, Creative Time focuses on having a well-defined programming philosophy, which requires that it move around to take advantage of the city's richness of resources. As defined on Creative Time’s website, Creative Time aims to promote three core values in the artworld: “art matters, artists’ voices are important in shaping society, and public spaces are places for creative and free expression”.\n\nIn recent years, Creative Time has taken charge of many noted initiatives in the art world. In collaboration with the Dallas art community, Creative Time took part in a yearlong study to better understand the strengths and areas of growth within the Dallas art scene. In this study, members of Creative Time met with various figures within the art community including artists, curators, philanthropists and collectors over the course of three week long visits to the city in 2010 . Following these meetings, Creative Time produced a study detailing suggestions to help bolster the art scene in Dallas, identifying 13 key elements to help the community thrive listed as follows:\n\n\nGiven the large number of Creative Time projects, it is impossible to exhaustively list the organization’s accomplishment, which range from art installations at the 2008 Art Basel in Miami. to the opening of a gallery under the Brooklyn Bridge in 1983 . The inclusion of these more specific examples is intended to illustrate Creative Time’s diverse role in the art world from the organizations founding in 1974 to present day .\n\nThe vast array of projects in recent years include skywriting over Manhattan in ‘’Clouds’’ (a 2001 collaboration with Vik Muniz), Tribute in Light (2002), and Kara Walker's \"A Subtlety\" (2014). Creative Time has also collaborated with such artists as Vito Acconci, Diller + Scofidio, David Byrne, Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Red Grooms, Jenny Holzer, Takashi Murakami, Shirin Neshat, Sonic Youth, Elizabeth Streb, Tania Bruguera, Temporary Services, Marc Horowitz and Superflex, among thousands more.\n\nIn addition to these artists, Creative Time often partners with other cultural institutions in New York City and elsewhere, like the Dia Art Foundation, the Queens Museum of Art, Lincoln Center, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38052542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38052542", "title": "Dancing Through Life (sculpture)", "text": "Dancing Through Life (sculpture)\n\nDancing Through Life is a public art work by artist Schomer Lichtner. It is installed on the Riverwalk in Pere Marquette Park in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nThe steel sculpture depicts a ballerina \"poised prettily\" on a cow. The cow is painted green, purple, blue and yellow, with a black face, white triangular nose and red horns. The ballerina bends one knee to rest on the back of the cow and kicks her other leg overhead. She wears a red and white polka-dotted leotard, white tutu and red ballet slippers. Both arms extend aloft, and she holds a blue fan above her head in one hand. The entire composition incorporates folds and assemblage to create a sense of angularity and dynamism.\n\n\"Dancing Through Life\" occupies a prominent location at the southern entrance to Pere Marquette Park. Lichtner collaborated with the Riverwalk District BID to contribute to its RiverSculpture! program by placing the sculpture at this location.\n"}
{"id": "56113458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56113458", "title": "Denver's Art District on Santa Fe", "text": "Denver's Art District on Santa Fe\n\nDenver’s Art District on Santa Fe (ADSF) is a nationally known arts and cultural district, encompassing hundreds of artists, galleries, studios, theaters, and creative businesses along Santa Fe Drive in Denver, Colorado. ADSF is a 501(c)(3), nonprofit membership organization.\nThe organization formed in 2003 and became one of the first Certified Creative Districts in the state of Colorado in 2012.\n\nDenver's Art District on Santa Fe spans from 13th Street on the North to Alameda Avenue on the South, and Kalamath Street on the West to Inca Street on the East. It is primarily located in the La Alma-Lincoln Park neighborhood in Denver, but it also overlaps the Baker neighborhood. The stretch of Santa Fe was once a buffalo migration route, and the first settlers arrived in the mid-1800s. The area was home to waves of immigrants, initially from Europe and Russia, followed by Mexicans fleeing the Revolution of 1910.\n\nIt is home to significant entertainment and cultural pillars such as:\n\n\nHundreds of galleries, artist co-ops, and artist studios also call the Art District on Santa Fe, including:\n\n\nFirst Friday Art Walks are the signature event of Denver's Art District on Santa Fe. This free event occurs every month, year round, and draws up to 15,000 attendees in the summer months. In 2016, the organization launched \"The Art of Brunch,\" a free art gallery brunch crawl. And in 2017, \"Art on Film\" was launched. The program provides free, arthouse movie screenings outdoors alongside live music and food trucks.\n\n\"Westword\" named the Art District on Santa Fe the \"Best Art District\" in 2017. It also was awarded the Mayor's Award for Excellence in the Arts in 2012. \n\n"}
{"id": "8275918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8275918", "title": "Diane Kurys", "text": "Diane Kurys\n\nDiane Kurys (; born 3 December 1948) is a French filmmaker and actress. She was born in Lyon, Rhône, France, the younger of two daughters born to Russian-Jewish parents who divorced when she was a child. Several of her films as director are semi-autobiographical.\n\nLike many of her film's characters, Kurys had a difficult relationship with her parents, and her traumatic childhood became a subject in many of her films. She lived with her mother after their divorce in 1954, at one point running away to join her father at age sixteen. In her adolescence, she was radicalized in the spirit of May of '68, but became somewhat disillusioned in the aftermath, calling it a \"revolution bourgeois\" in an interview with Jean-Luc Wachthausen She first met her partner and fellow filmmaker Alexandre Arcady, when she was fifteen years old. They have been a couple since the 1960s, have two production companies together as well as a son born in 1991, Yasha, an author who writes under the name of Sacha Sperling .\n\nShe began as an actress with Jean-Louis Barrault's company. She acted in theater, film, and television for eight years, but felt unable to express herself under \"the director or any kind of authority or control.\" This led to her transitioning into writing and film making.\n\nWith a government grant, she made her first film as director, \"Diabolo menthe\" (1977) (aka \"Peppermint Soda\"), which explored her life as a child of divorced parents, and focused on her relationship with her sister, to whom she dedicated the movie. \"Cocktail Molotov\" (1980) was her next film. In \"Coup de Foudre\" (1983) (a.k.a. \"Entre Nous\"), the divorce issue is revisited, with Isabelle Huppert playing the heroine's mother.\n\nKurys made her first English-language film, \"A Man in Love\", in 1987 starring Peter Coyote and Greta Scacchi. At the film's conclusion, Scacchi's character gives up acting to become a writer; echoing Kurys's own transition in life.\n\n\"C'est la vie\" (a.k.a. \"La Baule-les-Pins\") (1990) returned to her alter-ego leading character's adolescent years. Huppert also appeared in \"Après l'amour\" (1992) (aka \"Love After Love\"). \"À la folie\" (aka \"Six Days, Six Nights\") (1994) examined the relationship between two adult sisters. She also directed the period film \"Children of the Century\" which (1999) and the 2008 biopic about Françoise Sagan called \"Sagan\". Her latest film is \"Pour une femme\", released in 2013, which stars Benoît Magimel, Mélanie Thierry and Nicolas Duvauchelle.\n\nAlthough Kurys' work as a filmmaker in the 1980s helped bring women's filmmaking into the mainstream of its time, her commercial successes have played a part in keeping her from being granted auteur status by many critics. Her harsher critics have called her films conventional, polished, and not challenging to cinema's status quo. In addition, her ambivalence toward feminism and dislike of the \"woman director\" or \"women's cinema\" label has played a part in her lack of feminist film study scholarship. In a section on Kurys for \"French Film: texts and contexts\" and the first book-length study of Kurys work, film scholar Carrie Tarr argues that her work is firmly within the auteurist tradition, \"a coherent body of work with a recognizable style\". Kurys' use of her own life story, her inclusion of a stand-in for herself in most films, the recurring character types and situations from her memories and concerns in her present, all create a body of work specifically centered on a unique female voice. Tarr theorizes that Kurys' signature contains two voices, one which reflect her rebellion against the male-centric world she meant to escape by turning from acting to filmmaking, and the other which collaborates with the patriarchal structure she still must operate within to be successful.\n\nThe first, Alexandre Films was formed in 1977 with Alexandre Arcady prior to the release of \"Peppermint Soda\". The company co-produced her first six films, as well as a number of Arcady's, whose name it bears. The pair formed a second company, New Light Films, in 1994, which produces films in both French and English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34839095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34839095", "title": "Ducal Palace of Vila Viçosa", "text": "Ducal Palace of Vila Viçosa\n\nThe Ducal Palace of Vila Viçosa () is a royal palace in Portugal, located in the civil parish of Nossa Senhora da Conceição, in the municipality of Vila Viçosa, in the Alentejo, situated about 150 km (93 miles) east of the capital Lisbon. It was for many centuries the seat of House of Braganza, one of the most important noble houses in Portugal which was the ruling house of the Kingdom of Portugal from 1640 until 1910 when King Manuel II, titular head of the family, was deposed in the 5 October 1910 Revolution which brought in a Republican government.\n\nVila Viçosa became a fiefdom of the Dukes of Braganza when Fernando I of Braganza succeeded his father Afonso, 1st Duke of Braganza, and received the title of Count of Arraiolos from his grandfather, Nuno Alvares Pereira. Fernando I established his seat at the primitive Vila Viçosa Castle. However, following the 1483 execution of his son, Fernando II, 3rd Duke of Braganza, for treason by order of King John II of Portugal, the family was exiled to the Kingdom of Castile. Returning in 1498 (after the death of King John II in 1495), the family regained its ancestral lands, although Jaime, 4th Duke of Braganza (Fernando II's successor), declined to live in the Castle of Vila Viçosa, owing to its association with his father's betrayal and murder.\n\nConstruction of the ducal palace of the Dukes of Braganza began during the tenure of Duke Jaime of Braganza, between 1501–1502. It was situated in the \"Horta do Reguengo\" outside the walls of the nearby medieval village, in an area that was \"characterized by extensive olive orchards and an abundance of water\", presenting some similarities to the feudal residences of the region, such as the \"Sempre Noiva\" or \"Paço de Alvito\". The House of Braganza regained much of its power and wealth over time due to Duke Jaime's close kinship with the royal family (he being the nephew of King Manuel I of Portugal) and his actions in reconciling relations between the nobles. Duke Jaime of Braganza commanded the victorious expedition to Azamor in 1513, and having secured a pardon expanded the wealth of the House of Braganza, and contributed to the growth of the ducal palace.\n\nIn 1535 Teodósio I, 5th Duke of Braganza was appointed \"Constable of the Kingdom\". He managed to negotiate the marriage of his sister, Isabella of Braganza, with Infante Edward, 4th Duke of Guimarães (a brother of King John III of Portugal), securing a closer association with the royal family. Following the need to expand the palace for the celebrations of the royal marriage, Teodósio I began the construction of the imposing facade, faced with marble in the Italianate-style, and in 1558 began the installation of the \"Sala de Música\" (\"Hall of Music\"). As Rafael Moreira (1997) indicated, the first building was a designed and decorated in the Manueline style, and was remodelled in classical lines, along with the adjacent buildings and the expansion of the square in front of the building. It was inspired by the profile of the Ribeira Palace in Lisbon. Extensive remodeling later occurred in 1566, during the tenure of João I, 6th Duke of Braganza. \n\nIt was the 7th Duke, Teodósio II, who in 1583 began the grand works of the classical facade, completed in 1635 during the regency of King John IV of Portugal, formerly Duke of Braganza. In 1602, Teodósio II married the Spanish noblewoman Ana de Velasco y Girón, hoping to produce heirs. In commemoration of the marriage a composition of azulejo tiles by Fernando Loyaza, known as the \"Talavera de la Reina\", was installed in the \"Sala Grande\" (\"Great Hall\"). The whole project of the classical facade was firstly executed by Nicolau de Frias, royal architect, but was later supplemented by Pedro Vaz Pereira and Manuel Pereira Alvenéo. The monumental facade was completed in the Mannerist style, consisting of two floors, one with Tuscan capitals, the other with Ionic capitals. Later, in 1610, construction began of an additional third floor.\nIn about 1611 the fireplace in the \"Sala de Medusa\" (\"Medusa's Hall\") was designed and constructed by Pêro Vaz Pereira. Following the 1640 ascension of João II, 8th Duke of Braganza to the throne of Portugal as King John IV, the palace lost its importance as the permanent residence of the Dukes of Braganza.\n\nThe first new remodelling to the Palace occurred in the 18th century, with the installation of an organ in the chapel. In 1716 King John V began minor renovations. Later, in 1762 under Queen Maria I of Portugal, the construction began of the main tower fronting the Duchess's Garden (or \"Forest Garden\") and of a new wing, formally designated as the \"Quartos Novos\" (\"New Quarters\"). This included the \"Sala de Jantar\" (\"Dining Hall\"), which along with the other works, was finally completed under her successor, King Joseph I of Portugal in 1770.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic invasion of the Iberian peninsula, the Portuguese royal family fled to Brazil, and the palace was closed.\n\nLong after the return of the royal family to Portugal, King Carlos I of Portugal and his wife Amélie of Orleans began the renovations of the \"New Quarters\", to the designs of the Frenchman Negrier, in order to serve as their residence. After a period of living in these quarters as his semi-official residence, on 1 February 1908 King Carlos I returned with his family to Lisbon, where he was later assassinated.\n\nOn 5 October 1910 a revolution, instigated by Republican sympathizers, caused the royal family to flee to England and the residences of the monarchy were closed to the public.\n\nIn 1932, whilst in exile, King Manuel II of Portugal died from an abnormal swelling in the throat. His will ordered the creation of a foundation to safeguard the royal estate, which led to the creation of the \"Fundação da Casa de Bragança\" (\"House of Braganza Foundation\"). As part of this process, a systematic inventory and assessment was undertaken of the contents of the Palace by the DGEMN (\"Direcção Geral dos Edifícios e Monumentos Nacionais\", \"General-Directorate for Buildings and National Monuments\") completed in 1938. Between 1945 and 1952 the DGMEN initiated public works to restore the Palace after years of neglect, supplemented by repairs to the roof in 1963.\n\nIt was not until 18 May 1984 that the palace was opened to the public, including one of the largest and most varied permanent expositions of carriages in Europe.\n\nA re-tiling of the central wing was completed in 1985–1986, followed in 1989 by a similar project in the \"Ala dos Moços\" (\"Children's Wing\") in 1989.\n\nLocated in the urban context of Vila Viçosa, the palace is situated on a stable plain at the foot of the castle hill. Rising above this context, on a grand space, it fronts other historical buildings, including the Church of the Augustine Friars (), the Episcopal Palace () and Convent of the Stigmata ().\n\nThe building consists of a grand rectangular profile, extending east to west, with three floors, and an irregular trapezoid structure to the north-south, with the roofing differently tiled above each of the spaces. The principal facade is fully lined with ashlar masonry and pink Estremoz marble, corresponding to the three respective floors and central pediment broken by two main doorways. The rest of the facades are broken by a series of rectangular windows, that harmoniously divide the surface in a rhythmic classic pattern, some with semi-circular pediments and framed cornices. Pilasters and architraves define the horizontal and vertical frames of many of the windows, giving the whole composition great sobriety and classicism.\n\nThe \"Lady's Garden\" occupies a comparable space by the residence, consisting of symmetrical patterns interspersed with sculptures of ancient shells and royal cavalry.\n\nAccess to the residence is made across the vestibule. From this space is the main marble staircase and marble walls, as well as a painted mural fresco representing the \"Tomada de Azamor\" (\"Taking of Azamor\") in northern Africa in 1513 by Portuguese troops, commanded by James, Duke of Braganza. On the left-side is the disembarkation (), to the centre the preparations of the encirclement () and to the right the conquest of the fortress ().\n\nIn the first years of the 17th century, the palace received a decorative palette, considered \"one of the richest group of fresco mural paintings encountered in Portuguese art\". The rooms in the Palace extend along the horizontal plane, with a single corridor linking the spaces, including the \"Sala das Tapeçarias\" (\"Tapestry Hall\"), with sillar covered in 17th-century polychromtic blue-and-white azulejo tile, white marble fireplace, tile floor, and vaulted ceiling with phytomorphic painting. Several of the main rooms include spaces with painted fresco ceilings, and 17th-century blue-and-white/yellow azulejo tile, such as the \"Sala do Gigante\" (\"Hall of the Giant\"), with 16th-century fresco depicting the biblical episode between David and Goliath, which is framed by the arms of the Dukes of Braganza; the \"Oratório da Duquesa\" (\"Duchess' Oratory\"); and\"Sala de Medusa\" (\"Hall of Medusa\"), with a painted fresco representing the battle between Medusa and Perseus. These group of paintings were\"largely faithful to the aesthetic canons of the Italianate Mannerists\". The compositions are replent in Moorish-influenced motifs executed between 1600 and 1640 by different painters: Tomás Luís, famous Lisbon painter, was attributed to the \"two notable mural [ceiling] decorations\" in the \"Hall of Medusa\" and the gallery of Duchess Catherine and José de Avelar Rebelo painted the ceilings of the \"Music Pavilion\".\nThe remainder of these rooms extend laterally through the accessway: the \"Sala de D. Duarte\" (\"Edwards' Hall\"), with a painted ceiling, with anthropomorphic elements and tiled floor; the \"Sala dos Duques\" (\"Hall of the Dukes\") or \"Sala dos Tudescos\" is a noble salon and largest room in the building, decorated with frames of 17 Dukes of Braganza, from Joseph I: the \"Sala das Virtues\" (\"Hall of Virtues\") has an artesnal ceiling comprising framed paintings showing the seven theological virtues and morals, among them: \"Fé\" (\"Faith\"), \"Esperança\" (\"Hope\"), \"Caridade\" (\"Charity\"),\"Prudência\" (\"Prudence\"), \"Justiça\" (\"Justice\"), \"Forteleza\" (\"Strength\"), \"Temperança\" (\"Temperance\") and \"Sapiência\" (\"Wisdom\"); and the\"Sala de Jantar\" (\"Dining Hall\") there is a similarly paneled ceiling with medallions, decorated in classical and mythological motifs. The rooms five doorways give access to the \"Jardim das Damas\" (\"Lady's Garden\").\n\nA chapel, referred to as the \"Sala dos Paramento/Órgãos\" (\"Hall of the Vestments/Organ\") is covered in a vaulted ceiling with comparably painted roof frames.\n\nThe \"Pavilhão da Música\" (\"Music Pavilion\") is an exceptional example: it consists of a painted wood ceiling, sillar with 17th-century azulejo tile depicting figures in panchromatic tiles in yellow, blue, green and red, representing the history of Tobit () with the coat-of-arms of the Dukes of Braganza, and signed FIAB.\n\nIn addition, there are several other \"named\" rooms in palace, including the \"Sala D. Duarte\" (\"D. Durate's Hall\"), \"Sala D. Fernando II\" (\"Ferdinand's Hall\"), \"Sala do Século 17\" (\"17th-century Hall\"), \"Sala da Restauração\" (\"Restoration Hall\"), \"Sala de Hércules\" (\"Hall of Hercules\"), \"Sala Dourada ou da Duquesa\" (\"Golden Hall\" or \"Duchess Hall\"), named for Catherine wife of the 6th Duke, the \"Sala da Cabra Cega\" (\"Hall of the Blind Goat\"); \"Sala Indo-Portuguesa\" (\"Portuguese-India Hall\"); \"Sala das Loiças\" (\"Hall of Dishware\"); \"Sala dos Vidros\" (\"Hall of Glass\"); \"Sala dos Reis\" (\"Kings' Hall\"); the armory; and the famous wing of the \"New Quarters\", named for the fact that it acted as the residence and studies for the King, with diverse antechambers, and corridors. Near the kitchen are the ovens, wine cellars, avery and storage spaces.\n\nThere are two panels (1558) made by Flemish Joan Boagerts in Antwerp. The rest of the historical azulejos (17th-century) that has the Ducal Palace are located in the Sala do Gigante and were made by Spanish Talavera de la Reina pottery, are of the very few of the kind still implanted in the place where they were designed, after the destruction of the historic center of Guadalajara during the Spanish Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20024708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20024708", "title": "Europeana", "text": "Europeana\n\nEuropeana.eu is the EU digital platform for cultural heritage. \"Mona Lisa\" by Leonardo da Vinci, \"Girl with a Pearl Earring\" by Johannes Vermeer, the works of Charles Darwin and Isaac Newton and the music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart are some of the highlights on Europeana.\n\nMore than 3,000 institutions across Europe have contributed to Europeana. These range from major international names like the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the British Library and the Louvre to regional archives and local museums from every member of the European Union. Together, their assembled collections let users explore Europe's cultural and scientific heritage from prehistory to the modern day.\n\nThe catalyst for Europeana was a letter sent by Jacques Chirac, President of France, together with the premiers of Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and Hungary to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, in April 2005. The letter recommended the creation of a virtual European library, to make Europe's cultural heritage accessible for all.\n\nThe letter added resonance to the work that the European Commission's Information Society and Media Directorate had been engaged in for over a decade, with programmes such as Telematics for Libraries. It gave strong political endorsement to the Directorate's strategy, i2010: communication on digital libraries, which was published on 30 September 2005. The strategy announced the intention to promote and support the creation of a European digital library, as a goal within the European Union, which aims to foster growth in the information society and media industries.\n\nThe project that began the building of Europeana was called the European Digital Library Network (EDLnet) and was aimed at building a prototype of a cross-border, cross-domain, user-centred service. It was funded by the European Commission under its eContentplus programme, one of the research and development funding streams of i2010.\n\nThe prototype was launched on 20 November 2008. At its beta launch, the site gave access to 4.5 million digital objects – more than double the initial target – from over 1,000 contributing organisations, including world-famous national library, gallery and museum collections from the capitals of Europe. Due to an unexpected user surge (peaking at an estimated 10 million hits an hour), the servers were unable to cope with the massive load. The site was temporarily taken down, and after series of technical upgrades went up again in December 2008.\nIn February 2009, the successor of EDLnet – Europeana version 1.0 – began. This 30-month project was to develop the prototype into a fully operational service. In 2010, the project accomplished its objective of giving access to over 10 million digital objects. Early in 2011, new features on the site included a translation tool and the ability to expand on information by automatically transferring the search term to Wikipedia and other services.\n\nEuropeana gives access to different types of content from different types of heritage institutions. The digital objects that users can find in Europeana are not stored on a central computer, but remain with the cultural institution and are hosted on their networks. Europeana collects contextual information – or metadata – about the items, including a small picture. Users search this contextual information. Once they find what they are looking for, if they want to access the full content of the item, they can click through to the original site that holds the content.\n\nDifferent types of cultural heritage organisations – libraries, museums, archives and audiovisual collections – catalogue their content in different ways and to different standards. Approaches also vary in different countries. To make the information searchable, it has to be mapped to a single common standard, known as the Europeana Semantic Elements. This metadata standard at present takes a lowest common denominator approach to the integration of different types of digital content. In 2010 the \"Europeana Data Model\", a richer metadata standard, was introduced to help give users more and better information.\n\nEuropeana accepts metadata about digital objects, it does not make any decisions about digitisation. The decision about which objects are digitised lies with the organisation that holds the material.\n\nIn its Strategic Plan for 2011–2015, which was published in January 2011, Europeana outlines four strategic tracks that will shape its further development:\n\nThe current strategy is for the period 2015-2020.\n\nThe Europeana Foundation is the governing body of the Europeana service. Its members are the presidents and chairs of European associations for cultural heritage and information associations.\n\nThe Foundation promotes collaboration between museums, archives, audiovisual collections and libraries so that users can have integrated access to their content through Europeana and other services.\n\nThe Foundation is incorporated under Dutch law as Stichting Europeana and is housed within the Koninklijke Bibliotheek, the national library of the Netherlands. It provides a legal framework for the governance of Europeana, employing the staff, bidding for funding and enabling the sustainability of the service.\n\nThe executive director of the Europeana Foundation is Harry Verwayen.\n\nThere are a number of projects – the Europeana Group – that are contributing technology solutions and content to Europeana. These projects are run by different cultural heritage institutions, and are part-funded by the European Commission's eContentplus programme and the Information and Communications Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT PSP).\n\nThe Europeana Group projects are:\n\nEuropeana and the projects contributing content to Europeana.eu have been funded by the European Commission under eContentplus, the Information and Communications Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT PSP) and similar programmes. To participate in a wide range of projects, which are only funded by the Commission for 50–100% of the costs and do not include overheads, Europeana is also reliant for an element of its funding on Member States’ ministries of culture and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23004849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23004849", "title": "Film analysis", "text": "Film analysis\n\nFilm analysis is the process in which a film is analyzed in terms of mise-en-scène, cinematography, sound, and editing. One way of analyzing films is by the shot-by-shot analysis, though that is typically used only for small clips or scenes. Film analysis is closely connected to film theory.\n\nDifferent authors suggest various approaches to film analysis. Jacques Aumont and Michel Marie in their publication Analysis of Film propose several key points regarding film analysis. (1) There is general method of film analysis, (2) film analysis can never be concluded as there will always be something more to explore and (3) it is necessary for one to have knowledge about film history in order to perform a film analysis. They recognize various types of approaches: (1) Text-based film analysis (structural approach), (2) topic based analysis (narrative approach), (3) picture and sound approach (iconic analysis), (4) psychoanalytical approach and (5) historical approach.\n\nAnother methodology is suggested by Thomas and Vivian Sobchack in their publication Introduction to film. They suggest viewer can observe following elements: (1) analysis of film space, (2) analysis of film time and (3) film sound. As they focus mainly on iconic aspects of film they further propose additional elements: the image, tone, composition and movement.\n\nIconic analysis basically deals with image or picture (and sometimes also film sound). In iconic analysis we try to understand how different pictorial elements convey the meaning of film. There are several examples in film history where image was even more than just key element of film (i.e. pre WWII avant-garde films, Italian neorealism, film noir, etc.). However today in most narrative films (Fictional film) we try to hide pictorial elements from audience and mask them behind the story. In such films it is usually difficult (if not event pointless) to analyze image as such. We therefore more often tend to observe various other elements like light, camera movement (see Cinematography), composition etc. and try to understand how these elements influence or cross-reference other elements of film, like story, mood etc. As iconic analysis derives from single image and it is closely related to techniques of film production thus demanding at least brief understanding of these technical elements of film it is mostly useful method of research for film schools and other educational institutions. Film critics tend not use this method as a “stand alone” approach, but they rather use it as a part of other analysis method.\n\nSemiotics (also called semiotic studies and in the Saussurean tradition called semiology) is the study of meaning-making, the philosophical theory of signs and symbols. This includes the study of signs and sign processes (semiosis), indication, designation, likeness, analogy, metaphor, symbolism, signification, and communication. Semiotics is closely related to the field of linguistics, which, for its part, studies the structure and meaning of language more specifically. As different from linguistics, however, semiotics also studies non-linguistic sign systems. Semiotics often is divided into three branches:\nSemantics is the relation between signs and the things to which they refer; their \"denotata\", or meaning. Syntactics is relations among signs in formal structures. Pragmatics is the relation between signs and sign-using agents.\n\nAncient Greek philosophy's \"overturning of mythology\" as a definition to understanding of the heightened aesthetic. For Plato, Eros takes an almost transcendent manifestation when the subject seeks to go beyond itself and form a communion with the objectival other: \"the true order of going...to the things of love, is to use the beauties of earth as steps...to all fair forms, and from fair forms to fair actions, and from fair actions to fair notions, until from fair notions he arrives at the notion of absolute beauty\".\n\nThis is a written description of a given sequence in a film in order of the shots. According to Michael Ryan and Melissa Lenos, when doing shot-by-shot analysis, we start with describing the techniques used in the shots or images we are analyzing. After that, we also need to elaborate what effects these techniques can produce when viewing the movie; for example, camera leads what we see in the film so the changes in camera angles have impact on audience's interpretations of the meanings the movie tries to convey. Some of the techniques used in film producing could be composition (foreground/background, frame/raming, etc.), cinematography (close-up, medium shot and long shot, pan shot, tilt shot, etc.), editing (montage, eyeline match, etc.), and so on.\n\nA number of varied film analysis approaches have emerged and gained popularity on the internet such as those by Red Letter Media and Rob Ager. In 2012 Room 237, a documentary showcasing a variety of such interpretations of Stanley Kubrick's horror film The Shining, was screened at the Cannes Film Festival and generated wide media coverage followed by a distribution deal. The film has since generated considerable comment and debate from film critics and film communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27144108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27144108", "title": "Flash Me Magazine", "text": "Flash Me Magazine\n\nFlash Me Magazine is one of the longest running online magazines devoted to publishing flash fiction stories. It is a quarterly publication by Winged Halo Productions. It is a paying market, accepting all genres of fiction under 1,000 words. It is also one of the few markets that offer editorial feedback with rejection letters. Issues are published on January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31. The magazine has its headquarters in Belleville, Illinois.\n\nThroughout its history, \"Flash Me Magazine\" has supported and promoted the art of flash fiction writing with its Lightning Flash Fiction Contests, its Flash For BIG Cash Anthologies, and now with its Flash Fiction Boot Camp series. All proceeds raised from these projects help fund the magazine. The editors of Flash Me Magazine believe flash fiction authors aren't recognized often enough, and choose to showcase one author each quarter as its Feature Story. They also annually nominate authors for the Pushcart Prize.\n\nIn addition to the main website, \"Flash Me Magazine\" can be found on Facebook and MySpace. Its official blog, The Slush Pile, offers updates on incoming submissions and other news. \"Flash Me Magazine\" can be found in various market listings, most notably in Duotrope and Ralan.com. It is a member of the Speculative Literature Foundation Small Press Co-operative.\n\nA complete list of all the authors published in Flash Me Magazine can be found in their archives.\n\n\"These include:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7039617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7039617", "title": "Grand Prix de l'urbanisme", "text": "Grand Prix de l'urbanisme\n\nThe Grand prix de l'urbanisme is awarded for urban planning in France by the Ministry for Ecology, Energy, Sustainable Development and Planning. The prize has been awarded annually since 1989, except during the period from 1994 until 1998, when it was not awarded.\n\nA book is published each year, detailing the work of the award winner and other nominees.\n\n"}
{"id": "6008123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6008123", "title": "Gypsy Robe", "text": "Gypsy Robe\n\nThe Gypsy Robe is a tradition in which a chorus member with the most Broadway credits receives a robe on the opening night of a Broadway musical. The title of the robe was changed to the Legacy Robe in July 2018.\n\nBefore curtain on the opening night of a Broadway musical, actors, stage managers, crew, and everyone associated with the play gather onstage for the Gypsy Robe ceremony. At the center of the stage will be a representative of Actors' Equity Association and a recently honored gypsy. The honored gypsy wears the robe that's decorated with mementos and drawings from past shows. The Equity representative tells the history of the ritual and announces the newest recipient from the company. The new recipient puts on the robe, and circles the stage counter-clockwise three times as everyone touches the robe for good luck. The Gypsy Robe recipient then makes their way throughout the theatre to continue bringing good luck.\nAccording to Actors' Equity Association, the following are the rules of the Gypsy Robe:\n\nThe ritual dates to 1950, when Florence Baum, a chorus member in \"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes\", entered the men's dressing room wearing a robe, pale pink with white feathers. The men took turns trying it on. Fellow chorus member, Bill Bradley, sent a dressing gown from one of his fellow performers to his friend performing in \"Call Me Madam\". A feathered rose from Ethel Merman's costume was attached to the robe, and it was then given to a chorus member in \"Guys and Dolls\". The robe continued to be passed from one show to another, each time with a memento added on.\n\nThe ritual has become more formal, with rules about how it is presented, worn, and displayed. When robes are full of artifacts, a new robe is started. Retired robes are kept at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, at the Smithsonian, and at Actors' Equity.\n\nIn 2005, Brynn Williams from the Broadway cast of \"In My Life\" became the youngest recipient of the Gypsy Robe at age 12.\n\nOn April 18, 2018, Actors Equity announced that the name of robe would be changed at the end of the current theater season. A poll was opened to union members to vote on a new name. The new name chosen is the \"Legacy Robe\"; the first Legacy Robe presentation took place on July 26, 2018, during the musical \"Head Over Heels\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16791421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16791421", "title": "Horrea Galbae", "text": "Horrea Galbae\n\nThe Horrea Galbae were warehouses (\"horrea\") in the southern part of ancient Rome, located between the southern end of the Aventine Hill and the waste dump of Monte Testaccio. They ran for a substantial distance, possibly extending as far as the Porta Ostensis in the east and the Porticus Aemilia on the banks of the Tiber. The horrea were probably built on the site of a suburban villa owned by the Sulpicii Galbae, a distinguished noble family of whom the 1st century AD Roman Emperor Galba was a member. (There are many alternative spellings of the name: \"Galbana\", \"Galbiana\", \"Galbes\" and so on.)\n\nThe tomb of Servius Sulpicius Galba (probably the consul of 108 BC, rather than his better-known father of the same name) stood in front of the warehouse complex. It is not clear when the horrea were founded, but presumably it was some time after the tomb was built. The complex was probably originally known as the Horrea Sulpicia, after the nomen of the gens Sulpicia, but acquired its later name during the time of the emperor Galba. \n\nArchaeological excavations and the remains of the Forma Urbis Romae show that the Horrea Galbae comprised three long rectangular courtyards set out in parallel, each surrounded by colonnades or arcades of tabernae, with a single entrance positioned on the axis at a short end. They were used to store the \"annona publica\" (the public grain supply) as well as olive oil, wine, foodstuffs, clothing and even marble. The size of the Horrea Galbae was enormous, even by modern standards; the horrea contained 140 rooms on the ground floor alone, covering an area of some 225,000 square feet (21,000 m²). \n\nIt is thought that Monte Testaccio, the giant mound of broken amphorae that lay behind the Horrea Galbae, was associated with the complex. Olive oil imported from far-away Baetica (in modern Spain) was emptied into bulk containers, probably in the horrea, and the original import vessels were smashed and dumped on Monte Testaccio. The scale of the imports can be judged by the fact that Monte Testaccio is estimated to contain the remains of at least 53 million olive oil amphorae, in which some 6 billion litres (1.58 billion gallons) of oil were imported.\n\nLittle now remains of the Horrea Galbae. Walls and brickwork, dating probably from the 1st century AD, have been discovered by archaeologists along with large lead pipes bearing inscriptions from Hadrian's reign in the following century.\n"}
{"id": "29220076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29220076", "title": "Ingeborg Møller", "text": "Ingeborg Møller\n\nIngeborg Møller (29 December 1878 – 18 February 1964) was a Norwegian teacher, playwright, novelist and biographer.\nIngeborg Møller was born in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. Her parents were Thorvald Fredrik Møller (1821-1879) and Nathalie Munch (1836-1904). Her father died one year after she was born. When Ingeborg was about five years old, her mother had a serious mental disorder and others took care of her. Part of her childhood was spent in Fredrikstad. During the 1890s, she spent two years at Olaf Berg's school of education (\"Olaf Bergs lærerinneskole\"). From 1915 she was involved in public-high school teaching at Dovre and Sel, where her teaching associates included Olav Aukrust (1883–1929). In 1921 she was associated with a children's shelter at Lillehammer. \n\nShe made her literary début with the play \"Fru Karen\", staged at Centralteatret in 1904. She wrote several novels during the 1920s. In 1948 she published a biography of scientist and philosopher Henrik Steffens. She was awarded the Gyldendal's Endowment (\"Gyldendalprisen\") in 1948.\nShe was married in 1904 to Daniel Kildal Lindholm (1875-1919) with whom she had three sons. \n"}
{"id": "58296089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58296089", "title": "Jacaranda Music", "text": "Jacaranda Music\n\nJacaranda Music is a non-profit organization founded by impresario Patrick Scott and conductor/organist Mark Alan Hilt. Jacaranda produces an annual classical music concert series, mostly of modern music and works written since 2000 as well as rare older classical music with potential interest for contemporary listeners. Jacaranda has been based in Santa Monica, California since 2003. In 2016, the series was named by \"L.A. Weekly\" as the Best Contemporary Classical Series. \n\nThroughout its 16 seasons, Jacaranda has presented the compositions of Philip Glass, John Cage, Olivier Messiaen, Gustav Mahler, Lou Harrison, Dylan Mattingly, Mark Grey, Florence Price, Lukas Foss, Julius Eastman, Frederic Rzewski, David Lang, Peter Maxwell Davies, Horatiu Radulescu, Franz Liszt and George Enescu, among many others. Musicians have included Grammy and Emmy winner Gloria Cheng, Anonymous 4, Quatuor Diotima, Scott Dunn, Kathleen Supové, Christopher Taylor, and Billy Childs.\nJacaranda's concerts have been reviewed by several publications, including the LA Times, Classical Voice North America, and BBC Music Magazine. In 2018, The \"San Francisco Classical Voice\" said of Jacaranda: \"To actually curate a concert is an art. It is one of the qualities that sets apart the Los Angeles music series Jacaranda. For more than 10 years… Jacaranda's concerts have been conceived as musical journeys of discovery….\" The \"LA Times\" has said of Jacaranda that it \"is known for imaginative programs of challenging contemporary music.\" \n\n\"Los Angeles Times\" music critic Mark Swed said of Jacaranda in 2013, \"With demanding pieces by Eötvös and the famed late Hungarian composer György Ligeti, \"Fierce Beauty\" was the most ambitious undertaking so far and by far for Jacaranda.…With this concert, Jacaranda grew up, moving beyond local to national significance.\"\n\nThe former dean of American music critics Alan Rich regularly wrote about Jacaranda, saying that they produce, \"a kind of personalized programming so that you leave each event with the sense of having visited some very smart programming.\"\n\nSince 2011, the Lyris Quartet has been its resident ensemble.\n"}
{"id": "48862631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48862631", "title": "Jean Lacoste", "text": "Jean Lacoste\n\nJean Lacoste (born 1950 in Paris) is a French-German philosopher, scholar and essayist. He is known for his research on Nietzsche, Goethe, Walter Benjamin and Ernst Cassirer. He is currently a philosophy professor at the Ecole Normale Supérieure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55977056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55977056", "title": "Lake with Dead Trees", "text": "Lake with Dead Trees\n\nLake with Dead Trees, also known as Catskill, is an oil on canvas painting completed in 1825 by Thomas Cole. Depicting a scene in the Catskill Mountains in southeastern New York State, this work is one of five of Cole's 1825 landscapes to found the mid-19th century American art movement known as the Hudson River School.\n\nTom Christopher wrote that “[Thomas] Cole’s greatest artistic asset proved to be his untutored eye.” Cole emigrated to America with his family in the spring of 1819 at the age of eighteen. As a child, his surroundings were of Lancashire, England, an area known to be an epicenter of Britain’s primarily industrial region. Because of this, Cole was granted an additional clarity of and sensitivity to the vibrancy of American landscapes awash with color, a stark contrast to the bleak and subdued landscapes of the country he left behind. \n\nWhen Cole emerged from the Catskill mountains in 1825, not only would he bring with him some of the first renderings of the Catskills in his first five landscape paintings, but in those paintings, he brought a new style of art. This style would come to be known as the Hudson River School, a style that would sweep across the United States in celebration of one of America’s most prized attributes, our natural resources and wildernesses. Curator of American Paintings and Sculpture at the Metropolitan Museum, H. Barbara Weinberg described the style as, “Antebellum encounters with barely tamed nature, lovingly recorded in meticulous botanical detail and overwhelming in scale in comparison with those who enjoy its pleasures…”.\n\nAmong those five paintings, the first of their kind, stands \"Lake with Dead Trees\". The oil on canvas painting was sold originally for twenty-five dollars in 1825. Allowing for 191 years of inflation, the sum’s equivalent would now be $537.86. While that was considered a respectable price and sale at the time, another work by Thomas Cole, \"Part of the Ruins of Kenilworth Castle\", was recently put up to be auctioned with an appraisal of the painting estimated to be $200,000 to $300,000. A style that began nearly two hundred years ago is still viable and commercially successful. Currently, the original resides at the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, as it has since its donation in 1904 by Charles F. Olney.\n\nSimply named, \"Lake with Dead Trees\" exemplifies the typical stylistic traits of the Hudson River School art movement. The viewer’s eye is drawn first to the stand of snags foremost, which is highlighted starkly by warm morning light. They are skeletal, stripped of leaves, of bark, of any branch that would not bend. They embody death and they are surrounded by life. \n\nThe trees are twisted splintering apart at the core as if by some great ravaging storm. The exposed raw wood shines sun-bleached in shades of pale yellow, white, and gray, the only darker pigments used to define shadows cast by light from the upper right side of the painting. Following vibrant trees along the lakeside, and along the bottom of the painting, there is further evidence of a great storm; downed and fallen trees lie by ample water, sunlight, and nutrient rich soil, conditions in which the surrounding trees thrive. \n\nThe 27 x 33 3/4 in. dimensions of \"Lake with Dead Trees\" make it reminiscent of a picture window offering a portal to the Catskill mountains in southeastern New York State. The painting does not present a specific moment in time, rather it exists. It seems to indicate that within the delicate balance of beauty and life, there is also a strength that will slowly rise and reclaim where ruin has set foot. \n\nAs the viewer’s gaze sweeps from the bottom left of the painting, a scene of destruction evokes emotions of loss and regret. Moving up to the right side of the painting and across the sky, sentiments shift with the change in light. From left to right, the sky clears from a ruminating storm to the respite of a clearing sky. On the left of the painting, the dead trees are prominent, as evident by their size and proximity. As the scene moves right, the dead trees become smaller; they decrease in importance, fade, and give way to living trees and new life. \n\nEach of these transitions, from left to right, are smooth, natural motions across realistic spectrums of extremes, until the viewer’s eye is caught and disrupted by the two deer crossing the painting. Captured in the pristine and graceful scene, the deer appeared overly poised, lacking the fluidity found elsewhere. In 1825, an unnamed contemporary viewer noted Cole might easily have omitted the two deer, as they “detracted from [the] foreground.” \n\nThe introduction of Thomas Cole’s works at the emergence of the Hudson River School style, gave voice to conservation, an idea that was just beginning to develop. It was at nearly the same time that \"Lake with Dead Trees\" was sold, as were the other four paintings, and Thomas Cole’s name was starting to become familiar as a noteworthy artist, that the Erie Canal officially opened across upstate New York. The opening of this major transportation system, second worldwide only to the Grand Canal in China, swept the nation up in a surge of patriotism and celebration of the innovations of this great country. In this outpouring of nationalism, Thomas Cole was wholeheartedly embraced and became championed as the \"American Adam of landscape painting.”\n\nCole is considered to be one of the pioneers of American environmentalism, for his concern for the impending destruction by “Copper-hearted barbarians … pushing a railroad up through his valley to exploit its natural resources – through mining, quarrying, and logging” and in his effort to inform the public, Thomas Cole’s labors are among those that motivated the creation of the National Park Service. Catskill Park was established in 1904 to protect thousands of acres, incredible vistas, and mountain ranges including thirty-three Catskill’s high peaks, a natural inheritance that will remain forever wild, an event that without Thomas Cole, and \"Lake with Dead Trees\", likely would not have transpired. \n"}
{"id": "1260159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1260159", "title": "Let Us All Unite and Celebrate Together", "text": "Let Us All Unite and Celebrate Together\n\n\"Let Us All Unite and Celebrate Together\" (; ; ; ; ) is the anthem of the African Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "36908754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36908754", "title": "List of music video games", "text": "List of music video games\n\nInitially items sorted alphabetically by \"Title/Name\". The table can be sorted by a different column via clicking on the small box next to column heading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15164250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164250", "title": "List of works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States", "text": "List of works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States\n\nThis page lists works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States. Categories of such works include co-editions of books and foreign releases of films. Unless otherwise noted, UK titles are also used in most other countries, with the exception that Canada generally uses US titles. Australia will sometimes utilize a third alternative title, but more often follows UK or US usage, these differences are included where known. Not listed are minor changes due to American and British English spelling differences; for example, the American film \"Rumor Has It...\" is titled \"Rumour Has It...\" in the UK, and, atypically, in Canada as well.\n\nLegend:\n"}
{"id": "6038083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6038083", "title": "Malan Breton", "text": "Malan Breton\n\nMalan Breton (born June 16, 1973) is a Taiwanese-born fashion designer, film, and music video director, columnist, costume designer, TV and Film producer, actor, and Goodwill Ambassador to Taiwan. He launched his namesake label \"Malan Breton\" in 2005, Malan Breton HOMME in 2010, and Fantôme Malan Breton in 2012.\nThe labels are associated with menswear, womenswear, accessories, underwear,and bridal.\n\nBreton was born in Taipei, Taiwan. He began designing fashion at the age of eleven but grew up, as a performer, in the entertainment industry. He never went to design school and is self-taught as a designer.\n\nIn 1996, as a model, Breton moved to New York after a request by Versus and KCD to cast for the New York fashion week Spring 1997 Collection shows at 7th on Sixth. As a model, Breton was photographed by top photographers and directors Herb Ritts, Len Prince and Hype Williams. Thom Oliphant, Joseph Kahn\n\nBreton got his start in fashion design as a stylist. Some of his clients included Kylie Minogue, Celine Dion, and Linda Evangelista. His work as a stylist introduced him to the fashion industry.\n\nHis mentors in fashion include Arnold Scaasi, also noted is his training at British heritage brand Turnbull & Asser .\n\nIn 2005, Breton was one of twelve new designers to watch for on the New York runway in WWD Women's Wear Dailies \"Cheat Sheet\".\n\nIn 2007 he opened the first Malan Breton flagship store in NYC's East Village.\n\nMalan Breton Collection expanded in 2008 to include Malan Breton Accessories.\n\nIn 2010 he expanded to include a full line of menswear - Malan Breton Homme (Men)\n\nIn 2012 Malan Breton expanded to include Fantôme Malan Breton.\n\nIn 2014 Malan Breton expanded into outerwear with his first license That same year, he was ranked at number twenty-six on IMDb's list of the one hundred most popular Tapei, Taiwan-born people in entertainment, for his work in fashion, costume, and television.\n\n\nIn 2010 Breton designed costumes for NBC's prime-time game show Minute to Win It. The show starred Guy Fieri which featured \"Game Agents\" Petra Lauren Gilmore and Ling Ai-Li Wang each week wearing Malan Breton designs.\n\nIn 2011 Malan Breton's costume designs, for the television game show Minute to Win It, were part of a packaging deal with NBC/ Universal, Nintendo Wii systems, Xbox 360, and ZOO for the video game of the same name.\n\nBreton was featured on an episode of \"E! Television Fashion Emergency\". The episode featured Breton performing in the 1998 revival of Cabaret on Broadway.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2005 Breton was the promo voice of \"ESPN Extreme Sports\".\n\nBreton in 2003 was the promo voice for \"ABC Sports\".\n\nMalan Breton first received public notice when he came in 14th in the third season of Project Runway (2006).\n\nBreton was the subject/host/co-producer of \"The Malan Show\" featured on BravoTV.com as a weekly web series. It followed the process of making it in America as an independent designer.\n\nIn 2008 Breton, and the collection was featured on an episode of \"Australia's Next Top Model \" (Cycle 4). In an episode called \"New York, New York\" The final 3 were judged in a retrospective catwalk of Breton's fashions, their finale fashion show before the top two were chosen.\n\nIn 2008 Breton, and the collection was featured on an episode of \"MTV News\". In an episode called \"'Project Runway' Alumni Stand Out At New York Fashion Week\" the episode featured the Spring Summer 2009 collection shown at Bryant Park during Mercedes Benz New York Fashion Week.\n\nIn 2009 Breton appeared on \"MTV Detox\". In an episode called \"ON 'MTV DETOX': JIM CANTIELLO WITH NO PANTS!\" \nIn 2010 Malan Breton, and Care and Share India rang the NASDAQ closing bell shown on NASDAQ TV in Times Square.\n\nIn 2011 Malan Breton Homme, and Breton were featured on an episode of MTV News. In an episode called \"It's A 'Party And Rock And Roll' Lifestyle For Jim\". On the episode the viewers chose the Malan Breton suit newscaster Jim Cantiello would wear to the VMA's\n\nIn 2015 Breton starred with Celeste Holm in the comedy \"College Debts\"\n\nIn 2016 Breton, and the collection were featured on an episode of \"The Real Housewives of New York City\" featured on Bravo. In an episode called \"Airing Your Dirty Laundry\"\n\nIn 2017 Breton appeared on an episode of Good Day New York featured on FOX Television Stations. On the episode he gave fashion commentary about the annual Met Gala.\n\nIn 2018 Breton, and the collection were featured on an episode of \"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills\" featured on Bravo. In an episode called \"Thank you, Thuck you\".\n\n\nSome of the TV shows Malan Breton has designed specialty costumes for.\n\n\nSome of the people who have worn Malan Breton outfits include:\n\n\n\n\nIn 2017 Malan Breton (the Brand) partenered with Tokenly, and Sohomuse to \"Launch The First Blockchain-powered Digital Experience For The Fashion Industry\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7122585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7122585", "title": "Miami Design District", "text": "Miami Design District\n\nThe Miami Design District, historically a part of Buena Vista, is a neighborhood within the city of Miami, Florida, United States, south of Lemon City (Little Haiti). It is roughly bound by North 36 St (US 27) to the south, North 43rd Street to the north, West First Avenue to the west and Biscayne Boulevard to the east.\n\nThe Design District was made up primarily of old low-rise warehouses that have been converted into retail spaces, art galleries, restaurants and cafés, but now includes a large amount of new construction, primarily for high-end retail. The Design District is in the crossroads of many prominent Miami neighborhoods, with the artsy Wynwood neighborhood to the south, Lemon City (Little Haiti) and the historic 1920s Buena Vista neighborhood to the north, and the wealthy Upper East Side neighborhoods to the east. After decades of falling to urban decay, the Design District has risen to fame as a destination for the arts, design, and fashion.\n\nIt is home to over 130 art galleries, showrooms, creative services, architecture firms, luxury fashion stores, antiques dealers, eateries and bars.\n\nHigh-end brands like Louis Vuitton, Dior, Prada, Saint Laurent and Hermes are located in the Design District as well as restaurants from award-winning chefs like Michael Schwartz and celebrities like Gloria and Emilio Estefan; a public art collection with works from Buckminster Fuller, Marc Newsom and Urs Fischer as well as museums and galleries like the Institute for Contemporary Art, Miami, The de la Cruz Collection of Contemporary Art and Locust Projects.\n\nThe area of land that is now the Design District was once a pineapple farm in a neighborhood referred to as Buena Vista. Farm owner, T.V. Moore, built the historic Moore Building in the 1920’s for his family furniture business. The Moore Furniture Building was one of the first stores in the U.S. dedicated strictly to furniture. \n\nToday the area today known as the Design District. Signs and names with the name Buena Vista can still be seen throughout the area such as the Buena Vista Post Office, and Buena Vista School.\n\nBy the 1980s and early-1990s, the Design District had fallen to urban decay, and it wasn't until the late 1990s, and early 2000s, that art and design stores began opening up in the Design District. Throughout the 2000s, the Design District continued to grow in popularity, and with heavy public and private investment in the neighborhood, the streets and sidewalks were redone, and new trees were planted.\n\nCredited to starting the district is Craig Robins, who purchased many run-down buildings in the 18 square block area and persuaded many top designers, such as Alison Spear, Holly Hunt and Peter Page to relocate.\n\nOn 1 August 2016, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a travel warning, advising pregnant women not to visit the Design District, Wynwood, and Midtown Miami areas to avoid getting the Zika virus. Governor Rick Scott lifted the area’s “Zika Zone” designation on September 19, 2016.\n\nThe District is home to many flagship luxury stores including Hermès, Tom Ford, Louis Vuitton, Christian Louboutin, Prada, Celine and more. Currently, there are over 70 stores open in the District, with another 60 set to open by mid-2017.\n\nIn 2009, the first luxury retailer opened in the Design District, Christian Louboutin, marking a new era for the Design District. Later that year, Yohji Yamamoto opened in the Design District. In 2011, Louis Vuitton announced plans to open a Louis Vuitton store in the neighborhood by 2014 after announcing its closure of its Bal Harbour Shops store (the first Louis Vuitton store to open outside of New York City), along with opening other brands from the LVMH company in the Design District, including stores such as Sephora, Marc Jacobs, Givenchy, and Fendi.\n\nIn October 2011, Hermes, Cartier and Dior announced plans to move their stores from Bal Harbour Shops to the Design District in late 2011 and 2012. Design Within Reach opened an 11,000-square foot design store in the district on Feb 1st, 2013.\nThe three-story, 13,000-square-foot Hermès store opened in November 2015 and is only the third U.S. flagship after Madison Avenue in New York City and Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, CA.\n\nBy the end of 2017, Dacra will have 120 stores open on its own property, and other property owners will have another 40. Stores to open include, Be Miami, Aesop, Citco, Creed, Dior, Dolce & Gabbana, Faubourg Galerie & Café, Isabel Marant, Joseph, Loro Piana, Rag & Bone, Tod’s, Tory Burch, Van Cleef & Arpels, Saint Laurent, Sevan Biçakçi and Zilli.\n\nThe Design District offers a variety of dining options, including James Beard Award-winning chef/owner Michael Schwartz's Michael's Genuine and the Cypress Tavern. Future 2016 offerings will include ABC Kitchen from chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten, and four restaurants from decorated Michelin Guidestar chef Joël Robuchon. All four restaurants, L'Atelier, Le Bar, La Boutique and La Terrace will open in what will be called Paradise Plaza, on the north end of the Design District, part of the area's Phase Three build out.\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary Art, Miami (ICA Miami), promotes the work of contemporary artists, and the exchange of art and ideas throughout the Miami region and internationally. Through exhibitions, programs, and collections, ICA showcases the work of established and emerging artists, and aims to advance the public appreciation and understanding of innovative and experimental art.\n\n, the population of the Miami Design District had 1,116 people. The zip codes for the Miami Design District include 33127 and 33137. The area covers . , there were 522 males and 594 females. The median age for males were 26.2 years old, while the median age for females were 25.4 years old. The average household size had 3.1 people, while the average family size had 3.6 members. The percentage of married-couple families (among all households) was 32.9%, while the percentage of married-couple families with children (among all households) was 17.5%, and the percentage of single-mother households (among all households) was 20.7%. 5.8% of population in other group homes. The percentage of never-married males 15 years old and over was 19.2%, while the percentage of never-married females 15 years old and over was 19.5%.\n\n, the percentage of people that speak English not well or not at all made up 20.2% of the population. The percentage of residents born in Florida was 41.6%, the percentage of people born in another U.S. state was 12.1%, and the percentage of native residents but born outside the U.S. was 7.3%, while the percentage of foreign born residents was 39.0%.\n\nThe Design District is served by Metrobus throughout the area, the City of Miami Trolley Biscayne-Brickell route and by the Miami Metrorail in adjoining Allapattah less than a mile due west at:\n\n\nMiami-Dade County Public Schools operates area public schools:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25024009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25024009", "title": "Myojakdo", "text": "Myojakdo\n\nMyojakdo (literally, \"Painting of Cats and Sparrows\") is a Korean painting depicting two cats and sparrows on an old tree, drawn by Byeon Sang-byeok during the late period of the Korean Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910). It is regarded as a representative animal painting (\"yeongmohwa\") and is painted on silk with light coloring over the ink and wash painting (\"sumukhwa\"). The Myojakdo is 93.7 cm in height and 42.9 cm in width. It forms part of the collection of the National Museum of Korea in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nByeon Sang-byeok is renowned for his skillful depictions of cats and chickens, so he was referred to as the nicknames, \"Byeon goyangi\" (literally Byeon cat), and \"Byeon dak\" (Byeon rooster) during his lifetime. The \"myojakdo\" backs up the record in which Byeon favored cats and devoted to cat paintings.\n\nCats and sparrows were often subjects for Korean paintings drawn to celebrate the joy of longevity because of their similar pronunciations with other words that have auspicious meanings. The pronunciation of \"myo\" (; cat) and \"jak\" (, sparrow) in hanja word, or Sino-Korean words are respectively linked with \"mo\" (; old person) which refers to 80 or 90 years old, and \"jak\" () which indicates magpie having been regarded as an auspicious bird in Korean society. \n\nIn this painting, cats and sparrows are depicted realistically in a simple and dynamic composition. The depiction of a group of chirping sparrows on twigs are illustrated precisely with very detailed brushstrokes. Byeon's mastered drawing techniques are also noted with the lively facial expressions and moves of the two cats. One cat clinging to the side of an old tree exchanges glances with the other on the ground in the diagonal composition as if they communicated with each other. On the other hand, the body of the old tree is drawn with rather wild brushstrokes, which represents the meager texture and the distorted shape having formed for a long time. The stark contrast between the way the animals and trees are applied gives a strong feeling of movement to the picture.\n\n"}
{"id": "2503009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503009", "title": "Parallel projection", "text": "Parallel projection\n\nA parallel projection is a projection of an object in three-dimensional space onto a fixed plane, known as the \"projection plane\" or \"image plane\", where the \"rays\", known as \"lines of sight\" or \"projection lines\", are parallel to each other. It is a basic tool in descriptive geometry. The projection is called \"orthographic\" if the rays are perpendicular (orthogonal) to the image plane, and \"oblique\" or \"skew\" if they are not.\n\nA parallel projection is a particular case of \"projection\" in mathematics and \"graphical projection\" in technical drawing. Parallel projections can be seen as the limit of a central or perspective projection, in which the rays pass through a fixed point called the \"center\" or \"viewpoint\", as this point is moved towards infinity. Put differently, a parallel projection corresponds to a perspective projection with an infinite focal length (the distance between the lens and the focal point in photography) or \"zoom\". In parallel projections, lines that are parallel in three-dimensional space remain parallel in the two-dimensional projected image.\n\nA perspective projection of an object is often considered more realistic than a parallel projection, since it more closely resembles human vision and photography. However, parallel projections are popular in technical applications, since the parallelism of an object's lines and faces is preserved, and direct measurements can be taken from the image. Among parallel projections, orthographic projections are the most realistic, and are commonly used by engineers. On the other hand, certain types of oblique projections (for example cavalier projection, military projection) are very simple to implement, and are used to create quick and informal pictorials of objects.\n\nThe term \"parallel projection\" is used in the literature to describe both the \"procedure itself\" (a mathematical mapping function) as well as the resulting image \"produced by the procedure\".\n\nEvery parallel projection has the following properties.\n\nOrthographic projection is derived from the principles of descriptive geometry, and is a type of parallel projection where the projection rays are perpendicular to the projection plane. It is the projection type of choice for working drawings.\n\nThe term \"orthographic\" is sometimes reserved specifically for depictions of objects where the principal axes or planes of the object are parallel with the projection plane (or the paper on which the orthographic or parallel projection is drawn). However, the term multiview projection is also used. In \"multiview projections\", up to six pictures of an object are produced, with each projection plane perpendicular to one of the coordinate axes. Sub-types of multiview orthographic projections include \"plans\", \"elevations\" and \"sections\".\n\nWhen the principal planes or axes of an object are \"not\" parallel with the projection plane, but are rather tilted to some degree to reveal multiple sides of the object, it is called an axonometric projection. \"Axonometric projection\" (not to be confused with the closely related \"principle of axonometry\", as described in Pohlke's theorem) is further subdivided into three groups: \"isometric\", \"dimetric\" and \"trimetric projection\", depending on the exact angle at which the view deviates from the orthogonal. A typical characteristic of axonometric pictorials is that one axis of space is usually displayed as vertical.\n\nIn an oblique projection, the parallel projection rays are not perpendicular to the viewing plane, but strike the projection plane at an angle other than ninety degrees. In both orthographic and oblique projection, parallel lines in space appear parallel on the projected image. Because of its simplicity, oblique projection is used exclusively for pictorial purposes rather than for formal, working drawings. In an oblique pictorial drawing, the displayed angles among the axes as well as the foreshortening factors (scale) are arbitrary. The distortion created thereby is usually attenuated by aligning one plane of the imaged object to be parallel with the plane of projection thereby creating a true shape, full-size image of the chosen plane. Special types of oblique projections include \"military\", \"cavalier\" and \"cabinet projection\".\n\nIf the image plane is given by equation formula_7 and the direction of projection by formula_1, then the projection line through the point formula_9 is parametrized by\nThe image formula_12 of formula_13 is the intersection of line formula_14 with plane formula_15; it is given by the equation\n\nIn several cases, these formulas can be simplified.\n\n(S1) If one can choose the vectors formula_17 and formula_18 such that formula_19, the formula for the image simplifies to\n(S2) In an orthographic projection, the vectors formula_17 and formula_18 are parallel. In this case, one can choose formula_23 and one gets \n(S3) If one can choose the vectors formula_17 and formula_18 such that formula_19, and if the image plane contains the origin, one has formula_28 and the parallel projection is a linear mapping:\n\nFrom this analytic representation of a parallel projection one can deduce most of the properties stated in the previous sections.\n\n"}
{"id": "23529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23529", "title": "Proverb", "text": "Proverb\n\nA proverb (from ) is a simple, concrete, traditional saying that expresses a truth based on common sense or experience. Proverbs are often metaphorical and use formulaic language. Collectively, they form a genre of folklore.\n\nSome proverbs exist in more than one language because people borrow them from languages and cultures similar to theirs. In the West, the Bible (including, but not limited to the Book of Proverbs) and medieval Latin (aided by the work of Erasmus) have played a considerable role in distributing proverbs. Not all Biblical proverbs, however, were distributed to the same extent: one scholar has gathered evidence to show that cultures in which the Bible is the \"major spiritual book contain between three hundred and five hundred proverbs that stem from the Bible,\" whereas another shows that, of the 106 most common and widespread proverbs across Europe, eleven are from the Bible. However, almost every culture has its own unique proverbs.\n\nWhat is a proverb? Lord John Russell (c. 1850) observed poetically that a \"proverb is the wit of one, and the wisdom of many.\" But giving the word \"proverb\" the sort of definition theorists need has proven to be a difficult task, and although scholars often quote Archer Taylor's argument that formulating a scientific \"definition of a proverb is too difficult to repay the undertaking... An incommunicable quality tells us this sentence is proverbial and that one is not. Hence no definition will enable us to identify positively a sentence as proverbial,\" many students of proverbs have attempted to itemize its essential characteristics. \n\nMore constructively, Mieder has proposed the following definition, \"A proverb is a short, generally known sentence of the folk which contains wisdom, truth, morals, and traditional views in a metaphorical, fixed, and memorizable form and which is handed down from generation to generation\". Norrick created a table of distinctive features to distinguish proverbs from idioms, cliches, etc. Prahlad distinguishes proverbs from some other, closely related types of sayings, \"True proverbs must further be distinguished from other types of proverbial speech, e.g. proverbial phrases, Wellerisms, maxims, quotations, and proverbial comparisons.\" Based on Persian proverbs, Zolfaghari and Ameri propose the following definition: \"A proverb is a short sentence, which is well-known and at times rhythmic, including advice, sage themes and ethnic experiences, comprising simile, metaphor or irony which is well-known among people for its fluent wording, clarity of expression, simplicity, expansiveness and generality and is used either with or without change\".\n\nThere are many sayings in English that are commonly referred to as \"proverbs\", such as weather sayings. Alan Dundes, however, rejects including such sayings among truly proverbs: \"Are weather proverbs proverbs? I would say emphatically 'No!'\" The definition of \"proverb\" has also changed over the years. For example, the following was labeled \"A Yorkshire proverb\" in 1883, but would not be categorized as a proverb by most today, \"as throng as Throp's wife when she hanged herself with a dish-cloth\". The changing of the definition of \"proverb\" is also noted in Turkish.\n\nIn other languages and cultures, the definition of \"proverb\" also differs from English. In the Chumburung language of Ghana, \"\"aŋase\" are literal proverbs and \"akpare\" are metaphoric ones\". Among the Bini of Nigeria, there are three words that are used to translate \"proverb\": \"ere, ivbe\", and \"itan\". The first relates to historical events, the second relates to current events, and the third was \"linguistic ornamentation in formal discourse\". Among the Balochi of Pakistan and Afghanistan, there is a word \"batal\" for ordinary proverbs and \"bassīttuks\" for \"proverbs with background stories\".\n\nThere are also language communities that combine proverbs and riddles in some sayings, leading some scholars to create the label \"proverb riddles\".\n\n\nProverbs come from a variety of sources. Some are, indeed, the result of people pondering and crafting language, such as some by Confucius, Plato, Baltasar Gracián, etc. Others are taken from such diverse sources as poetry, stories, songs, commercials, advertisements, movies, literature, etc. A number of the well known sayings of Jesus, Shakespeare, and others have become proverbs, though they were original at the time of their creation, and many of these sayings were not seen as proverbs when they were first coined. Many proverbs are also based on stories, often the end of a story. For example, the proverb \"Who will bell the cat?\" is from the end of a story about the mice planning how to be safe from the cat.\n\nSome authors have created proverbs in their writings, such a J.R.R. Tolkien, and some of these proverbs have made their way into broader society, such as the bumper sticker pictured below. Similarly, C.S. Lewis' created proverb about a lobster in a pot, from the \"Chronicles of Narnia\", has also gained currency. In cases like this, deliberately created proverbs for fictional societies have become proverbs in real societies. In a fictional story set in a real society, the movie \"Forrest Gump\" introduced \"Life is like a box of chocolates\" into broad society. In at least one case, at appears that a proverb deliberately created by one writer has been naively picked up and used by another who assumed it to be an established Chinese proverb, Ford Madox Ford having picked up a proverb from Ernest Bramah, \"It would be hypocrisy to seek for the person of the Sacred Emperor in a Low Tea House.\"\n\nThe proverb with \"a longer history than any other recorded proverb in the world\", going back to \"around 1800 BC\" is in a Sumerian clay tablet, \"The bitch by her acting too hastily brought forth the blind\". Though many proverbs are ancient, they were all newly created at some point by somebody. Sometimes it is easy to detect that a proverb is newly coined by a reference to something recent, such as the Haitian proverb \"The fish that is being microwaved doesn't fear the lightning\". Similarly, there is a recent Maltese proverb, \"wil-muturi, ferh u duluri\" \"Women and motorcycles are joys and griefs\"; the proverb is clearly new, but still formed as a traditional style couplet with rhyme. Also, there is a proverb in the Kafa language of Ethiopia that refers to the forced military conscription of the 1980s, \"...the one who hid himself lived to have children.\" A Mongolian proverb also shows evidence of recent origin, \"A beggar who sits on gold; Foam rubber piled on edge.\" A political candidate in Kenya popularised a new proverb in his 1995 campaign, \"Chuth ber\" \"Immediacy is best\". \"The proverb has since been used in other contexts to prompt quick action.\" Over 1,400 new English proverbs are said to have been coined and gained currency in the 20th century. This process of creating proverbs is always ongoing, so that possible new proverbs are being created constantly. Those sayings that are adopted and used by an adequate number of people become proverbs in that society.\n\nInterpreting proverbs is often complex, but is best done in a context. Interpreting proverbs from other cultures is much more difficult than interpreting proverbs in one's own culture. Even within English-speaking cultures, there is difference of opinion on how to interpret the proverb \"A rolling stone gathers no moss.\" Some see it as condemning a person that keeps moving, seeing moss as a positive thing, such as profit; others see the proverb as praising people that keep moving and developing, seeing moss as a negative thing, such as negative habits.\n\nSimilarly, among Tajik speakers, the proverb \"One hand cannot clap\" has two significantly different interpretations. Most see the proverb as promoting teamwork. Others understand it to mean that an argument requires two people. In an extreme example, one researcher working in Ghana found that for a single Akan proverb, twelve different interpretations were given. Children will sometimes interpret proverbs in a literal sense, not yet knowing how to understand the conventionalized metaphor. Interpretation of proverbs is also affected by injuries and diseases of the brain, \"A hallmark of schizophrenia is impaired proverb interpretation.\"\n\nProverbs in various languages are found with a wide variety of grammatical structures. In English, for example, we find the following structures (in addition to others):\n\nHowever, people will often quote only a fraction of a proverb to invoke an entire proverb, e.g. \"All is fair\" instead of \"All is fair in love and war\", and \"A rolling stone\" for \"A rolling stone gathers no moss.\"\n\nThe grammar of proverbs is not always the typical grammar of the spoken language, often elements are moved around, to achieve rhyme or focus.\n\nAnother type of grammatical structure in proverbs is a short dialogue:\n\nBecause many proverbs are both poetic and traditional, they are often passed down in fixed forms. Though spoken language may change, many proverbs are often preserved in conservative, even archaic, form. In English, for example, \"betwixt\" is not used by many, but a form of it is still heard (or read) in the proverb \"There is many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip.\" The conservative form preserves the meter and the rhyme. This conservative nature of proverbs can result in archaic words and grammatical structures being preserved in individual proverbs, as has been documented in Amharic, Greek, Nsenga, and Polish.\n\nIn addition, proverbs may still be used in languages which were once more widely known in a society, but are now no longer so widely known. For example, English speakers use some non-English proverbs that are drawn from languages that used to be widely understood by the educated class, e.g. \"C'est la vie\" from French and \"Carpe diem\" from Latin. \n\nProverbs are often handed down through generations. Therefore, \"many proverbs refer to old measurements, obscure professions, outdated weapons, unknown plants, animals, names, and various other traditional matters.\"\nTherefore, it is common that they preserve words that become less common and archaic in broader society. Proverbs in solid form -- such as murals, carvings, and glass -- can be viewed even after the language of their form is no longer widely understood, such as an Anglo-French proverb in a stained glass window in York.\n\nProverbs are often and easily translated and transferred from one language into another. \"There is nothing so uncertain as the derivation of proverbs, the same proverb being often found in all nations, and it is impossible to assign its paternity.\"\n\nProverbs are often borrowed across lines of language, religion, and even time. For example, a proverb of the approximate form \"No flies enter a mouth that is shut\" is currently found in Spain, France, Ethiopia, and many countries in between. It is embraced as a true local proverb in many places and should not be excluded in any collection of proverbs because it is shared by the neighbors. However, though it has gone through multiple languages and millennia, the proverb can be traced back to an ancient Babylonian proverb (Pritchard 1958:146). Another example of a widely spread proverb is \"A drowning person clutches at [frogs] foam\", found in Peshai of Afghanistan and Orma of Kenya, and presumably places in between.\n\nProverbs about one hand clapping are common across Asia, from Dari in Afghanistan to Japan. Some studies have been done devoted to the spread of proverbs in certain regions, such as India and her neighbors and Europe. An extreme example of the borrowing and spread of proverbs was the work done to create a corpus of proverbs for Esperanto, where all the proverbs were translated from other languages.\n\nIt is often not possible to trace the direction of borrowing a proverb between languages. This is complicated by the fact that the borrowing may have been through plural languages. In some cases, it is possible to make a strong case for discerning the direction of the borrowing based on an artistic form of the proverb in one language, but a prosaic form in another language. For example, in Ethiopia there is a proverb \"Of mothers and water, there is none evil.\" It is found in Amharic, Alaaba language, and Oromo, three languages of Ethiopia:\nThe Oromo version uses poetic features, such as the initial \"ha\" in both clauses with the final \"-aa\" in the same word, and both clauses ending with \"-an\". Also, both clauses are built with the vowel \"a\" in the first and last words, but the vowel \"i\" in the one syllable central word. In contrast, the Amharic and Alaaba versions of the proverb show little evidence of sound-based art.\n\nHowever, not all languages have proverbs. Proverbs are (nearly) universal across Europe, Asia, and Africa. Some languages in the Pacific have them, such as Maori. Other Pacific languages do not, e.g. \"there are no proverbs in Kilivila\" of the Trobriand Islands. However, in the New World, there are almost no proverbs: \"While proverbs abound in the thousands in most cultures of the world, it remains a riddle why the Native Americans have hardly any proverb tradition at all.\" Hakamies has examined the matter of whether proverbs are found universally, a universal genre, concluding that they are not. \n\nProverbs are used in conversation by adults more than children, partially because adults have learned more proverbs than children. Also, using proverbs well is a skill that is developed over years. Additionally, children have not mastered the patterns of metaphorical expression that are invoked in proverb use. Proverbs, because they are indirect, allow a speaker to disagree or give advice in a way that may be less offensive. Studying actual proverb use in conversation, however, is difficult since the researcher must wait for proverbs to happen. An Ethiopian researcher, Tadesse Jaleta Jirata, made headway in such research by attending and taking notes at events where he knew proverbs were expected to be part of the conversations.\n\nMany authors have used proverbs in their writings, for a very wide variety of literary genres: epics, novels, poems, short stories.\n\nProbably the most famous user of proverbs in novels is J. R. R. Tolkien in his \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\" series. Herman Melville is noted for creating proverbs in Moby Dick and in his poetry. Also, C. S. Lewis created a dozen proverbs in \"The Horse and His Boy\", and Mercedes Lackey created dozens for her invented Shin'a'in and Tale'edras cultures; Lackey's proverbs are notable in that they are reminiscent to those of Ancient Asia - e.g. \"Just because you feel certain an enemy is lurking behind every bush, it doesn't follow that you are wrong\" is like to \"Before telling secrets on the road, look in the bushes.\" These authors are notable for not only using proverbs as integral to the development of the characters and the story line, but also for creating proverbs.\n\nAmong medieval literary texts, Geoffrey Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde plays a special role because Chaucer's usage seems to challenge the truth value of proverbs by exposing their epistemological unreliability. Rabelais used proverbs to write an entire chapter of Gargantua.\n\nThe patterns of using proverbs in literature can change over time. A study of \"classical Chinese novels\" found proverb use as frequently as one proverb every 3,500 words in \"Water Margin\" (\"Sui-hu chuan\") and one proverb every 4,000 words in \"Wen Jou-hsiang\". But modern Chinese novels have fewer proverbs by far.\nProverbs (or portions of them) have been the inspiration for titles of books: \"The Bigger they Come\" by Erle Stanley Gardner, and \"Birds of a Feather\" (several books with this title), \"Devil in the Details\" (multiple books with this title). Sometimes a title alludes to a proverb, but does not actually quote much of it, such as \"The Gift Horse's Mouth\" by Robert Campbell. Some books or stories have titles that are twisted proverbs, anti-proverbs, such as \"No use dying over spilled milk\", \"When life gives you lululemons,\" and two books titled \"Blessed are the Cheesemakers\". The twisted proveb of last title was also used in the Monty Python movie Life of Brian, where a person mishears one of Jesus Christ's beatitudes, \"I think it was 'Blessed are the cheesemakers.'\"\n\nSome books and stories are built around a proverb. Some of Tolkien's books have been analyzed as having \"governing proverbs\" where \"the acton of a book turns on or fulfills a proverbial saying.\" Some stories have been written with a proverb overtly as an opening, such as \"A stitch in time saves nine\" at the beginning of \"Kitty's Class Day\", one of Louisa May Alcott's \"Proverb Stories\". Other times, a proverb appears at the end of a story, summing up a moral to the story, frequently found in Aesop's Fables, such as \"Heaven helps those who help themselves\" from \"Hercules and the Wagoner\".\n\nProverbs have also been used strategically by poets. Sometimes proverbs (or portions of them or anti-proverbs) are used for titles, such as \"A bird in the bush\" by Lord Kennet and his stepson Peter Scott and \"The blind leading the blind\" by Lisa Mueller. Sometimes, multiple proverbs are important parts of poems, such as Paul Muldoon's \"Symposium\", which begins \"You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it hold its nose to the grindstone and hunt with the hounds. Every dog has a stitch in time...\" The Turkish poet Refiki wrote an entire poem by stringing proverbs together, which has been translated into English poetically yielding such verses as \"Be watchful and be wary, / But seldom grant a boon; / The man who calls the piper / Will also call the tune.\"\n\nBecause proverbs are familiar and often pointed, they have been used by a number of hip-hop poets. This has been true not only in the USA, birthplace of hip-hop, but also in Nigeria. Since Nigeria is so multilingual, hip-hop poets there use proverbs from various languages, mixing them in as it fits their need, sometimes translating the original. For example,\n\"They forget say ogbon ju agbaralo\nThey forget that wisdom is greater than power\"\n\nSome authors have bent and twisted proverbs, creating anti-proverbs, for a variety of literary effects. For example, in the Harry Potter novels, J. K. Rowling reshapes a standard English proverb into \"It's no good crying over spilt potion\" and Dumbledore\nadvises Harry not to \"count your owls before they are delivered\". In a slightly different use of reshaping proverbs, in the Aubrey–Maturin series of historical naval novels by Patrick O'Brian, Capt. Jack Aubrey humorously mangles and mis-splices proverbs, such as \"Never count the bear's skin before it is hatched\" and \"There's a good deal to be said for making hay while the iron is hot.\" Earlier than O'Brian's Aubrey, Beatrice Grimshaw also used repeated splicings of proverbs in the mouth of an eccentric marquis to create a memorable character in \"The Sorcerer's Stone\", such as \"The proof of the pudding sweeps clean\" (p. 109) and \"A stitch in time is as good as a mile\" (p. 97).\n\nBecause proverbs are so much a part of the language and culture, authors have sometimes used proverbs in historical fiction effectively, but anachronistically, before the proverb was actually known. For example, the novel \"Ramage and the Rebels\", by Dudley Pope is set in approximately 1800. Captain Ramage reminds his adversary \"You are supposed to know that it is dangerous to change horses in midstream\" (p. 259), with another allusion to the same proverb three pages later. However, the proverb about changing horses in midstream is reliably dated to 1864, so the proverb could not have been known or used by a character from that period.\n\nSome authors have used so many proverbs that there have been entire books written cataloging their proverb usage, such as Charles Dickens, Agatha Christie, George Bernard Shaw, Cervantes, and Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nOn the non-fiction side, proverbs have also been used by authors for articles that have no connection to the study of proverbs. Some have been used as the basis for book titles, e.g. \"I Shop, Therefore I Am: Compulsive Buying and the Search for Self\" by April Lane Benson. Some proverbs been used as the basis for article titles, though often in altered form: \"All our eggs in a broken basket: How the Human Terrain System is undermining sustainable military cultural competence\" and \"Should Rolling Stones Worry About Gathering Moss?\", \"Between a Rock and a Soft Place\". Proverbs have been noted as common in subtitles of articles such as \"Discontinued intergenerational transmission of Czech in Texas: 'Hindsight is better than foresight'.\" Also, the reverse is found with a proverb (complete or partial) as the title, then an explanatory subtitle, \"To Change or Not to Change Horses: The World War II Elections\". Many authors have cited proverbs as epigrams at the beginning of their articles, e.g. \"'If you want to dismantle a hedge, remove one thorn at a time' Somali proverb\" in an article on peacemaking in Somalia. An article about research among the Māori used a Māori proverb as a title, then began the article with the Māori form of the proverb as an epigram \"Set the overgrown bush alight and the new flax shoots will spring up\", followed by three paragraphs about how the proverb served as a metaphor for the research and the present context. A British proverb has even been used as the title for a doctoral dissertation: \"Where there is muck there is brass\".\n\nSimilarly to other forms of literature, proverbs have also been used as important units of language in drama and films. This is true from the days of classical Greek works to old French to Shakespeare, to 19th Century Spanish, to today. The use of proverbs in drama and film today is still found in languages around the world, such as Yorùbá.\n\nA film that makes rich use of proverbs is \"Forrest Gump\", known for both using and creating proverbs. Other studies of the use of proverbs in film include work by Kevin McKenna on the Russian film \"Aleksandr Nevsky\", Haase's study of an adaptation of Little Red Riding Hood, Elias Dominguez Barajas on the film \"Viva Zapata!\", and Aboneh Ashagrie on \"The Athlete\" (a movie in Amharic about Abebe Bikila).\n\nIn the case of \"Forrest Gump\", the screenplay by Eric Roth had more proverbs than the novel by Winston Groom, but for \"The Harder They Come\", the reverse is true, where the novel derived from the movie by Michael Thelwell has many more proverbs than the movie.\n\nÉric Rohmer, the French film director, directed a series of films, the \"Comedies and Proverbs\", where each film was based on a proverb: \"The Aviator's Wife\", \"The Perfect Marriage\", \"Pauline at the Beach\", \"Full Moon in Paris\" (the film's proverb was invented by Rohmer himself: \"The one who has two wives loses his soul, the one who has two houses loses his mind.\"), \"The Green Ray\", \"Boyfriends and Girlfriends\".\n\nMovie titles based on proverbs include \"Murder Will Out (1939 film)\", \"Try, Try Again\", and \"The Harder They Fall\". A twisted anti-proverb was the title for a Three Stooges film, \"A Bird in the Head\". The title of an award-winning Turkish film, Three Monkeys, also invokes a proverb, though the title does not fully quote it.\n\nThey have also been used as the titles of plays: \"Baby with the Bathwater\" by Christopher Durang, \"Dog Eat Dog\" by Mary Gallagher, and \"The Dog in the Manger\" by Charles Hale Hoyt. The use of proverbs as titles for plays is not, of course, limited to English plays: \"Il faut qu'une porte soit ouverte ou fermée\" (A door must be open or closed) by Paul de Musset. Proverbs have also been used in musical dramas, such as \"The Full Monty\", which has been shown to use proverbs in clever ways. In \"Beauty and the Beast\", Gaston plays with three proverbs in sequence, \"All roads lead to.../The best things in life are.../All's well that ends with me.\"\n\nProverbs are often poetic in and of themselves, making them ideally suited for adapting into songs. Proverbs have been used in music from opera to country to hip-hop. Proverbs have also been used in music in other languages, such as the Akan language the Igede language, and Spanish. \n\nIn English the proverb (or rather the beginning of the proverb), If the shoe fits has been used as a title for three albums and five songs. Other English examples of using proverbs in music include Elvis Presley's \"Easy come, easy go\", Harold Robe's \"Never swap horses when you're crossing a stream\", Arthur Gillespie's \"Absence makes the heart grow fonder\", Bob Dylan's \"Like a rolling stone\", Cher's \"Apples don't fall far from the tree\". Lynn Anderson made famous a song full of proverbs, \"I never promised you a rose garden\" (written by Joe South). In choral music, we find Michael Torke's \"Proverbs\" for female voice and ensemble. A number of Blues musicians have also used proverbs extensively. The frequent use of proverbs in Country music has led to published studies of proverbs in this genre. The Reggae artist Jahdan Blakkamoore has recorded a piece titled \"Proverbs Remix\". The opera \"Maldobrìe\" contains careful use of proverbs. An extreme example of many proverbs used in composing songs is a song consisting almost entirely of proverbs performed by Bruce Springsteen, \"My best was never good enough\". The Mighty Diamonds recorded a song called simply \"Proverbs\".\n\nThe band Fleet Foxes used the proverb painting Netherlandish Proverbs for the cover of their eponymous album Fleet Foxes.\n\nIn addition to proverbs being used in songs themselves, some rock bands have used parts of proverbs as their names, such as the Rolling Stones, Bad Company, The Mothers of Invention, Feast or Famine, Of Mice and Men. There have been at least two groups that called themselves \"The Proverbs\", and there is a hip-hop performer in South Africa known as \"Proverb\". In addition, many albums have been named with allusions to proverbs, such as \"Spilt milk\" (a title used by Jellyfish and also Kristina Train), \"The more things change\" by Machine Head, \"Silk purse\" by Linda Ronstadt, \"Another day, another dollar\" by DJ Scream Roccett, \"The blind leading the naked\" by Violent Femmes, \"What's good for the goose is good for the gander\" by Bobby Rush, \"Resistance is Futile\" by Steve Coleman, \"Murder will out\" by Fan the Fury. The proverb \"Feast or famine\" has been used as an album title by Chuck Ragan, Reef the Lost Cauze, Indiginus, and DaVinci. Whitehorse mixed two proverbs for the name of their album \"Leave no bridge unburned\". The band Splinter Group released an album titled \"When in Rome, Eat Lions\". The band Downcount used a proverb for the name of their tour, \"Come and take it\".\n\nFrom ancient times, people around the world have recorded proverbs in visual form. This has been done in two ways. First, proverbs have been \"written\" to be displayed, often in a decorative manner, such as on pottery, cross-stitch, murals, kangas (East African women's wraps), quilts, a stained glass window, and graffiti.\n\nSecondly, proverbs have often been visually depicted in a variety of media, including paintings, etchings, and sculpture. Jakob Jordaens painted a plaque with a proverb about drunkenness above a drunk man wearing a crown, titled \"The King Drinks\". Probably the most famous examples of depicting proverbs are the different versions of the paintings \"Netherlandish Proverbs\" by the father and son Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Pieter Brueghel the Younger, the proverbial meanings of these paintings being the subject of a 2004 conference, which led to a published volume of studies (Mieder 2004a). The same father and son also painted versions of The Blind Leading the Blind, a Biblical proverb. These and similar paintings inspired another famous painting depicting some proverbs and also idioms (leading to a series of additional paintings), such as \"Proverbidioms\" by T. E. Breitenbach. Another painting inspired by Bruegel's work is by the Chinese artist, Ah To, who created a painting illustrating 81 Cantonese sayings. Corey Barksdale has produced a book of paintings with specific proverbs and pithy quotations. The British artist Chris Gollon has painted a major work entitled \"Big Fish Eat Little Fish\", a title echoing Bruegel's painting Big Fishes Eat Little Fishes.\n\nSometimes well-known proverbs are pictured on objects, without a text actually quoting the proverb, such as the three wise monkeys who remind us \"Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil\". When the proverb is well known, viewers are able to recognize the proverb and understand the image appropriately, but if viewers do not recognize the proverb, much of the effect of the image is lost. For example, there is a Japanese painting in the Bonsai museum in Saitama city that depicted flowers on a dead tree, but only when the curator learned the ancient (and no longer current) proverb \"Flowers on a dead tree\" did the curator understand the deeper meaning of the painting.\n\nA study of school students found that students remembered proverbs better when there were visual representations of proverbs along with the verbal form of the proverbs.\n\nA bibliography on proverbs in visual form has been prepared by Mieder and Sobieski (1999). Interpreting visual images of proverbs is subjective, but familiarity with the depicted proverb helps.\n\nSome artists have used proverbs and anti-proverbs for titles of their paintings, alluding to a proverb rather than picturing it. For example, Vivienne LeWitt painted a piece titled \"If the shoe doesn't fit, must we change the foot?\", which shows neither foot nor shoe, but a woman counting her money as she contemplates different options when buying vegetables.\n\nIn 2018, 13 sculptures depicting Maltese proverbs were installed in open spaces of downtown Valletta.\n\nCartoonists, both editorial and pure humorists, have often used proverbs, sometimes primarily building on the text, sometimes primarily on the situation visually, the best cartoons combining both. Not surprisingly, cartoonists often twist proverbs, such as visually depicting a proverb literally or twisting the text as an anti-proverb. An example with all of these traits is a cartoon showing a waitress delivering two plates with worms on them, telling the customers, \"Two early bird specials... here ya go.\"\n\nThe traditional Three wise monkeys were depicted in Bizarro with different labels. Instead of the negative imperatives, the one with ears covered bore the sign \"See and speak evil\", the one with eyes covered bore the sign \"See and hear evil\", etc. The caption at the bottom read \"The power of positive thinking.\" Another cartoon showed a customer in a pharmacy telling a pharmacist, \"I'll have an ounce of prevention.\" The comic strip The Argyle Sweater showed an Egyptian archeologist loading a mummy on the roof of a vehicle, refusing the offer of a rope to tie it on, with the caption \"A fool and his mummy are soon parted.\" The comic One Big Happy showed a conversation where one person repeatedly posed part of various proverb and the other tried to complete each one, resulting in such humorous results as \"Don't change horses... unless you can lift those heavy diapers.\"\n\nEditorial cartoons can use proverbs to make their points with extra force as they can invoke the wisdom of society, not just the opinion of the editors. In an example that invoked a proverb only visually, when a US government agency (GSA) was caught spending money extravagantly, a cartoon showed a black pot labeled \"Congress\" telling a black kettle labeled \"GSA\", \"Stop wasting the taxpayers' money!\" It may have taken some readers a moment of pondering to understand it, but the impact of the message was the stronger for it.\n\nCartoons with proverbs are so common that Wolfgang Mieder has published a collected volume of them, many of them editorial cartoons. For example, a German editorial cartoon linked a current politician to the Nazis, showing him with a bottle of swastika-labeled wine and the caption \"In vino veritas\".\n\nOne cartoonist very self-consciously drew and wrote cartoons based on proverbs for the University of Vermont student newspaper \"The Water Tower\", under the title \"Proverb place\".\n\nProverbs are frequently used in advertising, often in slightly modified form.\nFord once advertised its Thunderbird with, \"One drive is worth a thousand words\" (Mieder 2004b: 84). This is doubly interesting since the underlying proverb behind this, \"One picture is worth a thousand words,\" was originally introduced into the English proverb repertoire in an ad for televisions (Mieder 2004b: 83).\n\nA few of the many proverbs adapted and used in advertising include:\n\nThe GEICO company has created a series of television ads that are built around proverbs, such as \"A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush\", and \"The pen is mightier than the sword\", \"Pigs may fly/When pigs fly\", \"If a tree falls in the forest...\", and \"Words can never hurt you\". Doritos made a commercial based on the proverb, \"When pigs fly.\" Many advertisements that use proverbs shorten or amend them, such as, \"Think outside the shoebox.\" \nUse of proverbs in advertising is not limited to the English language. Seda Başer Çoban has studied the use of proverbs in Turkish advertising. Tatira has given a number of examples of proverbs used in advertising in Zimbabwe. However, unlike the examples given above in English, all of which are anti-proverbs, Tatira's examples are standard proverbs. Where the English proverbs above are meant to make a potential customer smile, in one of the Zimbabwean examples \"both the content of the proverb and the fact that it is phrased as a proverb secure the idea of a secure time-honored relationship between the company and the individuals\". When newer buses were imported, owners of older buses compensated by painting a traditional proverb on the sides of their buses, \"Going fast does not assure safe arrival\".\n\nThere are often proverbs that contradict each other, such as \"Look before you leap\" and \"He who hesitates is lost\", or \"Many hands make light work\" and \"Too many cooks spoil the broth\". These have been labeled \"counter proverbs\" or \"antonymous proverbs\". When there are such counter proverbs, each can be used in its own appropriate situation, and neither is intended to be a universal truth.\n\nThe concept of \"counter proverb\" is more about pairs of contradictory proverbs than about the use of proverbs to counter each other in an argument. For example, from the Tafi language of Ghana, the following pair of proverbs are counter to each other but are each used in appropriate contexts, \"A co-wife who is too powerful for you, you address her as your mother\" and \"Do not call your mother's co-wife your mother...\" In Nepali, there is a set of totally contradictory proverbs: \"Religion is victorious and sin erodes\" and \"Religion erodes and sin is victorious\".\nAlso, the following pair are counter proverbs from the Kasena of Ghana: \"It is the patient person who will milk a barren cow\" and \"The person who would milk a barren cow must prepare for a kick on the forehead\". The two contradict each other, whether they are used in an argument or not (though indeed they were used in an argument). But the same work contains an appendix with many examples of proverbs used in arguing for contrary positions, but proverbs that are not inherently contradictory, such as \"One is better off with hope of a cow's return than news of its death\" countered by \"If you don't know a goat [before its death] you mock at its skin\". Though this pair was used in a contradictory way in a conversation, they are not a set of \"counter proverbs\".\n\nDiscussing counter proverbs in the Badaga language, Hockings explained that in his large collection \"a few proverbs are mutually contradictory... we can be sure that the Badagas do not see the matter that way, and would explain such apparent contradictions by reasoning that proverb \"x\" is used in one context, while \"y\" is used in quite another.\" Comparing Korean proverbs, \"when you compare two proverbs, often they will be contradictory.\" They are used for \"a particular situation\".\n\n\"Counter proverbs\" are not the same as a \"paradoxical proverb\", a proverb that contains a seeming paradox.\n\nIn many cultures, proverbs are so important and so prominent that there are proverbs about proverbs, that is, \"metaproverbs\". The most famous one is from Yoruba of Nigeria, \"Proverbs are the horses of speech, if communication is lost we use proverbs to find it,\" used by Wole Soyinka in \"Death and the King's Horsemen\". In Mieder's bibliography of proverb studies, there are twelve publications listed as describing metaproverbs. Other metaproverbs include:\n\nThere is a growing interest in deliberately using proverbs to achieve goals, usually to support and promote changes in society. On the negative side, this was deliberately done by the Nazis. On the more positive side, proverbs have also been used for constructive purposes. For example, proverbs have been used for teaching foreign languages at various levels. In addition, proverbs have been used for public health promotion, such as promoting breast feeding with a shawl bearing a Swahili proverb \"Mother's milk is sweet\". Proverbs have also been applied for helping people manage diabetes, to combat prostitution, and for community development., to resolve conflicts, and to slow the transmission of HIV.\n\nThe most active field deliberately using proverbs is Christian ministry, where Joseph G. Healey and others have deliberately worked to catalyze the collection of proverbs from smaller languages and the application of them in a wide variety of church-related ministries, resulting in publications of collections and applications. This attention to proverbs by those in Christian ministries is not new, many pioneering proverb collections having been collected and published by Christian workers.\n\nU.S. Navy Captain Edward Zellem pioneered the use of Afghan proverbs as a positive relationship-building tool during the war in Afghanistan, and in 2012 he published two bilingual collections of Afghan proverbs in Dari and English, part of an effort of nationbuilding, followed by a volume of Pashto proverbs in 2014.\n\nThere is a longstanding debate among proverb scholars as to whether the cultural values of specific language communities are reflected (to varying degree) in their proverbs. Many claim that the proverbs of a particular culture reflect the values of that specific culture, at least to some degree. Many writers have asserted that the proverbs of their cultures reflect their culture and values; this can be seen in such titles as the following: \"An introduction to Kasena society and culture through their proverbs\", Prejudice, power, and poverty in Haiti: a study of a nation's culture as seen through its proverbs, Proverbiality and worldview in Maltese and Arabic proverbs, Fatalistic traits in Finnish proverbs, \"Vietnamese cultural patterns and values as expressed in proverbs\", \"The Wisdom and Philosophy of the Gikuyu proverbs: The Kihooto worldview\", \"Spanish Grammar and Culture through Proverbs,\" and \"How Russian Proverbs Present the Russian National Character\". Kohistani has written a thesis to show how understanding Afghan Dari proverbs will help Europeans understand Afghan culture.\n\nHowever, a number of scholars argue that such claims are not valid. They have used a variety of arguments. Grauberg argues that since many proverbs are so widely circulated they are reflections of broad human experience, not any one culture's unique viewpoint. Related to this line of argument, from a collection of 199 American proverbs, Jente showed that only 10 were coined in the USA, so that most of these proverbs would not reflect uniquely American values. Giving another line of reasoning that proverbs should not be trusted as a simplistic guide to cultural values, Mieder once observed \"proverbs come and go, that is, antiquated proverbs with messages and images we no longer relate to are dropped from our proverb repertoire, while new proverbs are created to reflect the mores and values of our time\", so old proverbs still in circulation might reflect past values of a culture more than its current values. Also, within any language's proverb repertoire, there may be \"counter proverbs\", proverbs that contradict each other on the surface (see section above). When examining such counter proverbs, it is difficult to discern an underlying cultural value. With so many barriers to a simple calculation of values directly from proverbs, some feel \"one cannot draw conclusions about values of speakers simply from the texts of proverbs\".\n\nMany outsiders have studied proverbs to discern and understand cultural values and world view of cultural communities. These outsider scholars are confident that they have gained insights into the local cultures by studying proverbs, but this is not universally accepted. \nSeeking empirical evidence to evaluate the question of whether proverbs reflect a culture's values, some have counted the proverbs that support various values. For example, Moon lists what he sees as the top ten core cultural values of the Builsa society of Ghana, as exemplified by proverbs. He found that 18% of the proverbs he analyzed supported the value of being a member of the community, rather than being independent. This was corroboration to other evidence that collective community membership is an important value among the Builsa. In studying Tajik proverbs, Bell notes that the proverbs in his corpus \"Consistently illustrate Tajik values\" and \"The most often observed proverbs reflect the focal and specific values\" discerned in the thesis.\n\nA study of English proverbs created since 1900 showed in the 1960s a sudden and significant increase in proverbs that reflected more casual attitudes toward sex. Since the 1960s was also the decade of the Sexual revolution, this shows a strong statistical link between the changed values of the decades and a change in the proverbs coined and used. Another study mining the same volume counted Anglo-American proverbs about religion to show that proverbs indicate attitudes toward religion are going downhill.\n\nThere are many examples where cultural values have been explained and illustrated by proverbs. For example, from India, the concept that birth determines one's nature \"is illustrated in the oft-repeated proverb: there can be no friendship between grass-eaters and meat-eaters, between a food and its eater\". Proverbs have been used to explain and illustrate the Fulani cultural value of \"pulaaku\". But using proverbs to \"illustrate\" a cultural value is not the same as using a collection of proverbs to \"discern\" cultural values. In a comparative study between Spanish and Jordanian proverbs it is defined the social imagination for the mother as an archetype in the context of role transformation and in contrast with the roles of husband, son and brother, in two societies which might be occasionally associated with sexist and /or rural ideologies.\n\nSome scholars have adopted a cautious approach, acknowledging at least a genuine, though limited, link between cultural values and proverbs: \"The cultural portrait painted by proverbs may be fragmented, contradictory, or otherwise at variance with reality... but must be regarded not as accurate renderings but rather as tantalizing shadows of the culture which spawned them.\" There is not yet agreement on the issue of whether, and how much, cultural values are reflected in a culture's proverbs.\n\nIt is clear that the Soviet Union believed that proverbs had a direct link to the values of a culture, as they used them to try to create changes in the values of cultures within their sphere of domination. Sometimes they took old Russian proverbs and altered them into socialist forms. These new proverbs promoted Socialism and its attendant values, such as atheism and collectivism, e.g. \"Bread is given to us not by Christ, but by machines and collective farms\" and \"A good harvest is had only by a collective farm.\" They did not limit their efforts to Russian, but also produced \"newly coined proverbs that conformed to socialist thought\" in Tajik and other languages of the USSR.\nMany proverbs from around the world address matters of ethics and expected of behavior. Therefore, it is not surprising that proverbs are often important texts in religions. The most obvious example is the Book of Proverbs in the Bible. Additional proverbs have also been coined to support religious values, such as the following from Dari of Afghanistan: \"In childhood you're playful, In youth you're lustful, In old age you're feeble, So when will you before God be worshipful?\"\n\nClearly proverbs in religion are not limited to monotheists; among the Badaga of India (Sahivite Hindus), there is a traditional proverb \"Catch hold of and join with the man who has placed sacred ash [on himself].\" Proverbs are widely associated with large religions that draw from sacred books, but they are also used for religious purposes among groups with their own traditional religions, such as the Guji Oromo. The broadest comparative study of proverbs across religions is \"The eleven religions and their proverbial lore, a comparative study. A reference book to the eleven surviving major religions of the world\" by Selwyn Gurney Champion, from 1945. Some sayings from sacred books also become proverbs, even if they were not obviously proverbs in the original passage of the sacred book. For example, many quote \"Be sure your sin will find you out\" as a proverb from the Bible, but there is no evidence it was proverbial in its original usage (Numbers 32:23).\n\nNot all religious references in proverbs are positive, some are cynical, such as the Tajik, \"Do as the mullah says, not as he does.\" Also, note the Italian proverb, \"One barrel of wine can work more miracles than a church full of saints\". An Indian proverb is cynical about devotees of Hinduism, \"[Only] When in distress, a man calls on Rama\". In the context of Tibetan Buddhism, some Ladakhi proverbs mock the lamas, e.g. \"If the lama's own head does not come out cleanly, how will he do the drawing upwards of the dead?... used for deriding the immoral life of the lamas.\" Proverbs do not have to explicitly mention religion or religious figures to be used to mock a religion, seen in the fact that in a collection of 555 proverbs from the Lur, a Muslim group in Iran, the explanations for 15 of them use illustrations that mock Muslim clerics.\n\nDammann thought \"The influence of Islam manifests itself in African proverbs... Christian influences, on the contrary, are rare.\" If widely true in Africa, this is likely due to the longer presence of Islam in many parts of Africa. Reflection of Christian values is common in Amharic proverbs of Ethiopia, an area that has had a presence of Christianity for well over 1,000 years. The Islamic proverbial reproduction may also be shown in the image of some animals such as the dog. Although dog is portrayed in many European proverbs as the most faithful friend of man, it is represented in some Islamic countries as impure, dirty, vile, cowardly, ungrateful and treacherous, in addition to links to negative human superstitions such as loneliness, indifference and bad luck.\n\nThough much proverb scholarship is done by literary scholars, those studying the human mind have used proverbs in a variety of studies. One of the earliest studies in this field is the \"Proverbs Test\" by Gorham, developed in 1956. A similar test is being prepared in German. Proverbs have been used to evaluate dementia, study the cognitive development of children, measure the results of brain injuries, and study how the mind processes figurative language.\n\nThe study of proverbs is called paremiology which has a variety of uses in the study of such topics as philosophy, linguistics, and folklore. There are several types and styles of proverbs which are analyzed within Paremiology as is the use and misuse of familiar expressions which are not strictly 'proverbial' in the dictionary definition of being fixed sentences\n\nGrigorii Permjakov developed the concept of the core set of proverbs that full members of society know, what he called the \"paremiological minimum\" (1979). For example, an adult American is expected to be familiar with \"Birds of a feather flock together\", part of the American paremiological minimum. However, an average adult American is not expected to know \"Fair in the cradle, foul in the saddle\", an old English proverb that is not part of the current American paremiological minimum. Thinking more widely than merely proverbs, Permjakov observed \"every adult Russian language speaker (over 20 years of age) knows no fewer than 800 proverbs, proverbial expressions, popular literary quotations and other forms of cliches\". Studies of the paremiological minimum have been done for a limited number of languages, including Russian, Hungarian, Czech, Somali, Nepali, Gujarati, Spanish, Esperanto, Polish, Ukrainian. Two noted examples of attempts to establish a paremiological minimum in America are by Haas (2008) and Hirsch, Kett, and Trefil (1988), the latter more prescriptive than descriptive. There is not yet a recognized standard method for calculating the paremiological minimum, as seen by comparing the various efforts to establish the paremiological minimum in a number of languages.\n\nA seminal work in the study of proverbs is Archer Taylor's \"The Proverb\" (1931), later republished by Wolfgang Mieder with Taylor's Index included (1985/1934). A good introduction to the study of proverbs is Mieder's 2004 volume, \"Proverbs: A Handbook\". Mieder has also published a series of bibliography volumes on proverb research, as well as a large number of articles and other books in the field. Stan Nussbaum has edited a large collection on proverbs of Africa, published on a CD, including reprints of out-of-print collections, original collections, and works on analysis, bibliography, and application of proverbs to Christian ministry (1998). Paczolay has compared proverbs across Europe and published a collection of similar proverbs in 55 languages (1997). Mieder edits an academic journal of proverb study, \"Proverbium\" (), many back issues of which are available online. A volume containing articles on a wide variety of topics touching on proverbs was edited by Mieder and Alan Dundes (1994/1981). \"Paremia\" is a Spanish-language journal on proverbs, with articles available online. There are also papers on proverbs published in conference proceedings volumes from the annual Interdisciplinary Colloquium on Proverbs in Tavira, Portugal. Mieder has published a two-volume \"International Bibliography of Paremiology and Phraseology\", with a topical, language, and author index. Mieder has published a bibliography of collections of proverbs from around the world. A broad introduction to proverb study, \"Introduction to Paremiology\", edited by Hrisztalina Hrisztova-Gotthardt and Melita Aleksa Varga has been published in both hardcover and free open access, with articles by a dozen different authors.\n\nThe study of proverbs has been built by a number of notable scholars and contributors. Earlier scholars were more concerned with collecting than analyzing. Desiderius Erasmus was a Latin scholar (1466 – 1536), whose collection of Latin proverbs, known as \"Adagia\", spread Latin proverbs across Europe. Juan de Mal Lara was a 16th century Spanish scholar, one of his books being 1568 \"Philosophia vulgar\", the first part of which contains one thousand and one sayings.\n\nFrom the 20th century onwards, proverb scholars were involved in not only collecting proverbs, but also analyzing and comparing proverbs. Alan Dundes was a 20th century American folklorist whose scholarly output on proverbs led Wolfgang Mieder to refer to him as a “pioneering paremiologist”. Matti Kuusi was a 20th century Finnish paremiologist, the creator of the Matti Kuusi international type system of proverbs. With encouragement from Archer Taylor, he founded the journal \"Proverbium: Bulletin d'Information sur les Recherches Parémiologiques\", published from 1965 to 1975 by the Society for Finnish Literature, which was later restarted as \"Proverbium: International Yearbook of Proverb Scholarship\". Archer Taylor was a 20th century American scholar, best known for his \"magisterial\" book \"The Proverb\". Dimitrios Loukatos was a 20th century Greek proverb scholar, author of such works as \"Aetiological Tales of Modern Greek Proverbs\". Arvo Krikmann (1939 – 2017) was an Estonian proverb scholar, whom Wolfgang Mieder called “one of the leading paremiologists in the world” and “master folklorist and paremiologist”. Elisabeth Piirainen was a German scholar with 50 proverb-related publications. \n\nCurrent proverb scholars have continued the trend to be involved in analysis as well as collection of proverbs. Claude Buridant is a century French scholar whose work has concentrated on Romance languages. Galit Hasan-Rokem is an Israeli scholar, associate editor of \"Proverbium: The yearbook of international proverb scholarship\", since 1984. She has written on proverbs in Jewish traditions. Joseph G. Healey is an American Catholic missionary in Kenya who has led a movement to sponsor African proverb scholars to collect proverbs from their own language communities. This led Wolfgang Mieder to dedicate the \"International Bibliography of New and Reprinted Proverb Collections\" section of \"Proverbium\" 32 to Healey. Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett is a scholar of Jewish history and folklore, including proverbs. Wolfgang Mieder is a German-born proverb scholar who has worked his entire academic career in the USA. He is the editor of ‘’Proverbium’’ and the author of the two volume \"International Bibliography of Paremiology and Phraseology\". He has been honored by three festschrift publications. He has also been recognized by biographical publications that focused on his scholarship. Dora Sakayan is a scholar who has written about German and Armenian studies, including \"Armenian Proverbs: A Paremiological Study with an Anthology of 2,500 Armenian Folk Sayings Selected and Translated into English\". An extensive introduction addresses the language and structure, as well as the origin of Armenian proverbs (international, borrowed and specifically Armenian proverbs). Mineke Schipper is a Dutch scholar, best known for her book \"Never Marry a Woman with Big Feet - Women in Proverbs from Around the World\".. Edward Zellem is an American proverb scholar who has edited books of Afghan proverbs, developed a method of collecting proverbs via the Web.\n\n\n\nSerious websites related to the study of proverbs, and some that list regional proverbs:\n"}
{"id": "42945382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42945382", "title": "Roman Bezpalkiv", "text": "Roman Bezpalkiv\n\nRoman Bezpalkiv () – (April 15, 1938, village Hlushyn, Lviv region (Lviv Oblast) – November 19, 2009, Lviv) – was a Ukrainian painter. Genre – painting, sacral art. Member of the National Union of Artists of Ukraine (1988). (1998).\n\n1962 graduated from Lviv Medical Institute. In 1965 he enrolled in Lviv National Academy of Arts and finished it in 1971.\n\nFrom 1970 he worked as a teacher of painting in Lviv College of Decorative and Applied Arts named after Ivan Trush.\n\nAuthor of many scenic and of sacral of works, among them philosophical portraits of figures of Ukrainian culture as Taras Shevchenko, Bohdan Ihor Antonych, Markiyan Shashkevych, Ivan Vyshenskyi, Kateryna Bilokur and others. Participated in the personal, national and international exhibitions.\n\nHe died after a long illness Nov. 19, 2009, and was buried in the Lychakiv Cemetery, Lviv.\n\n"}
{"id": "34119666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34119666", "title": "Sangi Bridge", "text": "Sangi Bridge\n\nSangi Bridge (Azerbaijani: Daş Körpüsü, Persian: پل‌سنگی) is a bridge in Tabriz, Iran, over Quri River. Its literal translation is stone bridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28979811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28979811", "title": "Saoutchik", "text": "Saoutchik\n\nFounded by cabinet maker Jacques Saoutchik (born Iakov Savtchuk in Russian Empire in 1880), Saoutchik was a top-class French coachbuilding company founded in 1906. In the 1930s the company became famous for their high quality and often extravagant designs. After Jacques died in 1955, the company passed into the hands of his son Pierre. With the great French luxury car manufacturers all going out of business, the market for the ostentatious Saoutchik designs evaporated and the company ceased trading in 1955.\n\nThe company was known for designing flamboyant and expensive automobile bodies for classic brands such as Bugatti, Delahaye, Pegaso, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "24343817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24343817", "title": "Somali architecture", "text": "Somali architecture\n\nSomali architecture is the engineering and designing of multiple different construction types such as stone cities, castles, citadels, fortresses, mosques, temples, aqueducts, lighthouses, towers and tombs during the ancient, medieval and early modern periods in Somalia and other regions inhabited by Somalis, as well as the fusion of Somalo-Islamic architecture with Western designs in contemporary times.\n\nSome of the oldest known structures in the territory of modern-day Somalia consist of burial cairns (\"taalo\"). Although found throughout the country and the larger Horn of Africa region, northern Somalia in particular is home to numerous such archaeological structures, with many similar edifices found at Haylan, Qa’ableh, Qombo'ul, El Ayo, Damo, Maydh and Heis among other towns. However, many of these ancient structures have yet to be properly explored, a process which would help shed further light on local history and facilitate their preservation for posterity.\n\nHouses were constructed of dressed stone similar to the ones in Ancient Egypt. There are also examples of courtyards and large stone walls enclosing settlements, such as the Wargaade Wall.\n\nNear Bosaso, at the end of the Baladi valley, lies a 2 km to 3 km long earthwork. Local tradition recounts that the massive embankment marks the grave of a community matriarch. It is the largest such structure in the wider Horn region.\n\nIn addition, old temples situated in the northwestern town of Sheekh are reportedly similar to those in the Deccan Plateau in the Indian subcontinent. There also exist several ancient necropolises in Somalia. One such structured area is found on the country's northeastern tip, in the Hafun peninsula.\n\nBooco in the Aluula District contains a number of ancient structures. Two of these are enclosed platform monuments set together, which are surrounded by small stone circles. The circles of stone are believed to mark associated graves.\n\nMudun is situated in the Wadi valley of the Iskushuban District. The area features a number of ruins, which local tradition holds belong to an ancient, large town. Among the old structures are around 2,000 tombs, which possess high towers and are dome-shaped.\n\nPort Dunford in the southern Lower Juba province contains a number of ancient ruins, including several pillar tombs. Prior to its collapse, one these structures' pillars stood 11 meters high from the ground, making it the tallest tower of its kind in the wider region. The site is believed to correspond with the ancient emporium of Nikon, which is described in the 1st century CE Greco-Roman travelogue the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\". In the southern town of Hannassa, ruins of houses with archways and courtyards have been found along with other pillar tombs, including a rare octagonal tomb. Additionally, various pillar tombs exist in the southeastern Marca area. Local tradition holds that these were built in the 16th century, when the Ajuran Sultanate's naa'ibs governed the district.\n\nOn the coastal plain 20 km to Alula's east are found ruins of an ancient monument in a platform style. The structure is formed by a rectangular dry stone wall that is low in height; the space in between is filled with rubble and manually covered with small stones. Relatively large standing stones are also positioned on the edifice's corners. Near the platform are graves, which are outlined in stones. 24 m by 17 m in dimension, the structure is the largest of a string of ancient platform and enclosed platform monuments exclusive to far northeastern Somalia.\n\nAround 200 stone monuments (\"taalos\") are found in the northeastern Botiala site, most of which consist of cairns. The bigger cairns are covered in shingles and tend to be more sturdily constructed. There are a number of rows of standing stones (menhirs) on the eastern side of the structures, which are similar to those at Salweyn, a great cairn-held situated close to Heis. Besides cairns, the Botiala area also features a few other drystone monuments. These include disc monuments with circular, ground-level features, as well as low, rectangular platform monuments.\n\nThe northern town of Aw Barkhadle, named in honour of the 13th century scholar and saint Yusuf bin Ahmad al-Kawneyn (Aw Barkhadle), is surrounded by a number of ancient structures. Among these are menhirs, burial mounds, and dolmens.\n\nNear the ancient northwestern town of Amud, whenever an old site had the prefix \"Aw\" in its name (such as the ruins of \"Aw Bare\" and \"Aw Bube\"), it denoted the final resting place of a local saint. Surveys by A.T. Curle in 1934 on several of these important ruined cities recovered various artefacts, such as pottery and coins, which point to a medieval period of activity at the tail end of the Adal Sultanate's reign. Among these settlements, Aw Barkhadle is surrounded by a number of ancient stelae. Burial sites near Burao likewise feature old stelae.\n\nThe introduction of Islam in the early medieval era of Somalia's history brought Islamic architectural influences from the Arabian Peninsula and Persia. This stimulated a shift from drystone and other related materials in construction to coral stone, sundried bricks, and the widespread use of limestone in Somali architecture. Many of the new architectural designs such as mosques were built on the ruins of older structures, a practice that would continue over and over again throughout the following centuries.\n\nThe lucrative commercial networks of successive medieval Somali empires and kingdoms such as the Adal Sultanate, Sultanate of Mogadishu, Warsangali Sultanate, Ajuran Sultanate, and the Sultanate of the Geledi saw the establishment of several dozen stone cities in the interior of Somalia as well as the coastal regions. Ibn Battuta visiting Mogadishu in the early 14th century called it a town \"endless in size\" and Vasco Da Gama who passed by Mogadishu in the 15th century noted that it was a large city with houses of four or five storeys high and big palaces in its centre\n\nSomali merchants were an integral part of a long distance caravan trade network connecting major Somali cities, such as Mogadishu, Merca, Zeila, Barawa and Qandala, with other business centers in the Horn of Africa. The numerous ruined and abandoned towns throughout the interior of Somalia can be explained as the remains of a once booming inland trade dating back to the medieval period.\n\nGoan Bogame, situated in the Las Anod District, contains the ruins of a large ancient city with around two hundred buildings. The structures were built in an architectural style similar to that of the edifices in Mogadishu's old Hamar Weine and Shangani districts.\n\nThroughout the medieval era, castles and fortresses known as \"Qalcads\" were built by Somali Sultans for protection against both foreign and domestic threats. The major medieval Somali power engaging in castle building was the Ajuran Sultanate, and many of the hundreds of ruined fortifications dotting the landscapes of Somalia today are attributed to Ajuran engineers.\n\nOther castle building powers were the Warsangali Sultanate and the Bari Sultanate. The many castles and fortresses such as the Sha'a Castle, the Bandar Qassim Castles and the Botiala Fortress Complex and dozens of others in towns such as Qandala, Bosaso and Las Khorey were built under their rule.\n\nThe Dervish State in the late 19th century and early 20th century was another prolific fortress building power in the Somali Peninsula. In 1913, after the British withdrawal to the coast, the permanent capital and headquarters of the Dervishes was constructed at Taleh, a large walled town with fourteen fortresses. The main fortress, \"Silsilat\", included a walled garden and a guard house. It became the residence of Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, his wives, family, prominent Somali military leaders, and also hosted several Turkish, Yemeni and German dignitaries, architects, masons and arms manufacturers. Several dozen other fortresses were built in \"Illig\", Eyl, Shimbiris and other parts of the Horn of Africa.\n\nCity walls were established around the coastal cities of Merca, Barawa and Mogadishu to defend the cities against powers such as the Portuguese Empire. During the Adal Age, many of the inland cities such as Amud and Abasa in the northern part of Somalia were built on hills high above sea level with large defensive stone walls enclosing them. The Bardera militants during their struggle with the Geledi Sultanate had their main headquarters in the walled city of Bardera that was reinforced by a large fortress overseeing the Jubba river. In the early 19th century the citadel of Bardera was sacked by Sultan Yusuf Mahamud Ibrahim and the city became a ghost town.\n\nSomali city walls also acted as a barrier against the proliferation of arms usually carried by the Somali and Horn African nomads entering the cities with their caravan trains. They had to leave behind their weapons at the city gate before they could enter the markets with their goods and trade with the urban Somalis, Middle Easterners and Asian merchants.\n\nConcordant with the ancient presence of Islam in the Horn of Africa region, mosques in Somalia are some of the oldest on the entire continent. One architectural feature that made Somali mosques distinct from other mosques in Africa were minarets.\n\nFor centuries, Arba'a Rukun (1269), the Friday mosque of Merca (1609) and Fakr ad-Din (1269) were, in fact, the only mosques in East Africa to have minarets. Arba Rukun's massive round coral tower of about 13 and a half meters high and over four meters in diameter at its base has a doorway that is narrow and surrounded by a multiple ordered recessed arch, which may be the first example of the recessed arch that was to become a prototype for the local mihrab style.\n\nConstructed by and named after the first Sultan of the Mogadishu Sultanate, the Fakr-ad Din mosque dates back to the 1269. Built with marble and coral stone on a compact rectangular plan, it features a domed mihrab central azis. Glazed tiles were also used in the decoration of the mihrab, one of which bears a dated inscription. In addition, the masjid is characterized by a system of composite beams, alongside two main columns. This well-planned, sophisticated design is not replicated in mosques further south outside the Horn region.\n\nThe 13th century \"Al Gami University\" consisted of a rectangular base with a large cylindrical tower architecturally unique in the Islamic world.\n\nShrines erected to house and honor Somali patriarchs and forefathers evolved from ancient Somali burial customs. Such tombs, which are predominantly found in northern Somalia (the suggested point of origin of the Somalia's majority Somali ethnic group), feature structures mainly consisting of domes and square plans. In southern Somalia, the preferred medieval shrine architecture was the pillar tomb-style.\n\nA number of ancient burial sites dated from the pre-Islamic period sit atop the peak of Buur Heybe, a granitic inselberg in the southern Doi belt. They serve as a center of annual pilgrimage (\"siyaro\"). These burial sites on the mountain's summit were later made into Muslim holy sites in the ensuing Islamic period, including the Owol Qaasing (derived from the Arabic \"Abul Qaasim\", one of the names of Prophet Muhammad) and Sheikh Abdulqadir al-Jilaani (named for the founder of the Qadiriyya order).\n\nSomalia's historical strategic location within the world's oldest and busiest sealanes encouraged the construction of lighthouses to co-ordinate shipping and to ensure the safe entrance of commercial vessels in the nation's many port cities. In times of weak central authority the Somali civilizational matrix of interior cities and port cities was based on a clan formula that saw various clans in fierce competition over natural resources that led to chronic feuding between neighbours. Towers provided the merchant class and the urban population protection against potential raids from the nomadic regions. Stone towers such as the 15th century Almnara tower in Mogadishu and the Jamia tower of Merca were also built for defence. The \"Dar Ilalo\" stone towers though initially constructed to defend the fortress of Taleex were also used as granaries for the Dervish State.\n\nThe early modern period saw a continuation in the use of materials such as coral stone, sundried bricks and limestone in Somali architecture which with the increasing European influence on the Somali peninsula was now being complemented by new construction materials such as cement. The period was characterised by military architecture in the form of multi-purpose forts, and the construction of new ports. The Sultans of Aluula in the northern part of the country and the Geledi Sultanate in the south were at their peak during this period, and many of the castles, palaces and forts found in various Somali cities originate from that era.\n\nIn the modern period, several Somali cities such as Mogadishu, Hargeisa and Garowe received large projects, which saw construction in new styles that harmoniously blended in with the existing old architecture. Due to Italian influence, parts of Mogadishu are built in the classical style. The Somali government continued upon that legacy, while also opening the door to German, American and Chinese designers.\n\nAs a departure from the prevailing Somali architectural style, the National Theatre in Mogadishu was completely built from a Chinese perspective. The town-hall was constructed in the Moroccan style. Much of the new architecture also continued upon ancient tradition, the \"Al-Uruba Hotel\", the pre-eminent hotel in Somalia and an iconic feature of Mogadishu's waterfront was entirely designed and constructed by Somalis in the Arabesque style.\n\nIn recent times, due to the civil war and the subsequent decentralization, many cities across the country have rapidly developed into urban hubs and have adopted their own architectural styles independently. In the cities of Garowe, Bosaso and Hargeisa, construction firms have built hotels, government facilities, airports and residential neighbourhoods in a modernist style, often utilizing chrome, steel and glass materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "39249639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39249639", "title": "Space Copenhagen", "text": "Space Copenhagen\n\nSpace Copenhagen is a design studio based in Copenhagen, founded in 2004 by Peter Bundgaard Rützou and Signe Bindslev Henriksen. The studio is known for their interiors of high-end restaurants such as Restaurant Noma, awarded 1st by The World's 50 Best Restaurants, and Restaurant Geranium by Bocuse d'Or winner Rasmus Kofoed, as well as furniture designs for Fredericia Furniture, Mater, &tradition, Pilar Varón and Stellarworks.\n\nSpace Copenhagen's clients include Fritz Hansen, Georg Jensen, Hotel D'Angleterre, René Redzepi, Rasmus Kofoed, Malene Birger and Louisiana Museum of Modern Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "10575374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10575374", "title": "Staffordshire Moorlands Pan", "text": "Staffordshire Moorlands Pan\n\nThe Staffordshire Moorlands Pan, sometimes known as the Ilam Pan, is a 2nd-century AD enamelled bronze \"trulla\" with an inscription relating to the forts of Hadrian's Wall. It was found in June 2003 in Ilam parish, Staffordshire, by metal-detectorists, and, in 2005, was bought jointly by the Tullie House Museum in Carlisle, the Potteries Museum in Stoke-on-Trent and London's British Museum, with the help of a grant of £112,200 from the Heritage Lottery Fund. It is a find of great national and international significance. The pan rotates between a number of locations, including the joint owning museums and another museum on Hadrian's Wall.\n\nThe Staffordshire Moorlands Pan, although lacking its handle and base, is an extremely well preserved enamelled and inscribed bronze (strictly speaking, \"copper alloy\") vessel for cooking and serving food, decorated in a Celtic style. (The Celtic peoples of the Roman period made more use of enamel on metal than other parts of the Empire.) It weighs 132.5 g, and is 47 mm high with a maximum diameter of 94 mm, and is 54 mm around the outside of the base.\n\nThe decoration consists of \"eight roundels, with eight pairs of intervening hollow-sided triangles. Each roundel encloses a swirling six-armed whirligig centred on a three-petalled device inlaid with red, blue, turquoise and yellow-coloured enamel.\" It has been suggested that in addition to its functional role it may have been a 'souvenir' of Hadrian's Wall, made for a soldier who had served there. It may have been made as a decorative pan and was then customised by having an inscription added later (using an engraved, rather than relief-cast, inscription as in other enamelled objects of this type).\n\nThe inscription round the rim is engraved and then filled with enamel. It names forts on the wall: MAIS (Bowness-on-Solway), COGGABATA (Drumburgh), VXELODVNVM (Stanwix), CAMMOGLANNA (Castlesteads). The final part: RIGORE VALI AELI DRACONIS, is more elusive in meaning, but refers to the wall VALI, and probably a soldier DRACO. AELI may be part of his name, but was also Hadrian's family name, so may go with VALI, indicating that the Romans called the wall the \"Aelian Wall\".\n\nThere are other comparable \"trulli\", and two with inscriptions relating to the wall; the inscription means this piece was almost certainly manufactured locally. Judging by these other finds, the handle would have been flat, with enamel decoration on the upper surface. The Rudge Cup has a different shape, but also names forts on the wall (see that article for the \"Amiens Skillet\", another vessel with inscribed fort names).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148828", "title": "Texas Guinan", "text": "Texas Guinan\n\nMary Louise Cecilia \"Texas\" Guinan (January 12, 1884 – November 5, 1933) was an American actress, producer and entrepreneur. Born in Texas to Irish immigrant parents, she decided at an early age to become an entertainer. After becoming a star on the New York stage, the repercussions of her involvement in a weight loss scam motivated her to switch careers to the film business. Spending several years in California appearing in numerous productions, she eventually formed her own company.\n\nWhat she is most remembered for are the speakeasy clubs she managed during Prohibition. Her clubs catered to the rich and famous, as well as to aspiring talent. After being arrested and indicted during a law enforcement sweep of speakeasy clubs, she was acquitted during her trial.\n\nGuinan was one of four siblings born in Waco, Texas, to immigrants Michael and Bessie (née Duffy) Guinan, who had immigrated separately as adults, meeting and marrying in Colorado. Both parents were of Irish ancestry. They initially operated a wholesale grocery business. Relocating to Texas, they ran a horse and cattle ranch. As a child, she was nicknamed \"Mamie\", and attended parochial school at the Loretta Convent in Waco. Growing up on a ranch provided her with basic cowboy skills, and she honed her marksmanship at a local shooting gallery. In 1898, her parents were successful in securing her a two-year scholarship to the American Conservatory of Music offered by Chicago businessman Marshall Field. After developing her soprano vocal talents, and finishing her studies, she joined a touring acting troupe that featured American \"Wild West\" entertainment.\n\nBy 1904 using the name Marie Guinan, she married newspaper cartoonist John Moynahan on December 2. Two years later, Moynahan took a job in Boston. The couple eventually divorced, and Guinan moved to New York to pursue a career as a singer in the entertainment business. For years, she claimed she had been born with the name Texas, and never let facts stand in the way of her narrative. In a full-page 1910 interview in \"The San Francisco Call\", she stated her father \"was the first white child seen in Waco\", although he had been a married adult when he arrived, and white settlers had been there since the early to mid-19th century.\n\nTheatre critic and \"Photoplay\" editor Julian Johnson was her companion for a decade, and was influential in the creation of her public persona. Many erroneously believed them to be married. Her 1933 obituaries mention Johnson as her second husband, and millionaire George E. Townley as a third husband. Lacking any verification that the latter two marriages took place, Moynahan is now believed to have been her only husband.\n\nJohnson's connection is thought to have led to a poem carrying her byline being printed in \"Photoplay\". An alleged connection to the U.S. Senator from Texas, Joseph Weldon Bailey, evolved over time from a nonspecific tie to her family, to Guinan's being the senator's niece. The niece relationship seems implausible, since her parents were born and raised in a different country than either Senator Bailey or his wife. Mentions of him coincide with the timeline of her association with Julian Johnson. While he was editor at \"Photoplay\", an article written by then-staff journalist Adela Rogers St. Johns remarked that Guinan, \" ... bore a distinct resemblance to her uncle, Senator Joe Bailey of Texas.\"\n\nInitially finding work as a chorus girl, she adopted the stage name Texas Guinan to give herself an edge in the competitive marketplaces of vaudeville and New York theatre productions. Within a year, she had the female lead in a stage production of \"Simple Simon Simple\", during which she accidentally shot herself on stage with a loaded gun. In 1908, she received favorable notices for her performance in \"The Gibson Girl Review\". That same year, she placed an advertisement in newspapers offering $1,000 to any songwriter who provided her with a song of equal popularity to the Gus Edwards–penned \"That's What the Rose Said to Me\" She appeared as a soprano vocalist in many productions, including \"The Gay Musician\", \"The Hoyden\" and \"The Lone Star\".\n\nShe had achieved a degree of national stardom by 1910. John P. Slocum managed her when she appeared in his multiyear touring production of \"The Kissing Girl\". When Ned Wayburn rolled out his production of \"The Passing Show\" on a national tour in 1913, Guinan was one of the headliners. Coinciding with the publicity for the tour, Guinan licensed her name and image to be used by W. C. Cunningham for a weight-loss plan. The advertisements that appeared in media across the country claimed Guinan had lost 70 pounds on the plan. Investigative journalism by the \"Chicago Tribune\" alleged that Guinan knowingly acted as a shill in perpetuating a fraud upon the public. A subsequent investigation by the postal service revealed it to be a swindle. United States Postmaster General Albert S. Burleson quickly acted to prohibit Guinan from receiving mail through the postal service. Although she continued on the stage, the incident damaged her career, and was a motivating factor in expanding her repertoire by trying her hand in the California film business.\n\nGuinan appeared as Zaza in the variety show \"Hop-o'-My-Thumb\", based on a French fairytale of the same name. The show opened at the Manhattan Opera House November 26, 1913, and closed January 1, 1914. She toured the United States with the \"Whirl of the World\" musical comedy in 1915. The tour coincided with her unverified account of being casually approached in Berlin by Kaiser Wilhelm II, who engaged her in conversation as she sat alone reading a book.\n\nShe appeared in the musical \"Gay Paree\" that opened at the Shubert Theatre on August 18, 1925 and closed on January 30, 1926. Guinan was part of the cast of the musical \"Padlocks of 1927\", also at the Shubert.\n\nIn a film career that began in 1917 and continued through 1933, she was part of the vanguard of women filmmakers in the United States. Her later claims of being in France in 1917 entertaining the troops, and being decorated with a bronze medal by France field marshall Joseph Joffre, has been proven false by the timeline and California location of her prolific film-making. Triangle Film Corporation, founded in 1915 by Harry and Roy Aitken, featured Guinan in four two-reel shorts between 1917 and 1918, \"The Fuel of Life\", \"The Stainless Barrier\", \"The Gun Woman\" and \"The Love Brokers\". Unlike the musical genre she was known for on stage, she was now moving towards the Western movie genre, and on her dressing room door appeared a map of the state of Texas, rather than her name. Triangle began billing her as \"the female Bill Hart\" in reference to the industry's first Western star who at that time topped fandom popularity polls.\n\nFrohman Brothers were Broadway producers. In 1918, brother Daniel Frohman and partner William L. Sherrill formed the Frohman Amusement Corporation for the express purpose of engaging in the motion picture business. They made more than a dozen films with Guinan in 1918, including \"The Boss of the Rancho\" and \"The Heart of Texas\".\n\nDuring her years with Bull's Eye Productions/Reelcraft, she began to expand towards the production end of film-making, as a unit department head on the films \"Outwitted\", \"The Lady of the Law\", \"The Girl of the Rancho\", \"The Desert Vulture\", and at least five other productions. She created Texas Guinan Productions in 1921 to produce \"Code of the West\", \"Spitfire\" and \"Texas of the Mounted\". After \"I Am the Woman\" and \"The Stampede\" for Victor Kremer Film Features, she returned to New York.\n\nGuinan was again seen on the screen with two sound pictures, playing slightly fictionalized versions of herself as a speakeasy proprietress in \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" (1929) and then \"Broadway Thru a Keyhole\" (1933, written by Walter Winchell) shortly before her death.\n\nThe 1920 Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution put Prohibition into effect, making sales or transport of alcoholic beverages illegal. While it ruined legitimate businesses, people continued drinking alcohol. Those who transported and sold it were known as \"bootleggers\". Thus began the establishment of the speakeasy private clubs, a cultural phenomenon in which Guinan excelled. Her introduction into the business was when speakeasy partners Emil Gervasini and John Levi of the Beaux Arts club hired Guinan in 1923 as a singer, for which she was paid $50,000.\n\nGuinan's give-and-take dialogue with the customers inspired producer Nils Granlund to put together a full floor show with Guinan presiding as emcee for Ziegfeld Follies chorus girls. Bootleg huckster Larry Fay struck a deal with them to feature the show at his El Fey Club on West 47th Street in Manhattan. There, she became known for her catchphrase, \"Hello, Sucker! Come on in and leave your wallet on the bar.\" In return for being the draw to attract wealthy and powerful clientele, Guinan received 50% of the profits. Ruby Keeler, Barbara Stanwyck and George Raft were discovered by talent scouts while working as dancers at the club. After being shut down by the police, she opened the Texas Guinan Club at 117 West 48th Street, also closed by the police. She and Fay later opened the Del-Fey Club in Miami the same year. By her own account, they once took in $700,000 in less than a year. \nWhen Guinan returned to New York in January 1926, as hostess of the 300 Club at 151 W. 54th Street, the opening night's event was the marriage ceremony for actress Wilda Bennett and Argentine dancer Abraham \"Peppy\" de Albrew. Other celebrities who visited her club were Al Jolson, Scottish operatic soprano Mary Garden, Jack Dempsey, American operatic soprano Geraldine Farrar, and the Prince of Wales.\n\nIn July 1926, the 300 Club was raided by the police, who seized bottles of liquor and arrested two people for \"violation of the section of the penal code forbidding suggestive dances\". The last week of June 1928, Assistant U.S. Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt ordered a raid of speakeasy clubs in New York. Guinan, Helen Morgan (hostess of Chez Helen Morgan), Nils Granlund, and 104 others were arrested, and indicted by a federal grand jury. Guinan, Morgan and Granlund faced two years in prison, with a $10,000 maximum fine, if convicted. The others indicted were employees and patrons, who faced lesser penalties. At her April 1929 trial, Guinan was acquitted.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, she took her show on the road. She attempted to move to Europe, but Scotland Yard threatened to board her ship if she tried to land in England, where she was on their list of \"barred aliens\". The show was banned from France under labor technicalities. Guinan had a contract with a Paris club, but French employment laws dissuaded non-citizens from working in France. She turned this to her advantage by launching the satirical revue \"Too Hot for Paris\" upon her return to the states.\n\nWhile on the road with \"Too Hot for Paris\", she contracted amoebic dysentery in Chicago, Illinois, during the epidemic in the Congress Hotel. She fell ill in Vancouver, British Columbia, and died there on November 5, 1933, age 49, exactly one month before Prohibition was repealed; 7,500 people attended her funeral. Bandleader Paul Whiteman was a pallbearer along with two of her former lawyers and writer Heywood Broun.\n\nGuinan is interred at the Calvary Cemetery in Queens, New York. Her family donated a tabernacle in her name to St. Patrick's Church in Vancouver in recognition of Father Louis Forget's attentions during her last hours. When the original church was demolished in 2004, the tabernacle was preserved for the new church built on the site. She was survived by both of her parents. Her mother died at age 101 in 1959. Her father was 81 years old at his death on May 14, 1935. The newspaper obituary listed his place of birth as Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada, and his profession as a wholesale grocer. Her brothers Tommy and William P., as well as her sister Mrs. George C. Smith, also survived her.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36709802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36709802", "title": "Too Much Pussy!", "text": "Too Much Pussy!\n\nToo Much Pussy! is a 2010 French-German documentary film directed by Émilie Jouvet. It follows a group of performers who are all members the sex-positive movement during the tour of their \"Queer X Show\" through Europe, from Berlin to Malmö. The group consists of the writer and actress Wendy Delorme, the DJ Metzgerei, the adult actress Judy Minx, the singer Mad Kate, the artist and performer Sadie Lune, and the adult actress and director Madison Young.\n\nThe film premiered at the Cinémarges Festival in Bordeaux in April 2010. In 2011, an uncensored version of the film was released, titled \"Much More Pussy!\". It was defined as a \"magnificent ode to women in all its forms (...) which is expected soon to become a cult\".\n"}
{"id": "2814961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2814961", "title": "Women's cinema", "text": "Women's cinema\n\nWomen's cinema is a variety of topics bundled together to create the work of women in film. This can include women filling behind the scene roles such as director, cinematographer, writer, and producer while also addressing the stories of women and character development through screenplays.\n\nRenowned female directors include Kathryn Bigelow, who is the only woman to receive an academy award for best director, along with many other women directors from around the world such as Mary Harron, Jane Campion, Sofia Coppola, and Catherine Hardwicke. Many successful cinematographers are also women, including Maryse Alberti, Reed Morano and Zoe White. \n\nWomen's cinema recognizes women's contributions all over the world, not only to narrative films but to documentaries as well. Recognizing the work of women occurs through various festivals and awards, such as the Sundance Film Festival.\n\n\"Women's cinema is a complex, critical, theoretical, and institutional construction\", Alison Butler explains. The concept has had its fair share of criticisms, causing some female filmmakers to distance themselves from it in fear of be associated with marginalization and ideological controversy.\n\nAlice Guy-Blaché was a film pioneer and likely the first female director. Working for the Gaumont Film Company in France at the time that the cinema was being invented, she created \"La Fée aux Choux\" (1896). The dates of many early films are speculative, but \"La Fée aux Choux\" may well be the first narrative film ever released. She served as Gaumont's head of production from 1896 to 1906 and ultimately produced hundreds of silent films in France and the United States.\n\nAmerican-born director, Lois Weber was coached and inspired by Guy-Blaché and found success in creating silent films. Weber is well known for her films \"Hypocrites\" (1915), \"The Blot\" (1921), and \"Suspense\" (1913). Weber's films often focus on difficult social issues. For instance, her film \"Where Are My Children? (1916)\" addresses the controversial issues of birth control and abortion. And she questioned the validity of capital punishment in \"The People vs. John Doe\" (1916).\n\nMabel Normand was another significant early female filmmaker. She started as an actress and became a producer-writer-director in the 1910s, working on the first shorts Charlie Chaplin did as The Tramp at Mack Sennett's Keystone Studios. She further collaborated with Sennett on other Keystone films and, during the late 1910s and early 1920s, she had her own movie studio and production company.\n\nWomen screenwriters were highly sought after in the early years of the cinema. Frances Marion, Anita Loos, and June Mathis all had successful careers in the silent and early-sound eras. Mathis was also the first female executive in Hollywood.\n\nIn Sweden, Anna Hofman-Uddgren was that country's first female film maker—producing the silent film \"Stockholmsfrestelser\" in 1911. She also acted in the film.\n\nAs the American cinema became a highly commercialized industry in the 1920s and its content became more and more conventionalized, the opportunities for women producers and directors became fewer and fewer. By the time sound arrived in the US in 1927 and the years immediately after, women's roles behind the camera were largely limited to scriptwriters, costume designers, set decorators, make-up artists, and the like. And the industry's implementation of self-censorship in the form of the Hays Code in 1934 meant that topics such as birth control and abortion were taboo. Dorothy Arzner was the only woman director to survive in this unfriendly environment. She did so by producing well made but formally rather conventional films. Nevertheless, it is possible to trace feminist elements in her films. Film critics find her film, \"Dance, Girl, Dance\", about two women struggling to make it in show business, to be particularly interesting from a feminist perspective. When the film was selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry, it was noted that \"The dancers, played by Maureen O'Hara and Lucille Ball, strive to preserve their own feminist integrity, while fighting for their place in the spotlight and for the love of male lead Louis Hayward.\" Beyond \"Dance, Girl, Dance\", Arzner also worked with some of Hollywood's most formidable actresses—including Katharine Hepburn in \"Christopher Strong\" (1933) and Joan Crawford in \"The Bride Wore Red\" (1937).\n\nThe experimental and avant-garde cinema is the genre considered to be closer to women filmmakers and one that also advances women themes. Annette Kuhn, for instance, noted such special affinity by citing that low investments of money and 'professionalism' have meant that it is more open than the mainstream film industry for women. Both Pam Cook and Laura Mulvey also noted an alignment and alliance of experimental and avant-garde cinema with feminist interest and feminist politics. Specifically, Mulvey explained that mainstream or Hollywood films are unable to provide the experience of contradiction, reinforcing anti-realism and, this is where the avant-garde cinema is useful for women and feminism because they share \"a common interest in the politics of images and problems of aesthetic language.\"\n\nWomen's involvement in the experimental and avant-garde cinema started in the early twentieth century, although it was limited due to the constraints of the social conventions of this period. It was only after the war when women became actively involved in this cinematic genre. Germaine Dulac was a leading member of the French avant-garde film movement after World War I. There is also the case of Maya Deren's visionary films, which belonged to the classics of experimental cinema and focused on the North-American avant-garde. The contemporaneous trend did not oppose the female filmmakers' entry into avant-garde filmmaking although, in its early years, they did not receive as much critical acclaim as their male counterparts.\n\nShirley Clarke was a leading figure of the independent American film scene in New York in the fifties. Her work is unusual, insofar as she directed outstanding experimental and feature films as well as documentaries. Joyce Wieland was a Canadian experimental film maker. The National Film Board of Canada allowed many women to produce non-commercial animation films. In Europe women artists like Valie Export were among the first to explore the artistic and political potential of videos.\n\nIn the late sixties, when the second wave of feminism started, the New Left was at its height. Both movements strongly opposed the 'dominant cinema', i.e. Hollywood and male European bourgeois auteur cinema. Hollywood was accused of furthering oppression by disseminating sexist, racist and imperialist stereotypes. Women participated in mixed new collectives like Newsreel, but they also formed their own film groups. Early feminist films often focused on personal experiences. A first masterpiece was \"Wanda\" by Barbara Loden, one of the most poignant portraits of alienation ever made.\n\nSecond-wave feminism would reveal itself in different forms in films in the latter part of the 20th century such as with the idea of \"sisterhoods\" in movies, a good example of which is \"Steel Magnolias\" in 1989. Other concepts of second-wave feminism in films involved women's oppression and the difficulty in identifying with the idea of femininity. During this time, feminism in movies would also be represented as a counter-cinema whereby filmmakers would attempt to intentionally deconstruct the model of the classical film. This style of feminist counter-cinema can be seen in the works of artists such as Sally Potter's \"Thriller\" in 1979.\n\nResisting the oppression of female sexuality was one of the core goals of second-wave feminism. Abortion was still very controversial in many western societies and feminists opposed the control of the state and the church. Exploring female sexuality took many forms: focusing on long-time censured forms of sexuality (lesbianism, sado-masochism) or showing heterosexuality from a woman's point of view.\nBirgit Hein, Elfi Mikesch, Nelly Kaplan, Catherine Breillat and Barbara Hammer are some of the directors to be remembered.\n\nA film notable for its empathic portrayal of sex work is Lizzie Borden's \"Working Girls\" (1986). Molly, a white lesbian in a stable mixed-race relationship, is a Yale-educated photographer who has chosen to augment her income through sex work in a low-key urban brothel. We accompany Molly on what turns out to be her last day on the job, understanding her professional interactions with her \"johns\" through her perspective, a completely original point of view, since, until Borden's film, sex workers had largely been depicted stereotypically. The story's sympathetic, well-rounded character and situation humanizes sex work, and the film itself combats the anti-pornography stance touted by many second-wave feminists, which Borden rejects as repressive.\n\nTypically women are portrayed as dependent on other characters, over-emotional, and confined to low status jobs when compared to enterprising and ambitious male characters (Bussey & Bandura, 1999). Women in cinema are grossly misrepresented and definitely under represented. The roles that men play are the superhero, the wealthy business man or the all-powerful villain. When it comes to the roles females play they tend to be the housewife, the woman who can't obtain a man, the slut, or the secretary. The true comparison is masculinity versus femininity. The Bechdel test for film is a type of litmus test that examines the representation of women in media. The 3 factors tested are: 1. Are there at least 2 women in the film who have names? 2. Do those women talk to each other? 3. Do they talk to each other about something other than a man? (Sharma & Sender, 2014). Many roles that are given to women make them either dependent on the male counterpart or limits their role. Another characteristic of their role placement is that women are twice as likely to have a life-related role rather than a work-related role. Hollywood rarely chooses to have women be the all-powerful boss or to even have a successful career. There have been some examples that break this norm, such as \"The Proposal\" or \"I Don't Know How She Does It\". Even in these two films, the male counterpart is a strong role and in both the female lead is reliant on both actors for the storyline. Women do not stand on their own in movies and rarely are the center of attention without a male being there to steal the limelight. Some roles that have been portrayed in recent films have worked against this norm, such as Katniss in \"Hunger Games\" and Furiosa in \"\". These roles break the norm, as women typically are portrayed as dependent on other characters, over-emotional, and confined to low-status jobs compared to enterprising and ambitious male characters (Bussey & Bandura, 1999). Women in cinema are grossly misrepresented and underrepresented.\n\nMany women fear(ed) even entering the film industry, let alone produce multiple pieces of work in the industry. It is said that both male and female workers believe hiring women into the industry is taking a big chance, or being risky. There are many discriminatory acts toward women during the hiring process into the industry such as age discrimination and providing them with lower pay rates. Most women workers in the film industry only become freelancers, which in most cases prevents them from creating careers and making a living out of their film/cinematography passion. (Wing-Fai, 2015). These are the fear tactics in place, whether purposely or not, to prevent women from thriving in the film industry.\n\nHowever, there is much more gendered discrimination towards women after they receive the job and actually begin to help and/or produce work. Statistics show that there is not many women in senior positions in the industry. Compared to the amount of women hired, it is clearly shown that women are not given the chance to keep their jobs for long periods of time. “However, it is notable that women lost their jobs at a rate that was six times that of men, indicating the particular and heightened vulnerability of women in the industry.” Women are not being promoted into higher positions as often as their male counterparts and are not even given the chance to stay long enough to get promoted. These are multiple issues happening during the hiring process and even the post-hire experiences of women which may make other women fear entering the industry in the first place.\n\nThe way women are treated in the workplace are also evidence of the inequalities against them in the film industry. Women’s pay rates and expectations in their background/experience in cinematography is much different than male workers. There are many scenarios in the industry that displays the woman with more qualifications for the job than the man, yet earns less money for the same job than the man. “It is worth noting that women in this field are significantly better qualified than their male counterparts, with a greater proportion being graduates and an even more significant difference in the numbers of women, compared to men, with higher degrees (Skillset, 2010a: 6).” Even the women who are overqualified are treated as if they are not, resulting in them working extra hard to become better and be rewarded as their male counterparts. All of these inequalities and discrimination toward women in the film industry creates a fear for women to even want to enter the industry.\n\nResisting patriarchal violence was a key concern of second-wave feminism during the 1960s to the 1980s. Consequently, many feminists of the second wave have taken part in the peace movements of the eighties, as had their foremothers in the older pacifist movements. The effects that war conflict had on women following the cold war was often overlooked. Post cold-war conflicts resulted in women being subjected to increased forms of torture, rape, and violence. This caused an increase in women’s peace organizations and initiatives to protest violence against women, resulting in more criticism of the patriarchal cliché of the 'peaceable' woman. Women film directors documented the participation of women in anti-imperialist resistance movements. Inspired by the Hindu goddess Mother Kali--who is traditionally associated with sexuality, violence, and motherly-tenderness-- German filmmakers Birgit and Wilhelm Hein created their Kali Film, which depicts women as violent and threatening, the opposite of the innocent “caretaker” stereotype generally assigned to women characters. The filmmakers assembled found footage from 'trivial' genres, the only domain of cinema in which the portrayal of aggressive women was allowed. \n\nFilmmakers have also begun to take on representations of sexuality and gender in films directed specifically at college students. As campus sexual assault continues to pervade universities, filmmakers have started to create films that address these issues. In 2014 a group of students and faculty at Texas Tech University created the film series “Sexism | Cinema,” to provide education on violence against women and sexual abuse on college campuses. In 2015, the films were screened and over 500 students were in attendance.\n\nKathryn Bigelow works in male-dominated genres like science fiction, action and horror. She became the first woman to win an Academy Award for Best Director and the Directors Guild of America Award in 2010 for \"The Hurt Locker\". In 2013, her film \"Zero Dark Thirty\" was met with universal acclaim and grossed $95 million in the United States box office. Bigelow went on to be nominated for Best Director at the BAFTA Awards, Golden Globe Awards and Directors Guild of America Award among others. However, she failed to be shortlisted for the category at the 85th Academy Awards in what was widely seen as a snub.\n\nAnne Fletcher has directed four studio-financed films: \"Step Up\" (2006), \"27 Dresses\" (2008), \"The Proposal\" (2009) and \"The Guilt Trip\" (2012) which have gone on to gross over $343 million at the US box office and $632 million worldwide. She is also attached to direct the sequel to the 2007 film \"Enchanted\".\n\nCatherine Hardwicke's films have grossed a cumulative total of $551.8 million. Her most successful films are \"Twilight\" (2008) and \"Red Riding Hood\" (2011).\n\nNancy Meyers has enjoyed success with her five features: \"The Parent Trap\" (1998), \"What Women Want\" (2000), \"Something's Gotta Give\" (2003), \"The Holiday\" (2006) and \"It's Complicated\" (2009) which have amassed $1,157.2 million worldwide. Before she started her directorial career she wrote some other successful films like \"Private Benjamin\" (1980) for which she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, \"Baby Boom\" (1987) or \"Father of the Bride\" (1991).\n\nSofia Coppola is a critically acclaimed director who has also had financial success. Her award-winning film \"Lost in Translation\" (2003) grossed over $119 million. \"The Virgin Suicides\" (1999), \"Marie Antoinette\" (2006) and \"The Bling Ring\" (2013) were also successful. Her father is Francis Ford Coppola.\n\nAva DuVernay is the director of the critically acclaimed \"Selma\" (2014) as well as the first African American woman to direct a triple-digit-budgeted film, \"A Wrinkle in Time\" (2018).\n\nA study done by USC Annenberg researched what it meant to be a female in the film industry, no matter if they were working behind the scenes or were fictional characters. USC Annenberg looked at two test groups for films, the top 100 films every year from 2007 to 2015 and the top 100 films in 2015.\n\nFor the top 100 films in 2015, women were leads and co-leads in 32 of them, while of the 32 films, only 3 of them included a race other than Caucasian. Out of the thousands of speaking roles, only 32 characters were LGBT and of those characters, 40% of them were racially diverse. Female characters were also three times more likely to be seen in a sexual context.\n\nBehind the scenes had similar statistics to the female fictional characters. Female directors, writers, and producers made up 19% of the 1,365 people that it took to create the top 100 films in 2015. The percentage of female writers (11.8%) and producers (22%) can be seen as high compared to female directors (7.5%). Of the 7.5% of female directors, three of them were African American and one was Asian.\n\nFor the top 100 films every year from 2007 until 2015, of the 800 films, 4.1% were directed by females.\n\nWhile there is still a gap between the percent of female and male filmmakers, women tend to be more involved in documentary films. There is a higher percentage of women directing documentaries than women directing narrative films.\n\nIn the history of the Academy Awards, there have been 11 female documentary directors that have won Oscars for Best Documentary Feature. Barbara Kopple received two of those awards with her films \"Harlan County, USA\" (1977) and \"American Dream\" (1991). Yvonne Smith's film \"Adam Clayton Powell\" (1990) was nominated as well, making her the first African American producer to be nominated for 'Best Documentary Feature'.\n\nThe Center of the Study of Women in Television and Film has dedicated 18 years to the study of women in the film industry. An annual report is created, discussing how women have contributed to as filmmakers. Most of the findings from the research shows that, statistically, it says the same from year to year. The highest earning movies of the past 20 years, with the exception of foreign films and reissues, have been monitored and studied by the Celluloid Ceiling to provide information on the contributions and employment of women on these films.According to the Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film at San Diego State University, as of 2017, “women comprised 18% of all directors, writers, producers, executive producers, editors, and cinematographers working on the top 250 domestic grossing films.\"The same study concluded that in 2017, 10 or more women were given one of these positions in 1% of films, compared to 10 or more men being hired for these jobs in 70% of films.Information from the Celluloid Ceiling shows that more women tend to be employed on film projects directed by women.According to the Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy, \"in films with at least one female director, women comprised 53% of writers. Conversely, in films with male directors, women comprised just 10% of writers.\"Statistically, female directors generally create films about and for women, and hire women to assume the roles of main characters or protagonists.The Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy additionally found that \"in 2015, women comprised only 22% of protagonists and 18% of antagonists. Just 34% of major characters and 33% of all speaking characters in the top 100 domestic grossing films were women.”\n\nThe group also contributes their time to creating articles discussing how women are viewed in film, not only as filmmakers but as fictional characters as well.\n\nJulie Dash's \"Daughters of the Dust\" (1991) was the first full-length film with general theatrical release written and directed by an African American woman. Since then there have been several African or African-American women who have written, produced or directed films with national release. Neema Barnette (\"Civil Brand\"), Maya Angelou (\"Down in the Delta\"), Kasi Lemmons (\"Eve's Bayou\"), Cheryl Dunye (\"My Baby's Daddy\"), Stephanie Allain (\"Biker Boyz\"), Tracey Edmonds (\"Soul Food\"), Frances-Anne Solomon (\"A Winter Tale\") and Dianne Houston (\"City of Angels\"), Leslie Harris (Just Another Girl on the IRT) are among these filmmakers. In 1994 Darnell Martin became the first African American woman to write and direct a film produced by a major studio when Columbia Pictures backed \"I Like It Like That\".\n\nTo date, Nnegest Likké is the first African American woman to write, direct and act in a full-length movie released by a major studio, \"Phat Girlz\" (2006) starring Jimmy Jean-Louis and Mo'Nique.\n\nFor a much fuller accounting of the larger history of black women filmmakers, see Yvonne Welbon's 62-minute documentary \"Sisters in Cinema\" (2003).\n\nThe Cameroonian journalist Thérèse Sita-Bella directed a 1963 documentary, \"Tam-Tam à Paris\", and Sarah Maldoror, a French filmmaker of Guadeloupean descent, shot the feature-film \"Sambizanga\" in Angola in 1972. But the first African woman film director to gain international recognition was the Senegalese ethnologist Safi Faye with a film about the village in which she was born (\"Letter from the Village\", 1975). The 1989 Créteil International Women's Film Festival included short films by Leonie Yangba Zowe of the Central African Republic (\"Yangba-Bola\" and \"Lengue\", 1985) and Flora M'mbugu-Schelling of Tanzania. Other African women filmmakers include Anne Mungai, Fanta Régina Nacro (\"The Night of Truth\", 2004), Tsitsi Dangarembga (\"Mother's Day\", 2004) and Marguerite Abouet, an Ivorian graphic novel writer who co-directed an animated film based on her graphic novel: Aya de Yopougon (2012). The most successful film in the history of Nollywood, \"The Wedding Party\", was directed by Kemi Adetiba in 2016.\n\nA number of well-known Indian female filmmakers have achieved astounding commercial success from their films, including Mira Nair, Aparna Sen, Deepa Mehta, Gurinder Chadha, and Manju Borah. However, there are a number of other Indian women filmmakers who have made some remarkable films that go beyond just entertainment; they take advantage of their platform to address a range of social and political issues. Other noteworthy Indian women filmmakers include Nisha Ganatra, Sonali Gulati, Indu Krishnan, Eisha Marjara, Pratibha PJaaparmar, Nandini Sikand, Ish Amitoj Kaur, Harpreet Kaur, Leena Manimekalai and Shashwati Talukdar, Rima Das.\n\nDeepa Mehta is known as a transnational filmmaker whose work in film is recognized internationally at the highest levels. Her emotionally moving, award winning films have been played at almost every major film festival across the globe, and rank as favorites amongst many. She produced the film \"Heaven on Earth\", in 2008, which premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival. Since its release, the film has turned into a useful tool for professionals who specialize in assisting abused women, specifically looking at the circumstances of immigrant women in abusive environments, as it has been screened at conferences of crown attorneys, judges and healthcare workers in order to help them better understand these women’s situations. Some of her other well-known works include her elemental trilogy: \"Earth\" (1996), \"Fire\" (1998), \"Water\" (2005), where dominant masculine values and practices of oppression and exploitation of women are challenged in this compelling three part series. Feminist social issues are highlighted, such as the mistreatment of widows, religious misogyny, and child brides in rural parts of India. She received an Oscar Nomination for \"Water\" in 2007. Other notable films of hers are \"Bollywood/Hollywood\" (2002), and the adaptation of \"Midnight’s Children\" (2012). \n\nMira Nair, a talented and accomplished Indian filmmaker, has written, produced and directed a plethora of award-winning documentaries. Her unique ability to provoke both western and non-western viewers in a variety of ways has led her to be seen as a non-traditional filmmaker who is not afraid of creating controversy through her work. \"So Far From India\" (1983) depicted the story of a young, working Indian immigrant in New York City and his harrowing experience of acculturation. While dealing with his own new struggles in America, he also has to worry about his pregnant wife back home. \"India Cabaret\" (1986), is a documentary-style film that lended a voice to strippers or cabaret dancers in Mumbai. Beyond these impressive works, she also has a list of feature films under her belt; her debut feature film, \"Salaam Bombay!\" (1988), which detailed the urban devastation created by prostitution and poverty, was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1988, won the Prix du Publique for most popular entry at the Cannes Film Festival, the Camera D'Or for best first feature, as well as 25 other international awards.\n\nIn Japan for a long time Kinuyo Tanaka was the only woman to make feature films. She was able to do this against fierce resistance because she enjoyed a status as star actress. Using genre conventions, she showed women \"with a humorous affection rare in Japanese cinema of the period\" (Philip Kemp).\n\nCurrently, the best-known women filmmaker of Japan may be Naomi Kawase; 2007 she won the Grand Prix in Cannes, while Memoirs of a fig tree, the directorial debut of well-known actress Kaori Momoi, saw the light of the day in 2006. The sociocritical adventure film \"\" by Shimako Sato's was \"\"a breakthrough into a bigger budget; it starred Takeshi Kaneshiro and was released all over the world.\n\nSimilarly in South Korea, Yim Soon-rye landed a box-office-hit with \"Forever the Moment\", while So Yong Kim got some attention for her film \"In Between Days\" and Lee Suk-Gyung made the women-themed and subtly feminist \"The Day After\".\n\nOne of the important fifth-generation filmmakers of China is Ning Ying, who won several prizes for her films; in contrast to the controversy over some of her sixth-generation colleagues such as Zhang Yimou, who got accused of having sold out their ideals, Ning Ying has gone on to realize small independent films with themes strongly linked to Chinese daily life, therefore also being a link between the 5th and 6th generation. The Sixth Generation has seen a growing number of women filmmakers such as Liu Jiayin, best known for her film \"Oxhide\", and Xiaolu Guo; in 2001 Li Yu caused quite a stir with her lesbian love story \"Fish and Elephant\".\n\nThe most famous women filmmaker from Hong Kong is undoubtedly Ann Hui, who has made a wide array of films ranging from the wuxia genre to drama; Ivy Ho and Taiwanese Sylvia Chang also are known names in the Hong Kong industry, while in Taiwan queer filmmaker Zero Chou has gotten acclaim on festivals around the world.\n\nLindan Hu has documented the post-Mao re-emergence of female desire in women's cinema of the 1980s in mainland China. The films Hu considers are \"Army Nurse\" directed by Hu Mei and \"Women on the Long March\" directed by Liu Miaomiao.\n\nYasmin Ahmad (1958–2009) is considered one of the most important directors of Malaysia; originally a commercial director, she switched to feature films relatively late and gained international acclaim while also stirring controversy among conservatives in her home country.\n\nIn Pakistan, where the film industry is not very big, some prominent and brilliant directors are working. Conventional film industry has directors like Sangeeta and Shamim Ara who are making films with feminist themes. Especially to Sangeeta's credit there are some issue-based films. Now some new directors from television industry are also coming towards the medium of films. Sabiha Sumar and Mehreen Jabbar are two new names for films in Pakistan and are making brilliant films. Both of these directors has made films which are not only issue based addressing national issues but also these films have won international awards at different film festivals.\n\nRakhshan Bani-Etemad, a writer and a director, is probably Iran's best known and certainly most prolific female filmmaker. She has established herself as the elder stateswoman of Iranian cinema with documentaries and films dealing with social pathology. Contemporary Iranian poet Forugh Farrokhzad (1935—1967) was also a filmmaker. Her best-known film is \"The House is Black\" (Khane siah ast, 1962), a documentary of a leper colony in the north of Iran. Samira Makhmalbaf directed her first film \"The Apple\" when she was only 17 years old and won Cannes Jury Prize in 2000 for her following film \"The Blackboard\". Her step-mother Marzieh Meshkini made \"The Day I Became a Woman\" and Samira's sister Hana Makhmalbaf started her career with \"The Joy of Madness\", a behind-the-scenes documentary about Samira's film \"At Five in the Afternoon\", and has subsequently made two features, Buddha Collapsed out of Shame and \"Green Days\", a film about the Green Revolution that was banned in Iran.\n\nSumitra Peries is a veteran film director in Sri Lankan cinema and she is the wife of great Lester James Peries. She also held the post of Sri Lanka's ambassador to France, Spain and the United Nations in the late 1990s.\n\nInoka Sathyangani is an internationally acclaimed Sri Lankan film director and producer. In the year 2002, she received many number awards for her maiden effort Sulang Kirilli, which deals with the theme of abortion. The film secured the highest number of awards won by a single film in the history of Sri Lanka's film industry.\n\nMarta Rodriguez is a Colombian documentary film maker.\n\nThough women played a \"minimal\" role in the development of cinema in Argentina, two pioneering women were the director María Luisa Bemberg and the producer Lita Stantic. Lucrecia Martel is a major figure of the Argentinean \"buena onda\", the post-economic crash new cinema. Lucia Puenzo is the other prominent contemporary Argentinean director. Each of them has made three features to date (2014). In addition, María Victoria Menis has written and directed several critically acclaimed films, including La cámara oscura (2008) and María y el araña (2013).\n\nBrazilian Cinema has a number of women directors whose works date from the 1930s. Brazilian women directors' most prolific era unfolds from the 1970s. Some contemporary names include: Ana Carolina, Betse De Paula, Carla Camurati, Eliane Caffé, Helena Solberg, Lúcia Murat, Sandra Kogut, Suzana Amaral, and Tata Amaral.\n\nMatilde Landeta was the first woman to become a filmmaker during the Golden Age of Mexican cinema. Her films focused on the portrayal of strong, realistic female protagonists in a patriarchal world. Some of her films are adaptations of Francisco Rojas González's novel \"Lola Casanova\" (1948) and \"La Negra Angustias\" (1949).\n\nBinka Zhelyazkova was the first Bulgarian woman to direct a feature film with \"Life Flows Quietly By...\" in 1957 and was one of the few women worldwide to direct feature films in the 1950s.\n\nIrina Aktasheva, a Russian, made several Bulgarian films during the 1960s and 1970s, including \"Monday Morning\" in 1965. Radka Bachvarova was a Bulgarian director of animation. Lada Boyadjieva had two films compete for the Short Film Palme d'Or in 1961 and 1962. Ivanka Grybcheva made films in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe first Danish feature film to be directed by a woman was \"Ud i den kolde sne\" from 1934, directed by Alice O'Fredericks, who would go on to be one of the most prolific Danish film directors. She initially co-directed her films with Lau Lauritzen Jr., however in the 1940s she started directing films on her own. She is credited with directing more than 70 feature films as well as writing screenplays for more than 30 films making her one is one of the most productive directors in Danish cinema and among her most memorable films are the \"Far til Fire\"-films and the filmatization of the Morten Koch novels, which were all very popular during the Golden Age of Danish Cinema. She is also noted for her films focusing on women and women's rights.\n\nIn the 1940s the star actress Bodil Ipsen and the screenwriter Grete Frische joined O'Fredericks in directing mainstream feature films. Ipsen would towards the end of her career co-direct with Lau Lauritsen Jr. and Fische would co-direct \"Så mødes vi hos Tove\" with O'Fredericks.\n\nOther prolific Danish directors include Astrid Henning-Jensen, who became the first female director to be nominated for an Academy Award with \"Paw\", Susanne Bier, the first female director to win a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, an Emmy Award and a European Film Award, and Lone Scherfig, whose films have been nominated for Academy Awards, BAFTAs and a European Film Award.\n\nThe oldest Danish film award is named Bodil Award after Bodil Ipsen and Bodil Kjer, and the Alice Award, which is award to the best female director at the Copenhagen International Film Festival is named in honor of Alice O'Fredericks.\n\nIn the silent era French women directors were prominent Alice Guy-Blaché directed around 700 films and is credited with introducing the narrative form. Germaine Dulac was one of the most creative art film directors and went on to be the leader of the French cinéclub movement. developed from being an actor into owing a production company and directing significant feature films.\n\nDuring the \"golden age\" of \"Classical\" French cinema Jacqueline Audry was the only woman to direct commercial films. In 1959 writer Marguerite Duras wrote the script for Alain Resnais' \"Hiroshima Mon Amour\". She turned to directing with \"La Musica\" in 1966. Among the best known French women film makers are Agnès Varda, Claire Denis, Diane Kurys, Danièle Huillet, Nelly Kaplan and Catherine Breillat. The work of many more French female directors is rarely screened outside France. Others include Zabou Breitman, Julie Delpy, Virginie Despentes, Valérie Donzelli, Pascale Ferran, Alice Guy-Blaché, Maïwenn (Le Besco), Mia Hansen-Love, Agnès Jaoui, Isild le Besco, Noémie Lvovsky, Tonie Marshall, Christelle Raynal, Céline Sciamma, Coline Serreau, and Danièle Thompson.\n\nThe Economist wrote of Leni Riefenstahl that Triumph of the Will \"sealed her reputation as the greatest female filmmaker of the 20th century\".\n\nGerman woman filmmaker Helke Sander was also one of the pioneers of the feminist movement. Other prominent female film-makers include Margarethe von Trotta and Helma Sanders-Brahms. Monika Treut has also won recognition for her depictions of queer and alternative sexuality. Contemporary German-language women directors of note include Maren Ade, Barbara Albert, Doris Dörrie, Frauke Finsterwalder, Katja von Garnier, Jessica Hausner, Nicolette Krebitz, Caroline Link and Angela Schanelec.\n\nFeminist German movies were helped and praised by all kind of organisations ; Festivals, cinemas just for women (Frauenkino), newspaper \"frauen und film\", association of film makers... Those tended to be exclusively for women, arguing that they wanted to bring balance. Different objectives were pursued with those organisations : more attention, more discussion and claims like 50% of the grant allowed to film makers should be given to female directors.\n\nIn Hungary Marta Meszaros has been making important films for decades.\n\nElvira Notari was a pioneer of Italian cinema, and she was followed by other prominent female directors as Lina Wertmüller and Liliana Cavani.\n\nChantal Akerman was a notable Belgian director. Her best-known film is \"Jeanne Dielman, 23 quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles\" (1975).\n\nEdith Carlmar was a prominent Norwegian film director, working in a variety of genres (crime, melodrama, comedy).\n\nPortuguese editor and director Manuela Viegas' 1999 film Gloria, premiered in competition at the 57th Berlinale, is considered in her country the climax of a cinema of feminin sensibility. Other Portuguese female film directors include Teresa Villaverde, Catarina Ruivo, Raquel Freire, Margarida Gil, Cláudia Tomaz and Rita Azevedo Gomes. The current President of the Portuguese Directors Association is Margarida Gil.\n\nAna Mariscal was a pioneer among Spanish female filmmakers. She was also a prolific actress in the 1940s and 1950s. In the early 1950s she became a producer and shortly after started directing and writing her own films. Her best-known film is perhaps \"El camino\" (1963), an adaptation of the novel by Miguel Delibes. Other films include \"Segundo López, aventurero urbano\" (1953) inspired by Italian neorealism or \"Con la vida hicieron fuego\" (1959), about a former combatant of the Republican faction who tries to start a new life while battling the haunting memories of the Spanish Civil War.\n\nJosefina Molina, also a novelist, started her career in the 1960s. She was the first woman who graduated from Spain's National Film School in 1967. Her prolific TV résumé includes the highly successful miniseries \"Teresa de Jesús\" (1984), a dramatization of Teresa of Avila's life. Her work on film includes \"Vera, un cuento cruel\" (1974), \"Función de noche\" (1981) or \"Esquilache\" (1989) which was entered into the 39th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nPilar Miró was a celebrated director and screenwriter of film and TV whose notable works include \"Gary Cooper, Who Art in Heaven\" (1980), \"Prince of Shadows\" (1991) which won the Silver Bear for outstanding artistic contribution at the 42nd Berlin International Film Festival and \"El perro del hortelano\" (1996), an adaptation of a Lope de Vega play which won 7 Goya Awards including Best Picture and Best Director. She was also in charge of Spain's national broadcast television TVE from 1986 to 1989.\n\nIcíar Bollaín made her acting debut as a teenager under Víctor Erice's direction in \"El sur\" (1983). She made the jump to directing and writing in 1995 with \"Hola, ¿estás sola?\" which earned her a nomination for a Goya Award for Best New Director. Her subsequent filmography includes \"Flores de otro mundo\" (1999) winner of the Grand Prix award at the International Critics' Week at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival, \"Te doy mis ojos\" (2003) which won her a Goya Award for Best Director and a nomination for a European Film Award for Best Director or \"Even the Rain\" (2010) which made the January shortlist for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nIsabel Coixet directed numerous commercials during the 1990s for clients like IKEA, Pepsi or Ford. She usually films in English with international actors. Some of her best known films include \"My Life Without Me\" (2003), starring Sarah Polley, Mark Ruffalo, Scott Speedman and Deborah Harry, \"The Secret Life of Words\" (2005) once again starring Polley as well as Tim Robbins and Julie Christie, a segment on the omnibus film \"Paris, je t'aime\" (2006) and the Philip Roth adaptation \"Elegy\" (2008) starring Ben Kingsley, Penélope Cruz, Dennis Hopper and Patricia Clarkson.\n\nGracia Querejeta has won acclaim for her ensemble dramas \"By My Side Again\" (1999), \"Héctor\" (2004) and \"Seven Billiard Tables\" (2007). She has also directed documentaries and TV episodes.\n\nOther notable filmmakers include María Ripoll (\"Tortilla Soup\", \"The Man with Rain in His Shoes\"), Patricia Ferreira, Chus Gutiérrez, María Lidón aka Luna (\"\", \"Moscow Zero\"), Rosa Vergés, Lydia Zimmermann, or Laura Mañá.\n\nJoy Batchelor was an English animator, director, screenwriter, and producer. She married John Halas in 1940 and subsequently co-established Halas and Batchelor cartoons, whose best known production is the animated feature film \"Animal Farm\" (1954), which made her the first woman director of an animated feature since Lotte Reiniger.\n\nMuriel Box was an English screenwriter and director, directing her first film in 1941.\n\nIn Britain Jane Arden (1927–82), following up her television drama \"The Logic Game\" (1965), wrote and starred in the film \"Separation\" (Jack Bond 1967), which explores a woman's mental landscape during a marital breakup. Arden went on to be the only British woman to gain a solo feature-directing credit for \"The Other Side of the Underneath\" (1972), a disturbing study of female madness shot mainly in South Wales. Arden's overtly feminist work was neglected and almost lost until the British Film Institute rediscovered and reissued her three features, and the short \"Vibration\" (1974), in 2009.\n\nAndrea Arnold won a 2005 Academy Award for her short film Wasp, and has twice won the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival, in 2006 for Red Road, and in 2009 for Fish Tank.\n\nTwo of Lynne Ramsay's early short films (Small Deaths and Gasman) won the Prix du Jury at the Cannes Film Festival, and her subsequent three feature films, Ratcatcher, Morvern Callar and We Need to Talk About Kevin have all screened at the Cannes Festival.\n\n\"Mamma Mia!\" directed by Phyllida Lloyd became the #5 highest-grossing film of 2008 and the highest-grossing film ever in the United Kingdom. Lloyd's next film, the Margaret Thatcher biopic \"The Iron Lady\" (2012) grossed $114 million worldwide. Debbie Isitt has directed successful mainstream films, including \"Confetti\" and the \"Nativity!\" trilogy.\n\nCinenova is a London-based organization that distributes women produced films.\n\nSally Potter is a prominent British feminist film maker.\n\nBritish filmmakers Ngozi Onwurah and Pratibha Parmar explore the legacies of colonialism.\n\nPartially as a result of funding from the UK Film Council (disbanded in 2010), a new generation of British women filmmakers has emerged in the twenty-first century, including Penny Woolcock, Carol Morley, Joanna Hogg, Clio Barnard, Sally El Hosaini, Amma Asante, and Tina Gharavi. Gallery artists Gillian Wearing and Sam Taylor-Wood have both moved into feature cinema, with Taylor-Wood (now Taylor-Johnson) named as director for the adaptation of 50 Shades of Grey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
