{"id": "8617408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8617408", "title": "666 Fifth Avenue", "text": "666 Fifth Avenue\n\n666 Fifth Avenue is a 41-story office building on Fifth Avenue between 52nd and 53rd Streets in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. The office tower was designed by Carson & Lundin and built in 1957 by Tishman Realty and Construction, which sold it when the corporation dissolved in 1976. 666 Fifth Avenue was bought by Sumitomo Realty & Development in the late 1990s, and Tishman Speyer bought it back in 2000, adding tenants before selling it yet again to Kushner Properties in 2007. In August 2018, Brookfield Properties took a 99-year lease on 666 Fifth Avenue. \n\nThe Tishman family via Tishman Realty and Construction built the tower in 1957. It was designed by Carson & Lundin, who also simultaneously worked on 600 Fifth Avenue in the nearby Rockefeller Center, and the building was called the Tishman Building. One of its most famous exterior features was the prominent 666 address emblazoned on the top of the building. The other distinctive exterior features are embossed aluminum panels. The original design included lobby sculptures by Japanese American artist and landscape architect Isamu Noguchi, including the \"Landscape of the Cloud\" which consists of sinuously cut thin railings in the ceiling to create a cloud effect. The cloud is also carried into a ceiling-to-floor waterfall. The penthouse was occupied by the Top of the Sixes restaurant, operated by Stouffer's, which closed in 1996. For many years the building had a distinctive feature of a T-shaped atrium walk-through open to the sidewalks on 52nd Street, 53rd Street and Fifth Avenue with glass storefronts inside the walk-through. This included a bookstore and another area used for years by Alitalia Airlines. For many years, the building was the home of Benton & Bowles, a major advertising firm.\n\nTishman Realty dissolved in 1976 and the building was sold for $80 million (about $ million in ). In the late 1980s, Japanese firms bought both Rockefeller Center and 666 Fifth Avenue. The new owner of 666 Fifth was Japanese realty and development company Sumitomo. Major changes included replacing the Top of the Sixes restaurant with the Grand Havana Room, a cigar bar private club.\n\nThe newly reconstituted Tishman Speyer Properties bought the building for $518 million in 2000 (about $ million in ), and about the same time Tishman also bought Rockefeller Center. Shortly after the purchase, Tishman enclosed the atrium walk-through and added a third tenant, Hickey Freeman. The enclosure cut off the Fifth Avenue entrance, and access now has to be via 52nd or 53rd Street. In 2002 the 666 address on the side of the building was replaced with a Citigroup logo, and Citigroup is now the building's largest tenant. The 2006 sale was the third blockbuster deal involving Tishman in two years. In 2005 Tishman bought the MetLife Building for $1.72 billion (about $ billion in ), setting the previous record. A month before the 666 sale, Tishman bought Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village for $5.4 billion, which was the biggest real estate deal in U.S. history.\n\nIn January 2007, Tishman Speyer, along with the German investment firm TMW, announced the sale of the building to the Kushner Properties for $1.8 billion (about $ billion in ), at the time the highest price ever paid for an individual building in Manhattan. This was an unconventional price for such a short building by New York standards, standing at . 666 Fifth is not among the top 100 tallest buildings in New York City, but its high price was mainly because of its location on Fifth Avenue near Rockefeller Center. Kushner sold the retail condominium portion of 666 Fifth to a Stanley Chera-led group for $525 million in 2008 (about $ million in ). In March 2017, reports were made that Anbang Insurance Group of China was in talks to purchase an interest in the building, based on a value of $2.85 billion ($1.6 billion for the office section, and $1.25 billion for the retail section); some of the alleged terms of the deal were called \"unusually favorable,\" including an exit for Vornado Realty Trust and retirement of the Kushner organization's remaining debt at 20 cents on the dollar, raising concerns about political influence on the Donald Trump presidential administration due to Jared Kushner's position. Shortly after the reports were made, Anbang denied that they were looking to invest in the building.\n\nIn March 2017, Zaha Hadid Architects announced plans for a $12 billion, 1,400 foot skyscraper being developed by the Kushner organization to replace the current building. The new building, to include retail and residential space and a hotel, would be completed by 2025 at the earliest, and would face a park, created by razing a block of current buildings. The developers also plan to change the name to 660 Fifth Avenue, to avoid the diabolical association with the number 666. The plans to replace the current building were later withdrawn.\n\nIn late April 2017, Charles Kushner met with Qatari Finance Minister Sharif Al Emadi in an attempt to secure funding for the tower from Qatar's sovereign wealth fund. Emadi did not agree to invest Qatar's fund in the project. About one month later, the 2017-18 Qatar diplomatic crisis began. Jared Kushner reportedly undermined United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's efforts to resolve the crisis.\n\nIn September 2017, the \"Washington Post\" wrote: \"With one-fourth of its offices empty, lease revenue does not cover monthly interest payments, according to lending documents. A $1.2 billion mortgage, with escalating interest rates, comes due in 18 months. A ratings agency has classified a $115 million portion of the loan as 'troubled,' and company officials decline to say whether it will be fully repaid.\" Due to the large amount of debt owed on the tower, Vornado Realty Trust, which owned 49.5 percent of the tower, said in February 2018 that it planned to sell its stake in the building. Vornado's stake in the property was subsequently sold to Kushner Cos. on June 1, 2018. In August 2018, Brookfield Asset Management took a 99-year lease on 666 Fifth Avenue.\n\n\nThe building contains an entrance to the New York City Subway's Fifth Avenue/53rd Street station, which is served by the . When the Hollister Co. store was opened, polished gray columns were placed in the lobby near the elevators and changes were made to the subway entrance at the base of the building.\n\nThe opening lunch scene for the movie \"The Wolf of Wall Street\" was filmed in the former Top of the Sixes restaurant.\n\nThe 1959 documentary film \"Skyscraper\"\n\nBeginning in season 4 of \"Mad Men\", when SCD&P move into the Time-Life Building, the \"666\" on top of the building can be seen in many scenes, through the window just outside of Don Draper’s office.\n"}
{"id": "7169125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169125", "title": "ARTnews", "text": "ARTnews\n\nARTnews is an American visual-arts magazine, based in New York City. It covers art from ancient to contemporary times. It includes news dispatches from correspondents, investigative reports, reviews of exhibitions, and profiles of artists and collectors.\n\nThe magazine was founded by James Clarence Hyde in 1902 as Hydes Weekly Art News and was originally published eleven times a year. \n\nFrom vol. 3, no. 52 (November 5, 1904) to vol. 21, no. 18 (February 10, 1923), the magazine was published as American Art News.From February 1923 to the present, the magazine has been published as \"The Art News\" then \"ARTnews\".\n\nThe magazine's art critics and correspondents include Arthur Danto, Linda Yablonsky, Barbara Pollock, Margarett Loke, Hilarie Sheets, Yale School of Art dean Robert Storr, Doug McClemont and Museum of Modern Art director Glenn D. Lowry.\n\nIn April 2014, Milton and Judith Esterow, the magazine's owners since 1972, sold the publication to Skate Capital Corp., a private asset-management firm owned by Sergey Skaterschikov. It was later revealed that Skate Capital was acting on behalf of the Polish company Abbey House, which renamed itself ARTNEWS SA.\n\nFollowing this change in ownership the magazine merged with \"Art in America\" in June 2015, owned by Brant Publication's BMP Media Holdings, LLC. In October 2015 the monthly frequency of \"ARTnews\" was switched to quarterly. In 2016, Brant Publications took full control of BMP.\n\nThe magazine, along with \"Art in America\", \"The Magazine ANTIQUES\", and \"Modern Magazine\" have been owned by Art Media Holdings since June 2016 and are based in Soho, New York City.\n\nThe magazine has won the George Polk Award, the National Magazine Award for General Excellence, the National Headliner Award and the National Arts Club Distinguished Citation for Merit.\n\nThe \"ARTNews\" Top 200 list is released annually and contains the top individual art collectors from around the world based on interviews with collectors, curators, dealers, auction houses, and museums. Those on the list are also surveyed, and their responses are used to inform trends and provide data, such as a breakdown of where the most top art collectors live (the United States). \n\nCollectors on the list are profiled with a brief biography focused on the type of art that they collect (contemporary, post war, modern, etc.) and includes their city or cities of residence, a photo, their source of wealth and the years they have been on the Top 200 list, as many collectors are on it for multiple years. The list released in September 2018 includes Leonard Lauder, Edythe and Eli Broad, Rebecca and Warren Eisenberg, Alison and Peter Klein, Marsha and Jeffrey Perelman, Tatsumi Sako, Sheri and Howard Schultz. The full list is announced in both the print and online versions of the magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418950", "title": "Adam Petty", "text": "Adam Petty\n\nAdam Kyler Petty (July 10, 1980 – May 12, 2000) was a professional racing driver. He was the first fourth-generation driver in NASCAR history.\n\nPetty was raised in High Point, North Carolina into stock car racing \"royalty\". The son of Kyle Petty, he was widely expected to become the next great Petty, following in the footsteps of his father, grandfather Richard, and great-grandfather Lee. He was the first known fourth-generation athlete in all of modern American motor sports to participate in the chosen profession of his generations.\n\nPetty began his career in 1998, shortly after he turned 18, in the ARCA RE/MAX Series. Like his father Kyle, he won his first ARCA race, driving the #45 Pontiac at Lowe's Motor Speedway.\n\nPetty moved to NASCAR Busch Series full-time in 1999, driving the #45 Chevrolet. Petty finished sixth in his first Busch Series race at Daytona and had a best finish of fourth place, though he also failed to qualify for three of the Busch races. Petty finished the 1999 season 20th overall in points.\n\nPetty Enterprises planned to have Petty run a second Busch season in 2000, while giving him seven starts in the 2000 NASCAR Winston Cup Series, in preparation for a full Winston Cup campaign in 2001. He struggled early in the Busch season, but managed to qualify in his first attempt at Winston Cup during the DirecTV 500 at Texas Motor Speedway on April 2. He qualified 33rd and ran in the middle of the pack most of the day before his engine expired, forcing him to finish 40th. Adam never got to race alongside his father. Kyle failed to qualify and eventually relieved an ill Elliott Sadler, but Adam was already out of the race. Lee Petty, Adam's great-grandfather, and 3-time NASCAR Champion, lived to see his Winston debut, but died just three days later.\n\nIn a practice session for the Busch 200 race at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway, Petty's throttle stuck wide open at turn three, causing the car to hit the outside wall virtually head on. Petty was killed instantly when he suffered a basilar skull fracture. He was 19 years old.\n\nPetty's death, along with 1998 Winston Cup Rookie of the Year Kenny Irwin Jr.'s in the same corner at the same track eight weeks later, led NASCAR to mandate the use of a kill switch on the steering wheel and the adoption of the Whelen Modified Tour restrictor plate for the September Cup race; the plate was abandoned after that race. These two adjustments addressed the cause of the deadly accidents, but did not address the basilar skull fractures suffered by both drivers. The HANS or Hutchens devices, designed to prevent the rapid-deceleration head-and-neck movements associated with the injury that Petty and Irwin Jr. suffered, was not mandated by NASCAR until 2001, after similar injuries and deaths of Tony Roper, Dale Earnhardt and ARCA driver Blaise Alexander.\n\nKyle Petty, who drove the No. 44 car at the time of the crash, drove Adam's No. 45 car in the Busch Series for the remainder of 2000. He then used the No. 45 in the Cup Series throughout the rest of his driving career.\n\nIn October 2000, five months after Petty's death, his family partnered with Paul Newman and the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp to begin the Victory Junction Gang Camp in Randleman, North Carolina as a memorial to Petty. The camp has received support from many NASCAR drivers, teams, and sponsors, including Cup Series sponsor Sprint, which has placed a replica of Petty's 1998 car in the camp. The camp began operation in 2004 and is an official charity of NASCAR.\n\nPetty also appears as a special guest driver in the video games \"NASCAR 2000\", \"NASCAR Rumble\", \"NASCAR 2001\" and \"NASCAR Arcade\".\n\nIn December 2013, his brother Austin named his newborn son after Adam in tribute.\n"}
{"id": "12664404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664404", "title": "Andrew Jameson (politician)", "text": "Andrew Jameson (politician)\n\nAndrew Jameson PC (Ire) DL (17 August 1855 – 15 February 1941) was a Scottish-born Irish public servant, politician and businessman.\n\nJameson was born in Alloa, Clackmannanshire, Scotland. He was educated at London International College, Trinity College, Cambridge and Trinity College, Dublin. From 1896 to 1898 he was Governor of the Bank of Ireland, remaining a director until 1941. In 1902 he was High Sheriff of County Dublin. He was also chairman of the Irish Lights Commission, which administered lighthouses in Ireland. He was president of the Dublin Chamber of Commerce in 1921–22.\n\nIn 1917 he was a member of the unsuccessful Irish Convention. He was appointed to the Privy Council of Ireland in the 1921 New Year Honours, entitling him to the style \"The Right Honourable\".\n\nFrom 1922 to 1936 Jameson served as a Senator of the Irish Free State. As a member of the Memorial Committee set up to establish the Irish National War Memorial Gardens, in December 1930 he advised W. T. Cosgrave, President of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State, who was very interested in bringing the memorial to fruition, on the suitability of the site running along the south bank of the River Liffey; this site was eventually decided upon by Cosgrave and agreed by the committee.\nJameson was also chairman of the whiskey distillers John Jameson & Son Ltd.\n\nIn 1877 he married Grace (1854–1922), daughter of Dr William Malachy Burke of Loughrea. They had four children, including the painter Harriet Kirkwood. He married secondly, in 1924, Ruth Hart, daughter of George Vaughan Hart of Howth, County Dublin. They had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "345084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345084", "title": "Baltimore Convention Center", "text": "Baltimore Convention Center\n\nThe Baltimore Convention Center is a convention and exhibition hall located in downtown Baltimore, Maryland. The Center is a municipal building owned and operated by the City of Baltimore. The facility was constructed in two separate phases: the original Center, with of exhibition and meeting space, opened in August 1979 at a cost of $51.4 million. A $151 million expansion, which increased the Center's total size to , was completed in April 1997. The 752-room, city-owned Hilton Baltimore hotel opened in August 2008, connected to the convention center by an enclosed skywalk bridge. Another expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center has been proposed at an estimated cost of $400 million that includes a new 500 room hotel and an 18,500 seat arena; this project is estimated to cost $900 million, this proposal is no longer active and considered dead. As of March 2016, the State of Maryland is going to explore expanding the Baltimore Convention Center for an estimated cost of $600 million and build a new hotel attached to the expansion. As of August 2016, the proposal of having a combined expanded convention center, arena and hotel has been revived. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake requested a $1 million feasibility study from the Maryland Stadium Authority which was approved on August 2, 2016. As of September 2017, Phase 1 of the feasibility study has begun with the release expected to be sometime by the end of 2017. On July 6, 2018, the Maryland Stadium Authority finally released Phase 1 of the feasibility study. \n\nAs was the case with Harborplace, which opened in 1980; the Maryland Science Center, which opened in 1976; and the National Aquarium in Baltimore, which opened in 1981, the Convention Center was intended to be a catalyst for tourism, an important part of the City's post-manufacturing economic development plans. An Abell Foundation report in June 2005 describes the Convention Center as having been \"built as an economic development tool to attract to Baltimore conventions, trade shows, and meetings that would leave in the city millions of dollars spent on lodging, food, entertainment, and other services.\" (Controversy, 2005, p. 3) A report on economic development in the area, entitled \"Subsidizing the Low Road: Economic Development in Baltimore\", states that \"public and non-profit facilities such as the Maryland Science Center, the World Trade Center, the Convention Center, and the National Aquarium\" (\"Subsidizing\", 2002, p. 11) were part of then-mayor Schaefer's \"focus on real estate, retailing and tourism sectors\" (p. 10), as areas for growth, as well as his utilization of \"'public/private partnerships' to pursue economic development\" (p. 11).\n\nDuring the next two decades, due in part to the success of the Convention Center and the other attractions, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Sports Legends Museum at Camden Yards, M&T Bank Stadium, Power Plant Live!, and the Reginald F. Lewis Museum of Maryland African-American History, have joined the area, creating a ten-block plus entertainment and cultural destination at Baltimore's Inner Harbor, further increasing tourist dollars flowing into the region.\n\nA June 2005 Greater Baltimore Committee report on tourism in Baltimore illustrates the importance of tourism in the current Baltimore region's economy:\nHospitality and tourism and the convention industry are vital components of the region’s economy. According to the Baltimore Area Convention and Visitors Association (BACVA), spending from domestic travelers in 2002 was $8.476 billion statewide; $2.8 billion in Baltimore alone. This spending supported $719 million in state and local taxes while providing over 44,000 regional jobs. (Voices, 2005)\n\nOne major convention held in the convention center was Otakon, a convention that focuses on anime and other facets of East Asian culture. The convention had resided in the Baltimore Convention Center between 1999 and 2016. In 2013, the convention attracted 34,211 people. However, organizers of that convention announced at the close of the 2013 event plans to move to the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, DC for at least five years starting in 2017. Convention officials cited space concerns, along with the uncertainty of construction plans for the convention center and a new arena. According to WBAL-TV, Baltimore's local NBC news affiliate, due to the pending departure of Otakon in 2017 to Washington D.C., concerns were mounting regarding Baltimore's economic future when it came to tourism. In 2016, Otakon's final year in Baltimore, 29,113 people attended, a decline from its peak attendance of 34,211 in 2013.\n\nThe Convention Center is also viewed as important to the recent development on Baltimore's West Side. According to Ronald M. Kreitner, executive director of West Side Renaissance Inc., the \"Convention Center will help contribute to the success of the theaters and the retail,\" referring to the development of the France-Merrick Performing Arts Center/Hippodrome Theatre, as well as new retail ventures in the area. (Renaissance, 2003)\n\nBy 2013, the center was playing a major role in the city's tourism growth, with conventions, seminars, conferences and exhibitions helping boost visitor numbers that year to 23.9 million, and expenditure by visitors to $5.15 billion. Visit Baltimore President Tom Noonan noted in July 2014 Baltimore was leading other cities in terms of future convention center bookings, through until 2021.\n\nIn early 2017, a \"Baltimore Sun\" article revealed that Otakon wasn't the only large convention that Baltimore City lost due to the current size of the Baltimore Convention Center. The article reports that as of the fiscal year that ended on June 30, 2016, Visit Baltimore hosted 415 total event with a combined estimated economic impact of $180 million, the city usually hosts 20 to 30 large conventions annually however city officials are now stating the convention center is too small to be competitive with other cities. The article also reports that at least 10 large conventions have left Baltimore due to outgrowing the convention center and these conventions were held at the convention center during the previous 10 years and the total of 10 large conventions includes Otakon which as of 2017 will be held at the much larger Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington D.C. The article also reports that future conventions are at risk of leaving Baltimore as well.\n\nDespite the continuing growth and redevelopment in the area, the expanded Convention Center has not met expectations with respect to the number of conventions and people it attracts each year. Irene E. Van Sant, then-manager of the Convention Center Hotel Project for the Baltimore Development Corporation, Baltimore's former Mayor Sheila Dixon, and Governor of Maryland Martin O'Malley—feel that a hotel adjacent to the Convention Center will make it a more appealing site for conventions. The completion of the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. and the National Harbor project in Prince George's County intensified the debate.\n\nIn general, supporters of a convention hotel say that for the Convention Center to be viable in the future, and compete with other cities for conventions, a new \"Headquarters\" hotel is necessary to guarantee enough rooms for group meetings. Opponents of the hotel project have either questioned the necessity of a new hotel altogether or objected to the use of public dollars to finance the project. The Baltimore Convention Center hotel, named Hilton Baltimore, broke ground in February 2006 and opened in August 2008. It has 752 rooms and is the city's largest hotel, connected directly to the Convention Center via sky bridge. Baltimore City used public revenue bonds to cover the $301.7 million cost of building the hotel.\n\nWhen the 1996 expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center opened, the convention center was ranked 28th largest in the nation in terms of exhibition and meeting space. By 2011, the convention center plummeted to 73rd largest and, as a result, Baltimore is losing convention business. Visit Baltimore reports that the Hilton Baltimore Convention Center Hotel that opened in August 2008 is helping, but since the opening of the Hilton the city has lost over 700,000 hotel-night bookings due to the convention center being too small to meet the needs of a group or the dates the group wanted was not available.\n\nIt has been argued that if Baltimore does not expand its convention center, the city could \"fall off the map as a potential convention choice.\" Nearby cities have or are in the process of expanding convention and hotel space, such as Washington D.C. (opened the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in 2003 with plans to open a 1,175-room Marriott Marquis hotel with of convention and meeting space in 2013) and Philadelphia (expanded its Pennsylvania Convention Center in 2011 of over of meeting and convention space).\n\nVisit Baltimore proposes an expansion of the convention center, reasoning that it would allow the city to accommodate multiple large meetings or conventions at a time. Additionally, the Greater Baltimore Committee estimates that with the proposed arena-hotel-convention center, Baltimore could accommodate as many as 300 new convention groups that cannot utilize Baltimore currently due to the size of the convention center.\n\nIn fall 2010, the Greater Baltimore Committee, a local influential business group, proposed an estimated $900 million project that would demolish the 1979 wing of the Baltimore Convention Center east of Sharp Street, plus the Sheraton Inner Harbor Hotel on the same block, and replace the buildings with a four-story, convention center expansion, an 18,500 seat arena that will replace Baltimore's existing 1st Mariner Arena over two levels of underground parking, a new 500-room Sheraton hotel and stores and restaurants facing Pratt, Charles and Conway Streets. At the time, the $900 million price tag was the only obstacle with the proposal.\n\nHowever, on May 25, 2011, at the annual meeting for the Greater Baltimore Committee, the owner of the Sheraton Inner Harbor hotel, local business and construction magnate, Williard Hackerman, made an offer that he would be willing to finance more than half of the proposed $900 million price tag and would be willing to build the hotel and the arena which is estimated to cost $500 million and the remainder, $400 million for the convention center expansion would need to be financed by the State of Maryland and Baltimore City, the offer is contingent on whether the city and state can move the convention center expansion project forward. The offer received a positive reception from both Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley who both have submitted requests to the Maryland Stadium Authority to conduct a feasibility study on the project that is due by the end of 2011.\n\nVisit Baltimore, the architects involved and others have said that this project is unique in that no other cities in the nation would have a combination arena-hotel-convention center the size of the proposed project in Baltimore.\n\nOn June 2, 2011, the Baltimore Sun reported that Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Governor Martin O'Malley wanted the Maryland Stadium Authority to pay for the estimated $150,000 feasibility study that will determine the \"estimate of taxes that the project would generate\" and if the study found the project to be viable, O'Malley and Rawlings-Blake wanted \"an analysis of potential financing options and a strategy for moving the work forward.\" On June 14, 2011, the MSA unanimously approved the feasibility request with a 7-0 vote; however, the MSA wanted the city of Baltimore to pay for part of the $150,000 cost for the feasibility study.\n\nOn July 18, 2011, the Baltimore Sun reported that the Baltimore Convention & Tourism Board approved to take $50,000 out of Visit Baltimore's budget to pay for the $150,000 feasibility study that the Maryland Stadium Authority approved on June 14, 2011.\n\nAs of October 10, 2011, the Maryland Stadium Authority had posted on its website the feasibility study that was approved on June 14, 2011. The project is expected to include \"a market and economic study of the convention center expansion and incremental tax benefits for all three venues, and a funding strategy.\" According to the MSA page, \"The study is expected to be complete by winter [2011–2012].\" \n\nOn March 5, 2012, the feasibility report was published and made public jointly by the Maryland Stadium Authority and Baltimore City which strongly makes the recommendation for expanding the Baltimore Convention Center and replacing 1st Mariner Arena, reiterating that Baltimore's tourism industry will be harmed in the long run if no action is taken. Also, on April 11, 2012, the Baltimore Business Journal published an article stating that the Maryland General Assembly in approved $2.5 million for the convention center project allocated for \"initial design [of the] $400 million expansion of the convention center (slated to be funded using public money from the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore), as well as a $500 million, 18,500-seat arena and hotel project (slated to be funded using private funding from a group led by local business magnate Willard Hackerman)\" however the Maryland General Assembly's budget committees added a prerequisite before they will approve the release of the $2.5 million. The prerequisite required that the State of Maryland, the City of Baltimore and the private financiers of the project submit a memorandum of understanding to the Maryland General Assembly's budget committees with a detailed explanation of how this project would be funded, how much of the $400 million would be shared between the State of Maryland and the City of Baltimore and exactly who would operate the new arena. The proponent of this project and CEO of the Greater Baltimore Committee, Donald Fry, stated in an interview with the Baltimore Business Journal that the approval of initial design funds by the Maryland General Assembly gives the green light to both the Greater Baltimore Committee and Willard Hackerman to enter into serious negotiations with private investors regarding \"naming rights or concession agreements for the arena\" and he feels that this is a good sign that the Maryland General Assembly will, in fact, provide even more state funding towards this project in the future.\n\nOn October 22, 2012, Tom Noonan, President and CEO of Visit Baltimore, voiced his support of this proposal. A series of studies would need to be conducted by the Maryland Stadium Authority to activate the $2.5 million and determine the feasibility and costs of the project. Construction, however, is not expected to begin until at least 2016.\n\nIn the Summer of 2013, the Greater Baltimore Committee proposal to build an expanded Baltimore Convention Center and a new arena came up in the Baltimore media due to the announcement that the largest event for Baltimore City, Otakon, would be departing Baltimore in 2017 to Washington D.C. due to the convention quickly running out of room at the Baltimore Convention Center. According to The Baltimore Sun on August 11, 2013, the proposal \"was not close to becoming a reality\" and that according to GBC's spokesman Gene Bracken, financing for the proposal \"hasn't been worked out at all.\" On August 16, 2013, The Baltimore Sun reported that little progress has been made on the Greater Baltimore Committee's proposal, reporting that since April 2012, city and state officials have been negotiating with Willard Hackerman regarding exactly how to pay for the total $900 million projected amount for the proposal and that if the city, state and Mr. Hackerman can come up with a funding plan, the state will release $2.5 million \"to pay for an expanded study of the project.\" The Baltimore Sun in the same article reported that the uncertainty surrounding the proposal to expand the Baltimore Convention Center \"played a part in Otakon's departure\" where Visit Baltimore \"warned\" a bid evaluating team for future Otakons \"that construction could affect those events\" however Visit Baltimore's CEO, Tom Noonan told The Baltimore Sun that \"there's no set plan and that we're not near that point\" in regards to potential construction and that a future study \"will be to figure out how\" the Baltimore Convention Center will \"operate during construction.\" On August 12, 2013 WBAL reported that Donald Fry of the Greater Baltimore Committee told WBAL that he hoped that the GBC would be able to \"present the mayor with some sort of financial concept within the next 30 to 60 days.\"\n\nOn February 10, 2014, the Greater Baltimore Committee proposal to build an expanded convention Center and new arena hit a major roadblock: the owner of the Sheraton Inner Harbor and the person who was spearheading the efforts to raise private funds for the project, Willard Hackerman died. The Baltimore Business Journal reported on February 11, 2014, that the death of Willard Hackerman the day prior has thrown the future of the proposal into question. Kaliope Parthemos, Baltimore City's then-Deputy Mayor of Economic and Neighborhood Development told the Baltimore Business Journal that the City of Baltimore was in active discussions with Mr. Hackerman about the proposal up until December 2013 and stated that Mr. Hackerman was actively involved and wanted this proposal to move forward however he was \"frustrated\" that he could not have privately funded the entire cost by himself. Ms. Parthemos revealed that financing the estimated $900 million project \"remained a significant hurdle up until Hackerman's death.\" Ms. Parthemos also stated that she was uncertain whether Mr. Hackerman made any plans to have the project continue after his death in case if he died.\n\nAs of November 27, 2015, no new news has been released regarding the uncertain future of the Greater Baltimore Committee proposal. It's currently unknown if the proposal will have political support after Martin O'Malley stepped down as Governor of Maryland due to term limits and Stephanie Rawlings-Blake announced she would not be seeking reelection as Baltimore Mayor.\n\nAs of March 8, 2016, this proposal is dead and not expected to be revived because the Rawlings-Blake administration is looking into renovating Royal Farms Arena instead of building a new arena. The State of Maryland has begun exploring the possibility of a $600 million expansion (see below).\n\nOn March 8, 2016, it was revealed by the Baltimore Business Journal that the State of Maryland is exploring constructing a $600 million expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center that would double the existing floor space of the convention center and build a new hotel as well.\n\nState officials are going to request in Spring 2016 from Governor Larry Hogan and the Maryland General Assembly $3 million in seed money to launch a study for expanding the convention center. This study will allow engineers and architects to figure out where to place the expansion.\n\nMaryland's Commerce Secretary, Mike Gill said that the CEO of Visit Baltimore recently met with the Maryland Department of Commerce to request seed money to study the expansion of the convention center.\n\nOne possible location is demolishing the existing Sheraton Inner Harbor hotel and locating the expansion there and building the new hotel at the southwest corner of Pratt and Charles.\n\nAll of this is part of an ongoing discussion about expanding the Baltimore Convention Center which has been a focus of the current 2016 legislative session within the Maryland General Assembly.\n\nThis new proposal by the State of Maryland and the focus of expanding the Baltimore Convention Center within the Maryland General Assembly comes about in the final year [2016] that Baltimore's largest convention, Otakon, will be held in Baltimore. In 2017, Otakon will no longer be held in Baltimore and is relocating to Washington D.C. at the larger Walter E. Washington Convention Center.\n\nAs of 12:00 AM EDT, April 12, 2016, the official end of the 2016 Maryland legislative session within the Maryland General Assembly, no bill was introduced in either the state Senate or House of Delegates that requested the $3 million in seed money to launch a study for expanding the Baltimore Convention Center. It's currently unknown why no bill was introduced in the 2016 legislative session when it was reported in March 2016 that there would be a request for $3 million, it's unknown if the request will be made within the 2017 Maryland legislative session that will begin on Wednesday, January 11, 2017, at 12:00 PM EST.\n\nOn Thursday, April 14, 2016, the \"Baltimore Business Journal\" reported that the $3 million for a study to expand the Baltimore Convention Center was supposed to be part of one of three supplemental budgets that the Maryland Governor has but according to Karen Glen Hood, a spokeswoman for the Maryland Department of Commerce told the Baltimore Business Journal that a formal request for $3 million was never submitted to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan and did not explain why the request was not made, instead deferring the question of why to local officials closer to the Baltimore Convention Center.\n\nVisit Baltimore CEO Tom Noonan, a longtime advocate for expanding the Baltimore Convention Center stated he was \"disappointed\" that the funding wasn't in place at the end of the 2016 Maryland legislative session, the executive director of the convention center, Peggy Daidakis could not have been reached for comment.\n\nMaryland's Secretary of Commerce, Mike Gill, told the Baltimore Business Journal that the interested parties in having the Baltimore Convention Center expanded are having \"ongoing conversations\" into what the next steps for a study would be but stated he couldn't state specifics.\n\nVisit Baltimore's CEO Noonan revealed that at least 30% of interested citywide conventions, conventions defined as requiring at least 1,200 hotel rooms at its peak night, skip over Baltimore for other cities due to the convention center being either too small or is already booked on the dates the interested conventions want reserved in Baltimore.\n\nThe Baltimore Business Journal reports that when the Baltimore Convention Center opened in 1979, it was \"one of the premier convention spaces in the country\" but the stature of the convention center has fallen over time with upgrades to other convention centers in cities such as Philadelphia, Washington D.C. and Atlanta.\n\nNow, as of April 14, 2016, the interested parties for an expanded convention center will either have to wait until 2017's legislative session or search for alternative funding.\n\nAs of August 2, 2016, the proposed project of constructing an expanded convention center attached to a new arena and hotel has been revived and a $1 million feasibility study has in fact been approved (see below).\n\nOn August 2, 2016, it's been revealed that the proposed project of constructing a combined expanded convention center attached to an arena and hotel has been revived and that a $1 million feasibility study for a combined arena, hotel and expanded convention center was requested by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake from the Maryland Stadium Authority and that the Maryland Stadium Authority has approved the study. Funding is coming from the Maryland Stadium Authority ($126,667), the State of Maryland (an additional $500,000 is available immediately to fund this study), the Downtown Partnership of Baltimore ($30,000), the Greater Baltimore Committee ($30,000), and the City of Baltimore ($313,333). The study will take approximately a year to complete and is expected to be completed and released in Fall 2017. The study will look at having either just a convention center expansion and having a combined expanded convention center attached to a new arena and hotel, the study will look at the environmental, community and traffic impacts of the two proposals and what types of events the new facility will be able to attract, this study will also determine exactly how large the expanded convention center is supposed to be. The new complex will be bounded by Pratt, Charles and Conway Streets. This study will not include construction and budget plans as this is just Phase 1, if the state and city elects to move forward after reviewing the results of this study, that second study will put together just partial plans to obtain a cost estimate.\n\nIn November 2016, the Maryland Stadium Authority's feasibility study that was approved in August 2016 got full funding after the Baltimore City Board of Estimates approved to commit to $313,000 of funding towards the $1 million feasibility study. This comes approximately a week after the Baltimore Development Corp., the city's economic development agency's board approved to commit to $250,000 of funding towards the $1 million feasibility study (the remainder of the study costs are being funded through the state and two private groups: $126,667 from the Maryland Stadium Authority, $500,000 from the Maryland Department of Commerce with a total of $626,667 coming from the State of Maryland and $30,000 each from local groups the Downtown Partnership of Baltimore and the Greater Baltimore Committee). Jeff Pilas, the CFO of the Baltimore Development Corp. told the Baltimore Business Journal that if the study recommends an expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center, a second phase for the study would commence involving design. The study was requested by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and is expected to begin sometime in early 2017 and final completion is expected to be sometime later in 2017.\n\nIn April 2017, Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh, the successor to former Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, stated that she does not agree with building a hotel as part of an expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center.\n\nOn May 4, 2017, the Baltimore Sun has reported that Phase 1 of the Baltimore Convention Center expansion feasibility study is moving along. On May 3, 2017, the Maryland Stadium Authority approved a team for the study that includes Baltimore design firm Ayers Saint Gross, Seattle architectural firm LMN Architects, Kansas City firm Populous, and New York design firm Perkins Eastman. The Baltimore Sun reports that the study amount has significantly decreased from the amount being \"up to $1 million\" to now the study total costs is \"not to exceed $460,000.\" The study is to \"assess what combination of elements is feasible — a convention center expansion, hotel and new venue to replace Royal Farms Arena — and how they might fit together.\" and is expected to be completed by the end of 2017. Funding for the $460,000 is still coming from public and private sources including Baltimore City and the State of Maryland. Based upon the final recommendations of this study, the Baltimore Sun reports that a Phase 2 study \"may be authorized later.\"\n\nAs of September 2017, Phase 1 of the Baltimore Convention Center expansion study is underway. According to an LMN Architects press release, the study will be examining 4 \"alternative development options\":\nThe Baltimore Business Journal reported that the amount allocated to Phase 1 is indeed $1 million and a recommendation from this study is expected by the end of 2017.\n\nThe official study summary according to the Maryland Stadium Authority is:MSA's Board has approved a request by the Mayor of Baltimore to conduct various program and construction related analysis to determine the program and technical feasibility for a proposed Baltimore Convention Center expansion. The Study will consider both a stand-alone convention center as well as a hybrid facility inclusive of a hotel and/or arena.Funding is being provided by a mix of public, private, City and State dollars.The MSA also lists the budget to be $1 million. \n\nAs of February 26, 2018, the Phase 1 feasibility study has not been released publicly yet nor has a study recommendation been released publicly, both were reported to be released by the end of 2017 and it's unknown what is causing the delay for releasing the Phase 1 study or the study recommendation. \n\nThe Baltimore Convention Center is located within a superblock bounded by Charles Street, Pratt Street, Conway Street, and Howard Streets. The east and west halves of the Baltimore Convention Center are linked by an enclosed skywalk bridge over Sharp Street. The total land area of the Baltimore Convention Center is , or and the total enclosed area is . The structural engineers for the expansion of this project was Leslie E. Robertson Associates.\n\nThe west end of the facility—corner of Pratt and Howard Street—is served by the Convention Center/Pratt Street Station of the Maryland Transit Administration's light rail system, providing direct links to both BWI Airport and Baltimore Penn Station (MARC Penn Line and Amtrak Northeast Corridor trains). A major Maryland Transit Administration bus stop is located at the intersection of Pratt & Sharp Streets in front of the Baltimore Convention Center, near the western half of the Baltimore Convention Center (Pratt Street Entrance). The Camden Yards Light Rail Stop and Camden Line (MARC) station are also within walking distance of the facility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13667971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13667971", "title": "Björn Prytz", "text": "Björn Prytz\n\nBjörn Gustaf Prytz (2 April 1887 – 22 June 1976) was a Swedish industrialist in the early 1900s and from 1937 to 1947 an envoy in London for the Swedish government.\n\nHe was employed 1913 at S.K.F. as marketing manager. He became managing director for S.K.F. around 1921–22. Björn Prytz was the man behind the name Volvo during the time he was the managing director for SKF sales company in America 1914–18. Volvo was registered as a trademark, as well as a subsidiary company to SKF, in May 1915 (the application for Volvo as a trademark was sent to PRV on May 11), with the intention to use it for a new developed low-price ball bearing for the automobile industry in the America. However, these plans were never realized and the SKF name and logotype (as it looks today) was used instead for all type of bearings produced by SKF. The name and company Volvo was almost forgotten but came into use when the SKF employee Assar Gabrielsson (SKF sales manager) and engineer Gustav Larson finally had succeeded to convince SKF that they should start to manufacture automobiles within SKF. AB Volvo, as an automobile company, was founded 10 August 1926 at a board meeting held in Hofors when SKF decided to invest in the company and use it as a subsidiary company within the SKF-group.\n\nHis name is appearing in reference to a mysterious meeting which he had in June 1940 with the British Foreign Office Minister Rab Butler, at which the possibility of Britain making a compromise peace was discussed.\n"}
{"id": "41836014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41836014", "title": "Bound to Rise", "text": "Bound to Rise\n\nBound to Rise: Radical Ideas For The New Corporate World, the second book by Indian author and communications expert Sunil Robert, is a guide to young entrants to the corporate world. It is a part memoir, and part self-help book advising young executives on how to deal with the high stress and constant pressure of the corporate environment, and find fulfilment. The author delves into his personal experiences in the corporate world, spanning 25 years and covering India, UK and the US and uses philosophical metaphors to explain the necessity of accepting change by adjusting our mindsets to embrace change.\n\nThe book is split into chapters that follow a style of following the progress of an individual from one role to another, the former emphasizing a ‘reactive’ person and the latter emphasizing a ‘responsive’ one. These shifts are explained through anecdotes, philosophy, observations and narration.\n\nSunil is a global executive with a career spanning 25 years across India, Europe and North America.\n"}
{"id": "1059362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059362", "title": "Captain of industry", "text": "Captain of industry\n\nIn the late 19th century a captain of industry was a business leader whose means of amassing a personal fortune contributed positively to the country in some way. This may have been through increased productivity, expansion of markets, providing more jobs, or acts of philanthropy. This characterisation contrasts with that of the robber baron, a business leader using political means to achieve personal ends.\n\nSome 19th-century industrialists who were called \"captains of industry\" overlap with those called \"robber barons\". These include people such as J. P. Morgan, Andrew Carnegie, Andrew W. Mellon, Henry Ford, and John D. Rockefeller. The term was coined by Thomas Carlyle in his 1843 book, \"Past and Present\".\n\nThe education division of the National Endowment for the Humanities has prepared a lesson plan for schools asking whether \"robber baron\" or \"captain of industry\" is the better terminology. The lesson states that it attempts to help students \"establish a distinction between robber barons and captains of industry. Students will uncover some of the less honorable deeds as well as the shrewd business moves and highly charitable acts of the great industrialists and financiers. It has been argued that only because such people were able to amass great amounts of capital could our country become the world's greatest industrial power. Some of the actions of these men, which could only happen in a period of economic laissez faire, resulted in poor conditions for workers, but in the end, may also have enabled our present day standard of living.\"\n"}
{"id": "48218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48218", "title": "Commodity", "text": "Commodity\n\nIn economics, a commodity is an economic good or service that has full or substantial fungibility: that is, the market treats instances of the good as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Most commodities are raw materials, basic resources, agricultural, or mining products, such as iron ore, sugar, or grains like rice and wheat. Commodities can also be mass-produced unspecialized products such as chemicals and computer memory.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole: well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets. The wide availability of commodities typically leads to smaller profit margins and diminishes the importance of factors (such as brand name) other than price.\nThe word \"commodity\" came into use in English in the 15th century, from the French \"commodité\", \"amenity, convenience\". Going further back, the French word derives from the Latin \"commoditas\", meaning \"suitability, convenience, advantage\". The Latin word \"commodus\" (from which English gets other words including \"commodious\" and \"accommodate\") meant variously \"appropriate\", \"proper measure, time, or condition\", and \"advantage, benefit\".\n\nIn economics, the term \"commodity\" is used specifically for economic goods or services that have full or partial but substantial fungibility; that is, the market treats their instances as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Karl Marx described this property as follows: \"From the taste of wheat, it is not possible to tell who produced it, a Russian serf, a French peasant or an English capitalist.\" Petroleum and copper are examples of commodity goods: their supply and demand are a part of one universal market.\n\nNon-commodity items such as stereo systems have many aspects of product differentiation, such as the brand, the user interface and the perceived quality. The demand for one type of stereo may be much larger than demand for another.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole. Well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets.\n\nSoft commodities are goods that are grown, such as wheat, or rice.\n\nHard commodities are mined. Examples include gold, helium, and oil.\n\nEnergy commodities include electricity, gas, coal and oil. Electricity has the particular characteristic that it is usually uneconomical to store, and must therefore be consumed as soon as it is processed.\n\nCommoditization occurs as a goods or services market loses differentiation across its supply base, often by the diffusion of the intellectual capital necessary to acquire or produce it efficiently. As such, goods that formerly carried premium margins for market participants have become commodities, such as generic pharmaceuticals and DRAM chips. An article in \"The New York Times\" cites multivitamin supplements as an example of commoditization; a 50 mg tablet of calcium is of equal value to a consumer no matter what company produces and markets it, and as such, multivitamins are now sold in bulk and are available at any supermarket with little brand differentiation. Following this trend, nanomaterials are emerging from carrying premium profit margins for market participants to a status of commodification.\n\nThere is a spectrum of commoditization, rather than a binary distinction of \"commodity versus differentiable product\". Few products have complete undifferentiability and hence fungibility; even electricity can be differentiated in the market based on its method of generation (e.g., fossil fuel, wind, solar), in markets where energy choice lets a buyer opt (and pay more) for renewable methods if desired. Many products' degree of commoditization depends on the buyer's mentality and means. For example, milk, eggs, and notebook paper are not differentiated by many customers; for them, the product is fungible and lowest price is the main decisive factor in the purchasing choice. Other customers take into consideration other factors besides price, such as environmental sustainability and animal welfare. To these customers, distinctions such as \"organic versus not\" or \"cage free versus not\" count toward differentiating brands of milk or eggs, and percentage of recycled content or Forest Stewardship Council certification count toward differentiating brands of notebook paper.\n\nThis is a list of companies trading globally in commodities, descending by size as of October 28, 2011.\n\n\nIn the original and simplified sense, commodities were things of value, of uniform quality, that were produced in large quantities by many different producers; the items from each different producer were considered equivalent. On a commodity exchange, it is the underlying standard stated in the contract that defines the commodity, not any quality inherent in a specific producer's product.\n\nCommodities exchanges include:\n\nMarkets for trading commodities can be very efficient, particularly if the division into pools matches demand segments. These markets will quickly respond to changes in supply and demand to find an equilibrium price and quantity. In addition, investors can gain passive exposure to the commodity markets through a commodity price index.\n\nIn order to diversify their investments and mitigate the risks associated with inflationary debasement of currencies, pension funds and sovereign wealth funds allocate capital to non-listed assets such as a commodities and commodity-related infrastructure.\n\nThe inventory of commodities, with low inventories typically leading to more volatile future prices and increasing the risk of a \"stockout\" (inventory exhaustion). According to economist theorists, companies receive a convenience yield by holding inventories of certain commodities. Data on inventories of commodities are not available from one common source, although data is available from various sources. Inventory data on 31 commodities was used in a 2006 study on the relationship between inventories and commodity futures risk premiums.\n\nIn classical political economy and especially in Karl Marx's critique of political economy, a commodity is an object or a good or service (\"product\" or \"activity\") produced by human labour. Objects are external to man. However, some objects attain \"use value\" to persons in this world, when they are found to be \"necessary, useful or pleasant in life,\" \"Use value\" makes an object \"an object of human wants,\" or is \"a means of subsistence in the widest sense.\"\n\nAs society developed, people found that they could trade goods and services for other goods and services. At this stage, these goods and services became \"commodities.\" Commodities are defined as objects which are offered for sale or are \"exchanged in a market.\" In the marketplace, where commodities are sold, \"use value\" is not helpful in facilitating the sale of commodities. Accordingly, in addition to having use value, commodities must have an \"exchange value\"—a value that could be expressed in the market.\n\nPrior to Marx, many economists debated as to what elements made up exchange value. Adam Smith maintained that exchange value was made up of rent, profit, labour and the costs of wear and tear on the instruments of husbandry. David Ricardo, a follower of Adam Smith, modified Smith's approach on this point by alleging that labour alone is the content of the exchange value of any good or service. While maintaining that all exchange value in commodities was derived directly from the hands of the people that made the commodity, Ricardo noted that only part of the exchange value of the commodity was paid to the worker who made the commodity. The other part of the value of this particular commodity was labour that was not paid to the worker—unpaid labour. This unpaid labour was retained by the owner of the means of production. In capitalist society, the capitalist owns the means of production and therefore the unpaid labour is retained by the capitalist as rent or as profit. The means of production means the site where the commodity is made, the raw products that are used in the production and the instruments or machines that are used for the production of the commodity.\n\nHowever, not all commodities are reproducible nor were all commodities originally intended to be sold in the market. These priced goods are also treated as commodities, e.g. human labour-power, works of art and natural resources (\"earth itself is an instrument of labour\"), even though they may not be produced specifically for the market, or be non-reproducible goods.\n\nMarx's analysis of the commodity is intended to help solve the problem of what establishes the economic value of goods, using the labor theory of value. This problem was extensively debated by Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Rodbertus-Jagetzow among others.\n\nAll three of the above-mentioned economists rejected the theory that labour composed 100% of the exchange value of any commodity. In varying degrees, these economists turned to supply and demand to establish the price of commodities. Marx held that the \"price\" and the \"value\" of a commodity were not synonymous. Price of any commodity would vary according to the imbalance of supply to demand at any one period of time. The \"value\" of the same commodity would be consistent and would reflect the amount of labour value used to produce that commodity.\n\nPrior to Marx, economists noted that the problem with using the \"quantity of labour\" to establish the value of commodities was that the time spent by an unskilled worker would be longer than the time spent on the same commodity by a skilled worker. Thus, under this analysis, the commodity produced by an unskilled worker would be more valuable than the same commodity produced by the skilled worker. Marx pointed out, however, that in society at large, an average amount of time that was necessary to produce the commodity would arise. This average time necessary to produce the commodity Marx called the \"socially necessary labour time\" Socially necessary labour time was the proper basis on which to base the \"exchange value\" of a given commodity.\n\nValue and price are not equivalent terms in economics, and theorising the specific relationship of value to market price has been a challenge for both liberal and Marxist economists. However, Marx held that the value and price of any commodity would coincide only when demand and supply were equivalent to each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "21005254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21005254", "title": "Copyright term", "text": "Copyright term\n\nCopyright term is the length of time copyright subsists in a work before it passes into the public domain.\n\nCopyright subsists for a variety of lengths in different jurisdictions. The length of the term can depend on several factors, including the type of work (e.g. musical composition or novel), whether the work has been published or not, and whether the work was created by an individual or a corporation. In most of the world, the default length of copyright is the life of the author plus either 50 or 70 years. In the United States, the term for most existing works is a fixed number of years after the date of creation or publication. In most countries (for example, the United States and the United Kingdom) copyright expires at the end of the calendar year in question.\n\nThe length and requirements for copyright duration are subject to change by legislation, and since the early 20th century there have been a number of adjustments made in various countries, which can make determining the copyright duration in a given country difficult. For example, the United States used to require copyrights to be renewed after 28 years to stay in force, and formerly required a copyright notice upon first publication to gain coverage. In Italy and France, there were post-wartime extensions that could increase the term by approximately six years in Italy and up to about 14 in France. Many countries have extended the length of their copyright terms (sometimes retroactively). International treaties, like the Berne Convention, establish minimum terms for copyrights, but these only apply to the signatory countries, and individual countries may grant longer terms than those set out in a treaty.\n\nThe extension of copyright term, imposes tangible restrictions on the public domain. For instance, scholar Neil Netanel argued that Copyright Term Extension Act 1998 prevented the entering of works central to cultural heritage of the US into the public domain. He argued, culturally important dissemination, recasting, or incorporation into new expression is prevented due \"to the copyright holder's veto\". As examples he gave the adaption of the plot from novels such as The Great Gatsby and Peter Pan, the refashion of characters like Mickey Mouse, or the use of Tin Pan Alley songs like \"Let's Do It (Let's Fall in Love)\" for documentaries about the Great Depression.\n\nFor the millions of older copyrighted works of less enduring popularity, it is difficult, or impossible, to trace the copyright ownership and determine who holds the particular rights that would have to be licensed for the use of the work. The problem of such orphan works stems from the extension of copyright term and the lack of requirement for the copyright owner to renew or register their copyright. In order to tackle this perceived problem some jurisdictions have revised their copyright laws to allow use of orphaned works, after diligent searches.\n\nDiscussions about the optimal length of the copyright term (e.g. regarding the copyrights incentive for creative production) is a significant part of public and scientific discourse and reception.\n\nOne of the earlier and often cited positions is from the British politician Thomas Babington Macaulay who argued in an 1841 speech in the House of Commons that copyright is a monopoly and as such has generally negative effects on society. Although Macaulay's speech is widely reported, the reaction to it in the House of Commons is hard to find – Ricketson reports that following Macaulay's claims that the heirs of certain authors would block publication of their works:\n\nIt is also worth noting that Macaulay is arguing here against term extension, he is not arguing against copyright. This point is well made by Macaulay himself:\n\nLiebowitz describes use of the term monopoly in relation to copyright as misleading, but \"rhetorically effective\". While Towse writes that a more appropriate term is 'monopolistic competition'.\n\nIn 2009, a paper by Rufus Pollock of University of Cambridge scientifically quantified the optimal copyright term length at 15 years, significantly shorter than any currently existing copyright term, via an economical model with empirically-estimable parameters.\n\nIn 2013 scholar Petra Moser concluded in a paper on the impact of the copyright extension on the British Copyright Act of 1814 that \"longer copyrights raise the costs of accessing intellectual assets for consumers and other firms, which may discourage the diffusion of knowledge and decelerate the pace of cumulative innovation and learning-by-doing.\"\n\nIn 2014 a Rock, Paper, Shotgun article about the existence of orphaned classical video games and the suggestion of letting them enter the public domain after 20 years, raised a controversial public debate about copyright terms and public domain between game industry veterans John Walker, George Broussard, and Steve Gaynor.\n\nA March 2015 published Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation paper, analysed with a simulated model the relationship of scientific knowledge creation to copyright term length and concluded a decreased knowledge production on copyright term increases for the analysed context.\n\nAs a curiosity, the work \"Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up\" is subject in the UK to a special clause in the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988 that granted Great Ormond Street Hospital a right to royalty in perpetuity. J M Barrie had gifted the copyright to the work to the hospital in 1929. The different copyright terms in the various jurisdictions has led to some disputes involving derivative works created and/or sold elsewhere in the world.\n\nSeveral charts have been made to help decipher the various copyright terms in the United States, such as: \n\n"}
{"id": "27574892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27574892", "title": "Don Buck", "text": "Don Buck\n\nDon Buck (real name Randoff Sanfrisco Figuero or Francisco Rodriques Figuero) (died 1917) was a Portuguese immigrant in New Zealand in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. He was known for working newly released prisoners as gum diggers and trading the gum for a profit. He is seen as a mixed figure; this is mostly because of the perceived conflict between his profiteering and his making use of criminals and ex-criminals.\n\nLittle is known of Don Buck's early life.\n\nHe tried various business, all of which failed, before moving out to Henderson, New Zealand, in 1911, when he started gum-digging at the recommendation of some locals; Kauri gum was at that time experiencing considerable prospecting attention in New Zealand, of which it became an important product for a short time. From there, he moved out near Swanson Stream and built his abode on some likely prospecting land. There, he found an abundance of gum, but was not able to do the work to remove it himself, due to a heart condition. He persuaded the Police Magistrates in the Auckland Courts, that they should give convicted criminals the option of working at his camp, or serving a sentence in jail. Alongside this, multiple ex-prisoners without any prospects were sent to him.\n\nOn top of gaining a profit from selling the gum, he made gain by renting out shacks to prospectors.\n\nDon Buck did not supply alcohol (he himself did not drink, again due to his heart condition), but drunkenness was not rare at his camp, since there were several near-by vineyards. During one drunken bout in the camp, a murder was reported to have happened. The police did not take the much interest in the matter, and after it was found that the victim had drunk large amounts of alcohol prior to his death, the case became stagnant.\n\nDon Buck died suddenly on 5 August 1917, one day after suffering a heart attack. He was buried in a pauper's grave in Waikumete Cemetery, originally with an un-marked or poorly marked grave. The grave has since been marked with a gravestone as a result of a campaign and financing by local historian Marianne Simpkins.\n\nDon Buck Road in Massey, New Zealand is named after him.\n\nThe Huruhuru Stream (also known as the Swanson Stream) is known locally as Don Buck Creek from Don Buck Road down to where the Northwestern Motorway crosses it.\n\nDon Buck Primary School, which is located part way along Don Buck Road, is also named in his honour: http://www.donbuck.school.nz/\n\n"}
{"id": "31723061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31723061", "title": "Dona Bertarelli", "text": "Dona Bertarelli\n\nDona Bertarelli (also known as Donata Guichard Bertarelli, Donata Bertarelli Späth, Donata Bertarelli Spaeth) (born 1968) is a Swiss businesswoman of Italian origin. She is co-president of the Bertarelli Foundation. She is also a sailor, having won the 2010 Bol d’Or Mirabaud and, with her team Spindrift Racing, the Rolex Fastnet in 2013. In the same year, she and her team also broke the record for the America Discovery Route.\n\nBertarelli was born in Rome in 1968. She is the daughter of Fabio Bertarelli. She and her brother Ernesto inherited Serono, a biotechnology company. Serono was founded in 1906 in Rome and was the building block of the family’s wealth. The family now has a number of activities and investments, with interests in areas such as finance, real estate, health, sports, hospitality or agriculture. According to the magazine Forbes, in 2011 the family ranked as the 81st worldwide in terms of wealth.\n\nBertarelli has a BSc from Boston University’s College of Communications.\n\nBertarelli was active in Serono, the family business, and from 1992 to 1997 was Executive Director, Public and Professional Affairs, where she established Serono Symposia and the Serono Foundation. The company was sold to Merck KGaA at the beginning of 2007.\n\nThe five star Grand Hôtel Park in Gstaad was taken over by Bertarelli in 2003.\n\nAfter her father died, in 1999 Bertarelli and her brother founded the Bertarelli Foundation to promote the sharing and development of scientific, social and economic knowledge in the field of infertility. For ten years, Bertarelli was Chairman of the Foundation.\n\nBertarelli is an ambassador for the Swiss transfusion charity Ma Vie Ton Sang and is a supporter of the World Health Organization’s ‘Go Red for Women’ campaign. She is also a godmother to the Womanity charity (formerly Smiling Children).\n\nBertarelli is an avid sailor and since 2007 has raced with her team, Spindrift Racing, in the monotype multihull regattas on Lake Léman with her Décision 35 catamaran, \"Ladycat\". Bertarelli and her team won the Bol d’Or Mirabaud in 2010. Bertarelli was the first helmswoman to win this race since its inception in 1939.\n\nIn January 2013, Bertarelli bought a Maxi Trimaran called \"Maxi Banque Populaire V\" for her Spindrift racing team. In the same year, and with the boat now named \"Maxi Spindrift 2\", she co-skippered the team to victory in the 45th Rolex Fastnet and also set a new record for the America Discovery Route, beating the time set by Franck Cammas in 2007 by more than 20 hours.\n\nIn August 2015, Dona Bertarelli's Spindrift 2 defended her title by taking line honors at the 46th Rolex Fastnet race. Later that year, on November 22, Dona Bertarelli, with Yann Guichard and their crew, left Ushant (a French island off the northwest corner of Brittany) on Spindrift 2, attempting to break the record for a crewed non-stop circumnavigation (the Jules Verne Trophy). While they did not break the record, Bertarelli became the fastest woman to sail around the world.\n"}
{"id": "18614787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18614787", "title": "Dorcas Muthoni", "text": "Dorcas Muthoni\n\nDorcas Muthoni (born 1979, Nyeri) is a Kenyan an entrepreneur, computer scientist and founder of OPENWORLD LTD, a software consulting company she started at the age of 24. Through her work as an entrepreneur and computer scientist, Muthoni seeks to see technology positively transforming the lives of the African society, governments and enterprises. She received the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology's Change Agent award in 2008.\n\nShe was graduated in Computer Science from the University of Nairobi, has specialized training in wireless networks, radio-communications and strategic technology planning, among other subjects. Through her everyday work as a businesswoman and computer scientist, she seeks to see technology positively transform the life of the African society and businesses.\n\nOPENWORLD has been involved in the delivery of some most widely used Web and cloud applications in Africa, such as ARIS, an African Union reporting application used by all 54 member states; the Performance Management System for the Government of Kenya, automating performance contracting in the public sector; and OpenBusiness, a revolutionary cloud-based small- and medium-size business management tool.\n\nMuthoni is also the founder of the regional organization AfChix, a mentorship and capacity building initiative for women in computing across Africa. Since 2004, AfChix activities have included organizing annual Computing Career Conferences with a special emphasis on encouraging computing careers for young women and high school girls; continuous career development for women i technology and role-modeling for upcoming women in computing. This passion and involvement has made her a role model herself, for women and girls in the African community.\n\nMuthoni has been an Internet Society (ISOC) Fellow to the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and World Bank infoDev Global Forum. In 2008, she was an Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology's Change Agent award winner and in 2009 she was selected as a Women’s Forum Rising Talent, a network of highly talented women with the potential to become influential figures in the future. In 2013, she was selected as a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader, a panel of distinguished leaders from around the world under the age of 40. In 2017, the Pompeu Fabra University made Honoris Causa for her significant work in the promotion of engineering studies among girls in Africa, the mentoring of young people, and her social commitment in the fight against poverty. \n\n"}
{"id": "1476858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476858", "title": "Electrophoretic deposition", "text": "Electrophoretic deposition\n\nElectrophoretic deposition (EPD), is a term for a broad range of industrial processes which includes electrocoating, cathodic electrodeposition, anodic electrodeposition, and electrophoretic coating, or electrophoretic painting. A characteristic feature of this process is that colloidal particles suspended in a liquid medium migrate under the influence of an electric field (electrophoresis) and are deposited onto an electrode. All colloidal particles that can be used to form stable suspensions and that can carry a charge can be used in electrophoretic deposition. This includes materials such as polymers, pigments, dyes, ceramics and metals.\n\nThe process is useful for applying materials to any electrically conductive surface. The materials which are being deposited are the major determining factor in the actual processing conditions and equipment which may be used.\n\nDue to the wide utilization of electrophoretic painting processes in many industries, aqueous EPD is the most common commercially used EPD process. However, non-aqueous electrophoretic deposition applications are known. Applications of non-aqueous EPD are currently being explored for use in the fabrication of electronic components and the production of ceramic coatings. Non-aqueous processes have the advantage of avoiding the electrolysis of water and the oxygen evolution which accompanies electrolysis.\n\nThis process is industrially used for applying coatings to metal fabricated products. It has been widely used to coat automobile bodies and parts, tractors and heavy equipment, electrical switch gear, appliances, metal furniture, beverage containers, fasteners, and many other industrial products.\n\nEPD processes are often applied for the fabrication of supported titanium dioxide (TiO) photocatalysts for water purification applications, using precursor powders which can be immobilised using EPD methods onto various support materials. Thick films produced this way allow cheaper and more rapid synthesis relative to sol-gel thin-films, along with higher levels of photocatalyst surface area.\n\nIn the fabrication of solid oxide fuel cells EPD techniques are widely employed for the fabrication of porous ZrO anodes from powder precursors onto conductive substrates.\n\nEPD processed have a number of advantages which have made such methods widely used\n\nThick, complex ceramic pieces have been made in several research laboratories. Furthermore, EPD has been used to produce customized microstructures, such as functional gradients and laminates, through suspension control during processing.\n\nThe first patent for the use of electrophoretic painting was awarded in 1917 to Davey and General Electric. Since the 1920s, the process has been used for the deposition of rubber latex. In the 1930s the first patents were issued which described base neutralized, water dispersible resins specifically designed for EPD.\n\nElectrophoretic coating began to take its current shape in the late 1950s, when Dr. George E. F. Brewer and the Ford Motor Company team began working on developing the process for the coating of automobiles. The first commercial anodic automotive system began operations in 1963.\n\nThe first patent for a cathodic EPD product was issued in 1965 and assigned to BASF AG. PPG Industries, Inc. was the first to introduce commercially cathodic EPD in 1970. The first cathodic EPD use in the automotive industry was in 1975. Today, around 70% of the volume of EPD in use in the world today is the cathodic EPD type, largely due to the high usage of the technology in the automotive industry. It is probably the best system ever developed and has resulted in great extension of body life in the automotive industry\n\nThere are thousands of patents which have been issued relating to various EPD compositions, EPD processes, and articles coated with EPD. Although patents have been issued by various government patent offices, virtually all of the significant developments can be followed by reviewing the patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nThe overall industrial process of electrophoretic deposition consists of several sub-processes:\n\n\nDuring the EPD process itself, direct current is applied to a solution of polymers with ionizable groups or a colloidal suspension of polymers with ionizable groups which may also incorporate solid materials such as pigments and fillers. The ionizable groups incorporated into the polymer are formed by the reaction of an acid and a base to form a salt. The particular charge, positive or negative, which is imparted to the polymer depends on the chemical nature of the ionizable group. If the ionizable groups on the polymer are acids, the polymer will carry a negative charge when salted with a base. If the ionizable groups on the polymer are bases, the polymer will carry a positive charge when salted with an acid.\n\nThere are two types of EPD processes, anodic and cathodic. In the anodic process, negatively charged material is deposited on the positively charged electrode, or anode. In the cathodic process, positively charged material is deposited on the negatively charged electrode, or cathode.\n\nWhen an electric field is applied, all of the charged species migrate by the process of electrophoresis towards the electrode with the opposite charge. There are several mechanisms by which material can be deposited on the electrode:\n\n\nThe primary electrochemical process which occurs during aqueous electrodeposition is the electrolysis of water. This can be shown by the following two half reactions which occur at the two electrodes:\n\nIn anodic deposition, the material being deposited will have salts of an acid as the charge bearing group. These negatively charged anions react with the positively charged hydrogen ions (protons) which are being produced at the anode by the electrolysis of water to reform the original acid. The fully protonated acid carries no charge (charge destruction) and is less soluble in water, and may precipitate out of the water onto the anode.\n\nThe analogous situation occurs in cathodic deposition except that the material being deposited will have salts of a base as the charge bearing group. If the salt of the base has been formed by protonation of the base, the protonated base will react with the hydroxyl ions being formed by electrolysis of water to yield the neutral charged base (again charge destruction) and water. The uncharged polymer is less soluble in water than it was when was charged, and precipitation onto the cathode occurs.\n\nOnium salts, which have been used in the cathodic process, are not protonated bases and do not deposit by the mechanism of charge destruction. These type of materials can be deposited on the cathode by concentration coagulation and salting out. As the colloidal particles reach the solid object to be coated, they become squeezed together, and the water in the interstices is forced out. As the individual micelles are squeezed, they collapse to form increasingly larger micelles. Colloidal stability is inversely proportional to the size of the micelle, so as the micelles get bigger, they become less and less stable until they precipitate from solution onto the object to be coated. As more and more charged groups are concentrated into a smaller volume, this increases the ionic strength of the medium, which also assists in precipitating the materials out of solution. Both of these processes are occurring simultaneously and both contribute to the deposition of material.\n\nDuring the aqueous deposition process, gas is being formed at both electrodes. Hydrogen gas is being formed at the cathode, and oxygen gas at the anode. It should be noted that for a given amount of charge transfer, exactly twice as much hydrogen is generated compared to oxygen on a molecular basis.\n\nThis has some significant effects on the coating process. The most obvious is in the appearance of the deposited film prior to the baking process. The cathodic process results in considerably more gas being trapped within the film than the anodic process. Since the gas has a higher electrical resistance than either depositing film or the bath itself, the amount of gas has a significant effect on the current at a given applied voltage. This is why cathodic processes are often able to be operated at significantly higher voltages than the corresponding anodic processes.\n\nThe deposited coating has significantly higher resistance than the object which is being coated. As the deposited film precipitates, the resistance increases. The increase in resistance is proportional to the thickness of the deposited film, and thus, at a given voltage, the electric current decreases as the film gets thicker until it finally reaches a point where deposition has slowed or stopped occurring (self limiting). Thus the applied voltage is the primary control for the amount of film applied.\n\nThe ability for the EPD coating to coat interior recesses of a part is called the \"throwpower\". In many applications, it is desirable to use coating materials with a high throwpower. The throwpower of a coating is dependent on a number of variables, but generally it can be stated that the higher the coating voltage, the further a given coating will \"throw\" into recesses. High throwpower electrophoretic paints typically use application voltages in excess of 300 volts DC.\n\nThe coating temperature is also an important variable affecting the EPD process. The coating temperature has an effect on the bath conductivity and deposited film conductivity, which increases as temperature increases. Temperature also has an effect on the viscosity of the deposited film, which in turn affects the ability of the deposited film to release the gas bubbles being formed.\n\nThe coalescence temperature of the coating system is also an important variable for the coating designer. It can be determined by plotting the film build of a given system versus coating temperature keeping the coating time and voltage application profile constant. At temperatures below the coalescence temperature, film growth behavior and rupturing behavior is quite different from the usual practice as a result of porous deposition.\n\nThe coating time also is an important variable in determining the film thickness, the quality of the deposited film, and the throwpower. Depending on the type of object being coated, coating times of several seconds up to several minutes may be appropriate.\n\nThe maximum voltage which can be utilized depends on the type of coating system and a number of other factors. As already stated, film thickness and throwpower are dependent on the application voltage. However, at excessively high voltages, a phenomenon called \"rupture\" can occur. The voltage where this phenomenon occurs is called the \"rupture voltage\". The result of rupture is a film that is usually very thick and porous. Normally this is not an acceptable film cosmetically or functionally. The causes and mechanisms for rupturing are not completely understood, however the following is known:\n\n\nThere are two major categories of EPD chemistries: anodic and cathodic. Both continue to be used commercially, although the anodic process has been in use industrially for a longer period of time and is thus considered to be the older of the two processes. There are advantages and disadvantages for both types of processes, and different experts may have different perspectives on some of the pros and cons of each.\n\nThe major advantages that are normally touted for the anodic process are:\n\nThe major advantages that are normally touted for the cathodic processes are:\n\n\nA significant and real difference which is not often mentioned is the fact that acid catalyzed crosslinking technologies are more appropriate to the anodic process. Such crosslinkers are widely used in all types of coating applications. These include such popular and relatively inexpensive crosslinkers such as melamine-formaldehyde, phenol-formaldehyde, urea-formaldehyde, and acrylamide-formaldehyde crosslinkers.\n\nMelamine-formaldehyde type crosslinkers in particular are widely used in anodic electrocoatings. These types crosslinkers are relatively inexpensive and provide a wide range of cure and performance characteristics which allow the coating designer to tailor the product for the desired end use. Coatings formulated with this type of crosslinker can have acceptable UV light resistance. Many of them are relatively low viscosity materials and can act as a reactive plasticizer, replacing some of the organic solvent that otherwise might be necessary. The amount of free formaldehyde, as well as formaldehyde which may be released during the baking process is of concern as these are considered to be hazardous air pollutants.\n\nThe deposited film in cathodic systems is quite alkaline, and acid catalyzed crosslinking technologies have not been preferred in cathodic products in general, although there have been some exceptions. The most common type of crosslinking chemistry in use today with cathodic products are based on urethane and urea chemistries.\n\nThe aromatic polyurethane and urea type crosslinker is one of the significant reasons why many cathodic electrocoats show high levels of protection against corrosion. Of course it is not the only reason, but if one compares electrocoating compositions with aromatic urethane cHrosslinkers to analogous systems containing aliphatic urethane crosslinkers, consistently systems with aromatic urethane crosslinkers perform significantly better. However, coatings containing aromatic urethane crosslinkers generally do not perform well in terms of UV light resistance. If the resulting coating contains aromatic urea crosslinks, the UV resistance will be considerably worse than if only urethane crosslinks can occur. A disadvantage of aromatic urethanes is that they can also cause yellowing of the coating itself as well as cause yellowing in subsequent topcoat layers. A significant undesired side reaction which occurs during the baking process produces aromatic polyamines. Urethane crosslinkers based on toluene diisocyanate (TDI) can be expected to produce toluene diamine as a side reaction, whereas those based on methylene diphenyl diisocyanate produce diaminodiphenylmethane and higher order aromatic polyamines. The undesired aromatic polyamines can inhibit the cure of subsequent acid catalysed topcoat layers, and can cause delamination of the subsequent topcoat layers after exposure to sunlight. Although the industry has never acknowledged this problem, many of these undesired aromatic polyamines are known or suspected carcinogens.\n\nBesides the two major categories of anodic and cathodic, EPD products can also be described by the base polymer chemistry which is utilized. There are several polymer types that have been used commercially. Many of the earlier anodic types were based on maleinized oils of various types, tall oil and linseed oil being two of the more common. Today, epoxy and the acrylic types predominate. The description and the generally touted advantages are as follows:\n\n\nIn certain applications, such as the deposition of ceramic materials, voltages above 3–4V cannot be applied in aqueous EPD if it is necessary to avoid the electrolysis of water. However, higher application voltages may be desirable in order to achieve higher coating thicknesses or to increase the rate of deposition. In such applications, organic solvents are used instead of water as the liquid medium. The organic solvents used are generally polar solvents such as alcohols and ketones. Ethanol, acetone, and methyl ethyl ketone are examples of solvents which have been reported as suitable candidates for use in electrophoretic deposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1101759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101759", "title": "Email marketing", "text": "Email marketing\n\nEmail marketing is the act of sending a commercial message, typically to a group of people, using email. In its broadest sense, every email sent to a potential or current customer could be considered email marketing. It usually involves using email to send advertisements, request business, or solicit sales or donations, and is meant to build loyalty, trust, or brand awareness. Marketing emails can be sent to a purchased lead list or a current customer database. The term usually refers to sending email messages with the purpose of enhancing a merchant's relationship with current or previous customers, encouraging customer loyalty and repeat business, acquiring new customers or convincing current customers to purchase something immediately, and sharing third-party ads.\n\nEmail marketing has evolved rapidly alongside the technological growth of the 21st century. Prior to this growth, when emails were novelties to the majority of customers, email marketing was not as effective. In 1978, Gary Thuerk of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) sent out the first mass email to approximately 400 potential clients via the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET). He claims that this resulted in $13 million worth of sales in DEC products, and highlighted the potential of marketing through mass emails. \n\nHowever, as email marketing developed as an effective means of direct communication, in the 1990s, users increasingly began referring to it as \"spam\", and began blocking out content from emails with filters and blocking programs. In order to effectively communicate a message through email, marketers had to develop a way of pushing content through to the end user, without being cut out by automatic filters and spam removing software.\n\nHistorically, it has been difficult to measure the effectiveness of marketing campaigns because target markets cannot be adequately defined. Email marketing carries the benefit of allowing marketers to identify returns on investment and measure and improve efficiency. Email marketing allows marketers to see feedback from users in real time, and to monitor how effective their campaign is in achieving market penetration, revealing a communication channel's scope. At the same time, however, it also means that the more personal nature of certain advertising methods, such as television advertisements, cannot be captured.\n\nEmail marketing can be carried out through different types of emails:\n\nTransactional emails are usually triggered based on a customer's action with a company. To be qualified as transactional or relationship messages, these communications' primary purpose must be \"to facilitate, complete, or confirm a commercial transaction that the recipient has previously agreed to enter into with the sender\" along with a few other narrow definitions of transactional messaging. Triggered transactional messages include dropped basket messages, password reset emails, purchase or order confirmation emails, order status emails, reorder emails, and email receipts.\n\nThe primary purpose of a transactional email is to convey information regarding the action that triggered it. But, due to their high open rates (51.3% compared to 36.6% for email newsletters), transactional emails are an opportunity to introduce or extend the email relationship with customers or subscribers; to anticipate and answer questions; or to cross-sell or up-sell products or services.\n\nMany email newsletter software vendors offer transactional email support, which gives companies the ability to include promotional messages within the body of transactional emails. There are also software vendors that offer specialized transactional email marketing services, which include providing targeted and personalized transactional email messages and running specific marketing campaigns (such as customer referral programs). \n\nDirect email involves sending an email solely to communicate a promotional message (for example, a special offer or a product catalog). Companies usually collect a list of customer or prospect email addresses to send direct promotional messages to, or they rent a list of email addresses from service companies. \n\nThere are both advantages and disadvantages to using email marketing in comparison to traditional advertising mail.\n\nEmail marketing is popular with companies for several reasons:\n\n\n\n\nOpt-in email advertising, or permission marketing, is advertising via email whereby the recipient of the advertisement has consented to receive it. \n\nA common example of permission marketing is a newsletter sent to an advertising firm's customers. Such newsletters inform customers of upcoming events or promotions, or new products. In this type of advertising, a company that wants to send a newsletter to their customers may ask them at the point of purchase if they would like to receive the newsletter.\n\nWith a foundation of opted-in contact information stored in their database, marketers can send out promotional materials automatically using autoresponders—known as drip marketing. They can also segment their promotions to specific market segments.\n\nThe Australian Spam Act 2003 is enforced by the Australian Communications and Media Authority, widely known as \"ACMA\". The act defines the term \"unsolicited electronic messages\", states how unsubscribe functions must work for commercial messages, and gives other key information. Fines range with 3 fines of AU$110,000 being issued to Virgin Blue Airlines (2011), Tiger Airways Holdings Limited (2012) and Cellar master Wines Pty Limited (2013).\n\nThe \"Canada Anti-Spam Law\" (CASL) went into effect on July 1, 2014. CASL requires an explicit or implicit opt-in from users, and the maximum fines for noncompliance are CA$1 million for individuals and $10 million for businesses.\n\nIn 2002 the European Union (EU) introduced the Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications. Article 13 of the Directive prohibits the use of personal email addresses for marketing purposes. The Directive establishes the opt-in regime, where unsolicited emails may be sent only with prior agreement of the recipient; this does not apply to business email addresses.\n\nThe directive has since been incorporated into the laws of member states. In the UK it is covered under the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 and applies to all organizations that send out marketing by some form of electronic communication.\n\nThe CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 was passed by Congress as a direct response to the growing number of complaints over spam emails. Congress determined that the US government was showing an increased interest in the regulation of commercial electronic mail nationally, that those who send commercial emails should not mislead recipients over the source or content of them, and that all recipients of such emails have a right to decline them. The act authorizes a US $16,000 penalty per violation for spamming each individual recipient. However, it does not ban spam emailing outright, but imposes laws on using deceptive marketing methods through headings which are \"materially false or misleading\". In addition there are conditions which email marketers must meet in terms of their format, their content and labeling. As a result, many commercial email marketers within the United States utilize a service or special software to ensure compliance with the act. A variety of older systems exist that do not ensure compliance with the act. To comply with the act's regulation of commercial email, services also typically require users to authenticate their return address and include a valid physical address, provide a one-click unsubscribe feature, and prohibit importing lists of purchased addresses that may not have given valid permission.\n\nIn addition to satisfying legal requirements, email service providers (ESPs) began to help customers establish and manage their own email marketing campaigns. The service providers supply email templates and general best practices, as well as methods for handling subscriptions and cancellations automatically. Some ESPs will provide insight and assistance with deliverability issues for major email providers. They also provide statistics pertaining to the number of messages received and opened, and whether the recipients clicked on any links within the messages.\n\nThe CAN-SPAM Act was updated with some new regulations including a no-fee provision for opting out, further definition of \"sender\", post office or private mail boxes count as a \"valid physical postal address\" and definition of \"person\". These new provisions went into effect on July 7, 2008. \n\n"}
{"id": "5311123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311123", "title": "Félix Rigau Carrera", "text": "Félix Rigau Carrera\n\nFélix Rigau Carrera (August 30, 1894 – October 13, 1954), known as \"El Águila de Sabana Grande\" (The Eagle from Sabana Grande), was the first Puerto Rican pilot and the first Puerto Rican pilot to fly on air mail carrying duties in Puerto Rico.\n\nRigau Carrera was one of nine siblings born to Felip Rigau Balbàs, a Spanish Navy sailor from Catalonia, and Carmen Carrera de Rigau, a Puerto Rican homemaker, in the town of Sabana Grande, Puerto Rico. There he received his primary and secondary education. As a child he showed an interest in mechanics and would often model aircraft, using the local cathedral as a launching pad for his small fixed-wing aircraft replicas.\n\nAfter he graduated from high school, he enrolled at the Colegio de Agricultura y Artes Mecanicas (CAAM) (now the University of Puerto Rico) at Mayagüez and studied electronics and mechanical engineering. During his years at college he continued with his hobby of building and designing airplane models.\n\nAfter he earned his college degree in mechanical engineering, he joined the United States Army After serving in the Army, he traveled to Long Island where he finished his flying training \n\nAfter he earned his college degree in mechanical engineering, he joined the United States Army and was assigned to the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps (the military aviation service of the United States Army from 1914 to 1918 and a direct ancestor of the United States Air Force). While in the Army, he traveled extensively around the world and became acquainted with many of the world's famous pilots of the era. He became the first Puerto Rican parachutist as a member of the Aviation Section of the U.S. Signal Corps, whose members were among the Army's first parachutist. His stint in the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps inspired him to go and attend various aviation schools upon his release from the military.\n\nEnlisted in the United States Marine Corps upon the outbreak of World War I. After receiving additional aviation training, he was commissioned a Second Lieutenant and assigned to the First Marine Air Squadron which deployed to France as the newly renamed 1st Marine Aviation Force in July 1918. There Rigau Carrera and his unit provided bomber and fighter support to the Navy's Day Wing, Northern Bombing Group. While serving in First Marine Air Squadron, Rigau Carrera became the first Puerto Rican to pilot a fixed-wing aircraft and the first Hispanic fighter pilot in the Marines.\n\nIn July 1919, he went to Texas. Rigau Carrera met Bertha Dunston (1900–1989), who became his wife in 1919 and with whom he was to have three children, Félix (1921–1995), Carmen (1923–2016), and Jaime (1925–1970) Rigau Carrera returned to Puerto Rico and made it clear to everyone that knew him that his main objective was to be able to someday own his own and fly his own aircraft. Consequently, his four brothers helped him financially to buy his first aircraft, a Curtiss JN-4, $2,250 in 1919. The Curtiss JN-4 \"Jenny\" was one of a series of \"JN\" biplanes built by the Curtiss Aeroplane Company of Hammondsport, New York, later the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Company. \n\nRigau Carrera piloted his first flight in Puerto Rico, flying out of Camp Las Casas, the exact area where Residencial Las Casas is currently located, becoming the first Puerto Rican pilot to do so. At the time, the area was used by the military as an air base and it was also Puerto Rico's first commercial airport, and Rigau Carrera was allowed to perform his historic flight from the air field. Rigau Carrera then started using the air base frequently, for exhibition flights and to carry paying passengers on sightseeing trips. He became a national hero in Puerto Rico during the 1920s, traveling to many Puerto Rican cities by air. The local town people celebrated his landings with live music and fireworks and he became known as \"The Eagle of Sabana Grande\".\n\nIn 1931, Rigau Carrera was given a license by San Juan's mail system authority to deliver mail via air mail throughout the island, becoming the first pilot to fly on air mail carrying duties in Puerto Rico. Rigau Carrera then established a system similar to the one used by the airlines today, where he would fly people from one point of the island to another, with paying customers on board. Not all of his career went without problems, as Rigau Carrera almost lost his life during flights twice, once in San German and another time in Guanica.\n\nRigau Carrera settled in Gloucester, Virginia in the early 1920s. He lived with his family in an old Abingdon Glebe School House and constructed a building to house a flour mill and other enterprises. Rigau Carrera founded the Rigau Concrete Works which manufactured a wide variety of items to meet the industrial needs of the developing county. Besides concrete blocks, he cast septic tanks, culverts, burial vaults and yard furniture. Rigau Carrera and his wife Bertha, who were certified undertakers, established a funeral home. He amassed a fortune as the owner of the funeral home and concrete factory. While living in Virginia he joined the Virginia Commonwealth USNRF (US Naval Reserve Force) \n\nWhen the United States entered World War II, Rigau Carrera joined the United States Merchant Marine and where he served throughout the war years. During these years, Félix and Bertha divorced. He met and married Estella Martins from the Azores of Portugal with whom he had three more children, Félix, Philip, and Maria.\n\nRigau Carrera died at the age of 60 and was buried with full military honors at Abingdon Episcopal Church Cemetery. His native hometown, Sabana Grande, named a street \"Calle Félix Rigau Carrera\" in his honor. On September 14, 2011, he was honored posthumously during the Hispanic Heritage Awards at Cleveland International Airport in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nThe American Legion Post 36 in Sabana Grande, Puerto Rico was named in honor of LTJG Félix Rigau Carrera.\n\nBadges:\n"}
{"id": "20149614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20149614", "title": "Groupe Lucien Barrière", "text": "Groupe Lucien Barrière\n\nGroupe Barrière operates casinos in France, Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe. The group also operates in the French luxury hotel industry and in the catering and leisure industries.\n\n\nAs a young man from Ardèche who came up to Paris in the early 20th century, François André started a casino business by acquiring the Ostend casino in Belgium, while Eugène Cornuché, his partner, began building the Hôtel Normandy and having the Deauville casino rebuilt in 1912. In 1918, François André set up the Haussmann gaming circle in Paris and continued to grow his business by designing the La Baule resort based on the Deauville model and by purchasing the Hôtel Royal and casino in 1923. He invented the modern day resort concept by combining casinos, luxury hotels and sports facilities all on one site.\n\nIn 1926, François André took on the construction of the Hôtel Hermitage at La Baule.\n\n1927, he took over from Eugène Cornuché as managing director of SHCD (Société des Hôtels et Casino de Deauville). He then had the Hôtel du Golf in Deauville built.\n\n\nIn 1951, Lucien Barrière, François André’s nephew, joined the group.\n\nIn 1957 Lucien Barrière was appointed to the Board of several of the group’s entities and became his uncle’s sole legal heir in 1961. He undertook a project to modernise and develop the group by buying new establishments in Trouville, Dinard, St-Malo, Royan and Enghien-les-Bains.\n\nIn 1980, SHCLB (Société Hôtelière de la Chaîne Lucien Barrière) was founded to cover the La Baule hotels and casinos.\n\nIn 1987, Lucien Barrière participated in the arrival of slot machines in France.\n\n\nIn the early 1990s, Accor became a major SHCLB shareholder.\n\nIn 1990, Diane Barrière-Desseigne succeeded her father, Lucien Barrière, and launched major renovation projects. On top of their prestige, the hotels are closely connected to the film industry and the Arts. The elite figures of the film industry visit the Normandy Barrière and the Royal Barrière during the American Film Festival in Deauville.\n\nIn 1995, Diane Barrière-Desseigne suffered a very serious plane accident and from 1997, her husband Dominique Desseigne co-managed the SHCD and SHCLB at her side.\n\nIn 1998, SHCD bought Fouquet's restaurant and brand.\n\nDiane Barrière-Desseigne died in 2001. Dominique Desseigne took over group management and became chairman of SFCMC.\n\n\nIn 2003, SHCLB opened the Casino Barrière de Montreux in Switzerland, which became the leading casino in Switzerland in 2008 in terms of total gross gaming takings.\n\nDuring the same year, SHCD took over the Ryads Resort Development, owner of the land on which the Hôtel Naoura Barrière in Marrakech (Morocco) was later built, supported by top ranking investors who purchased an equity stake in Ryads Resort Development.\n\nIn 2004, the Desseigne-Barrière family, Accor and Colony Capital investment funds decided to team up as Société Hôtelière de la Chaîne Lucien Barrière, subsequently renamed Groupe Lucien Barrière, which combined the businesses of SHCD, SHCLB and Accor Casinos to create a prestigious casino and hotel group.\n\nSince 2005, the expansion has continued with the opening of casinos in Toulouse, Cairo, Leucate, Blotzheim and Lille, the opening of the Naoura Barrière in Marrakech (Morocco), Hôtel Fouquet’s Barrière in Paris and the Spark (fitness centre for treatments, sport and Spa) in Enghien-les-Bains. The Hôtel Barrière Lille will open during autumn 2010 and the hotel complex and balneo-therapy centre adjoining the Casino Barrière de Ribeauvillé is forecast to open late 2011.\n\nDuring the same period, the public service concessions of the Barrière Casinos in La Baule, Dinard, Deauville, Saint-Malo, Nice, Cassis and Saint Raphaël were renewed, which reveals the confidence these towns place in the group.\n\nOn 15 April 2009, Colony Capital sold its Groupe Lucien Barrière shares to Accor, which now holds a 49% equity stake in the company.\n\nIn 2010, Groupe Lucien Barrière and Française des Jeux designed an on-line gaming platform with 3D online gaming, which is called LB Poker company.\n\nBarrière includes 18 hotels (16 in Metropolitan France, 1 in St Barth and 1 in Marrakech), with a majority of hotels ranked as five star.\n\nParis\n\nHotel Barrière Le Fouquet's Paris*****\n\nDeauville\n\nHotel Barrière Le Normandy *****\n\nHotel Barrière Le Royal Deauville*****\n\nHôtel du Golf ****\n\nCannes\n\nHotel Barrière Le Majestic Cannes *****\nLe Gray D'Albion Barrière *****\n\nCourchevel\n\nHotel Barrière Les Neiges Courchevel *****\n\nDinard\n\nGrand Hôtel Dinard*****\n\nEnghien-les-Bains\n\nGrand Hôtel Enghien ****\n\nHôtel du Lac****\n\nLe Touquet\n\nLe Westminster ****\n\nLa Baule\n\nCastel Marie-Louise *****\n\nLe Royal La Baule *****\n\nL' Hermitage *****\n\nMarrakech\n\nHôtel & Ryads Le Naoura *****\n\nLille\n\nResort Barrière Lille *****\n\nRibeauvillé\n\nResort Barrière Ribeauvillé ****\n\nSaint Barthélemy\n\nHôtel Barrière Le Carl Gustaf ***** (end of 2017)\n\nThe 37 casinos are located in resorts along the French coast and in major cities.\n\nLa Baule, \nBénodet, \nBesançon, \nBiarritz, \nBlotzheim, \nBordeaux, \nBriançon, \nCarnac, \nCarry-le-Rouet, \nCassis, \nChamonix, \nDax, \nDeauville, \nDinard, \nEnghien-les-Bains, \nJonzac, \nLeucate, \nLille, \nMenton, \nNice Le Ruhl, \nNierderbronn, \nOuistreham, \nPerros-Guirec, \nRoyan, \nRibeauvillé, \nLa Rochelle, \nLes Sables d'Olonne, \nSaint-Malo, \nSainte-Maxime, \nSaint-Raphaël, \nToulouse, \nLe Touquet and \nTrouville.\n\nCourrendlin, \nFribourg and\nMontreux.\n\nCairo.\n\nGroupe Lucien Barrière has 131 bars and restaurants throughout the group’s casinos and hotels, which range from snacks to 5-star cuisine, as well as Fouquet’s brasseries in Paris, Toulouse and Marrakech.\n\n\nGolf courses\n\nTennis clubs\n"}
{"id": "189942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189942", "title": "Guggenheim", "text": "Guggenheim\n\nGuggenheim may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47210865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47210865", "title": "Hamoudi Messaoudene", "text": "Hamoudi Messaoudene\n\nHamoudi Messaoudene is an Algerian inventor from Aures, wilaya of Batna in Algeria, which has to his credit several patents for inventions at the national and international level. His latest invention is a machine that revolutionized the field of agriculture. The latter U-shaped, that when placed around the shaft clears the weeds. Operation known under the term mechanical weeding or hoeing. This invention won him the first prize for the best invention in 2013. He was a guest on several television channels Algerian, including Canal Algerie, where he explains the use of the machine in terms of efficiency and profitability for growers.\n\nAppearance on TV (Canal Algérie): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUgj5LK4bjA\n"}
{"id": "7477578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7477578", "title": "Home business", "text": "Home business\n\nA home business (or \"home-based business\" or \"HBB\") is a small business that operates from the business owner's home office. In addition to location, home businesses are usually defined by having a very small number of employees, usually all immediate family of the business owner, in which case it is also a family business. Home businesses generally lack shop frontage, customer parking and street advertising signs. Such businesses are sometimes prohibited by residential zoning regulations.\n\nThe prospect of working from home has gained credibility over the years. Home offices can now compete with small commercial businesses and save on rent in the process. It may also be possible to tax deduct some of your home expenses while running a home based business. Faxes, high speed internet connections, dedicated home telephone lines, and cell phones help to make a home-based business a reality. Earlier home businesses had been where families lived on the second floor of their house while converting the first floor into a store, where upon close of business they would secure the first floor and retire to the upper floors. This type of home business is still done in some rural areas. Many home businesses are started off in a much smaller capacity whilst the owner is still employed elsewhere, and then expanded once they are proven to be profitable.\n\nThe concept of home-based business, as opposed to the previous terminology of \"cottage industry\", first appeared in 1978. The phrase was coined by Marion Behr, the originator of a study to find out what businesses women throughout America were carrying on in their homes. The preview edition of \"Enterprising Women\" wrote about the search to gather information pertaining to home workers throughout the nation. Numerous magazines and organizations helped to disseminate information regarding the study. Ultimately 40,000 letters were received, many indicating the problems the respondents experienced while carrying on businesses from their homes.\n\nThe problems were analyzed and confronted in two ways. In 1980 the National Alliance of Homebased Businesswomen was founded to combat the isolation expressed by the respondents as well as to fight the laws which made conducting their businesses difficult. Then \"Women Working Home: The Homebased Guide and Directory\" by Marion Behr and Wendy Lazar was published. It contained the stories of many women who ran home-based businesses throughout the country in many diverse fields, as well as information on business formation, conduct and compliance with the law. It sold 50,000 copies. During this time many national magazines wrote about these issues. At the White House Conference on Small Business in 1986, one of the major resolutions was a recommendation favoring lifting restrictions on home-based business.\n\nThe number of home businesses continues to grow due to the increases in technology. In Great Britain, 8 million people were running an online home-based business as of April 2013.\n\nLicensing requirements for home-based businesses in the United States vary based on industry and location.\n\nNumerous businesses, initially started as home-based, have expanded to become significantly larger operations. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20365697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20365697", "title": "Ibuprofen brand names", "text": "Ibuprofen brand names\n\nThe analgesic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ibuprofen is sold under a wide variety of brand names across the world; the most common being its first registered trademark name of Brufen, along with Advil, Motrin, and Nurofen.\n\nDr Michael Readhead lead the research team to the discovery for the formula we now know as Nurofen, whilst head Research Chemist at Reckitts-Benckiser. Nurofen brand name of a range of pain-relief medication containing ibuprofen made by Reckitt Benckiser. Introduced in 1983, the Nurofen brand was acquired following Reckitt Benckiser's acquisition of Boots Healthcare in 2005. The brand is primarily marketed and sold in the United Kingdom, other parts of Europe, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. In 2016 it was the biggest selling branded over-the-counter medication sold in Great Britain, with sales of £116.8 million.\n\nThere are 11 variants of Nurofen, all of which contain ibuprofen as an active ingredient. The ibuprofen is variously formulated as the free acid, or the lysine salt. For oral formulations, i.e., taken by mouth, it is available in the conventional solid round tablet, a torpedo-shaped solid caplet, or may alternatively be in the form of a soft gel cap. It is also available as a topical gel, which is applied directly to the surface of the skin. In some cases these are marketed as being useful for treating specific types of pain; such as back pain or period pain. The primary difference among the various formulations is speed and duration of ibuprofen absorption. According to the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (UK MHRA), the form of ibuprofen in 'Nurofen Tension Headache' (ibuprofen lysine) is absorbed nearly twice as fast as the form in 'Nurofen Period Pain' (ibuprofen free acid), with the former reaching peak blood concentrations in 38 minutes, compared to 80 minutes for the latter.\n\nSome variants of Nurofen contain additional active ingredients; for example, 'Nurofen Cold & Flu' contains the non-sedating decongestant pseudoephedrine. Others are advertised as being targeted for specific pain types, for example period pain.\n\nNurofen Plus is a pain relief medication based on codeine and ibuprofen. It contains 12.8 mg of codeine phosphate (a mild opioid analgesic) and 200 mg of ibuprofen, which is an NSAID. Nurofen Plus is the only product in the Nurofen range that contains codeine.\n\nThe original Nurofen Plus tablet was manufactured in two equal parts, joined together, and then coated. One part would contain the 12.8 mg of codeine phosphate, and the other part contained 200 mg of ibuprofen. The tablets could be forcefully split into their two constituent active ingredients; for recreational use of codeine. Such drugs have a potential for misuse because they are available freely to the public.\n\nOn 25 August 2011, it was reported that several packs of Nurofen Plus were found to contain Seroquel XR — an anti-psychotic drug used to treat schizophrenia — in Boots stores across London. The next day, a safety alert was issued by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). Pharmacists were told to check each package of Nurofen Plus to look for anti-psychotic drugs. There were three batches of Nurofen Plus which were affected by the alert. Reckitt Benckiser, manufacturer of Nurofen Plus, said that it did not know where the drugs had been switched. The product was re-released in October in cellophane-sealed packs.\n\nChristopher McGuire was later found guilty of one count of contaminating goods, and two of administering a noxious substance, and jailed for 18 months. McGuire cost the manufacturers £2.4m, and saved himself £7, when he put anti-psychotic drugs in empty packets of the painkiller. The scheme involved asking for Nurofen Plus at a pharmacy counter, and then attempting to pay for it with a card he knew would be declined. This created a sufficient distraction for McGuire to discreetly swap the contaminated packet for the fresh one and walk away.\n\nIn 2010, the Australian consumer advocate Choice awarded Nurofen a 'Shonky' for charging more for 'targeted' products, all of which had the same active ingredient as the base product.\n\nIn 2012, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration upheld a complaint that Nurofen's advertising of different products for different pain was \"misleading or likely to be misleading\", and ordered that \"any representation that refers to two or more Nurofen products that contain equivalent quantities of ibuprofen and include the same product specific indications on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods must clearly indicate, in the body of the advertisement, that the two products can be used for the same purposes and are interchangeable (or words to that effect)\".\n\nIn April 2013, the Australian consumer affairs television programme \"The Checkout\" ran a story about Nurofen's claims about targeting specific pain. Edelman, the PR company for Reckitt Benckiser provided a statement, some of which was used in the programme. Included in the information provided by Edelman were photocopies of some 'sciencey looking documents' that confirmed that Ibuprofen was 'Non-selective'.\n\nIn March 2015, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) launched proceedings against Reckitt Benckiser; for misleading advertising for its targeted pain range. In December 2015, the Federal Court of Australia found that Reckitt Benckiser, which makes Nurofen, had misled consumers with its \"Nurofen Specific pain range\", and ordered that all Nurofen specific pain products be removed from retail sale within three months. A spokeswoman for Reckitt Benckiser argued that, \"[This] specific-pain range\" was intended \"to help consumers navigate their pain relief options, particularly within the grocery environment where there is no healthcare professional to assist decision making\". The ACCC said that the products were found to be \"no more effective at treating the type of pain described on its packaging than any of the other Nurofen specific pain products\", and sold for almost twice the price. Specific pain range painkillers include Nurofen Back Pain, Nurofen Period Pain, Nurofen Migraine Pain and Nurofen Tension; and all contain the \"same active ingredient, 342 milligrams of ibuprofen lysine\".\n\nIn April 2016, the Federal Court imposed a $1.7 million fine on Reckitt Benckiser. The ACCC appealed the decision in May arguing that $1.7 million in penalties did not act as an adequate deterrent for a company the size of Reckitt Benckiser. In December 2016, the Federal Court increased the fine to $6 million, the highest corporate penalty ever awarded for misleading conduct under the Australian Consumer Law.\n\nFollowing the 2015 Australian decision, the UK Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said that it was investigating earlier complaints about a television advertisement for Nurofen Express; alleged to be misleading, as it implied that the medicine targeted muscles in the head.\n"}
{"id": "36479560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36479560", "title": "Ivo Toman", "text": "Ivo Toman\n\nIvo Toman (born 1966 in Frýdek-Místek, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech entrepreneur and author of a number of motivational books and recordings. He founded the International Society Taxus International in the Czech Republic and expended it to Slovakia, Hungary, Germany and Italy.\n\nIvo Toman was born in 1966 in Frýdek-Místek. He suffered from Tourette's syndrome. At the age of 6, he contracted meningitis. Toman was often ridiculed in school due to his handicap. Learning disgusted him and he eventually changed schools. A psychology teacher motivated Toman to learn. After graduating from high school, he went to VŠLD College in Zvolen, where he graduated in 1988.\n\nHe founded the International Taxus, which operates in the fields of personal development and psychology. The enterprise began by producing a nutritional supplement. The firm expanded to Slovakia and Hungary with other products. In 2002, he moved to Prague. He and his wife Martina Kralickova began to develop a teaching English, which in 2004 put into practice in the Czech and foreign markets.\n\nIn 2008 he was awarded inclusion in the \"1000 Almanac Leaders of Czech Republic\". In 2009 he won the \"small dolphin\" award from the Czech marketing company, at the \"2009 Marketer of the year\" awards. In 2012 in Bratislava was announced as \"The bestselling author of 2011\" by the network bookstore Panta Rhei.\n\n\nHe also authored several motivation CDs and educational videos.\n\n"}
{"id": "46281767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46281767", "title": "Jaime Malet", "text": "Jaime Malet\n\nJaime Malet (1964 in Barcelona) is a business leader, businessman and attorney. He has been the elected Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Spain since 2002, and is currently a Senior Advisor at Measure, a Drone as a Service company.\n\nMalet received his law degree from the University of Barcelona. In 1987 and 1988, he studied international law and economics at the University of Houston, where he received his master's degree (LL.M). In 2002, he completed the IESE’s Senior MBA (PADE).\n\nHe began his professional career at Arthur Andersen in Spain. In 1995, he founded his own law and economic advisory firm rendering services to multinationals. In 2008, he left the legal profession behind to focus on the world of international business consulting.\n\nHe has been Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Spain since 2002.In 2008, Malet and AmchamSpain lead a lobbying campaign in the US to secure observer status for Spain at G-20 summits. The Chamber has also pushed for a number of legislative changes concerning business and labor issues and tax policies, including the new Double Taxation Treaty between Spain and the US, which has been approved by both countries and is awaiting ratification.\n\n- La Hispanidad en EE.UU. La Tercera del ABC. 09.09.2010\n\n- Claroscuros de la Economía Estadounidense. La Vanguardia. 19.12.2010\n\n- El derecho a opinar de las entidades empresariales. La Vanguardia. 04.11.2013\n\n- El español como negocio en EE.UU. ABC. 19.03.2015\n"}
{"id": "9357259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9357259", "title": "Konstantin Chuychenko", "text": "Konstantin Chuychenko\n\nKonstantin Anatolyevich Chuychenko (; born 12 July 1965) is a Russian politician, businessman, and lawyer serving as the Deputy Prime Minister of Russia and Chief of Staff of the Government since 2018.\n\nBorn in Leningrad, Soviet Union, Chuychenko graduated from the Law Department of Leningrad State University in 1987 as a fellow student of Dmitry Medvedev. \n\nFrom 1989 to 1992 Chuychenko served in the KGB. In March 2001 he became the Chief of the Legal Department of Gazprom and since April 2002 he has been a member of the management committee of Gazprom. From 17 January 2003 to July 2004 he was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Gazprom Media holding. Since March 2003 he has been a member of the board of directors of the TNT TV network. He is also a member of the board of directors of Gazprom Media, NTV and a shareholder of Gazprom. Since July 2004 he has been an executive director of RosUkrEnergo representing Gazprombank. Since 23 December 2005, he has been a member of the board of directors of Sibneft (now Gazprom Neft).\n"}
{"id": "33790477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33790477", "title": "Laurent Lamothe", "text": "Laurent Lamothe\n\nLaurent Salvador Lamothe (born 14 August 1972) is a Haitian businessman, economist, and political figure who has served in the government of Haiti as Minister of Foreign Affairs since October 2011, having been appointed Prime Minister on 4 May 2012. Previously, he was co-founder and CEO of the company Global Voice Group. On 14 December 2014, Lamothe resigned as Prime Minister for personal reasons.\n\nSon of Louis G. Lamothe (D.Litt. in Spanish Language and Literature), the founder of the Lope de Vega Institute, and of Ghislaine Fortuney Lamothe, a painter, Lamothe was born in Port-au-Prince. He grew up in an academic and artistic, but also athletic, environment. His elder brother, Ruben, served as captain of the Haitian Davis Cup tennis team for some time. A tennis player himself, Laurent Lamothe represented his country at the Davis Cup in 1994 and 1995.\n\nAt age 19, Lamothe left Haiti to complete his tertiary studies in Florida. After obtaining a bachelor's degree in political sciences at Barry University in Miami, in 1996 he enrolled in Saint Thomas University in Miami Gardens, Florida, where he earned a master's degree in business management. He was said to be a \"keen, analytical and articulate student, a gentleman and a people person\".\n\nTwo years after obtaining his master's degree in business management, he founded the telecommunications company Global Voice Group with his business partner, Patrice Baker. The company started out as a small telecommunications company and is today a worldwide provider of technological solutions in emerging markets and developing countries. Through his company, Global Voice Group, he introduced telecoms governance technologies in Africa which allow regulation agencies to manage the sector in terms of control, tariff equity and transparency. This earned him a nomination as Ernst & Young “Entrepreneur of the Year” in May 2008.\n\nIn July 2015, Lamothe founded and created LSL World Initiative (LSLWI), a global enterprise that provides solutions for governments of emerging countries to overcome debt and achieve sustainable development. Revenue generated through innovative financing strategies can be used to fund vital health and educational programs, and encourage economic self-sufficiency in emerging markets.\n\nHis involvement in the political and social life of Haiti subsequently led him to accept the position of Special Advisor to Haitian President Michel Martelly. In order to achieve more and to avoid conflicts of interest, Laurent Lamothe resigned from his businesses and considers himself as a former businessman. He also became a member of the Interim Commission for the Reconstruction of Haiti (CIRH).\n\nIn September 2011, Lamothe and former United States President Bill Clinton co-chaired the Presidential Advisory Council for the Economic Development and Investment in Haiti launched by President Martelly on 8 September 2011 to help redevelop Haiti by making it more attractive to foreign companies and investors.\n\nSubsequently, Lamothe was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship of Haiti. On 26 October 2011, he made his first speech as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs during his installation ceremony, which took place in Bois-Verna, Haiti. He is viewed as \"competent and dynamic minister\" and a \"talented entrepreneur with the vision to move Haiti forward\"\nOn 1 March 2012, Lamothe was designated as the Prime Minister of Haiti by President Martelly following the resignation of Prime Minister Garry Conille. He successfully served as Prime Minister from March 2012 to December 2014, the longest tenure of any Prime Minister in the last three decades. During his time in office, Lamothe presided over the design and implementation of an important social policy agenda that targeted the poorest sectors of the Haitian population. Lamothe also presided over the largest infrastructure development in recent history, which included the construction and rehabilitation of schools, public buildings, bridges and roads.\n\nDuring Lamothe’s tenure as Prime Minister, foreign direct investment increased to the highest level since the fall of the Duvalier dictatorship in the mid 1980s. Under his leadership, the government pursued reforms that made Haiti a safer and more business-friendly country with the implementation of a 15-year tax break to companies investing in the island nation.\n\nHe also pushed for an increase of the police force by 30 percent. He fought to improve the living conditions of the poorest in Haiti. He implemented social programs that benefited the most vulnerable, he spearheaded the free education program, and promoted good governance by tackling corruption.\n\nHe had an impact in the fight against extreme poverty – According to a 2014 World Bank study, from 2012 to 2014, the number of people in extreme poverty in Haiti dropped from 31% to 24% thanks to the social program EDE PEP, which benefited 2 million people.\n\nLamothe implemented programs to fight corruption, and improved conditions to facilitate Foreign Direct Investments (FDI). From 2011 t0 2013, FDI increased by 56% compared to the 2006-2010 period. Along with that, through the GOH’s free education program, elementary school attendance rate rose from 55 to 90%. Close to 1.4 million children between the ages of 6 and 12 now attend school at no charge. He initiated reform policies in the security sector such as supporting the effective coordination of law enforcement agencies and increasing women presence in the police force.\n\nIn 2010, Lamothe was largely responsible for the reconstruction of the country after the devastating earthquake. He was instrumental in relocating approximately 1.6 million people from the resulting tent camps, as well as in removing 97% of the rubble that the earthquake caused. Four years after the earthquake, kidnappings had decreased by 55 per cent; public investments had increased by 8 per cent; and there were almost 200 projects dedicated to rebuilding of the community. In 2016, Hurricane Matthew struck Haiti. After the hurricane, Lamothe helped rebuild communities in Haiti through the Dr. Louis G. Lamothe Foundation, which he started in memory of his late father. Lamothe is working to improve fishing and agriculture in Anse du Clerc so as to help the citizens make sustainable incomes. He has rebuilt a school in Nan Panyol, and is working on many more projects with the Foundation.\n\nOn 7 November 2014, Laurent Lamothe, received in Miami, the Innovative Leader of the Year Award, «Bravo Awards» established by the Latin Trade Group, to underline the initiatives and actions of the leaders of the region to develop their country.\n\nHaving grown up in a country affected by poverty and lack of resources at all levels, he developed throughout his life a deep sense of social responsibility and a strong tendency to assist those in need. Lamothe is a pragmatist who, during his time in office, emphasized practical solutions over partisan politics to address the urgent needs of Haiti.\n\nOn 14 December 2014, Lamothe resigned his position as Prime Minister.\n\n“My Government’s top priority was to serve these vulnerable citizens who had always been forgotten by traditional politicians and the political class.”—Laurent Lamothe, January 2015.\n\nLamothe obtained a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Barry University in Miami and in 1996 earned his MBA with Honors from University of St. Thomas. In 1998, Lamothe founded Global Voice Group SA (GVG) considered today a world-leader in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) solutions for telecoms and fiscal authorities. He served as CEO of GVG until he stepped down to assume his public sector duties with the Government of Haiti. GVG earned the 2014 Frost & Sullivan Best Practices Award for its outstanding innovation in the domain of IT solutions designed for governments and regulatory authorities.\n\nLamothe was named as the Ernst & Young’s “Entrepreneur of the Year” title in May 2008. Lamothe brought to the office of Prime Minister an entrepreneurial spirit and dynamism that earned him recognition in November 2014, from the Latin Trade magazine for his innovative skills, naming him the year’s Innovative Leader of the Americas. Latin Trade noted that Lamothe “helped establish a paradigm shift for Haiti as a destination for investment, rather than simply for humanitarian aid”. Lamothe also received the National Alliance for the Advancement of Haitian Professionals (NAAHP) Golden Honors Award for his outstanding work, integrity and commitment to Haiti and its Diaspora in 2015, as well as the Social Media Person of the Year award in 2015 by the Social Media Association of Haiti.\n\nIn July 2015, Lamothe created LSL World Initiative, a private enterprise providing solutions to governments in implementing their own funding mechanisms to help them deliver sustainable development programs in line with their needs and priorities.\n\nIn December 2015, Lamothe founded the Dr. Louis G Lamothe Foundation (LGLF) in honour and memory of his father Louis G Lamothe. The Foundation will concentrate on the strategies to lead Haiti to emerging country status by 2041. With his lead, after Hurricane Matthew struck Haiti, the Dr. Louis G. Lamothe Foundation has been working in Anse du Clerc to help the town recover from the damages. The Foundation aims to rehabilitate the fishing village and revive its economic activity by repairing the damaged houses and facilitating the acquisition of fishing equipment, among others. The Foundation also aims to make various seeds for agriculture available to the farmers.\n\nIn March 2016, Lamothe was inducted to the Sunshine State Conference Hall of Fame 2016. Laurent Lamothe received the ABiCC Award for Leadership in Global Trade 2016 from the forty Bi-National Chambers of Commerce in Florida in November 2016, for his outstanding work as an entrepreneur, assisting the governments of developing countries in the regulation and globalization of their telecommunications and IT sectors, which helped improve these countries’ competitiveness and economic sustainability. In December 2016, Lamothe was awarded the 9 the MEDays Grand Prize of Solidarity with the Haitian people, for his work with the Dr. Louis G. Lamothe Foundation in Haiti.\n\nIn 2017, Lamothe was a guest of honor at the Transform Africa Summit, and shared his vision about the \"Internet of Value: Blockchain and the Internet of Things”. At the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos, Lamothe also spoke about Blockchain and how the technology can enhance government continuity and resilience. Lamothe has been invited to participate as a speaker in the Berlin Economic Forum to be held in the German capital on March 6–11, 2018.\n\nIn 2013, Lamothe dated Czech model Petra Němcová, but as of 2015 they are no longer together.\n\nHe is the father of two daughters, Lara and Linka.\n\nHe announced his resignation as prime minister of Haiti on www.radiocaciquedhaiti.com in mid-December 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "45497398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45497398", "title": "Leonard C. Bailey", "text": "Leonard C. Bailey\n\nLeonard C. Bailey (1825–1918) was an African-American business owner and inventor. \n\nBorn into poverty, Bailey initially found work as a barber, building up a string of barber shops in Washington D.C. \n\nHe invented and received patents for a series of devices, many designed for military or government use. These included a folding bed, a rapid mail-stamping machine, a device to shunt trains to different tracks, and a hernia truss adopted into wide use by the U. S. Military. These inventions provided him with a sizable income. \n\nHe helped establish the Capital Savings Bank of Washington D.C., one of the first African-American owned banks in the U.S. and during the Panic of 1893 maintained its solvency through obtaining a personal loan from a national bank.\n\nHe was a member of the first mixed-race jury in Washington D.C., which found Millie Gaines not guilty of murder, by reason of insanity. \n\nHe served as a member of the board of directors of the Manassas Industrial School for Colored Youth where a residence hall was named after him. \n\nHe died September 1, 1918 of sudden illness.\n"}
{"id": "23966515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966515", "title": "Liam Carroll (businessman)", "text": "Liam Carroll (businessman)\n\nLiam Carroll's Zoe Developments group, Ireland, became well known during the Celtic Tiger years of 1990s and the subsequent property bubble of 2000-2007 for residential and commercial property construction projects. Carroll's wealth was estimated for a time to be in excess of €1 Billion. He later became one of Ireland's leading corporate raiders and held large stakes in many public companies for a time (Irish Continental Group, Greencore, FBD Holdings, Jurys Doyle & McInerney Holdings)\n\nIn 2000, he started building a stake in listed property developer Dunloe - Ewart. In 2002 he completed his takeover of the company through his investment vehicle Rambridge Ltd for €196.5 million.\n\nZoe group companies became unable to repay bank borrowings of a reported €1.3bn and in summer 2009 requested Examinership as protection from creditors, particularly ACCBank who were the first to seek liquidation of some of his companies. Following a series of cases, this was rejected by both the High Court and the Supreme Court of Ireland with the rescue plan described by a judge as \"bordering, if not trespassing on the fanciful\" and the appointment of liquidators to group companies was confirmed by the courts on 14 October 2009.\n\nCaroll \n"}
{"id": "6376495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6376495", "title": "Louis Bacon", "text": "Louis Bacon\n\nLouis Moore Bacon (born July 25, 1956) is an American investor, hedge fund manager, and philanthropist. He is currently the founder and chief executive of Moore Capital Management.\n\n\"Forbes Magazine\" estimates his net worth to be US$1.81 billion, making him the 374th richest person on the Forbes 400 as of February 2017.\n\nBacon was born in Raleigh, North Carolina on July 25, 1956. His father, Zachary Bacon Jr., founded real estate company Bacon & Co. and later led Prudential Financial’s and Merrill Lynch’s real estate efforts in North Carolina.\n\nBacon graduated from Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia. He attended Middlebury College in Vermont where he received his BA in American literature, graduating in 1979. Bacon met Walter Frank while he was working on a fishing boat on Long Island. He was given a job clerking at the specialist firm Walter N. Frank & Co during the summers of his college years. He subsequently received his MBA degree in finance at Columbia Business School in 1981.\n\nWhile at Columbia, Bacon traded commodities using a low interest loan he had received. During the first three semesters, he lost money and was forced to borrow money from his father to pay for necessities. He turned a profit during his fourth semester.\n\nAfter receiving his MBA, Bacon joined the sales and trading program at Bankers Trust. Later he left the firm and returned to Walter N. Frank & Co. where he traded currencies. Bacon then got a job on the floor of the New York Cotton Exchange, working as a \"runner\". Bacon later worked as a broker and trader of financial futures at Shearson Lehman Brothers and eventually became the senior vice president for their futures trading division.\n\nIn 1987 Bacon founded Remington Trading Partners and his market insights allowed him to profit during the market crash and subsequent rebound. In 1989, Bacon used his middle name in founding Moore Capital Management LLC and in 1990 created Moore Global Investments using the $25,000 he inherited from his family.\n\nIn 2006, \"Forbes\" named Bacon as the 746th richest person in the world, and in 2011 he was listed as the 736th richest man. In 2010, the Denver Post reported that his $1.6 billion ranked him as the 238th richest American. In March 2010 Forbes Magazine estimated Bacon's net worth to be $1.5 billion and the 655th richest person in the world.\n\nIn December 2013, he purchased Taos Ski Valley from the Blake family, who had owned it since 1954.\n\nIn 1986 Bacon married Cynthia Pigott, a former \"Newsweek\" magazine staff member whom he later divorced in 2002. They had four children together. In 2007, he married Gabrielle Sacconaghi in Manhattan. In November 2007, Bacon purchased the Trinchera Ranch in Costilla County, Colorado from the Forbes family. The property sold for $175 million. In 2010, Bacon purchased the Orton Plantation in North Carolina which was built by his ancestor, Roger Moore, son of James Moore, in 1735.\n\nIn 2002 Bacon obtained Austrian citizenship due to a special treatment for celebrities who have provided notable achievements for Austria. However this decision is being criticized by certain people because there is no particular achievement known.\n\nIn May 2011, the High Court in London granted Bacon a court order to obtain information from the Wikimedia Foundation, \"The Denver Post\", and WordPress as to the identities of internet users alleged to have defamed him. Legal experts suggested compliance with the orders was unlikely, given the US tradition of freedom of speech, and the fact that US courts typically required \"actual evidence or sufficient allegations of libel\" before granting similar orders.\n\nBacon has been involved in litigation with Peter Nygard, founder of Nygard International, a clothing manufacturer. He contends in multiple lawsuits that Nygard was harming the environment around Clifton Bay, Bahamas, where both have compounds in Lyford Cay. Bacon also alleges Nygard has engaged in a smear campaign against him. Nygard denies the allegations and contends that Bacon is seeking to improperly acquire Nygard's property and hurt his reputation. Suits have been filed in the Bahamas and New York.\n\nBacon contributed £250,000 to Britain's Conservative Party. Bacon also served as a fundraiser for Mitt Romney. In 2015, Bacon donated $1 million to a Super PAC supporting the presidential candidacy of Jeb Bush.\n\nIn 1991, Bacon was 20th on the list of Financial World's Top 100 Wall Street Earners list.\n\nIn 1992, Bacon created The Moore Charitable Foundation (MCF) to provide financial support to nonprofit organizations that work to preserve and protect wildlife habitat and improve water systems. Bacon has donated more than one million dollars to the environmental non-profit organization Riverkeeper.\n\nIn June 2012, United States Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar and United States Fish and Wildlife Service Director Daniel M. Ashe announced Bacon intends to donate a conservation easement totaling approximately 90,000 acres in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains bordering the San Luis Valley in Colorado. This easement will provide the foundation for the proposed new Sangre de Cristo Conservation Area.\n\nBacon owns the Trinchera Blanca Ranch located in the San Luis Valley. The Trinchera section of the ranch is currently protected by an easement administered by Colorado Open Lands. The new conservation easement Bacon intends to donate is to protect Blanca – thus protecting all 172,000 acres of land.\n\nIn addition to his work in Colorado, Bacon has helped preserve and protect environmentally sensitive land in New York, North Carolina, and the Bahamas. His key conservation projects include:\n\n\nIn 2008, he was inducted into Institutional Investors Alpha's Hedge Fund Manager Hall of Fame along with David Swensen, Seth Klarman, Steven Cohen, Kenneth Griffin, Paul Tudor Jones, George Soros, Michael Steinhardt, Jack Nash, James Simons, Alfred Jones, Leon Levy, Julian Roberston, and Bruce Kovner.\n\nHe is the 2013 recipient of the Audubon Medal, given in recognition of outstanding achievement in the field of conservation and environmental protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37389502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37389502", "title": "Mason Mathews", "text": "Mason Mathews\n\nMason Mathews (December 15, 1803 - September 16, 1878) was an American politician. A Whig, he was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates for Greenbrier County during the American Civil War.\n\nMathews represented Greenbrier County as its Virginia delegate during secession of the American South and throughout the American Civil War, despite the county being taken into the Union on the formation of West Virginia in 1863. The seat was abolished from the House at war's end. \n\nIn 1877 his son Henry M. Mathews was the first ex-Confederate elected to a governorship when he became governor of West Virginia. This event represented the rise of the Bourbon Democrat.\n\nMason Mathews was born on December 15, 1803 in Lewisburg, Virginia to Mary (née Edgar) and Joseph Mathews. Archer Mathews, his father's uncle, was a founder of Lewisburg, and Joseph moved his family to the city soon after its formation in 1782. When his father became disabled after an injury, he worked as a store clerk to support the family. He married Eliza Shore Reynolds and had eight children: Mary Edgar, Sally Ann, Henry Mason, Virginia Amanda, Alexander Ferdinand, Joseph William, Eliza Thomas, and Sally Patton.\n\nHe was elected sheriff of Greenbrier County around 1825 and in 1830 was appointed its commissioner of the revenue. He was additionally a justice of the peace for the cities of Frankford and Lewisburg. In 1859 he was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates for Greenbrier County as a member of the Whig Party, replacing Thomas Creigh.\n\nMathews, like many northwestern Virginians, opposed secession. When the Ordinance of Secession passed, however, he claimed allegiance to the . Unionists from northwestern Virginia soon met at the Wheeling Convention to establish the Restored Government of Virginia. Greenbrier County did not send a representative to the convention. President Abraham Lincoln recognized the Restored Government, which encompassed Greenbrier County, as the legitimate authority for the whole of Virginia, and in 1863 this area was incorporated into the new state of West Virginia. Though living in the Union, Mathews traveled to Richmond, Virginia to represent his county in the Virginia House of Delegates throughout the war.\n\nOn the outbreak of war, his sons volunteered for the Confederate States Army. Capt. Alexander F. Mathews was assigned as aide-de-camp to Brigadier General Henry A. Wise. In summer 1861, General Wise feuded with fellow general John B. Floyd over blame for the Confederate loss at the Battle of Carnifex Ferry in the western Virginia region. \nMathews spent several days in the camps of both Wise and Floyd and afterward wrote to President Jefferson Davis urging that both men be deposed, stating, \"I am fully satisfied that each of them would be highly gratified to see the other annihilated.\" Davis subsequently removed Wise from his command of the western Virginia region.\n\nMathews' property was raided during the 1862 Union Army occupation of Lewisburg. In a letter to a son he recalled, \"[t]hey appropriated everything they wished when they went, many fared worse than I did.\" He cited the loss of livestock, material goods, and at least two slaves, who joined with the Union.\n\nWhen the Confederacy dissolved, the Greenbrier County seat in the Virginia House of Delegates was abolished. Along with all other Confederate soldiers and office holders, Mathews was barred from holding state office.\n\nIn 1871, state rights were returned to former Confederates, allowing the Democratic party to gain control of the West Virginia legislature. Henry M. Mathews was sent as a delegate to the 1872 Constitutional Convention to overhaul the Republican-drafted 1863 West Virginia State Constitution. In 1876 he was elected 5th governor of West Virginia from the Democratic Party. He was the first ex-Confederate elected to a governorship, and his election represented the beginning of the quarter-century era of the Bourbon Democrat.\n\nMathews died of pneumonia in Lewisburg in 1878 and was buried at the Old Stone Church in Lewisburg, West Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "15414438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15414438", "title": "Nubar Gulbenkian", "text": "Nubar Gulbenkian\n\nNubar Sarkis Gulbenkian (; 2 June 1896 – 10 January 1972) was an Armenian business magnate and socialite born in the Ottoman empire.\n\nThe son of Calouste Gulbenkian, he was born in Kadıköy, Ottoman Empire but fled from the country when he was a few weeks old due to the Hamidian massacres of Armenians. Taken by his father to England, he was educated at Harrow School, Trinity College, Cambridge and in Germany. He was admitted as a student to the Middle Temple on 18 October 1917, but was not Called to the Bar. As a consequence of his educational background Gulbenkian saw himself as British and strove to live up to the model of the English gentleman. As such, during World War II he undertook some amateur sabotage in Vichy France on behalf of the United Kingdom. Despite this he was also attached to the Iranian Embassy in London in an honorary role (as he held Iranian citizenship) whilst he regained his Turkish citizenship in 1965. This however had helped him during the war as his neutral passport allowed him to cross between France and Spain with little trouble and thus gain access to British intelligence in Gibraltar.\n\nGulbenkian began as an unpaid worker for his father, who was as noted for his miserly tendencies as his son would be for his spending, but later sued his father for $10 million, bizarrely after a refusal by the company to allow him $4.50 for a lunch of chicken in tarragon jelly. Ultimately the incident contributed to Calouste Gulbenkian's decision to leave $420 million of his fortune to the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation in Portugal.\n\nAlthough he ultimately inherited $2.5 million from his father, as well as more in a settlement from the Foundation, Gulbenkian also became independently wealthy through his own oil dealings. He was initially the protégé of Henri Deterding at Royal Dutch Shell but later made an independent fortune which allowed him to live a highly extravagant lifestyle.\n\nGulbenkian's long beard, monocle and the orchid in his buttonhole which was replaced daily led to him becoming noted for a fairly eccentric life, with a number of stories building up around his name. Indeed, his character was summed up by an associate who claimed that \"Nubar is so tough that every day he tires out three stockbrokers, three horses and three women\". He was a regular face on the international playboy scene.\nAn aficionado of the Hackney carriage, he frequently stated that 'It turns on a sixpence, whatever that is!' He even had two Austin FX4 cabs converted to his own specifications and, despite their somewhat bizarre appearance, one of the vehicles sold for £23,000 in 1993.\n\nHe was an early guest on the BBC series \"Face to Face\" in 1959, but refused to sign a contract or accept a fee for his appearance. During the interview he attacked the Trustees of the Gulbenkian Foundation in what amounted to virtual slander. Following his appearance, he sued the Corporation to be given a copy of the episode, which he claimed had been promised in lieu of a fee, although the suit was not successful.\n\nA well-known gourmet, he was quoted as saying that 'the best number for a dinner party is two – myself and a damn good head waiter.' Other stories attached to his name include giving his position in life on a market research form as 'enviable'.\n\nHe was married three times, \"I've had good wives, as wives go, and as wives go, two of them went\". In 1922, he married Herminia Fejo. In 1928, he married Dora Freeland (aka Doré Plowden) in London. He courted Marie Berthe Edmée de Ayala, daughter of the French champagne tycoon Louis d'Ayala, for 14 years before they married in 1948. He had no children.\n\nHe lived at Arlington House, a block of flats close to London's Ritz Hotel, and at a former rectory in Hoggeston, near Bletchley, Buckinghamshire.\n\nHe died on 10 January 1972 at the English Hospital in Cannes, France, and had lived nearby at his \"sumptuous estate\" the Domaine des Colles at Valbonne.\n\nControversy continued to follow him after his death due to the vague nature of his father's will, which appeared to suggest that everybody Nubar was employed by or stayed with during his life should receive some money (See \"Re Gulbenkian's Settlements\" [1970] AC 553). The case was eventually taken to the House of Lords before settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "36663923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36663923", "title": "Open to Export", "text": "Open to Export\n\n'Open to Export' is a free online information service from The Institute of Export & International Trade, dedicated to helping small UK businesses get ready to export and expand internationally. It provides webinars and articles covering five different stages of international trade: 'Getting started', 'Selecting a market', 'Reaching customers', 'Pricing and getting paid' and 'Delivery and documentation'.\n\nThe 'Export Action Plan' is an online planning tool on Open to Export that allows businesses to take ownership of their international strategy. It asks companies to answer questions and set actions along the five different steps to export success, from getting started to delivery and documentation. Once completed, the company can download a PDF report of their export strategy, which they can take to their bank, adviser, or submit to Open to Export's quarterly competitions.\n\nOpen to Export runs quarterly competitions encouraging businesses to complete their 'Export Action Plans'. 10 finalists are invited to a showcase final, with one winner being selected by a panel of expert judges to win a cash prize and further support prizes towards the implementation of their plans. \n\nOpen to Export has run eight UK-only competitions and one global competition - the 'Open to Export International Business Awards'. The Open to Export International Business Awards were run with the support of the World Trade Organisation and the International Chamber of Commerce. The Institute of Export & International Trade were named a 'Small Business Champion' by the WTO and ICC upon the completion of the competition. \n\nThe 10th Export Action Plan competition was opened in November 2019 and companies have until January 25th to enter.\n\nCharles Farris\n\nKlick2Learn\n\nLick Frozen Yogurt\n\nFirst Chop Brewing Arm\n\nGenevieve Sweeney\n\nfour three six\n\nThe Great British Baby Company\n\nBubblebum (UK) Ltd\n\nDytech Limited (Zambia) - international winner\n\nThe site launched in beta in May 2012, during this time Open to Export limited the business sectors to technology, and the overseas markets to the US and India. \n\nThe site officially launched in October 2012. At the time of launch Lord Green, then Minister of State for Trade and Investment, said: \"Supporting more small and medium-sized enterprises to export is a key part of the government's plan for growth,\" and went on to say \"Half of the UK's exports, by value, already come from SMEs. Open to Export will provide practical assistance, advice and support to other businesses looking to make that crucial first step to sell into foreign markets.\" \n\nOwnership of Open to Export was taken on by the Institute of Export & International Trade in April 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16042775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16042775", "title": "Optics Valley", "text": "Optics Valley\n\nOptics Valley is a region in southern Arizona, centered on Tucson, that is home to a high concentration of optics companies spawned by research at the University of Arizona. Based on the idea of a technology cluster such as Silicon Valley, Optics Valley is known not only for its optics industry and research but also for the astronomical observatories located in the mountains of southern Arizona where clear skies and isolated peaks make for superior observing conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "34034275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34034275", "title": "Outsource magazine", "text": "Outsource magazine\n\nOutsource is a cross-channel publication and serves a senior management audience on thought leadership surrounding sourcing and shoring strategy. The magazine has an circulation verified by the ABC during January and December 2012 of 11,361 (average per issue) building on its 2011 audit making it the first magazine in the outsourcing sector to achieve this audited status \n\n\"Outsource\" is one of several of magazines published by EMP Media Ltd. It is a quarterly B2B title that has been providing information to the outsourcing community since 2005 \n\nIn February 2012 \"Outsource\" announced a partnership with the ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants), the global professional body for accountants.\n\n"}
{"id": "264936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264936", "title": "Perceptual mapping", "text": "Perceptual mapping\n\nPerceptual mapping is a diagrammatic technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. Typically the position of a company's product, product line, or brand is displayed relative to their competition. Perceptual maps, also known as market maps, usually have two dimensions but can be multi-dimensional; they can be used to identify gaps in the market and potential partners or merger targets as well as to clarify perceptual problems with a company's product.\n\nPerceptual mapping enables companies to better understand their customers: the who, why, where, how and what of their behaviour. \n\nIf a business is perceived in a manner they find unsatisfactory, further research then identifies what can be done to change that. Perceptual mapping also allows businesses to see what consumers think of other brands, particularly their competitors. Regular uses of the maps can help track preferences, and see changes as they happen. Perceptual mapping can help define market segments, showing clusters of businesses differentiated by key aspects (such as higher class or number of restaurants). Within the clusters found in perceptual maps of entire industries, a business can classify potential partners or possible businesses to merge with, since the clustering of brands signifies the similarity in businesses, meaning they have corresponding attributes. It can also help identify gaps in a market where a new product or service could be introduced. Perceptual maps can also be used to help keep track of how a new product, such as a recently introduced smartphone, is being viewed in a specific market. It is important to see that the way a business is marketing its product is not only successful, but successful in a manner that aligns with the business’s overarching goal for positioning.\n\nSome companies seem to have fallen out of favor with the public, such as Quicken Loans and VW. Perceptual mapping can help elicit the extent of the damage.\n\nThere are many limitations to perceptual mapping. The largest is the number of variables used. Traditionally, the map uses two variables and does not account for others. This assumption can hinder the reliability of results, as in some cases, it is not safe to assume that there are only two major factors influencing the decision of purchase for a consumer. For example, a graph may use quality of food and pricing, but not take into account other relevant variables such as the number of visits and locations. Also, there is often a blurred line between what a business can offer and what a consumer thinks the business can offer. This could be due to miscommunication, lack of knowledge, impact from social media, and so on. These untruths can influence the result, creating a slight bias in the statistics. Another limitation is data gathering. The data needed to form a perceptual map is usually obtained through surveys, and can be difficult to obtain. The range of behaviours that the map covers is also a constraint, as the limitation to two variables means that its application works mainly with purchase decisions made with little thought and effort, such as purchasing a beverage at a store or going to a fast food restaurant.\n\nPerceptual maps can have any number of dimensions but the most common is two dimensions. The first perceptual map below shows consumer perceptions of various automobiles on the two dimensions of sportiness/conservative and classy/affordable. This sample of consumers felt Porsche was the sportiest and classiest of the cars in the study (top right corner). They felt Plymouth was most practical and conservative (bottom left corner).\n\nCars that are positioned close to each other are seen as similar on the relevant dimensions by the consumer. For example, consumers see Buick, Chrysler, and Oldsmobile as similar. They are close competitors and form a competitive grouping. A company considering the introduction of a new model will look for an area on the map free from competitors. Some perceptual maps use different-sized circles to indicate the sales volume or market share of the various competing products.\n\nDisplaying consumers’ perceptions of related products is only half the story. Many perceptual maps also display consumers’ ideal points. These points reflect ideal combinations of the two dimensions as seen by a consumer. The next diagram shows a study of consumers’ ideal points in the alcohol/spirits product space. Each dot represents one respondent's ideal combination of the two dimensions. Areas where there is a cluster of ideal points (such as A) indicate a market segment. Areas without ideal points are sometimes referred to as demand voids.\n\nA company considering introducing a new product will look for areas with a high density of ideal points. They will also look for areas without competitive rivals. This is best done by placing both the ideal points and the competing products on the same map.\n\nSome maps plot ideal vectors instead of ideal points. The map below displays various aspirin products as seen on the dimensions of effectiveness and gentleness. It also shows two ideal vectors. The slope of the ideal vector indicates the ratio of the two dimensions preferred by those consumers within that segment. This study indicates that there is one segment that is more concerned with effectiveness than harshness, and another segment that is more interested in gentleness than strength.\n\nSpidergrams are an alternative to perceptual mapping that similarly are visual marketing tools; however, spidergrams also request customers to rate attributes.\n\nTraditional perceptual maps are built with two visual dimensions (X and Y axis). Multidimensional perceptual maps are built with more dimensions visualised as profile charts in small map regions, and then items are mapped to the regions by their similarity to the vectors that represent the region. A common technique to construct this kind of multidimensional perceptual maps is the self-organizing map. This helps pinpoint more variables, allowing for more in-depth research into what influences the consumer. This means that the perceptual map can be applied beyond low-involvement purchases, and also helps with identification of segments in a market.\n\nPerceptual maps need not come from a detailed study. There are also intuitive maps (also called judgmental maps or consensus maps) that are created by marketers based on their understanding of their industry. These are limited by not being based on consumer data.\n\nWhen detailed marketing research studies are done methodological problems can arise, but at least the information is coming directly from the consumer. An assortment of statistical procedures can be used to convert the raw data collected in a survey into a perceptual map. Preference regression will produce ideal vectors. Multi dimensional scaling will produce either ideal points or competitor positions. Factor analysis, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis and logit analysis can also be used. Some techniques are constructed from perceived differences between products, others from perceived similarities, and still others from cross price elasticity of demand data from electronic scanners.\n\nMarketers can reveal shoppers' collective perceptual map with increasing precision and detail by aggregating and analysing their data; this is done, for example, in the smartphone and laptop industries.\n\nFurthermore, they can be used in non-commercial applications, such as identifying factors involved in dangerous driving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12236812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12236812", "title": "Plant Engineering", "text": "Plant Engineering\n\nPlant Engineering () is a trade publication and web site owned by CFE Media. It covers the field of plant engineering and maintenance in both manufacturing and non-manufacturing industries. Since 1947, plant engineers, maintenance supervisors and manufacturing leaders have turned to \"Plant Engineering\" for the information they needed to run their plants smarter, safer, faster, and better. \"Plant Engineering's\" editors stay on top of the latest trends in manufacturing at every corner of the plant floor. The major content areas include electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, automation engineering and facility maintenance and plant management.\nEvery November issue, \"Plant Engineering\" announces the Product of the Year. In the December issue, they announce the Top Plant, which honors the best manufacturing facilities.\n\nIn April 2010, former owner Reed Business Information announced the magazine would close. However later that month, \"Control Engineering\", \"Consulting-Specifying Engineer\" and \"Plant Engineering\" were acquired by a new company, CFE Media. \n\nVerified Audit\n\n"}
{"id": "20749177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20749177", "title": "Rex Repass", "text": "Rex Repass\n\nRex L. Repass is a US-based public opinion and marketing research executive. He is president of Research America Inc., headquartered in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania with offices in Cincinnati, Ohio and throughout the US. Research America Inc. acquired R.L. Repass & Partners, Inc. (dba REPASS®) in 2016. In 2015 and 2016, Inc. magazine selected the REPASS firm as one of the fastest growing, privately held companies in the US.\n\nRepass is a native of Charleston, West Virginia and a 1976 graduate of Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia. He was a member of the Young Thundering Herd football team in the early 1970s following the tragic plane crash that claimed the lives of 75 players, coaches, athletic administrators, and team boosters. In 1994, Repass was elected to Marshall's W. Page Pitt School of Journalism & Mass Communications Hall of Fame for his contribution to media and public opinion research.\n\nIn 1977, Repass received a master of science degree in communications from the University of Tennessee-Knoxville, with a special emphasis in public opinion and advertising research.\n\nIn 1980, Repass developed The West Virginia Poll for the Charleston Daily Mail, WSAZ Television and The Associated Press. The West Virginia Poll was the first media sponsored scientific measurement of public opinion in West Virginia. The West Virginia Poll continues to this day and is sponsored by the MetroNews Radio Network.\n\nIn 1988, Repass moved his research practice from Charleston, West Virginia to MarketVision Research Inc. in Cincinnati, Ohio where he was president of the organization. In 2001, he sold his interest in MarketVision and formed what became R.L. Repass & Partners Inc.\n\nToday Repass and the Research America Inc. organization provide survey research and strategic consulting services to Fortune 500 corporations, state and national trade associations, and governmental agencies. He has also directed public opinion and market research for media clients including The Arizona Republic, The Sunday Examiner-Chronicle in San Francisco, The Poynter Institute for Media Studies, Thomson Reuters and more than 40 newspapers and media companies in the United States and Canada.\n\nRepass is a member of the American Association for Public Opinion Research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12488382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12488382", "title": "Richard L. Barclay", "text": "Richard L. Barclay\n\nRichard L. \"Dick\" Barclay (born June 5, 1937) is a Certified Public Accountant in Rogers, a city in Benton County in the northwestern corner of Arkansas, United States, who was a Republican member of the Arkansas House of Representatives from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1992. He was also the director of the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration under Republican Governor Michael Dale \"Mike\" Huckabee. In 1992, he lost a primary election for the United States House of Representatives to then fellow State Representative Tim Hutchinson of Bentonville, the seat of government of Benton County.\n\nBarclay was born in Oberlin in Decatur County in northwestern Kansas. He began work as an accountant in 1961 and is a partner in the firm Beall, Barclay, and Company. He is a member of the Arkansas Society of Certified Public Accountants and of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He is a director of the Federal Savings Bank in Rogers and United Bank. He is a former vice president of the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce. He is also a member of the board of directors of the Brokers National Life Assurance Company. He is one of sixteen commissioners of the Arkansas Economic Development Commission.\n\nIn 2000, Barclay was elected president of the Arkansas Society of CPAs. That same year, he was named \"Arkansas Business Person of the Year\" by Beta Gamma Sigma of Sam Walton College of the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville. Mack McLarty, a former chief of staff to U.S. President Bill Clinton, won this honor in 2007.\n\nBarclay was executive director of Legislative Affairs and Budget until tapped by Huckabee in 1999 to head Finance and Administration. He left state employment in the spring of 2002 to return to his business in Rogers and was succeeded by Richard A. Weiss, who left the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality to take the Finance and Administration position.\n\nBarclay did not seek a ninth two-year term in the Arkansas House in 1992. Instead, he ran for the Third Congressional District seat opened by the retirement of longtime Republican incumbent John Paul Hammerschmidt. However, he lost the GOP nomination to Tim Hutchinson, who would serve in the U.S. House from 1993 to 1997 and in the United States Senate from 1997 to 2003.\n\nIn 2003, Barclay served as chairman of the Benton County Republican Party. He is married to Jan K. Barclay. He is a member of the Disciples of Christ.\n\nhttp://www.bipac.org/detail.asp?id=397 \n"}
{"id": "36661553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36661553", "title": "Samir Mane", "text": "Samir Mane\n\nSamir Mane is the richest Albanian entrepreneur. He is president and owner of BALFIN Group, which is the largest private investment groups in Albania and South-east Europe. The Group`s investment portfolio embraces activities of real estate development, retail sales, commercial and industrial space management\\ services, mining and metallurgy industry, customer financing, est. Actually part of BALFIN Group are more than 18 companies; geographically the Group is present in 7 countries, employing more than 3,000 people.\n\nMane was born in the southern Albanian city of Korça on 24 December 1967. He was a student of the Faculty of Geology and Mining at Tirana University when the communist system in Albania collapsed. In this new social, economical and political situation he emigrated in Austria looking for a better life. \nMane started working as a translator, helping himself to create contacts with the business world too. Whilst living in Austria in 1993, he spotted the opportunity to start business with electronic products and home appliances in Albania.\nIn 2008 he was included in the \"Financial Times\" top four \"people to watch in business\" in Albania.\n[http://mapo.al/2013/11/14/samir-mane-komod-ne-marredheniet-shtetin-ja-investimet-tona-ne-bulqize/comment-page-1/#comment-80051 Mane's net worth is estimated to be around 700 million euros.\n\nThe beginnings of Mane's business activities started in 1993 in Vienna, where Mane founded Alba Trade. Having started with the trade of electronic devices, soon the Balfin Group, created by Mane managed to create the largest network of electronics stores in Albania, Neptun and then extending the network in the neighboring countries as well. Neptun's chain of stores was positioned from the beginning in 1993 as the main electronics player in the Albanian market supplying the demand with the best brands and latest technology. Today this business created by Mane counts 28 stores in Albania and more than 27 in Kosova, Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia.\n\nSince 2002 Balfin Group is present in development and real estate management projects. Through the company Mane TCI it has realized industrial and residential facilities of the highest standards in Albania such as Rolling Hills, Ambasador 1, 2, 3, etc, or the well known shopping centers such as TEG or QTU.\n\nIn 2005, it was inaugurated the first shopping center in Albania, Qendra Tregtare Univers (Universe Trade Center). This was a very ambitious project of Mane's for the time and revolutionized the purchasing way of the Albanian customers. Even today QTU is still one of the most popular and successful shopping centers in Albania.\n\nThe year 2005 marked the establishment of the first Albanian chain of supermarkets, Euromax. In a very short time Euromax managed to turn into the largest network of supermarkets in Albania offering quality with the best prices.\n\nFashion Group was established in 2005 to bring in Albania the most popular brands of clothing, offering the latest collections for all Brands of Fashion Group are: Mango, Goldenpoint, Calliope, Geox, Parfois, Okaidi, Prenatal, Terranova, Springfield, Carpisa and Etam.\n\nIn 2011 Balfin Group completed another important project, Tirana East Gate. With an investment of €54 million, it was constructed the most modern and the largest shopping center in Albania with over 90'000 m2.\n\nIn October 2012 Balfin Group concluded one of the most important investments of the group abroad, Skopje City Mall. This €68 million project was developed in cooperation with the participation of international partners.\n\nIn March 2012 he was named the honorary consul of Thailand at the opening ceremony of the new consulate.\n\nAgain during 2012 Mane with Balfin Group undertook a bold project yet again, building a logistic park, which is another groundbreaking innovation for the Albanian market. Tirana Logistic Park is designed to provide services not only to Albanian businesses, but also the foreign. This investment will be developed in phases and the first phase was finalized in October 2013. The total investment costs are planned to be about €44 million.\n\nIn 2013 Balfin Group took a very important step to diversify the portfolio of activities in the mineral industry by acquiring 100% of the shares of ACR Holding, the largest company of extraction, enrichment and processing of chrome in Albania.\n\nMane has created the most successful Group in Albania with more than 4,000 employees.\n\nIn 2015, Mane started building, Green Coast, which is among the most luxurious compounds among the Albanian Coast, containing ten types of buildings, from elite villas to apartments, including a 5 star hotel. This project is taken on by Mane TCI .\n\nIn 2016 Mane and Balfin Group turned all the Carrefour in Albania, into Spars and Interspars. This is a Dutch brand, founded on 1932 and is currently present in more than 42 countries around the world.\n\nMane has been subject to strong controversy from Albanian activists, due to his strong political connections, which have allowed him to profit massively in different areas of business. \n"}
{"id": "5496448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496448", "title": "Seng Saekhu", "text": "Seng Saekhu\n\nSeng Saekhu (born c. 1840s ; ) or Khu Chun Seng (; ; ) or Nguanseng Saekhu () was a tax farmer and the patriarch of the Shinawatra clan.\n\nSeng was born in Fengshun, Meizhou, Guangdong to Chao Saekhu. Seng came to Siam in the 1860s together with his parents and second brother. However, as Seng's mother and second brother soon fell ill shortly arriving in Siam, his parents and brother returned to China, leaving Seng in the care of a local acquaintance. Seng spent his early years in Chanthaburi where he met his wife, a native Thai by the name of Thongdi. Their eldest son, Chiang was born in 1890 around this time and Seng started his career as a tax farmer in this small town. When the land lease expired in 1900, Seng and his family moved to Talat Noi in Bangkok around 1900 where worked as a commercial trader. Seng and his family relocated to Chiang Mai around 1908 to resume his career as a tax farmer under the patronage of Nikhon Jinkit.\n\nSeng married two wives; the first to Thongdi with whom he had 6 children, including Chiang. Thongdi died of a heart attack in 1910 due to a robbery incident, and Seng remarried another lady, Nocha with whom he had 3 children. Chiang married another Thai lady, Saeng Samana with whom they have 12 children. Chiang's second child and oldest son, Sak Shinawatra, adopted the Shinawatra surname in 1938, during Plaek Pibulsonggram's anti-Chinese campaigns, and the rest of the clan followed suit. Sak Shinawatra became an army general and has four sons who all served in the army for at least sometime. Sak's third son, Chaiyasit Shinawatra became the commander-in-chief of the Royal Thai Army.\n\nChiang's 4th child and second son, Loet Shinawatra is the father of Prime Ministers Thaksin Shinawatra and Yingluck Shinawatra. Loet served as an MP for Chiang Mai in 1969 and 1976 for the Thai Nation Party. Loet married Yindi Ramingwong, who is the daughter of a Hakka Chinese immigrant and his wife, a princess of the Lanna royalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2041431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041431", "title": "Sharing", "text": "Sharing\n\nSharing is the joint use of a resource or space. In its narrow sense, it refers to joint or alternating use of inherently finite goods, such as a common pasture or a shared residence. It is also the process of dividing and distributing. Apart from obvious instances, which we can observe in human activity, we can also find many examples of this happening in nature. When an organism takes in nutrition or oxygen for instance, its internal organs are designed to divide and distribute the energy taken in, to supply parts of its body that need it. Flowers divide and distribute their seeds. In a broader sense, it can also include free granting of use rights to goods that can be treated as nonrival goods, such as information. Still more loosely, \"sharing\" can actually mean giving something as an outright gift: for example, to \"share\" one's food really means to give some of it as a gift. Sharing is a basic component of human interaction, and is responsible for strengthening social ties and ensuring a person’s well-being.\n\nMarket sharing occurs when competitors agree to divide or allocate customers, suppliers or territories among themselves rather than allowing competitive market forces to work.\n\nMarket sharing can include:\n\n\nAlso agreeing not to:\n\n\nMarket sharing is generally an illegal practice as it violates anti-trust laws and the basic principles of the free market. Market sharing mainly occur in the form of cartels like the Guadalajara Cartel, which was the first Mexican drug cartel to consolidate the production and supply of illegal marijuana into a single organization.\n\nSharing in a market may also refer to the temporary or permanent transfer of information and other physical as well as intellectual property, but this is generally accompanied by the exchange of money.\n\nResource sharing - called kaláka in Hungarian - is an old tradition in Hungary. Young couples had to build their house after marriage. Marriage itself was called házasodás in Hungarian (en: becoming the owner of a house). When doing so the whole community, relatives and acquaintances helped the young couple with work, knowledge and even money. At pigsticking, all members of the community got their shares too. Superfluous plants were freely distributed for neighbours in the season.\n\nIn most cultures, members of the same household tend to pool their resources.\n\nFile sharing is the practice of distributing or providing access to digitally stored information, such as computer programs, multi-media (audio, video), documents, or electronic books. It may be implemented through a variety of ways. Storage, transmission, and distribution models are common methods of file sharing incorporate manual sharing using removable media, centralized computer file server installations on computer networks, World Wide Web-based hyperlinked documents, and the use of distributed peer-to-peer networking (see peer-to-peer file sharing).\n\nSharing is a key feature in the developing field of free software and open source software, with implications for economics. This is leading to a need to review licensing, patents and copyright, and to controversy in these areas, as well as new approaches like Creative Commons and the GPL.\n\nFurthermore, sharing is a key feature of Internet culture in which images, videos, links, knowledge and other content are shared on Web 2.0-platforms such as reddit.\n\nIn computer science, the issue of handling shared resources figures prominently. For example, time-sharing is an approach to interactive computing in which a single computer is used to provide apparently simultaneous interactive general-purpose computing to multiple users by sharing processor time. Sharing of resources between processes and threads is the source of most of the difficulties of concurrent programming. The word \"sharing\" is also used in some functional programming communities to refer specifically to sharing of memory between different data items to save space, otherwise known as hash consing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56722423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56722423", "title": "Sigma (operations research)", "text": "Sigma (operations research)\n\nSigma (Science in General Management) was a limited company established by Henry Novy, Stafford Beer and Roger Eddison in 1961. It sold operational research OR in the United Kingdom and overseas. Beer was responsible for the cybernetic models of organisation and corporate planning which were the firm's specially. Eddison was the Operations Director.\n\nThe consultancy arose following discussions between the Société d’Économie et de Mathématiques Appliquées (SEMA) and Martech Consultants Limited. Novy, who ran Maretch, was given the job of selecting the people to run the company, inviting several OR practitioners to come to Paris for an interview. After he selected Beer, Beer only agreed if Eddison would also join him. This was arranged and the company was launched with a reception at the Connaught Hotel in October 1961.\nOver the next five years Sigma developed into a substantial organisation providing services to several leading companies across the UK as well as for six government departments. It also took on contracts in the United States and several developing countries. Amongst the diverse areas it worked in were energy, for the Gas Council, transportation, for British Rail and the Port of London Authority, shipbuilding, for the Geddes Committee, education for Yugoslavia, tourism, for Israel, nationalised industry in South America, and distribution for a variety of industrial firms. \n\nSigma, Martech, and Proplan were amalgamated to form what afterwards became the Metra Consulting Group in the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "3063217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3063217", "title": "Small Rockets", "text": "Small Rockets\n\nSmall Rockets was a British computer game developer located in Guildford, England. The company was founded in October 2000 and created and sold PC games online.\n\nSmall Rockets was born from the ashes of Fiendish Games, a department of Criterion Games (also known as Criterion Software), that was started to test the waters for delivering games online rather than through traditional retail channels. When Fiendish Games was shut down, the then head of department Jonathan Small set up Small Rockets to continue where Fiendish Games had left off. The company licensed the games created by Fiendish Games from Criterion, and most of the Fiendish Games employees moved with Jonathan to the new company.\n\nIn addition to its commercial games Small Rockets also produced a bespoke 'one off' game called 'HP Spy Academy' for a HP exhibition at 'Stuff Live' in 2002.\n\nWork continued on several more PC titles and a Game Boy Advance title until most of the employees had to be let go, largely for financial reasons, in 2003.\n\nDue to the increasing costs of running a UK-registered limited-liability company from the US, the decision was made in 2012 to shut the company down. The Small Rockets website displayed a formal notice of the shutdown from early July 2012, at which point the site's shop was also disabled. Full shutdown of the Small Rockets servers (including the website itself) occurred in late August 2012. Jonathan has stated that he hopes to continue Small Rockets' \"Red Ace\" franchise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12359969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12359969", "title": "St. James Roman Catholic Church (Manhattan)", "text": "St. James Roman Catholic Church (Manhattan)\n\nSt. James' Roman Catholic Church is located at 32 James Street between St. James Place and Madison Street in the Two Bridges neighborhood of Lower Manhattan, New York City. It is the second oldest Roman Catholic building in the city, built in 1835-37 of fieldstone, with a pair of Doric columns flanking the entrance. While the neo-Classical church is modeled on the published designs by Minard Lefever, and is sometimes attributed to him, there is no hard evidence of this being true. The building was once topped by a domed cupola.\n\nThe parish was established by Bishop John Dubois in order to relieve the overcrowding at St. Peter's on Barclay Street. He purchased an Episcopal church building on Ann Street, retaining the name of Christ Church, and asked Father Félix Varela to organize a congregation. Fr. Varela also established a free school. In October 1833, it was discovered that nearby excavation had rendered Christ Church unsound. Pending the completion of a new building on James Street, premises were rented at 33 Ann Street. However, some members of the congregation finding this too far uptown, instead purchased the Reformed Presbyterian church on Chambers Street. This would become the parish of the Transfiguration, with Fr. Varela as the first pastor.\n\nThe first Mass was said in the basement of the James St. church on September 18, 1836. The following January it was dedicated under the invocation of St. James the Apostle, by Bishop Dubois. Andrew Byrne was appointed rector. Byrne was succeeded in 1842 by Rev. John Maginnis, who was in turn followed by Rev. John N. Smith. In 1848 Fr. Smith succumbed to \"ship fever\" contracted when administering last rites to Father Murphy of Staten Island, who had contracted the illness while tending recently arrived immigrants. \n\nAlfred E. Smith served as an altar boy at this church when he was a student at its parochial school, the former St. James Elementary School, located across the street.\n\nThe church was ordered to be closed by New York City officials in 1983, because of the danger of its roof collapsing. It was scheduled to be torn down in 1986, but was saved by the efforts of the community, especially the Ancient Order of Hibernians, the first branch of which was organized in the church in 1836. The building suffered significant damage in a fire on January 11, 2011. In 2007, St. James Parish merged with the nearby Parish of St. Joseph. The combined Parish of St. Joseph/St. James was merged again with the Church of the Transfiguration in 2015.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "6085314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6085314", "title": "St. John's Cathedral (Jacksonville)", "text": "St. John's Cathedral (Jacksonville)\n\nSt. John's Cathedral is a cathedral of the Episcopal Church in Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. One of the oldest congregations in Jacksonville, it became the seat of the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Florida in 1951. The current building dates to 1906.\n\nThe congregation was founded in 1834 as St. John's Parish. It is one of the seven original parishes dating to the reception of the Diocese of Florida into the Episcopal General Convention in 1838. According to the cornerstone for the present Cathedral, the first St. Johns Church was built in 1842 and burned in 1862 during the American Civil War. In the early 1870s, Edward Tuckerman Potter designed a new St. Johns and initial construction began in 1873. The church was completed and dedicated in 1877. This building burned in the Great Fire of 1901, which destroyed most of Downtown Jacksonville, and the next year a new church was designed by Howard Nott Potter of the firm Snelling and Potter. St. John's Cathedral was completed and consecrated in 1906.\n\nSt. John's is the only cathedral in Jacksonville. Inside the building is cavernous; built in the Gothic Revival architectural style, stained-glass windows line the walls. In 1983, Advent Glass Works restored or repaired all stained glass in the Cathedral, the Cloister and the Cummings Chapel.\n\nThe St. John's Cathedral School is sponsored by the Cathedral and Diocese and includes infants to Pre-K 4. It also receives funding from the Jessie Ball duPont Fund.\n\n\"Clara's at the Cathedral Café\" is a cooperative project between the Cathedral and the School of Culinary Arts at the Clara White Mission. Every Friday since April 13, 2007, a luncheon has been prepared by the students and staff from the Mission's culinary school. The meal is very reasonably priced and attracts workers from downtown businesses and retirees. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22700498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22700498", "title": "Susana Chou", "text": "Susana Chou\n\nSusana Chou Vaz da Luz (born 2 December 1941, Shanghai), also known as Chou Kei Jan and Cao Qizhen, was the President of the Legislative Assembly of Macau from 1999 to 2009.\n\nChou's ancestral hometown is the current Yinzhou District of the city of Ningbo in China's Zhejiang Province. Chou was born in Shanghai on 2 December 1941, and is the oldest daughter of Chao Kuang Piu, who is an industrial tycoon in Shanghai. While her father moved in Hong Kong after 1949, Chou remained in China until 1968 when she moved to Macau.\n\nChou studied physics and majored in radio technology at the Anhui University. Chou also studied French language and literature in Paris.\n\nIn 1976, Chou participated in Portuguese Macau's first direct election of the Legislative Assembly, and was successful in the election. From 1984 to 1999, she served in the third, fourth, fifth and sixth sessions of Portuguese Macau's Legislative Assembly.\n\nAfter the transfer of sovereignty of Macau from Portugal to China in 1999, Chou was elected as the President of new Legislative Assembly for its first, second and third sessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "770027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770027", "title": "Telecom Corridor", "text": "Telecom Corridor\n\nThe Telecom Corridor is a technology business center in Richardson, Texas, a northern suburb of Dallas, which contains over 25 million square feet (2.3 million square meters) of office space and accounts for over 130,000 jobs. Located in the Dallas/Fort Worth area and home to the University of Texas at Dallas, the Corridor is a strip about long along U.S. Route 75 (US 75) (the North Central Expressway), between President George Bush Turnpike and Interstate 635 (I-635) and is often considered an area of the Silicon Prairie. More than 5,700 companies, including 600 technology companies are headquartered in the area, including significant players such as AT&T, Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Verizon, Samsung, Texas Instruments, and MetroPCS. Some of these companies also have offices in Telecom Valley located in California. Although the Telecom Corridor was a booming area of Dallas's economy during the late 1990s, the dot-com bust of 2001 hit the region hard. However, it began recovering in 2004, and that recovery has since picked up momentum, gaining both the operations of many non-technology-related companies and a large number of previously non-existent residential units designed in the New Urbanist style. The name \"Telecom Corridor\" is a registered trademark and may technically only be used to describe the area mentioned in this article.\n\nThe Telecom Corridor Genealogy Project is a project to enable professionals in the Telcom Corridor to find out about their common history and thereby to enable them to network more easily.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105888", "title": "The End of History and the Last Man", "text": "The End of History and the Last Man\n\nThe End of History and the Last Man is a 1992 book by Francis Fukuyama, expanding on his 1989 essay \"The End of History?\", published in the international affairs journal \"The National Interest\". In the book, Fukuyama argues that the advent of Western liberal democracy may signal the endpoint of humanity's sociocultural evolution and the final form of human government.\n\nWhat we may be witnessing is not just the end of the Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of post-war history, but the end of history as such: that is, the end point of mankind's ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government.\n\nFukuyama's position contradicts that of Karl Marx, who predicted that communism would displace capitalism. Fukuyama himself identifies on some level with Marx, but more strongly with the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, by way of Alexandre Kojève. Kojève argued that the progress of history must lead toward the establishment of a \"universal and homogenous\" state, most likely incorporating elements of liberal or social democracy; but Kojève's emphasis on the necessarily \"post-political\" character of such a state (and its citizens) makes such comparisons inadequate, and is irreducible to any mere \"triumph\" of capitalism.\n\n\nAccording to Fukuyama, since the French Revolution, democracy has repeatedly proven to be a fundamentally better system (ethically, politically, economically) than any of the alternatives.\n\nThe most basic (and prevalent) error in discussing Fukuyama's work is to confuse \"history\" with \"events\". Fukuyama claims not that events will stop occurring in the future, but rather that all that will happen in the future (even if totalitarianism returns) is that democracy will become more and more prevalent in the \"long\" term, although it may suffer \"temporary\" setbacks (which may, of course, last for centuries).\n\nSome argue that Fukuyama presents \"American-style\" democracy as the only \"correct\" political system and argues that all countries must inevitably follow this particular system of government. However, many Fukuyama scholars claim this is a misreading of his work. Fukuyama's argument is only that in the future there will be more and more governments that use the framework of parliamentary democracy and that contain markets of some sort. Indeed, Fukuyama has stated:\n\n\"The End of History\" was never linked to a specifically American model of social or political organization. Following Alexandre Kojève, the Russian-French philosopher who inspired my original argument, I believe that the European Union more accurately reflects what the world will look like at the end of history than the contemporary United States. The EU's attempt to transcend sovereignty and traditional power politics by establishing a transnational rule of law is much more in line with a \"post-historical\" world than the Americans' continuing belief in God, national sovereignty, and their military.\n\nAn argument in favour of Fukuyama's thesis is the democratic peace theory, which argues that mature democracies rarely or never go to war with one another. This theory has faced criticism, with arguments largely resting on conflicting definitions of \"war\" and \"mature democracy\". Part of the difficulty in assessing the theory is that democracy as a widespread global phenomenon emerged only very recently in human history, which makes generalizing about it difficult. (See also list of wars between democracies.)\n\nOther major empirical evidence includes the elimination of interstate warfare in South America, Southeast Asia, and Eastern Europe among countries that moved from military dictatorships to liberal democracies.\n\nAccording to several studies, the end of the Cold War and the subsequent increase in the number of liberal democratic states were accompanied by a sudden and dramatic decline in total warfare, interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, and the number of refugees and displaced persons.\n\nSome have argued against the book due to an ideological disagreement with the concept of liberal democracy.\n\nJacques Derrida criticized Fukuyama in \"Specters of Marx\" (1993) as a \"come-lately reader\" of Alexandre Kojève \"in the tradition of Leo Strauss\", who already described US society in the 1950s as the \"realization of communism\". According to Derrida, Fukuyama—and the quick celebrity of his book—is but one symptom of the anxiety to ensure the \"death of Marx\". Fukuyama's celebration of liberal hegemony is criticized by Derrida:\n\nDerrida goes on to analyze Fukuyama's book as taking part in the intellectual branch of current Western hegemony and the spreading of its \"New Gospel\": \"This end of History is essentially a Christian eschatology. It is consonant with the current discourse of the Pope on the European community: destined to become a Christian State or Super-State, this community would still belong therefore to some Holy Alliance.\" He claims that the book uses a \"sleight-of-hand trick\" of making use of empirical data whenever it seems to suit its message, while appealing to an ideal whenever the empirical data contradicts it. Derrida points out that Fukuyama himself sees the real United States and European Union as imperfect compared to the \"ideals\" of liberal democracy and the free market. Even the author understands that such ideals are not demonstrated by empirical evidence or ever could be demonstrated empirically. They belong entirely to the realm of philosophy or religion, owing their birth to the Gospels of Philosophy of Hegel. And yet Fukuyama still uses a movement toward empirical observations, which he himself grants are imperfect and incomplete, to validate an idea that is purely idealistic and transcendent of any empirical reality or possibility.\n\nCertain versions of Marxism can be conceived as \"end of history\" philosophies. Therefore, Marxists like Perry Anderson have been among Fukuyama's fiercest critics. Apart from pointing out that capitalist democracies are still riven with poverty, racial tension, and the like, Marxists also reject Fukuyama's reliance on Hegel. According to them, Hegel's philosophy was fatally flawed until Marx \"turned it on its head\" to create historical materialism. Fukuyama argues that even though there is poverty, racism, and sexism in present-day democracies, there is no sign of a major revolutionary movement developing that would actually overthrow capitalism. While Marxists disagree with Fukuyama's claim that \"capitalist\" democracy represents the end of history, they support the idea that the \"end of history\" will consist of the victory of democracy: communism, in the Marxist view, must necessarily involve a form of direct democracy.\n\nFormer Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez argued against \"the end of history\": he argued his case in his September 2006 address to the United Nations General Assembly. Shortly before that, in August 2006, Fukuyama wrote in response to Chávez's argument, his main point being that \"Chavismo\" was only possible due to the unique oil reserves of Venezuela, and thus would not spread.\n\nMarxist interpretations aside, the economic and social philosophy of Fukuyama can be summarized as Free-Market Libertarian. Although this tends to be an ambiguous word, he uses it in the proper meaning for the time when the book was published. It has been argued that he might even be a Neoconservative on some points but this has been firmly shot down by him and his use of \"ideal\" systems which is firmly denounced by many Anarcho-Capitalists of the same rote who believe that no government can be good. His moral bent is strikingly similar but he does not identify with the founding fathers while espousing the same form of government to avoid petty debates.\n\nVarious Western commentators have described the thesis of \"The End of History\" as flawed because it does not sufficiently take into account the power of ethnic loyalties and religious fundamentalism as a counter-force to the spread of liberal democracy, with the specific example of Islamic fundamentalism, or radical Islam, as the most powerful of these.\n\nBenjamin Barber wrote a 1992 article and a 1995 book, \"Jihad vs. McWorld\", that addressed this theme. Barber described \"McWorld\" as a secular, liberal, corporate-friendly transformation of the world and used the word \"jihad\" to refer to the competing forces of tribalism and religious fundamentalism, with a special emphasis on Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nSamuel P. Huntington wrote a 1993 essay, \"The Clash of Civilizations\", in direct response to \"The End of History\"; he then expanded the essay into a 1996 book, \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\". In the essay and book, Huntington argued that the temporary conflict between ideologies is being replaced by the ancient conflict between civilizations. The dominant civilization decides the form of human government, and these will not be constant. He especially singled out Islam, which he described as having \"bloody borders\".\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001, attacks, \"The End of History\" was cited by some commentators as a symbol of the supposed naiveté and undue optimism of the Western world during the 1990s, in thinking that the end of the Cold War also represented the end of major global conflict. In the weeks after the attacks, Fareed Zakaria called the events \"the end of the end of history\", while George Will wrote that history had \"returned from vacation\".\n\nFukuyama did discuss radical Islam briefly in \"The End of History\". He argued that Islam is not an imperialist force like Stalinism and fascism; that is, it has little intellectual or emotional appeal outside the Islamic \"heartlands\". Fukuyama pointed to the economic and political difficulties that Iran and Saudi Arabia face and argued that such states are fundamentally unstable: either they will become democracies with a Muslim society (like Turkey) or they will simply disintegrate. Moreover, when Islamic states have actually been created, they were easily dominated by the powerful Western states.\n\nIn October 2001, Fukuyama, in a \"Wall Street Journal\" opinion piece, responded to the declarations that the September 11 attacks had disproved his views by stating that \"time and resources are on the side of modernity, and I see no lack of a will to prevail in the United States today.\" He also noted that his original thesis \"does not imply a world free from conflict, nor the disappearance of culture as a distinguishing characteristic of societies.\"\n\nIn a 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama wrote:\n\nDemocracy's only real competitor in the realm of ideas today is radical Islamism. Indeed, one of the world's most dangerous nation-states today is Iran, run by extremist Shiite mullahs. But as Peter Bergen pointed out in these pages last week, Sunni radicalism has been remarkably ineffective in actually taking control of a nation-state, due to its propensity to devour its own potential supporters. Some disenfranchised Muslims thrill to the rantings of Osama bin Laden or Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but the appeal of this kind of medieval Islamism is strictly limited.\n\nAnother challenge to the \"end of history\" thesis is the growth in the economic and political power of two countries, Russia and China; China has a one-party state government, while Russia, though formally a democracy, has been described by some as \"de facto\" authoritarian.\n\nAzar Gat, Professor of National Security at Tel Aviv University, argued this point in his 2007 \"Foreign Affairs\" article, \"The Return of Authoritarian Great Powers\", stating that the success of these two countries could \"end the end of history\". Gat also discussed radical Islam, but stated that the movements associated with it \"represent no viable alternative to modernity and pose no significant military threat to the developed world\". He considered the challenge of China and Russia to be the major threat, since they could pose a viable rival model which could inspire other states.\n\nThis view was echoed by Robert Kagan in his 2008 book, \"The Return of History and the End of Dreams\", whose title was a deliberate rejoinder to \"The End of History\".\n\nIn his 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama also addressed this point. He wrote, \"Despite recent authoritarian advances, liberal democracy remains the strongest, most broadly appealing idea out there. Most autocrats, including Putin and Chávez, still feel that they have to conform to the outward rituals of democracy even as they gut its substance. Even China's Hu Jintao felt compelled to talk about democracy in the run-up to Beijing's Olympic Games.\"\n\nIn 2014, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the publication of the original essay, \"The End of History?\", Fukuyama wrote a column in \"The Wall Street Journal\" again updating his hypothesis. He wrote that, while liberal democracy still had no real competition from more authoritarian systems of government \"in the realm of ideas\", nevertheless he was less idealistic than he had been \"during the heady days of 1989.\" Fukuyama noted the Orange Revolution in Ukraine and the Arab Spring, both of which seemed to have failed in their pro-democracy goals, as well as the \"backsliding\" of democracy in countries including Thailand, Turkey and Nicaragua. He stated that the biggest problem for the democratically elected governments in some countries was not ideological but \"their failure to provide the substance of what people want from government: personal security, shared economic growth and the basic public services... that are needed to achieve individual opportunity.\" Though he believed that economic growth, improved government and civic institutions all reinforced one another, he wrote that it was not inevitable that \"all countries will... get on that escalator.\"\n\nFukuyama also warned of \"political decay,\" which he wrote could also affect established democracies like the United States, in which corruption and crony capitalism erode liberty and economic opportunity. Nevertheless, he expressed his continued belief that \"the power of the democratic ideal remains immense.\"\n\nFollowing Britain's decision to leave the European Union and the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States in 2016, Fukuyama feared for the future of liberal democracy in the face of resurgent populism, and the rise of a \"post-fact world\", saying that \"twenty five years ago, I didn't have a sense or a theory about how democracies can go backward. And I think they clearly can.\" He also warned that America's political rot was infecting the world order to the point where it \"could be as big as the Soviet collapse\".\n\nFukuyama has also stated that his thesis was incomplete, but for a different reason: \"there can be no end of history without an end of modern natural science and technology\" (quoted from \"Our Posthuman Future\"). Fukuyama predicts that humanity's control of its own evolution will have a great and possibly terrible effect on liberal democracy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42538831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42538831", "title": "Tony Caplin", "text": "Tony Caplin\n\nAnthony Lindsay Caplin was born 1951 in Southport, Lancashire to Abram Moses Caplin and Vera Doris Benjamin, both descendants of Russian Jewish emigrees. He is a British company director and former chief operating officer of the United Kingdom's Conservative Party.\n\nIn 2009 it was suggested that he should be appointed a peer.\n\nHe was chairman of the Public Works Loan Board, which is responsible for infrastructure project loans worth billions of pounds. The board is responsible for lending money to local authorities, as well as for collecting the repayments. He resigned from this position in April 2014 when it was revealed that he was made bankrupt in May 2012, with debts of more than £3 million, and owing £200,000 to HM Revenue and Customs.\n\nPositions that Caplin has previously held include:\n"}
{"id": "796500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796500", "title": "Union security agreement", "text": "Union security agreement\n\nA union security agreement is a contractual agreement, usually part of a union collective bargaining agreement, in which an employer and a trade or labor union agree on the extent to which the union may compel employees to join the union, and/or whether the employer will collect dues, fees, and assessments on behalf of the union.\n\nThe free rider problem is often cited as the rationale for union security agreements. A classic study of the free rider problem is presented in Mancur Olson's 1965 work, \"The Logic of Collective Action.\" In labor relations, the free rider problem exists because the costs of organizing a union and negotiating a contract with the employer can be very high, and because employers will find it too costly to adopt multiple wage and benefit scales, some or all non-union members may find that the contract benefits them as well. Thus, the incentive is for some individual workers to \"ride for free\" by not paying the costs, which can lead to the collapse of the union and no collective bargaining agreement. If the union collapses, each worker may be worse off than if the union had negotiated the agreement. Union security agreements are one way of ensuring that all (or nearly all) workers pay their fair share of the costs of collective bargaining (e.g., join the union and pay dues). There are alternative solutions to the free rider problem in labor relations. One solution is for the state to provide rights (such as the right to administer welfare or pension funds, or to participate in a works council) or benefits (such as unemployment insurance) only to unions or their members. Another solution is for unions to engage in members-only collective bargaining, which restricts the benefits of the contract to union members.\n\nThe International Labour Organization's Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention can \"in no way be interpreted as authorising or prohibiting union security arrangements, such questions being matters for regulation in accordance with national practice.\"\n\nUnion security agreements are explicitly mentioned in the labor laws of many countries. They are highly regulated by law and court rulings in the United States and to a lesser degree in the United Kingdom. In Canada, the legal status of the union security agreement varies from province to province and at the federal level, with a few provinces permitting but not requiring it but the majority of provinces (and the federal government) requiring it if the union requests it.\n\nIn most Western European countries, the closed shop (one form of the union security agreement) is banned, while other forms go unregulated in labor law. But this is not a uniform conclusion, and law may vary widely. For example, in Germany both the right to join a union and the right \"not\" to join a union are equally protected by law and the courts, and all forms of union security agreements are banned. The law in Belgium has similar provisions. Still, since participation in the unemployment insurance system is compulsory and only unions have the right to administer this system, union membership in Belgium remains high.\n\nOutside North America and Western Europe, the legal status of union security agreements varies even more widely. In New Zealand, as of 1988, the closed shop was compulsory where a union organized the workplace. In the Philippines, various types of union security agreements are permitted under labor law. In Mexico, the closed shop was mandatory until the early 1990s, when a change in federal law permitted the union shop, agency shop, or no agreement at all. But because of the political ties between unions and the governing party in Mexico and other ways in which Mexican law favors established unions, the closed shop is essentially still the norm.\n\nMany countries, however, have not addressed the issue of union security agreements. Neither Indonesian nor Thai labor law addresses the issue, and in both countries collective bargaining, union administrative procedures, and dues collection are so weak that the union security issues rarely arise. In Australia, the legal status of union security agreements has varied widely across each state and the national government and over time. Australian labor law does not explicitly regulate union security agreements. However, various forms of the union security agreement have been favored at one time or another by each state, territory, or the national government, effectively regulating the favored type of union security agreement and disadvantaging its other forms.\n\nVarious types of union security agreements exist. Among the more common are:\n\n\"Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31\", _ US _ (2018) is a US labor law case, concerning whether governments violate the First Amendment when they require their employees to pay fees to a union as a condition of employment.\n\nIn February 2015, Illinois Republican Governor Bruce Rauner filed suit, claiming that fair-share agreements are unconstitutional and a violation of the First Amendment right to free speech.\n\nIn March 2015, three government workers from Illinois represented by attorneys from the Illinois-based Liberty Justice Center and Virginia-based National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation took legal action to intervene in the case. In May 2015, Rauner was dropped from the case, after a federal judge ruled that the governor did not have standing to bring such a suit, but the case proceeded under a new name, \"Janus v. AFSCME.\" The case is named after Mark Janus, an Illinois child support specialist covered by a collective bargaining agreement. \n\nJanus claimed that he should not need to pay fees to the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees because doing so constitutes paying for political speech with which Janus disagrees. This became permissible after a 1977 decision by the US Supreme Court in \"Abood v. Detroit Board of Education\".\n\nIn June 2018, the US Supreme Court ruled in favor of Janus, in a 5-4 decision, and stated that \"States and public-sector unions may no longer extract agency fees from nonconsenting employees\". \n\n"}
{"id": "46390698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46390698", "title": "Women's Entrepreneurship Day", "text": "Women's Entrepreneurship Day\n\nWomen's Entrepreneurship Day (WED) is a day on which the work of women entrepreneurs is observed and discussed, held on the nineteenth of November of each year. The inaugural event was held in New York City at the United Nations, with additional events being held simultaneously in several other countries. 144 nations overall recognized the first WED in 2014, which included the presentation of the Women's Entrepreneurship Day Pioneer Awards. The organization behind WED also has an ambassadorship and fellowship program.\n\nWomen's Entrepreneurship Day was founded and implemented by Pet Pioneer, Animal Fair Media Founder and Ellis Island Medal of Honor recipient Wendy Diamond, after volunteering with the Adelante Foundation who provides microcredit to low income women while in Honduras. Upon her return to the US she decided she wanted to develop something to help this and similar philanthropic causes. The first day was held on November 19, 2014, and was observed in 144 countries that year. It was described by Fortune Magazine as “a global movement to celebrate and support female founders and shed light on some of their challenges.” Forbes Magazine wrote that the intention was also “to mobilize a global network of female business owners, entrepreneurs and change makers who support and empower this community of women entrepreneurs and their businesses.” November 19 was proclaimed an “official day” by both New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney, and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and is celebrated annually at the United Nations and around the globe. The U.S. House of Representatives also annually recognizes the WEDO movement November 19th as “A Day in Honor of Women Entrepreneurs” under the leadership of Congresswoman Grace Meng.\n\nWomen's Entrepreneurship Day event convenes at the United Nations in New York City including a conference, speakers, and the inaugural Women's Entrepreneurship Day Pioneer Awards. An Education Philanthropy Pioneer Award was given to Barack Obama’s grandmother Sarah Obama, for her work in bringing gender equality to education in that country. Obama was presented the award by actress Quvenzhané Wallis. Loreen Arbus received an award for her philanthropic work, as did to Lynn Tilton.\n\nOther attendees of the United Nations inaugural launch included actress Rose Byrne; Miss Universe Gabriela Isler; Jimmy Choo co-founder Tamara Mellon; and First Ladies Gertrude Maseko of Malawi and Penehupifo Pohamba of Namibia. Delegations were sent from many different nations attended the event as well. A second WED is planned at the United Nations in 2015: the United Nations Foundation is a founding partner of the events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditional events were held internationally, including one at the University of Luxembourg, which held a conference that featured speeches from women entrepreneurs as well as discussions between local entrepreneurs. The keynote address was provided by Deputy Chief Executive of the European Investment Fund Marjut Santoni. Other events were also held, for example, in Lagos, Nigeria. WED founded and launched the Women Wednesday social media event held on the Wednesday after Thanksgiving in 2014, to support women in business and related causes.\n\nIn addition to the annual events, WED founded and initiated a Global Ambassador Initiative, in order to develop WED communities on university campuses. It also runs the Women's Entrepreneurship Day Fellows Program, which is chaired by Kunal Sood.\n\n"}
