{"id": "20860970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20860970", "title": "Abortion in Guyana", "text": "Abortion in Guyana\n\nAbortion in Guyana is legal during the first eight weeks of pregnancy, but it is illegal after eight weeks except in cases of endangering the maternal or fetal health. Throughout much of the 20th century, it was officially illegal but rarely were laws against abortion ever enforced. In 1995, legislation was passed which made abortion legal as long as it was done within the first 8 weeks of pregnancy and done with the consent of the pregnant woman and by a licensed medical practitioner.\n\nBetween 8 and 12 weeks from conception, abortion is only legal if the pending childbirth would result in health risks for the woman or the fetus, or if the pregnancy occurred despite the use of contraceptives. Between 12 and 16 weeks, an abortion can still be legally performed, but only if the health of the woman or fetus is in danger. After 16 weeks, it is only possible to perform an abortion in the case of severe health-related circumstances.\n\nIn 2006, the Guyanese government theoretically cleared the way for public hospitals to \"perform abortions.\" In actuality, the public hospitals only complete abortions which have already been partially undertaken by pregnant women. They began doing so in 2008.\n\nThe Guyanese government continues to look for ways to lower the number of abortions in Guyana.\n\n"}
{"id": "18748870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18748870", "title": "Achen Lake", "text": "Achen Lake\n\nLake Achen () is a lake north of Jenbach in Tyrol, Austria. It is the largest lake within the federal state, and has a maximal depth of 133 metres. Together with the Achen Valley it parts the Karwendel mountain range in the west from the Brandenberg Alps in the east.\n\nWater quality is near drinking water, with sight up to 10 m below the surface. An alpine lake, water temperature is accordingly low, rarely above 20 °C. Its size and wind conditions make it suitable for windsurfing.\n\nEben am Achensee, Achenkirch, and Pertisau are municipalities on the lake.\n\nThe city of Innsbruck bought the lake in 1919 from the St. Georgenberg-Fiecht Abbey, who had received it from the rulers of Schlitters around 1120.\n\nSince 1924, the lake is managed by the Tiroler Wasserkraft AG (TIWAG), which was founded for this purpose.\n\nOriginally, its only outflow was the \"Achenbach\", feeding the Isar. Since 1927, when a power plant in Jenbach was finished, it primarily feeds the Inn, at a level difference of 380 m below. Eight pelton wheels at 500 RPM produce a total of 96 MW.\n\nIn winter, the level of the lake is lowered by up to 6 meters; accordingly the size of the lake keeps changing. At maximum level, the reservoir can store 66 million m³ of water.\n\nWhen the Unterinntalbahn railway was finished in 1859, tourism started to flourish. In order to make the abbey profit, the first steamboat \"St. Josef\" was acquired in 1887.\nFurthermore the construction of the 7 km long Achenseebahn narrow gauge rack railway was initiated, which went into service in 1889 between Jenbach and \"Seespitz\". On 21 July that year a second steamboat, the \"St. Benedikt\", went into service. In 1890 the two boats with a capacity of 320 seats transported about 30,000 persons.\n\nIn 1911 a third scheduled boat, the \"Stella Maris\" went into service. It was the first passenger boat on a lake in the Danubian monarchy originally equipped with a diesel engine. The boat was designed for 400 passengers, and featured a particularly silent engine at low rpm, similar to those that later were used in the submarines of World War I.\n\nHowever, the \"Stella Maris\" was difficult to manoeuvre. When the lake was bought by the city of Innsbruck in 1919, the boat was renamed into \"Stadt Innsbruck\". In 1925 a motorboat named \"Tirol\" was acquired, and in 1927 for the first time more than 100,000 persons were transported.\n\nIn 1959 the \"St. Benedikt\" was replaced with a modern ship of the same name with a diesel engine. In 1971 the \"Tirol\" was replaced with a larger \"Tirol II\" for 40 passengers. In 1994 the \"MS Tirol\" went into service, replacing the \"Stadt Innsbruck\", and in August 2007 the \"MS Stadt Innsbruck\" replaced the \"St. Benedikt\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42043691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42043691", "title": "Agricultural value chain", "text": "Agricultural value chain\n\nThe agricultural value chain concept has been used since the beginning of the millennium, primarily by those working in agricultural development in developing countries. Although there is no universally accepted definition of the term, it normally refers to the whole range of goods and services necessary for an agricultural product to move from the farm to the final customer or consumer.\n\nThe term value chain was first popularized in a book published in 1985 by Michael Porter, who used it to illustrate how companies could achieve what he called “competitive advantage” by adding value within their organization. Subsequently, the term was adopted for agricultural development purposes and has now become very much in vogue among those working in this field, with an increasing number of bilateral and multilateral aid organisations using it to guide their development interventions.\n\nAt the heart of the agricultural value chain concept is the idea of actors connected along a chain producing and delivering goods to consumers through a sequence of activities. However, this “vertical” chain cannot function in isolation and an important aspect of the value chain approach is that it also considers “horizontal” impacts on the chain, such as input and finance provision, extension support and the general enabling environment. The approach has been found useful, particularly by donors, in that it has resulted in a consideration of all those factors impacting on the ability of farmers to access markets profitably, leading to a broader range of chain interventions. It is used both for upgrading existing chains and for donors to identify market opportunities for small farmers.\n\nThere is no commonly agreed definition of what is actually meant by agricultural value chains. Indeed, some agencies are using the term without having a workable definition or definitions and simply redefined ongoing activities as “value chain” work when the term came into vogue. Published definitions include the World Bank’s “the term ‘’value chain’’ describes the full range of value adding activities required to bring a product or service through the different phases of production, including procurement of raw materials and other inputs”, UNIDO’s “actors connected along a chain producing, transforming and bringing goods and services to end-consumers through a sequenced set of activities”, and CIAT’s “a strategic network among a number of business organizations”.\n\nWithout a universal definition the term “value chain” is now being used to refer to a range of types of chain, including:\n\n\nDonors and others supporting agricultural development, such as GIZ, DFID, ILO, IIED and UNIDO, have produced a range of documents designed to assist their staff and others to evaluate value chains in order to decide on the most appropriate interventions to either update existing chains or promote new ones. However, the application of value chain analysis is being interpreted differently by different organisations, with possible repercussions for their development impact. The proliferation of guides has taken place in an environment where key conceptual and methodological elements of value chain analysis and development are still evolving. Many of these guides include not only detailed procedures that require experts to carry out the analysis but also use detailed quasi-academic methodologies. One such methodology is to compare the same value chain over time (a comparative or panel study) to assess changes in rents, governance, systemic efficiency and the institutional framework.\n\nA major subset of value chain development work is concerned with ways of linking producers to companies, and hence into the value chains. While there are examples of fully integrated value chains that do not involve smallholders (e.g. Unilever operates tea estates and tea processing facilities in Kenya and then blends and packs the tea in Europe before selling it as Lipton, Brooke Bond or PG Tips brands), the great bulk of agricultural value chains involve sales to companies from independent farmers. Such arrangements frequently involve contract farming in which the farmer undertakes to supply agreed quantities of a crop or livestock product, based on the quality standards and delivery requirements of the purchaser, often at a price that is established in advance. Companies often also agree to support the farmer through input supply, land preparation, extension advice and transporting produce to their premises.\n\nWork to promote market linkages in developing countries is often based on the concept of “inclusive value chains”, which usually places emphasis on identifying possible ways in which small-scale farmers can be incorporated into existing or new value chains or can extract greater value from the chain, either by increasing efficiency or by also carrying out activities further along the chain. In the various publications on the topic the definition of “inclusion” is often imprecise as it is often unclear whether the development aim is to include all farmers or only those best able to take advantage of the opportunities.\n\nAgricultural value chain finance is concerned with the flows of funds to and within a value chain to meet the needs of chain actors for finance, to secure sales, to buy inputs or produce, or to improve efficiency. Examining the potential for value chain finance involves a holistic approach to analyze the chain, those working in it, and their inter-linkages. These linkages allow financing to flow through the chain. For example, inputs can be provided to farmers and the cost can be repaid directly when the product is delivered, without need for farmers taking a loan from a bank or similar institution. This is common under contract farming arrangements. Types of value chain finance include product financing through trader and input supplier credit or credit supplied by a marketing company or a lead firm. Other trade finance instruments include receivables financing where the bank advances funds against an assignment of future receivables from the buyer, and factoring in which a business sells its accounts receivable at a discount. Also falling under value chain finance are asset collateralization, such as on the basis of warehouse receipts, and risk mitigation, such as forward contracting, futures and insurance.\n\nInformation and Communication Technologies, or ICTs, have become an important tool in promoting agricultural value chain efficiency. There has been a rapid expansion in the use of mobile technologies, in particular. The price of ICT services is falling and the technologies are becoming more affordable to many in developing countries. Applications can support farmers directly through SMS messages. Examples include iCow, developed in Kenya, which provides information on the gestation period, on artificial insemination of the cows, and on how to look after them. Applications such as M-Pesa can support access to mobile payment services for a large percentage of those without banks, thereby facilitating transactions in the value chain. Other applications have been developed to promote provision of crop insurance through input dealers, for example.\n\nICTs are also being used to strengthen the capacity of extension officers and NGO field staff to reach farmers with timely and accurate information and, at the same time, help capture data from the field. The Grameen Foundation’s Community Knowledge Worker (CKW) programme is an example. Farmer representatives are trained to use ICT applications on a smartphone to provide agricultural information and extension support. Most market price information is now delivered to farmers via SMS. Further along the chain, technologies offer considerable possibilities to enhance traceability, which is particularly relevant as certification grows in importance. Where necessary many exporters can now trace consignments back to individual farmers and take necessary measures to address problems. Finally, systems such as FARA’s eRails are also supporting agricultural researchers through data collection and analysis and access to up-to-date research publications.\n\nAs with all agricultural growth, two things appear essential for successful value chain development: creating the right environment for agriculture and investing in rural public goods. An enabling environment implies peace and public order, macro-economic stability, inflation under control, exchange rates based on market fundamentals rather than government allocation of foreign currency, predictable taxation that is reinvested in public goods and property rights. There is a positive correlation of agricultural growth with investment in irrigation, transport infrastructure and other technologies. Governments have a responsibility to provide essential goods and services, infrastructure, such as rural roads, and agricultural research and extension. Value chain development is often constrained by corruption, both at a high level and at the ubiquitous road blocks found in many countries, particularly in Africa. Many measures to improve value chains require collaboration between a wide range of different ministries, and this can be difficult to achieve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56263444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56263444", "title": "Alcohol Concern", "text": "Alcohol Concern\n\nAlcohol Concern is a British charity and campaign group founded in 1984 whose aim is to reduce the harm caused by alcohol. It is best known for its flagship awareness programs Alcohol Awareness Week and Dry January.\n\nAlcohol Concern was founded in 1984. In 2007 it became one of the 24 founding member organisations of Alcohol Health Alliance UK, a coalition of medical, charity and campaign organisations related to alcohol. In April 2017, Alcohol Concern merged with Alcohol Research UK. It is now recognised as a national agency on alcohol misuse for England and Wales.\n\nSince September 2017, the charity has been led by Chief Executive Officer Dr Richard Piper, previously of Roald Dahl's Marvellous Medicine Children's Charity. Richard Sumray is chair of the trustees.\n\nIn May 2012, Alcohol Concern began promoting Dry January, a national campaign in the UK for people to give up drinking alcohol for the month of January each year. The first Dry January was in 2013. The idea came from Emily Robinson, who gave up alcohol for January 2011 in preparation for a half marathon and joined Alcohol Concern in January 2012 while abstaining again. Public Health England began promoting the campaign in December 2014. In January 2018, a YouGov survey estimated that 3.1 million people in Britain were attempting Dry January.\n\nThe Charity also organises Alcohol Awareness Week each year. Alcohol Awareness Week 2017 was 13–19 November and had the theme \"Alcohol and Families\". It was arranged in partnership with substance abuse charity Adfam.\n\nAlcohol Concern runs Drinkline (0300 123 1110), a drink helpline. It also provides training and education for businesses about alcohol use.\n\nIts three-year project Communities Together, from 2014 to 2017, was a National Lottery-funded project encouraging healthy alcohol use in Fishguard and Goodwick in Wales, intended to develop harm-reduction approaches that can be expanded to other communities. Initiatives forming part of the project included an \"alcohol-free\" beer festival, held on Saint David's Day at Fishguard and Goodwick Rugby Club.\n\nThe Blue Light Project, supported by Public Health England, aims to reduce the financial burden caused by alcohol on public services, focusing on users of alcohol who have been resistant to the usual methods of treatment provision.\n\nAlcohol Concern campaigns for the prohibition of or tight restriction of alcohol advertising and co-ordinates the Youth Alcohol Advertising Council which advocates enforcement of existing regulations. It also campaigns for a legal minimum price of alcohol per unit and other restrictions on alcohol promotion within stores, as well as a reduction of the legal drink driving limit.\n\nAlcohol Concern acts as the secretariat and public enquiry point for the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Alcohol Harm, which exists to discuss alcohol-related issues and make related recommendations to government. As of July 2015 the chair of the group was Fiona Bruce MP.\n\nAlcohol Concern receives funding from donations and from funding bodies including the Big Lottery Fund. In the financial year to 31 March 2016 it had a combined income of £953,100 and spending of £1,000,000. It had £417,300 total assets and £213,000 total liabilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45405998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45405998", "title": "Alto Rabagão Dam", "text": "Alto Rabagão Dam\n\nAlto Rabagão Dam () is a concrete dam on the Rabagão River, a left tributary of the Cávado River. It is located in Peneda-Gerês National Park, in the municipality Montalegre, in Vila Real District, Portugal.\n\nConstruction of the dam began in 1957. The dam was completed in 1964. It is owned by \"Companhia Portuguesa de Produção de Electricidade\" (CPPE). The dam is used for power production.\n\nAlto Rabagão Dam is a 94 m tall (height above foundation) and 1,970 m long concrete dam, which is composed of a arch dam in the center and gravity dams on both sides. Its crest altitude is 880 m. The volume of the dam is 1,117,000 m³. The dam contains a crest spillway with 2 gates (maximum discharge 500 m³/s) and a bottom outlet (maximum discharge 360 m³/s).\n\nAt full reservoir level of 880 m (maximum flood level of 880.1 m) the reservoir of the dam has a surface area of 22.12 km² and its total capacity is 568.69 mio. m³. Its active capacity is 557.92 (550 or 550.1) mio. m³. Minimum operating level is 829 m. With the 550.1 mio. m³ water 973.1 GWh can be produced.\n\nThe pumped-storage hydroelectric power plant went operational in 1964. It is owned by CPPE, but operated by EDP. The plant has a nameplate capacity of 68 (72) MW. Its average annual generation is 85.2 (83 95 or 97) GWh.\n\nThe power station is located downstream and contains 2 reversible Francis turbine-generators with 36.75 MW (45 MVA), each in an underground powerhouse. The turbine rotation is 428 rpm. The minimum hydraulic head is 129 m, the maximum 185 m. Maximum flow per turbine is 25.7 m³/s. When pumping, each of the pumps has a maximum energy consumption of 31.7 MW and can pump 18 m³/s. The pumps are operated independently of the Francis turbines.\n\nAs lower reservoir for Alto Rabagão the reservoir of Venda Nova Dam is used.\n\n"}
{"id": "43528858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43528858", "title": "Ballygowan water", "text": "Ballygowan water\n\nBallygowan is an Irish brand of mineral water. It is bottled at Newcastle West in County Limerick, near its source at the site of a reputed holy well used by the Knights Templar. Ballygowan is the leading water brand in the Irish market, its name often used as a generic trademark. \n\nThe company was founded by Geoff Read in 1981, who launched a marketing and distribution joint venture in 1984 with Nash, a soft drink manufacturer. Anheuser-Busch took a stake in 1987, which was bought back in 1989. In 1993, Ballygowan was bought by Cantrell and Cochrane (now C&C), which sold its non-alcoholic brands to Britvic in 2007. The 1993 deal involved Nash selling the source but retaining part of the source area, which it later used for its own rival spring water brand. In 2014 Britvic discontinued its Drench and Pennine Spring water brands in Britain in favour of Ballygowan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54981586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54981586", "title": "Claudio Amoedo", "text": "Claudio Amoedo\n\nClaudio Juan Amoedo Canaveri (1830-1871) was an Argentine medical doctor. He served as president of the Medical Association of the province of Buenos Aires during the government of .\n\nClaudio was born in Buenos Aires, son of Hilario Amoedo Garazatúa and Juana Josefa Canaveri Esparza, belonging to a distinguished family of Galician, Piedmontese and Basque roots. He completed his elementary studies in Colegio Republicano Federal where he learned French and English language in 1845. Later he began his medical studies at the University of Buenos Aires, obtaining his doctorate in medicine. \n\nAfter graduating he worked as director of a hospital in the town of Quilmes. And time later in 1867, he served as doctor of medicine of the police of the province of Buenos Aires. In 1870, Amoedo integrated the Commission of Public Hygiene of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Amoedo family had been pioneers in medicine in the Río de la Plata, his father Felipe Amoedo had been one of the first apothecaries of the city. And his brother was the prestigious doctor Sinforoso Amoedo, of great action during the yellow fever epidemic. \n\nClaudio Amoedo was married to Ángela Ibarra, belonging to a family of Basque origin. He died tragically (suicide) on January 7, 1871, his brother Sinforoso Amoedo, who witnessed his death, died of yellow fever on April 23 of the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "30442045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30442045", "title": "Climber's finger", "text": "Climber's finger\n\nClimber's finger is one of the most common climbing injuries within the sport of rock climbing. It is an overuse injury that usually manifests in a swollen middle or ring finger due to a damaged flexor tendon pulley, normally the A2 or A4 pulley. It is caused by a climber trying to support his or her body weight with one or two fingers, and is particularly common after a repeated utilization of small holds. Continued climbing on an injured finger may result in increased downtime in order to recover.\n\nManagement of tendon injuries in the fingers is to follow the RICE method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8860434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8860434", "title": "Coarse bubble diffusers", "text": "Coarse bubble diffusers\n\nCoarse bubble diffusers are a pollution control technology used to aerate and or mix wastewater for sewage treatment.\n\nCoarse bubble diffusers produce 1/4 to 1/2 inch (6.4 to 13 mm) bubbles which rise rapidly from the floor of a wastewater treatment plant or sewage treatment plant tank. They are typically used in grit chambers, equalization basins, chlorine contact tanks, and aerobic digesters, and sometimes also in aeration tanks. Generally they are better at vertically \"pumping\" water than at mass transfer of oxygen. Coarse bubble diffusers typically provide half the mass transfer of oxygen as compared to fine bubble diffusers, given the same air volume.\n\nOften in non-Newtonian or pseudoplastic fluids, such as a digester with high solids concentration, it does make sense to use coarse bubble diffusers rather than fine bubble diffusers, due to the larger bubbles' ability to shear through more viscous wastewater.\n\nHowever, over the past two decades, coarse bubble diffusers have been used less frequently, primarily due to the ever increasing cost of energy and the availability of more reliable, highly efficient fine bubble diffusers. Manufacturers of diffused aeration systems claim that converting from coarse bubble to fine bubble system should yield a 50 percent energy cost savings. Specifically, in aeration tanks, a system that utilizes coarse bubble diffusers requires 30 to 40 percent more process air than a fine bubble diffused air system to provide the same level of treatment. The exception would be in secondary treatment (or side processing) phases. In these processing tanks, floc particles, sediment and carbonate buildup tend to plug or clog the small air release openings on the fine bubble diffusers. Because of their small air openings, fine bubble diffusers cease to have an advantage. Currently, coarse bubble diffusers are the mainstay solution.\n\nThese diffusers are typically made in the shape of a perforated rectangular pipe called a wide band, or a cap of in diameter with an elastomeric membrane. Other varieties of coarse bubble diffusers exist, though it is generally accepted that all of them perform similarly with respect to mass oxygen transfer. When comparing disc-shaped diffusers, the majority fail to withstand specific challenges, beyond 1 or 2 years, which include: clogging, blowing off and cracking. Any coarse bubble diffuser that eliminates these problems would deliver a huge cost-savings, not only in product replacement, but in system downtime to facilitate their exchange. This is a motivating factor considered by budget-sensitive operators at municipal waste water treatment processing plants.\n\nBelow are different types of coarse bubble diffusers from various manufacturers.\n"}
{"id": "9088305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9088305", "title": "Dean Burk", "text": "Dean Burk\n\nDean Burk (March 21, 1904 – October 6, 1988) was an American biochemist, medical researcher, and a cancer researcher at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute and the National Cancer Institute. In 1934, he developed the Lineweaver–Burk plot together with Hans Lineweaver.\n\nDean was the second of four sons born to Frederic Burk, the founder of the San Francisco Normal School, a preparatory school for teachers which eventually became San Francisco State University. He entered the University of California at Davis at the age of 15. A year later, he transferred to the University of California at Berkeley, where he received his B.S. in Entomology in 1923. Four years later he earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry.\n\nBurk joined the Department of Agriculture in 1929 working in the Fixed Nitrogen Research Laboratory. In 1939, he joined the Cancer Institute as a senior chemist. He was head of the cytochemistry laboratory when he retired in 1974. He also taught biochemistry at the Cornell University medical school from 1939 to 1941. He was a research master at George Washington University. Burk was a close friend and co-author with Otto Heinrich Warburg. He was a co-developer of the prototype of the Magnetic Resonance Scanner and a co-discoverer of biotin. Burk published more than 250 scientific articles in his lifetime. He later became head of the National Cancer Institute's Cytochemistry Sector in 1938, although he is often mistaken as leading the entire facility.\n\nAfter retiring from the NCI in 1974, Dean Burk remained active. He devoted himself to his opposition to water fluoridation. According to Burk \"fluoridation is a form of public mass murder.\" Dean Burk argued on Dutch television against a water fluoridation proposal which was before the Dutch Parliament in the Netherlands. He also was an avid supporter of laetrile; a cancer treatment now regarded by the medical establishment as ineffective and potentially dangerous.\n\nFor his work on photosynthesis, Dean Burk received the Hillebrand Prize in 1952. Dean Burk and Otto Heinrich Warburg discovered the photosynthesis I-quantum reaction that splits CO activated by respiration.\nFor his techniques to distinguish between normal cells and those damaged by cancer, Dean Burk was awarded the Gerhard Domagk Prize in 1965.\n"}
{"id": "27903439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27903439", "title": "Dick Anthony", "text": "Dick Anthony\n\nDick Anthony is a forensic psychologist noted for his writings on the validity of brainwashing as a determiner of behavior, a prolific researcher of the social and psychological aspects of involvement in new religious movements.\n\nAnthony holds a PhD from the Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley, California. He has supervised research at the Department of Psychiatry of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and at the Graduate Theological Union, and is a former director of the Graduate Theological Union's UC Berkeley-affiliated Center for the Study of New Religions. His research has been supported by government agencies including the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute of Drug Abuse and the National Endowment for the Humanities, and he has frequently testified or acted as a consultant in court cases involving allegations of religious coercion or harm resulting from involvement in a religious group. Anthony has authored or co-authored a large number of scholarly articles on the topic and has co-edited several books.\n\nAnthony has characterized brainwashing as \"a pseudo-scientific myth\", and spearheaded efforts which from 1990 onward led to the general rejection of brainwashing testimony as unscientific in United States courts. Anthony asserted in the \"Washington Post\" that \"no reasonable person would question that there are situations where people can be influenced against their best interests, but those arguments are evaluated on the basis of fact, not bogus expert testimony.\" Dismissing the idea of mind control, he has defended new religious movements, and argued that involvement in such movements may often have beneficial, rather than harmful effects.\n\nAnthony was a key consultant for the government in the Fishman case and acted as a consultant in many subsequent cases of a similar nature, \"frequently getting pseudoscientific mind control testimony excluded from evidentiary hearings\". According to sociologist James T. Richardson, he was the \"intellectual driving force\" behind an amicus curiae brief on brainwashing endorsed by the American Psychological Association. In the Fishman case, the court accepted Anthony's argument that Margaret Singer's brainwashing theory lacked scientific support, a decision that set a legal precedent and led to the exclusion of Margaret Singer and her colleague Richard Ofshe as expert witnesses in this and subsequent trials. Afterwards, Singer and Ofshe twice sued Anthony, as well as the American Psychological Association, the American Sociological Association and several other scholars, for defamation and conspiracy to deprive them of their livelihoods. Both suits were dismissed; in the second the judge granted the defendants a SLAPP motion, requiring Singer and Ofshe to pay Anthony's and the other defendants' legal costs.\n\nAnthony contributed a 100-page chapter on the brainwashing hypothesis to the book \"Misunderstanding Cults\", edited by sociologists Benjamin Zablocki and Thomas Robbins, in which he criticized the \"tactical ambiguity\" of brainwashing theorists like Zablocki. In Anthony's view, brainwashing proponents have, in their efforts to resurrect a discredited hypothesis, continually modified key assumptions underlying the concept in order to avoid any possibility of its empirical verification. The chapter argues that \"the term brainwashing has such sensationalist connotations that its use prejudices any scientific discussion of patterns of commitment in religious movements.\"\n\nDavid G. Bromley and Anson Shupe, writing in the \"Encyclopedia of Religion and Society\" (1998), have credited Anthony and his co-author, sociologist Thomas Robbins, with having written \"the most articulate critique\" of the anti-cult movement's perspective on brainwashing. The sociologist James T. Richardson has referred to Anthony's scholarly work on brainwashing as \"without peer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332292", "title": "Downtown Eastside", "text": "Downtown Eastside\n\nThe Downtown Eastside (DTES) is a neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The area, one of the city's oldest, is notable for its levels of drug use, poverty, mental illness, sex work, homelessness, and crime. It is also known for its strong community resilience and history of social activism.\n\nAround the beginning of the 20th century, the DTES was the political, cultural, and retail centre of the city. Over several decades, the city centre gradually shifted westwards and the DTES became a poor, although relatively stable, neighbourhood. In the 1980s, the area began a rapid decline due to several factors including an influx of hard drugs, the de-institutionalization of mentally ill individuals, policies that pushed prostitution and drug-related activity out of nearby areas, and the cessation of federal funding for social housing. By 1997, an epidemic of HIV infection and drug overdoses in the DTES led to the declaration of a public health emergency. As of 2018, critical issues include opioid overdoses, especially those involving the drug fentanyl; decrepit and squalid housing; a shortage of low-cost rental housing; and a high prevalence of severe mental illness, which often co-occurs with addiction.\n\nThe population of the DTES is estimated to be around 6,000 to 8,000. Compared to the city as a whole, the DTES has a higher proportion of males and adults who live alone. It also has significantly more First Nation Canadians, who are disproportionately affected by the neighbourhood's social problems. The neighbourhood has a history of attracting individuals with mental health and addiction issues, many of whom being drawn to its drug market and low-barrier services. Law enforcement policies are among the most progressive in Canada; however, many vulnerable members of the community have low trust in the police.\n\nSince the real estate boom began in the early 21st century, the area has been increasingly experiencing gentrification. Some see gentrification as a force for revitalization, while others believe it has led to higher displacement and homelessness. Numerous efforts have been made to improve the DTES at an estimated cost of over $1.4 billion as of 2009. Services in the greater DTES area are estimated to cost $360 million per year. Commentators from across the political spectrum have said that little progress has been made in resolving the issues of the neighbourhood as a whole, although there are individual success stories. Proposals for addressing the issues of the area include increasing investment in social housing, increasing capacity for treating people with addictions and mental illness, making services more distributed across the city and region instead of concentrated in the DTES, and improving co-ordination of services. However, little agreement exists between the municipal, provincial, and federal governments regarding long-term plans for the area.\n\nThe term \"Downtown Eastside\" is most often used to refer to an area 10 to 50 blocks in size, a few blocks east of the city's central business district. The neighbourhood's issues are most visible in a stretch of Hastings Street around Main Street, which the \"Vancouver Sun\" described in 2006 as \"four blocks of hell.\"\n\nSome indications of the borders of the DTES, which shift and are poorly defined, are as follows:\n\nFor some community planning and statistical purposes, the City of Vancouver uses the term \"Downtown Eastside\" to refer to a much larger area with considerable social and economic diversity, including Chinatown, Gastown, Strathcona, the Victory Square area, and the light industrial area to the north. This area, referred to in this article as the greater DTES area, is bordered by Richards Street to the west, Clark Drive to the east, Waterfront Road and Water Street to the north and various streets to the south including Malkin Avenue and Prior Street.\nThe greater DTES area includes some popular tourist areas and nearly 20% of Vancouver's heritage buildings.\n\nStrathcona in the 1890s included the entire DTES. By 1994 Strathcona's northern boundary was generally considered to be the alley between East Pender and East Hastings streets, though some place it at Railway Street, including DTES east of Gore Avenue.\n\nThe DTES forms part of the traditional territories of the Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, and Musqueam First Nations. European settlement of the area began in the mid-19th century, and most early buildings were destroyed in the Great Vancouver Fire of 1886. Residents rebuilt their town at the edge of Burrard Inlet, between Cambie and Carrall streets, a townsite that now forms Gastown and part of the DTES. At the turn of the century, the DTES was the heart of the city, containing city hall, the courthouse, banks, the main shopping district, and the Carnegie Library. Travellers connecting between Pacific steamships and the western terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway used its hundreds of hotels and rooming houses. Large Japanese and Chinese immigrant communities settled in Japantown, which lies within the DTES, and in nearby Chinatown, respectively.\n\nDuring the Depression, hundreds of men arrived in Vancouver in search of work. Most of them later returned to their hometowns, except workers who had been injured or those who were sick or elderly. These men remained in the DTES area – at the time known as Skid Road – which became a non-judgemental, affordable place to live as the main downtown area of Vancouver began to shift westward. Among them, drinking was a common pastime. In addition to being a major cultural and entertainment district, Hastings Street was also a centre for beer parlours and brothels.\n\nIn 1942, the neighbourhood lost its entire ethnic Japanese population, estimated at 8,000 to 10,000, due to the Canadian government's internment of these people. Most did not return to the once-thriving Japantown community after the war.\n\nIn the 1950s, the city centre continued its shift westward after the interurban rail line closed; its main depot was at Carrall and Hastings. Theatres and shops moved towards Granville and Robson streets. As tourist traffic declined, the neighbourhood's hotels became run-down and were gradually converted to Single room occupancy (or SRO) housing, a use which persists to this day. By 1965, the area was known for prostitution and for having a relatively high proportion of poor, single men, many of whom were alcoholic, disabled, or pensioners.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the DTES was an edgy but still relatively calm place to live. The neighbourhood began a marked shift before Expo 86, when an estimated 800 to 1,000 tenants were evicted from DTES residential hotels to make room for tourists. With the increased tourist traffic of Expo 86, dealers introduced an influx of high-purity cocaine and heroin. In efforts to clean up other areas of the city, police cracked down on the cocaine market and street prostitution, but these activities resurfaced in the DTES. Within the DTES, police officers gave up on arresting the huge numbers of individual drug users, and chose to focus their efforts on dealers instead.\n\nMeanwhile, the provincial government adopted a policy of de-institutionalization of the mentally ill, leading to the mass discharge of Riverview Hospital's patients, with the promise that they would be integrated into the community. Between 1985 and 1999, the number of patient-days of care provided by B.C. psychiatric hospitals declined by nearly 65%. Many of the de-institutionalized mentally ill moved to the DTES, attracted by the accepting culture and low-cost housing, but they floundered without adequate treatment and support and soon became addicted to the neighbourhood's readily available drugs.\n\nBetween 1980 and 2002, more than 60 women went missing from the DTES, most of them sex workers. Robert Pickton, who had a farm east of the city where he held \"raves\", was charged with the murders of 26 of these women and convicted on six counts in 2007. He claimed to have murdered 49 women. As of 2009, an estimated 39 women were still missing from the Downtown Eastside.\n\nIn the 1990s, the situation in the DTES deteriorated further on several fronts. Woodward's, an anchor store in the 100-block of West Hastings street, closed in 1993 with devastating effect on the formerly bustling retail district. Meanwhile, a crisis in housing and homelessness was emerging.\n\nBetween 1970 and the late 1990s, the supply of low-income housing shrank in both the DTES and in other parts of the city, partly because of conversion of buildings into more expensive condominiums or hotels. In 1993, the federal government stopped funding social housing, and the rate of building social housing in B.C. dropped by two-thirds despite rising demand for it. By 1995, reports had begun to emerge of homeless people sleeping in parks, alleyways, and abandoned buildings. Cuts to the provincial welfare program in 2002 caused further hardship for the poor and homeless. Citywide, the number of homeless people climbed from 630 in 2002 to 1,300 in 2005.\n\nWithout the presence of a viable retail economy, a drug economy proliferated, with an accompanying increase in crime, while police presence decreased. Crack cocaine arrived in Vancouver in 1995, and crystal methamphetamine started to appear in the DTES in 2003. In 1997 the local health authority declared a public health emergency in the DTES: Rates of HIV infection, spread by needle-sharing amongst drug users, were worse than anywhere in the world outside Sub-Saharan Africa, and more than 1000 people had died of drug overdoses. Efforts to reduce drug-related deaths in the DTES included the opening of a needle exchange in 1989, the opening of North America's first legal safe injection site in 2003, and treatment with anti-retroviral drugs for HIV. A shift among users from injected cocaine to crack cocaine use may have also slowed the spread of disease. Rates of HIV infection dropped from 8.1 cases per 100 person-years in 1997 to 0.37 cases per 100 person-years by 2011. By 2015, the 40-block area surrounding the safe injection site had a 35% decline in overdose deaths.\nIn the 21st century, considerable investment was made in DTES services and infrastructure, including the redevelopment of the Woodward's Building and the acquisition of 23 SRO hotels by the provincial government for conversion to social housing. In 2009, \"The Globe and Mail\" estimated that governments and the private sector had spent more than $1.4 billion since 2000 on projects aimed at resolving the area's many problems.\n\nOpinions vary on whether the area has improved: A 2014 article in the \"National Post\" said, \"For all the money and attention here, there is little success at either getting the area's shattered populace back on their feet, or cleaning up the neighbourhood into something resembling a healthy community.\" Former NDP premier Mike Harcourt described the current reality of the neighbourhood as \"100-per-cent failure.\" Also in 2014, B.C. housing minister Rich Coleman said, \"I’ll go down for a walk in the Downtown Eastside, night time or day time, and it's dramatically different than it was. It's incredibly better than it was five, six years ago.\"\n\nThere are no official population figures for the DTES. Estimates have ranged from 6,000 to 8,000; the geographic boundaries associated with these figures was not provided.\n\nOfficial figures are available for the greater DTES area, which was home to an estimated 18,477 people in 2011. In comparison to the city of Vancouver overall, the greater DTES had a higher proportion of males (60% vs. 50%), more seniors (22% vs 13%), fewer children and youth (10% vs 18%), slightly fewer immigrants, and more Aboriginals (10% vs. 2%).\n\nA 2009 demographic profile by \"The Globe and Mail\" focused on an area of just over 30 city blocks in and around the DTES: It indicated that 14% of the residents were of Aboriginal descent. The average household size was 1.3 residents; 82% of the population lived alone. Children and teenagers made up 7% of the population, compared to 25% for Canada overall.\n\nA population that is frequently studied is tenants of single room occupancy (SRO) hotels in the greater DTES area. According to a 2013 survey, this population is 77% male, with a median age of 44. Aboriginals make up 28% of the population, and Europeans 59%.\n\nThe DTES population suffers from very high rates of mental illness and addiction. In 2007, Vancouver Coastal Health estimated that 2,100 DTES residents \"exhibit behaviour that is outside the norm\" and require more support in the areas of health and addiction services. According to the Vancouver Police Department (VPD) in 2008, up to 500 of these individuals were \"chronically mentally ill with disabling addictions, extreme behaviours, no permanent housing and regular police contact.\" As of 2009, the DTES was home to an estimated 1,800 to 3,600 individuals who were considered to be at \"extremely high health risk\" due to severe addiction and/or mental illness, equivalent to 60% of the population in this category for the 1 million people in the Vancouver Coastal Health region.\n\nA 2013 study of SRO tenants in the greater DTES found that 95.2% had some form of substance dependence and 74.4% had a mental illness, including 47.4% with psychosis. Only one third of individuals with psychosis were receiving treatment, and among those with concurrent addiction, the proportion receiving treatment was even lower. A 2016 study of the 323 most chronic offenders in the DTES found that 99% had at least one mental disorder, and more than 80% also had substance abuse issues. Between 60% and 70% of mentally ill patients treated at St. Paul's Hospital, the hospital closest to the DTES, are estimated to have multiple addictions. Possible explanations for the high level of co-occurrence between addiction and mental illness in the DTES include the vulnerability of the mentally ill to drug dealers, and a recent rise in crystal methamphetamine use, which can cause permanent psychosis.\n\nA 2010 BBC article described the DTES as \"home to one of the worst drug problems in North America.\" In 2011, crack cocaine was the most commonly used illicit hard drug in Vancouver, followed by injected prescription opioids (such as fentanyl and OxyContin), heroin, crystal methamphetamine (usually injected rather than smoked), and cocaine (also usually injected). Alcoholism, especially when it involves the use of highly toxic isopropyl alcohol, is a significant source of harm to residents of the DTES.\n\nIn 2016, a board member of the Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users said that in the previous year, Vancouver's supply of heroin had virtually disappeared and been replaced by fentanyl, which is cheaper and more potent. At the end of 2014, the DTES saw a dramatic rise in fentanyl overdoses. In 2016 the surge in drug overdose deaths led to the declaration of a public health emergency across the province.\n\nIn a 2008 survey of SRO residents in the greater DTES, 32% self-reported as being addicted to drugs, 20% were addicted to alcohol, 52% smoked cigarettes regularly, and 51% smoked marijuana. In 2003, the DTES was home to an estimated 4,700 injection drug users. Most live in unstable housing or are homeless, and approximately 20% are sex workers. In 2006, DTES residents incurred half of the deaths from illegal drug overdoses in the entire province. Between 1996 and 2011, there have been large fluctuations in drug usage, with the most recent trend being an overall decline in illicit drug use between 2007 and 2011. However, between 2010 and 2014, hospitalizations related to addictions increased by 89% at St. Paul's Hospital.\n\nAccording to a 2008 survey of greater DTES area SROs, tenants who used drugs estimated the cost of their habits at $30 per day, on average. Some spend hundreds of dollars per day on drugs. Police attribute much of the property crime in Vancouver to chronic repeat offenders who steal to support their drug habits.\n\nThe VPD reported in 2008 that in its district that includes the Downtown Eastside, mental health was a factor in 42% of all incidents in which police were involved. The police department says its officers are often forced to act as front-line mental health workers, due to the lack of more appropriate supports for this population.\n\nIn 2013, the city and police department reported that in the previous three years, there had been a 43% increase in people with severe mental illness and/or addiction in the emergency department of St. Paul's Hospital. In Vancouver, apprehensions under the \"Mental Health Act\" rose by 16% between 2010 and 2012, and there was also an increase in the number of violent incidents involving mentally ill people. Mayor Gregor Robertson described the mental health crisis as \"on par with, if not more serious than\" the DTES HIV/AIDS epidemic that had led to a declaration of a public health emergency in 1997.\n\nVancouver has an estimated 1,000 street sex workers and according to police, most of them work in the DTES. They call the neighbourhood, and contiguous industrial areas near Vancouver's port, the \"low track\", where they typically earn $5 to $20 for a date. Most are survival sex workers who use prostitution to support their drug addictions; up to two thirds say they have been physically or sexually assaulted while working. Sex workers, particularly women with children, find it difficult to find housing that they can afford, and often have difficulty leaving prostitution because of criminal records or addictions that make it harder to find jobs.\n\nAlthough Aboriginals make up only 2% of Vancouver's population, approximately 40% of Vancouver's street sex workers are Aboriginal. In one 2005 study, 52% of the prostitutes surveyed in Vancouver were Aboriginal, 96% reported having been sexually abused in childhood, and 81% reported childhood physical abuse. Some researchers and Aboriginal advocacy groups have attributed the over-representation of Aboriginals in Vancouver's sex trade to transgenerational trauma, linking it to Canada's colonial history, and in particular to the cultural and individual damaged caused by the residential schools, which previous generations of indigenous Canadians were forced to attend.\n\nReported crime rates in the DTES are higher than in the rest of the city, due mostly to assaults, robberies and public intoxication. Although the DTES is home to 3% of Vancouver's population, it was the location of 16% of the city's reported sexual assaults in 2012. In 2008, it was the location of 34.5% of all reported serious assaults and 22.6% of all robberies in the city.\n\nThese figures may be an underestimate, as marginalized populations such as DTES residents tend to be less likely to report crime. The figures do not indicate how many of the reported crimes were committed by DTES residents; some residents and business owners believe that visitors from other neighbourhoods are responsible for a significant proportion of serious crimes. According to police, DTES women say that what they fear most are \"predatory drug dealers who conduct their business with violence, torture and terror.\"\n\nIn addition to reported crime, the DTES has highly visible street disorder, which \"The New York Times\" described as \"a shock even to someone familiar with the Lower East Side of Manhattan in the 1980s or the Tenderloin in San Francisco.\" Some government social workers have refused to enter certain SROs out of concern for their own safety, despite being mandated to monitor children who live there. Tourists are often encouraged to avoid the DTES, although they are seldom victims of crime. High crime rates and difficulties in obtaining affordable property insurance deter legitimate businesses from opening or staying in the area, resulting in many vacant storefronts.\n\nThe greater DTES area is significantly poorer than the rest of Vancouver, with a median income of $13,691 versus $47,229 for the city as a whole. 53% of the greater DTES population is low-income, compared to 13.6% of the population of Metro Vancouver. In the V6A postal area, whose boundaries are similar to the greater DTES area, 6,339 residents received some form of social assistance in 2013. Of these, 3,193 were considered disabled and 1,461 were considered \"employable\". The base welfare rate for single adults who are considered employable is $610 per month: $375 per month for shelter and $235 per month for all other expenses. Advocates for low-income DTES residents say this amount, which has not increased since 2007, is not enough to live on. In 1981, the base welfare rate was equivalent to $970 per month after adjustment for inflation.\n\nSome DTES residents supplement their incomes through the informal economy, through volunteer work which can yield stipends, or through criminal activity or sex work. A 2008 survey of SRO residents found that the average tenant income from all sources, including the informal economy, was $1,109 per month.\n\nIn addition to issues with addiction and mental illness, DTES residents often have difficulty finding employment due to mental and physical disabilities and lack of education and skills. According to a 2009 survey of the 30 blocks in and around the DTES, 62% of the residents over the age of 15 were not considered participants in the labour force, compared to 33% in Vancouver as a whole.\n\nThe DTES is often referred to as \"Canada's poorest postal code\", although this is not the case.\n\nBoth homelessness and substandard housing are major issues in the DTES, that confound the neighbourhood's problems with addiction and mental illness. In 2012, there were 846 homeless people in the greater DTES area, including 171 who were not in some form of shelter. The DTES homeless made up approximately half of the city's total homeless population, over a third of whom are Aboriginal.\n\nThousands of DTES residents live in SROs, which provide low-cost rooms without private kitchens or bathrooms, Although conditions in SROs vary considerably, they have become notorious for their squalor and chaos. Many are more than 100 years old and in extreme disrepair, with shortages of basic necessities such as heat and functioning plumbing. In 2007, it was reported that four out of five rooms had bed bugs, cockroaches, and fire code violations. Even at their best, the SROS have a lack of living space that results in tenants spending more time in the public spaces of the DTES, including its street-based drug scene.\n\nSRO landlords have often been called \"slumlords\" for failing to fix problems, and illegally evicting tenants. The city has often been slow to force SRO owners to make major repairs, saying that owners could not afford to make them without raising rents.\n\nA 2013 study of SRO residents in the greater DTES area found that 18.4% were HIV positive and 70.3% were positive for hepatitis C. Few of those infected with hepatitis C receive treatment. The DTES population also has higher rates of tuberculosis and syphilis than the rest of the province, and injection drug users are susceptible to other infections such as endocarditis. Aboriginals are at the greatest risk from disease.\n\nAmongst the most vulnerable DTES residents, common issues with psychosocial well-being include low self-worth, lack of personal safety, lack of respect from others, social isolation, and low education levels. Many have lost custody of their children. A 2000 report from the Vancouver Native Health Society Medical Clinic said, \"Many individuals are survivors of severe childhood trauma. Negative experiences such as family violence, parental substance abuse, sexual and emotional abuse, suicide, divorce, and residential school atrocities are the norm.\" Many DTES residents are too unstable to keep appointments or reliably take medication.\n\nLife expectancy in the greater DTES area is 79.9 years, a significant improvement since the mid-1990s. Some of the increase may, however, be explained by the migration of healthier residents to the neighbourhoods surrounding the DTES. A 2015 study of DTES SRO residents found that they were eight times more likely to die than the national average, mostly due to psychosis and hepatitis C-related liver dysfunction.\n\nAlthough many outsiders fear the DTES, its residents take pride in their neighbourhood and describe it as having multiple positive assets. DTES residents say the area has a strong sense of community and cultural heritage. They describe their neighbours as being accepting and having empathy for people with addictions and health issues. According to the City, Hastings Street is valued by SRO residents as \"a place to meet friends, get support, access services and feel like they belong.\"\n\nThe area has had a robust tradition of advocacy for its marginalized residents since at least the 1970s, when the Downtown Eastside Residents Association (DERA) was formed. Over the years, the DTES community has consistently resisted many attempts to \"clean up\" the neighbourhood by dispersing its close-knit residents. Successful resident-led initiatives to improve conditions in the DTES include the transformation of the then-closed Carnegie Library into a community centre in 1980, the opening of an unlicensed supervised injection site in 2003, which led to the founding of Insite; improvements to Oppenheimer Park, and the creation of CRAB Park.\n\nIn 2010, the V6A postal area, which includes most of the DTES, had the second-highest concentration of artists in the city. Artists made up 4.4% of the labour force, compared to 2.3% in the city as a whole. The greater DTES area is the location of several art galleries, artist-run centres and studios. Notable annual events include the \"Downtown Eastside Heart of the City Festival\", which showcases the art, culture, and history of the neighbourhood, and the \"Powell Street Festival\" in Oppenheimer Park, which celebrates Japanese-Canadian arts and culture. City Opera of Vancouver, the Dancing on the Edge Festival, and other artists regularly perform in DTES venues such as the Carnegie Centre, the Firehall Arts Centre, and the Goldcorp Centre for the Arts at the Woodward's site. In 2010, Sam Sullivan, former mayor of Vancouver, said that in the DTES, \"Behind the visible people who clearly have a lot of troubles, there's a community. Some very intelligent people say this is the cultural heart of the city.\"\n\nIn comparison to other Canadian cities, the VPD is generally progressive in dealing with drugs and sex work, emphasizing harm reduction over law enforcement. Since the 1980s, the VPD has generally ignored drug use in the DTES, as the sheer volume of users makes it unfeasible to arrest all of them. A large-scale police crackdown on DTES drug users in 2003 made no difference except to displace drug use to adjacent neighbourhoods. To encourage people to call for help when a drug user is overdosing, paramedics rather than police respond to 911 calls about overdose deaths, except in cases where public safety is at risk.\n\nNationwide efforts to reduce the supply of drugs through law enforcement have had minimal impact on the easy availability or low prices of illicit drugs in Vancouver. By former mayor Mike Harcourt's estimate, police intercept only 2% of the drugs that enter the city. Vancouver police guidelines on dealing with sex workers emphasize focusing on addressing violence, human trafficking, and involvement of youth or gangs in prostitution, whereas sex involving consenting adults is not an enforcement priority.\n\nRelations between police and DTES women were strained by police shortcomings that allowed serial killer Robert Pickton to prey on the community for years before he was arrested in 2002; the VPD apologized in 2010 for its failures in apprehending him. In 2003, the Pivot Legal Society filed 50 complaints from DTES residents alleging police misconduct. An investigation by the RCMP, in which several VPD officers and the police chief failed to co-operate, found that 14 of those allegations were substantiated. In 2007, Pivot agreed to withdraw its remaining complaints, following apologies and changes to VPD policies and procedures.\n\nIn 2008, the VPD implemented a crackdown on minor offences, such as illegal vending on sidewalks and jaywalking. The ticketing blitz was stopped after objections from community groups, so that residents with unpaid tickets – particularly women and sex workers – would be less afraid to approach police to report serious safety concerns.\n\nIn 2010, police launched an initiative to combat violence against DTES women, that resulted in the convictions of several violent offenders. However, the level of trust toward police remains low. According to some DTES activists, \"gentrification/condos and police brutality\", rather than drugs, are the two worst problems in the neighbourhood.\n\nThe City refers to the housing and homelessness situation in the DTES as a \"crisis\". There is wide support amongst governments, experts, and community groups on a Housing First model, which prioritizes stable, quality housing as a precursor to other interventions for the homeless, those who use drugs, or those with mental illness. Many people with severe addiction and/or mental illness require supportive housing.\n\nAs the DTES has many low-income adults who live alone and are at risk of homelessness, trends in housing options for low-income adults are of central importance to the neighbourhood. Although SROs have well-known problems, each SRO resident who loses their room and ends up on the street is estimated to cost the provincial government approximately $30,000 to $40,000 per year in additional services.\n\nIn recent years, the number of units designed for low-income singles has increased slightly: In the downtown area (Burrard Street to Clark Drive) there were 11,371 units in 1993 and 12,126 units in 2013. The number of privately owned SROs declined during this time by 3283 units, while the number of social housing units increased by 4038 units. In 2014, an additional 300 privately owned SRO units were lost.\n\nHowever, rents in many of those units have risen. Rents in social housing units for low-income singles are fixed at the shelter component of welfare rates, but rents in privately owned SROs can vary. In 2013, 24% of privately owned SROs rented at the base welfare shelter rate of $375 per month, down from 60% in 2007. According to one advocacy group, the average lowest rent in privately owned hotels in the greater DTES area was $517 per month in 2015, and there were no vacant rooms renting at less than $425 per month.\n\nThe city has implemented a bylaw to discourage the redevelopment of SROs. Advocates for SRO tenants argue that the city's bylaw does not go far enough, as it does not prevent rent increases. The city says that only the province, not the city, has the jurisdiction to control rents, and that the province should raise welfare rates.\n\nSince 2007, the provincial government has acquired 23 privately owned SRO hotels in the greater DTES area, containing 1,500 units. It undertook extensive renovations in 13 of those buildings at a cost of $143.3 million, of which $29.1 million was paid by the federal government. Due to rising rents and often-decrepit conditions in the area's remaining 4,484 privately owned SROs, DTES activists have called for governments to replace them with a further 5,000 social housing units for low-income singles.\n\nThe DTES has a history of attracting migrants with mental health and addiction issues from across B.C. and Canada, with many drawn by its drug market, affordable housing, and services. Between 1991 and 2007, the DTES population increased by 140%.\n\nA 2016 study found that 52% of those DTES residents who experience chronic homelessness and serious mental-health issues, had migrated from outside Vancouver in the previous 10 years. This proportion of the population has tripled in the last decade. The same study found that once migrants had settled in the DTES, their conditions worsened. A 2013 study of tenants of DTES SROs found that while 93% of those surveyed were born in Canada, only 13% were born in Vancouver. Vancouver Coastal Health estimates that half of the population that uses its health services in the DTES are long-term residents, and that there is a population turnover of 15 to 20% each year.\n\nThe DTES is the site of many service offerings including social housing, health care, free meals and clothing, harm reduction for drug users, housing assistance, employment preparation, adult education, children's programs, emergency housing, arts and recreation, and legal advocacy. In 2014, the \"Vancouver Sun\" reported that there were 260 social services and housing sites in the greater DTES area, spending $360 million per year. No other Canadian city has concentrated services to this degree in one small area.\n\nProponents of the high level of services say that it is necessary to meet the complex needs of the DTES population. For some residents, the sense of community and acceptance that they find in the DTES makes it a unique place of healing for them.\n\nThe practice of locating a large number of services in the DTES has also been criticized for attracting vulnerable people to an area where drugs, crime, and disorder are entrenched. Some advocates for vulnerable populations believe that many DTES residents would have a better quality of life and improved chances of health if they could separate from the neighbourhood's predatory drug pushers and pimps.\n\nDuring the City's 2014 planning process for the greater DTES, two-thirds of those who participated said they wanted to stay in the area. But a 2008 survey of SRO tenants had indicated that 70% wanted to leave the DTES. The City's 30-year plan is for two-thirds of the city's future social housing to be located in the greater DTES area.\n\nVancouver Coastal Health says that the lack of appropriate care for complex social and health issues outside of the DTES often does not allow people \"the choice to remain in their home community where their natural support systems exist... A common barrier that prevents mentally ill and addicted people from living outside of the DTES is a lack of appropriate services and supports, and too often clients who do secure housing outside the neighbourhood return to the DTES regularly because of the lack of supports found in other communities.\"\n\nProposals to add social housing and services for those with addiction and/or mental health issues to other Metro Vancouver neighborhoods are often met with Nimbyism, even when residents selected for such projects would be low-risk individuals. A 2012 poll of Metro Vancouver residents found that although nine out of 10 of those surveyed wanted the homeless to have access to services they need, 54% believed that \"housing in their community should be there for the people who can afford it.\" Some commentators have suggested that Vancouver residents tacitly agree to have the DTES act as a de facto ghetto for the most troubled individuals in the city.\n\nThe DTES lies a few blocks east of the most expensive commercial real estate in the city. Since the mid-2000s, new development in the DTES has brought a mixture of market-rate housing (primarily condominiums), social housing, office spaces, restaurants, and shops. Property values in the DTES area increased by 303% between 2001 and 2013. Prices at the newer retail establishments are often far higher than low-income residents can afford.\n\nThe city promotes mixed-income housing, and requires new large housing developments in the DTES to set aside 20% of their units for social housing. As of 2014, in a section of Hastings Street from Carrall Street to Heatley Avenue, at least 60% of units must be dedicated to social housing and the rest must be rental units. Rents in at least one-third of new social housing units are not permitted to exceed the shelter component of welfare rates.\n\nProponents say that new developments revitalize the area, improve the quality of life, provide new social housing, and encourage a stronger retail environment and a stabilizing street presence. They emphasize that their goal is for the DTES to include a mixture of income levels and avoid the problems associated with concentrated poverty, not to become an expensive yuppie-oriented neighbourhood like nearby Yaletown.\n\nOthers oppose the addition of market housing and upscale businesses to the DTES, in the belief that these changes will drive up prices, displace low-income residents, and make poor people feel less at home. Protests against new businesses and housing developments have occasionally turned violent.\n\nSeveral overlapping sets of data exist on costs related to the DTES:\n\n\nAlthough housing and homelessness are often perceived as being municipal issues, social housing is traditionally funded primarily by senior levels of government, which receive 92% of tax revenue in Canada. Libby Davies, a former DTES activist and Member of Parliament, called for a National Housing Strategy in 2009, saying that Canada is the world's only industrialized country with no national housing plan.\n\nIn 2014, the City of Vancouver approved a 30-year plan for the greater DTES area. It sets out a goal of having 4,400 units of social housing added to the greater DTES area, 3,350 units of social housing added elsewhere in the city, and 1,900 units of new supportive housing scattered throughout the city. The cost of implementing the plan is estimated at $1 billion, of which $220-million would be paid by the city, $300-million by developers, and more than $500-million from the provincial and/or national governments. The provincial government, which recently invested $300 million in social housing in Vancouver, said that it will not be funding the proposed housing expansion, and that its housing strategy had shifted towards other models such as rent assistance rather than construction.\n\nIn 2001, the city adopted a Four Pillars drug strategy consisting of four equally important \"pillars\": prevention, treatment, enforcement, and harm reduction. Advocates of the Four Pillars strategy say that the 36 recommendations associated with the policy have only been partly implemented, with prevention, treatment, and harm reduction all being underfunded. Across Canada, 94% of drug strategy dollars are spent on enforcement. The city's 2014 Local Area Plan for the DTES does not propose solutions to the neighbourhood's drug problems; an article in the \"National Post\" described it as a \"221-page document that expertly skirted around any mention of the Downtown Eastside as a failed community in need of a drastic turnaround.\"\n\nThe VPD, B.C. Medical Association, and City of Vancouver have asked the province to urgently increase capacity for treating addiction and mental illness. In 2009, the BCMA asked that detoxification be available on demand, with no waiting period, by 2012. A 2016 study of youth who used illicit drugs in Vancouver indicated that 28% had tried unsuccessfully to access addiction treatment in the previous 6 months, with the lack of success mostly due to being placed on waiting lists.\n\nAfter the city and police department described an emerging mental health crisis in Vancouver in 2013, the province implemented three of their five recommendations within a year, including new Assertive Community Treatment teams and a nine-bed urgent care facility at St. Paul's Hospital. In response to a recommendation that the province add 300 new long-term health care beds for the most severely mentally ill, provincial Health Minister Terry Lake said that more research was needed to determine whether these beds were urgently needed. As of 2015, the province had opened or committed to only 50 new beds.\n\nAlthough DTES residents often have a complex combination of needs, services are typically delivered from the perspective of a single discipline (such as police or medical), or a particular agency's mandate, with little communication between the service providers who are working with a given individual. Despite widespread agreement in principle that a co-ordinated approach is necessary to improve conditions for DTES residents, the three levels of government have not agreed on any overall long-term plan for the DTES, and there is no overall co-ordination of services for the area.\n\nIn 2009, the VPD proposed the creation of a steering committee made up of senior city and provincial stakeholders, which would be mandated to improve collaboration between service providers to enable a client-centric rather than discipline-centric model. The report recommends prioritizing the needs of the most vulnerable individuals in the neighbourhood, saying that having them get the assistance they require is \"a necessary condition for other neighbourhood improvement initiatives to succeed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21808492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21808492", "title": "Estonian Medical Association", "text": "Estonian Medical Association\n\nThe Estonian Medical Association (EMA) () is a professional association of medical doctors operating in Estonia. The association was established on 28 February 1921. EMA also has an established Ethics committee consisting of 4 members. The ethics committee is responsible for producing guidelines on bioethics dealing with problems of medical ethics within the association.\n\n"}
{"id": "809389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=809389", "title": "FYI (Canadian TV channel)", "text": "FYI (Canadian TV channel)\n\nFYI (stylized as fyi,) is a Canadian English language Category A cable and satellite specialty channel that is owned by Corus Entertainment. Based on the American cable network of the same name, the channel features lifestyle programming, with a mix of reality, culinary, home renovation and makeover series.\n\nIn January 2000, Alliance Atlantis brokered a deal with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and several Canadian television providers, including both national satellite companies Bell ExpressVu and Star Choice, to distribute News Corporation's cable channel, The Health Network, in Canada. The deal would mark the first time The Health Network would be available in Canada.\n\nThe deal struck to sponsor The Health Network's distribution in Canada was a prelude to the fact that Alliance Atlantis and News Corporation would eventually launch a Canadian version of the channel for the domestic market and remove the American channel from the Canadian market. On November 24, 2000, Alliance Atlantis (which would hold 80% majority interest in the channel) and News Corporation (which would hold the remaining 20% interest) were granted a broadcasting licence for The Health Network Canada by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC).\n\nPrior to the launch of the network, in September 2001, Discovery Communications (owners of Discovery Health Channel in the U.S.) bought The Health Network from News Corporation for US$255 million. Through that transaction, Discovery Communications would also acquire News Corporation's 20% interest in The Health Network Canada.\nAs a result of Discovery Communications' newly acquired interest in the service, the network was launched that same month on September 7, 2001 as the Discovery Health Channel. On the same day as the Canadian channel's launch, the American service, The Health Network, was removed from all Canadian television providers. In February 2002, The Health Network was removed from the CRTC's list of foreign satellite services eligible for carriage on Canadian pay television providers, by request of The Health Network's owners.\n\nOn January 18, 2008, a joint venture between Canwest and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, known as CW Media, bought Alliance Atlantis and through that transaction, acquired Alliance Atlantis' interest in Discovery Health. In 2009, CW Media purchased the remaining interest in the channel from Discovery Communications, bringing its ownership to 100%.\n\nTwo deals were announced in late 2009 and early 2010 that affected the future of the Canadian channel. First, Discovery Communications announced that the flagship Discovery Health channel in the U.S. would be replaced by the Oprah Winfrey Network in January 2011. OWN later reached an agreement with Corus Entertainment to launch a Canadian version of that channel shortly after the U.S. version's debut. Later in April 2010, Discovery Communications announced an expanded long-term agreement with Bell Media (then CTVglobemedia, Discovery's Canadian partner for most of its other channels) under which Bell holds Canadian broadcast rights to most of the Discovery Communications programming library, including Discovery Health programs, and the right to launch new Discovery-branded channels.\n\nOn September 15, 2010, Canwest announced Discovery Health Canada would rebrand as Twist TV on November 1. The rebranded channel would focus on reality shows about \"people facing extraordinary situations\" aimed at a female demographic including such shows as Nanny 911, Raising Sextuplets, Dad Camp, and Little Miss Perfect. On October 27, 2010, the channel's ownership changed again as Shaw Communications gained control of Discovery Health as a result of its acquisition of Canwest and Goldman Sachs' interest in CW Media. The channel officially rebranded five days later.\n\nIn June 2014, it was reported that Twist TV, along with sister network Mystery TV, would be rebranded as Canadian versions of FYI and the Crime & Investigation Network under a licensing agreement with A+E Networks. A+E Networks and Shaw Media had previously partnered to rebrand History Television, Showcase Diva and The Cave as Canadian versions of History, Lifetime and H2 in 2012.\n\nThe launch of FYI (as well as CI) was intended to draw in more female viewers, the primary audience of Shaw Media's lifestyle networks. In addition to programming from the U.S. service, as well as other Shaw Media-owned channels, the new channel will air shows from other sources. The channel was relauched on the morning of September 1, 2014 with a free preview to last the rest of the month. A month prior, a Canadian version of the FYI website went online. Over time, the website was updated to include information pertaining to the channel.\n\nA YouTube channel went online August 28, 2014; on that day, sneak peeks of FYI programming aired on Lifetime and Slice. On April 1, 2016, Shaw Media was sold to Corus Entertainment.\n\nIn late 2016, Corus launched Fyi HD, a 1080i high definition simulcast of the standard definition feed. The HD feed is currently available on Bell Fibe TV, Bell MTS and Optik TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "23390520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23390520", "title": "Health Care for America NOW!", "text": "Health Care for America NOW!\n\nHealth Care for America Now (HCAN) is a progressive political coalition of more than 1,000 organizations that joined together in 2008 in a successful effort to promote legislation to reform the United States health care system and extend medical benefits to most of the population that is currently uninsured. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA or ACA) was signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010, and HCAN was credited with being a \"major contributor\" to its passage. After enactment of the law, HCAN shifted its activities to defending the law from opposition attacks and advocating for the law before Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies.\n\nHCAN is directed by a steering committee that consists of a wide range of tax-exempt public charities, advocacy organizations, labor unions and civil rights groups. HCAN is a 501(c)(4) issue advocacy organization that runs national and state-based legislative and regulatory campaigns through grassroots action, public education, aggressive media outreach, research and policy analysis. It works in cooperation with its 501(c)(3) partner, Health Care for America Education Fund, a project of the Tides Center, a public charity.\n\nThe \"national organizations\" that are members of the umbrella group is composed of the following organizations:\n\nFunding for HCAN's operations has come from its member organizations, individual contributions and progressive foundations, including the Atlantic Philanthropies. HCAN also received $5 million from billionaire George Soros. In its $50 million campaign for passage of the ACA, Health Care for America Now mounted a multi-faceted field program that included television advertising and thousands of actions, events, demonstrations, and advocacy meetings with government officials across the country.\n\nHCAN assembled a network of state-based advocacy groups to carry the message from the ground up to members of Congress—an effort widely credited with strengthening progressive organizations. HCAN published numerous research reports and conducted extensive media outreach during the legislative campaign. An outside evaluation praised HCAN's \"effective and disciplined strategic planning, decision-making and implementation; well-thought-out benchmarks; strong and effective internal leadership, efficient allocation of resources to staff and to fund a wide-ranging field program; resilience to buffeting external events; and its creation of opportunities for supporters to meaningfully engage with the movement for reform through multiple points of entry.\"\n\nHCAN's two largest public demonstrations occurred on June 25, 2009, when thousands of people from around the nation converged on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., for a rally in support of health reform, and on March 9, 2010, when more than 5,000 people rallied on the street outside a health insurance industry conference at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Washington, D.C. HCAN led grassroots online activists, conducted news conferences and published reports on health insurance industry profits, executive compensation, concentration of market power, and mistreatment of consumers and health care providers.\n\nHCAN did not achieve one of its central goals, the creation of a so-called public option, a government-run health plan that would introduce greater competition into local health insurance markets, nearly all of which are dominated by one or two large companies. Republicans joined with conservative Democrats to block the public option and a proposal to allow Americans over 55 years old to pay unsubsidized premiums to the government to purchase Medicare benefits, which now are provided to the elderly and disabled through a single-payer system that picks up the vast majority of patients' costs. Despite those losses, HCAN supports the Affordable Care Act and frequently declares that the ACA's impact will be extensive in the policy and political arenas.\n\nIn 2010, as a result of political and legal challenges to the ACA, in 2010 HCAN transitioned from campaigning for passage of the law to a broad campaign to fully implement health care reform at the state and federal level. HCAN's executive director, Ethan Rome, has repeatedly declared in media statements and in frequent writings on Huffington Post that Congress and the Obama administration should carry out all implementation activities. HCAN has said it intends to do this by identifying significant public policy issues as they arise and taking responsibility to lead campaigns to address them in collaboration with the diverse membership of its coalition. These efforts include pushing for strong accountability measures for insurance companies and countering what HCAN says is false information that has been systematically disseminated by opponents of the law. HCAN continues to prepare reports highlighting insurance industry excesses and abuses and to educate the public about developments related to implementation of the law by state and federal agencies. \n\nIn the fall of 2010, HCAN co-produced a short, two-part satirical comedy video starring Jack Black and America Ferrera about professional \"Mis-informant\" Nathan Spewman, who spreads lies about the Affordable Care Act as part of an industry propaganda campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "9541887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9541887", "title": "Healthcare proxy", "text": "Healthcare proxy\n\nIn the field of medicine, a healthcare proxy (commonly referred to as HCP) is a document (legal instrument) with which a patient (primary individual) appoints an agent to legally make healthcare decisions on behalf of the patient, when the patient is incapable of making and executing the healthcare decisions stipulated in the proxy. Once the health care proxy is effective, the primary individual continues making healthcare decisions as long as the primary individual is legally competent to decide. Moreover, in legal-administrative functions, the healthcare proxy is a legal instrument akin to a \"springing\" health care power of attorney. The proxy must declare the healthcare agent who will gain durable power attorney. This document also notifies of the authority given from the principal to the agent and states the limitations of this authority. \n\nThose over the age of 18 are allowed to have a healthcare proxy, and these documents are useful in situations that render a person unable to communicate their wishes such as being in a persistent vegetative state, having a form of dementia of an illness that takes away one's ability to effectively communicate, or being under anesthesia when a decision needs to be made. Healthcare proxies are one of three ways that surrogate decision makers are enacted, the other two being court orders and laws for the automatic succession of decision makers. In contrast to a living will, healthcare proxies do not set out possible outcomes with predetermined reactions, rather they appoint someone to carry out the wishes of an individual. \n\nThe methods of healthcare planning and tools of advanced preparation have changed dramatically over the years. The concept of durable power of attorney arose in Virginia in 1954 for the purpose of setting property matters. This allowed for a continued existence of power of attorney following the original person losing capacity to carry out the necessary actions. This concept evolved over the years and in 1983, the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research addressed this idea as one of great potential in the healthcare industry. This commission also stated the possibility of abuse as a noted concern going forward. In response to this commission, there was an evolution of this concept throughout the 1980's and the 1990's that eventually led to all states in America having a healthcare power of attorney statute by 1997. \n\nSome jurisdictions place limitations on the persons who can act as agents. (Some forbid the appointment of treating physicians as the healthcare proxy.) In any event the agent should be someone close to and trusted by the primary individual. According to the state of Massachusetts, no person who is an employee or administrator of a facility can be an agent unless it is for someone who is of familial relation to them. In any event the agent is recommended to be someone close to and trusted by the primary individual. In the absence of a power of attorney, a legal guardian must be appointed.\n\nHealthcare proxies are permitted in forty-nine states as well as the District of Columbia.\nHealthcare forms may differ in structure from state to state and pre-made forms are not compulsory as long as certain guidelines are met. The common guidelines include:\n\n\nThe agent is empowered when a qualified physician determines that the primary individual is unable to make decisions regarding healthcare. The agent may be granted the power to remove or sustain feeding tubes from the primary individual if these tubes are the only things that are keeping the primary individual alive. The agent's decision should draw upon knowledge of the patient's desire in this matter. If the primary individual made his or her wishes clear on the proxy form, then they must be followed despite any possible objections from the agent.\n\nAn individual may have identified end-of-life decisions in a separate document, such as a living will or advanced health care directive, in which case it is necessary to examine all of the documents to determine if any supersede the agent's authority as granted in the healthcare proxy, based on the language of the interrelated documents and governing state law. An agent will not be legally or financially liable for decisions made on behalf of the primary individual as long as they follow the terms of the healthcare proxy.\n\nThere are limited legal foundation to determine the ability of someone to appoint a healthcare proxy. Although physicians are allowed to deliver life-saving treatment in emergent situations, in non-emergencies, the it is determined if the patient has the ability to then appoint a healthcare proxy. It is possible for a patient lacking the ability to make healthcare decisions, to still have the capacity to appoint an agent and have a proxy.\n\nIn England and Wales, an independent mental health capacity advocate may be appointed under the Mental Capacity Act 2005; the provisions made in the same Act for a lasting power of attorney may also provide a satisfactory basis for providing care via an attorney, who does not require to be professionally qualified. Different arrangements apply elsewhere in the UK.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16847635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16847635", "title": "International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development", "text": "International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development\n\nThe International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) was a three-year international collaborative effort (2005–2007) initiated by the World Bank in 2002, which evaluated the relevance, quality and effectiveness of agricultural knowledge, science, and technology, and the effectiveness of public and private sector policies and institutional arrangements. \nThe project involved 900 participants and 110 countries with co-sponsorship of the FAO, Global Environment Facility, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, the World Bank and WHO. \nIt assessed agricultural knowledge, science, and technology with respect to development and sustainability goals of reducing hunger and poverty, improving nutrition, health, rural livelihoods, and facilitating social and environmental sustainability.\n\nThe results of the project were reviewed and ratified during the intergovernmental plenary meeting held 7–12 April 2008, in Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nThe geographically based multi-stakeholder Bureau was composed of 30 government representatives from different regions, 22 representatives from non-governmental organizations, consumer groups and producer groups, representatives from 8 institutions, and 2 co-chairs. The sponsoring agencies served as \"ex officio\" members of the Bureau.\n\nThe IAASTD had a distributed secretariat for management and oversight in Washington DC and others in FAO (Rome), UNEP (Nairobi), and UNESCO (Paris). The Director was Robert T. Watson.\n\nThe IAASTD was composed of one Global Assessment and five Sub-global Assessments, which used the same framework: the impacts of agricultural knowledge, science, and technology on hunger, poverty, nutrition, human health, and environmental and social sustainability in the past and the future. The Global and Sub-global assessments were peer-reviewed by governments and experts, and approved by the panel of participating governments.\n\nThe five Sub-global Assessments complemented the Global Assessment by examining geographic area-specific aspects: \n- Central and West Asia and North Africa (CWANA) - Regional Institute: ICARDA (International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas)\n- East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP) - Regional Institute: World Fish Center\n- Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) - Regional Institute: IICA (Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture)\n- North America and Europe (NAE)\n- Sub-Saharan Africa - Regional Institute: ACTS (African Centre for Technology Studies)\n\nThe assessments were accompanied by a synthesis report which covered challenges faced by agriculture today: pros and cons of bioenergy, potential role of biotechnology, effects of climate change, effects on health, use of natural resources, small farmers & global trade, future role for traditional farming, women in agriculture, and options for action.\n\nOn 15 April 2008, IAASTD report findings were released. The report incorporated a global assessment as well as five sub-global assessments. By taking a 'bottom-up' approach, the report aimed to understand the needs of those most vulnerable to threats to the security of their food and livelihood. Prior plenary sessions in Johannesburg aimed to come to agreement on the key priorities for each region.\n\nA series of published (printed and web-based) critical, in-depth Global and Sub-global Assessments of local and institutional knowledge and experiences was produced. The assessment reports have been translated into the six official UN languages, presented, and discussed in multiple forums.\n\nThe reports created 'plausible scenarios', based on past events and existing trends such as population growth, rural/urban food and poverty dynamics, loss of agricultural land, water availability and climate change effects. Based around these issues, 'What if?' questions were formulated that allowed the implications of different technological options to be explored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7581847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7581847", "title": "International Student Congress Of (bio)Medical Sciences", "text": "International Student Congress Of (bio)Medical Sciences\n\nThe International Student Congress Of (bio)Medical Sciences, also known as ISCOMS, is an annually held student congress on biomedical sciences. The primary aim of ISCOMS is getting medical students acquainted with research and its many elements.\n750 participants from 60 countries attended the 25th edition of ISCOMS in 2018. The 26th edition of ISCOMS will take place from 3-7 June 2019 and the abstract submission is open from October 29th 2018 till February 7th 2019.\n\nISCOMS started as a congress for medical students in Groningen, named \"Studenten Congres Geneeskunde\". In 2003, the Student Congres Geneeskunde changed to an international congress with the name International Student Congress of Medicine. In 2004 the name was changed to ISCOMS. In 2010, the name was changed to the International Student Congress Of (bio)Medical Sciences, to show that it is a congress for students in all biomedical fields.\n\nISCOMS takes place at the University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG) in the Netherlands. It is one of the largest hospitals in the world, offering supraregional tertiary care to the northern part of the Netherlands. The medical center employs almost 17,000 people, numbers almost 1400 beds and is affiliated with the University of Groningen.\n\nThe congress is for (bio)medical students who are interested in research. Students may be either presenting or non-presenting participants. If a participant wants to present their research, they are required to submit their abstract beforehand. A strict selection procedure takes place and only the best students are invited to present their research at ISCOMS.\n\nWhen accepted, participants are divided into different session in which they present their research. This may be either through a poster presentation, or an oral presentation where students can present their research by means of a slideshow presentation. In both sessions other students and professionals from the UMCG listen and discuss the research. Thirdly, there is a plenary session: the eight best abstracts will be presented in the primary lecture hall of the UMCG.\n\nThe congress also holds pre-course masterclasses about research skills, and a great variety of workshops during the congress days on practical skills. Besides that ISCOMS offers keynote lectures from renowned scientist presenting their research to the participants.\n\nMoreover, ISCOMS offers an extensive social programme, where all the participants have the opportunity to get to know each other and the ISCOMS organising committees. Finally, there is a post-congress tour visiting parts of the Netherlands.\n\nNobel Prize laureates who have given a keynote lecture during one of the previous ISCOMS editions.\n‘Healthy Ageing’ is the primary focus of research, patient care, and education & training within the University of Groningen and the University Medical Center Groningen. Knowing that ageing of the population poses an increasing burden on society, and that associated disabilities and diseases incur increasing economic, healthcare, infrastructural and personal costs that tax national societies heavily, stimulation of a healthy lifestyle is a key in order to deal with this societal challenge. Therefore, ISCOMS continues to emphasize the importance of ‘Healthy Ageing’. It is well known that lifestyles, nutritional patterns, the amount of exercise, and the use of medication are all factors that affect the development of health. However, the influences of these factors and the way they relate to each other is still unclear. As such, ISCOMS is proud to contribute to the gaining of new knowledge.\n\nThe organisation of ISCOMS consists of (bio)medical students from the University of Groningen. There are nine Executive Board members and 21 committee members. Committees include the Scientific Programme, Hosting and Logistics, International Contacts, Sponsors and Fundraising, Public Relations, and Research and Development.\n\nISCOMS is more than just a congress; it also incorporates several different projects. The ISCOMS Research Fellowships (IRF) is such a project and is unique in Europe and has become an integral part of the experience. It provides a starting point for students to pursue a career in medical sciences, broaden their scientific network, increase the range of their knowledge and amplify their experience with research by giving 25 enthusiastic and talented students the opportunity to join a research group in the University Medical Center Groningen. During a challenging two-week period, chosen students will work on their own individual project and for some this may transcend into a chance to conduct a long-term PhD project in Groningen.\n\nThe official partners of the ISCOMS are:\n\n"}
{"id": "43576527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43576527", "title": "Intiö Water Tower", "text": "Intiö Water Tower\n\nIntiö Water Tower () is an unused water tower in Oulu, Finland. The water tower of the Oulu Waterworks is located in the Intiö district.\n\nIntiö Water Tower has been designed by architect J. S. Sirén and it was completed in 1927. It is the first water tower of the Oulu Waterworks. A water tower in Myllytulli had been built in 1921, but it was only used by the Veljekset Åström leather factory. The water tower is tall and capable of holding of water.\n\nThe water tower was closed in 1969 when a new water tower was opened in the Puolivälinkangas neighbourhood. The city of Oulu sold the water tower to a private person in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1475001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475001", "title": "Kennel cough", "text": "Kennel cough\n\nKennel cough (also known as canine infectious tracheobronchitis) is an upper respiratory infection affecting dogs. There are multiple causative agents, the most common being the bacterium \"Bordetella bronchiseptica\" (found in 78.7% of cases in Southern Germany), followed by canine parainfluenza virus (37.7% of cases), and to a lesser extent canine coronavirus (9.8% of cases). It is highly contagious; however adult dogs may display immunity to reinfection even under constant exposure. Kennel cough is so named because the infection can spread quickly among dogs in the close quarters of a kennel or animal shelter.\n\nViral and bacterial causes of canine cough are spread through airborne droplets produced by sneezing and coughing. These agents also spread through contact with contaminated surfaces. Symptoms begin after a several day incubation period post-exposure, and in most cases will clear up on their own. However, in young puppies or immunocompromised animals, mixed or secondary infections can progress to lower respiratory infections such as pneumonia.\n\nThe incubation period is 5–7 days (with a range of 3–10). Symptoms can include a harsh, dry cough, retching, sneezing, snorting, gagging or vomiting in response to light pressing of the trachea or after excitement or exercise. The presence of a fever varies from case to case.\n\nAlthough kennel cough is considered to be a multifactorial infection, there are two main forms. The first is more mild and is caused by B. bronchiseptica and canine parainfluenza virus infections, without complications from canine distemper virus (CDV) or canine adenovirus (CAV). This form occurs most regularly in autumn, and can be distinguished by symptoms such as a retching cough and vomiting. The second form has a more complex combination of causative organisms including CDV and CAV. It typically occurs in dogs that have not been vaccinated and it is not seasonal. Symptoms are more severe than the first form, and may include rhinitis, conjunctivitis, and fever in addition to a hacking cough.\n\nViral infections such as canine parainfluenza or canine coronavirus are only spread for roughly 1 week following recovery; however, respiratory infections involving \"Bordetella bronchiseptica\" can be transmissible for several weeks longer. While there was early evidence to suggest that \"B. bronchiseptica\" could be shed for many months post-infection, a more recent report places detectable nasal and pharyngeal levels of \"B. bronchiseptica\" in 45.6% of all clinically healthy dogs. This has potentially expanded the vector from currently or recently infected dogs to half the dog population as carriers. To put the relative levels of shedding bacteria into perspective, a study analyzing the shedding kinetics of \"B. bronchiseptica\" presents the highest levels of bacterial shedding one week post-exposure, with an order of magnitude decrease in shedding observed every week. This projection places negligible levels of shedding to be expected 6 weeks post-exposure (or ~5 weeks post-onset of symptoms). Dogs which had been administered intranasal vaccine 4 weeks prior to virulent \"B. bronchiseptica\" challenge displayed little to no bacterial shedding within 3 weeks of exposure to the virulent strain.\n\nAntibiotics are given to treat any bacterial infection present. Cough suppressants are used if the cough is not productive. NSAIDs are often given to reduce fever and upper respiratory inflammation. Prevention is by vaccinating for canine adenovirus, distemper, parainfluenza, and \"Bordetella\". In kennels, the best prevention is to keep all the cages disinfected. In some cases, such as \"doggie daycares\" or nontraditional playcare-type boarding environments, it is usually not a cleaning or disinfecting issue, but rather an airborne issue, as the dogs are in contact with each other's saliva and breath. Although most kennels require proof of vaccination, the vaccination is not a fail-safe preventative. Just like human influenza, even after receiving the vaccination, a dog can still contract mutated strains or less severe cases.\n\nTo increase their effectiveness, vaccines should be administered as soon as possible after a dog enters a high-risk area, such as a shelter. 10 to 14 days are required for partial immunity to develop. Administration of B. bronchiseptica and canine-parainfluenza vaccines may then be continued routinely, especially during outbreaks of kennel cough. There are several methods of administration, including parenteral and intranasal. However, the intranasal method has been recommended when exposure is imminent, due to a more rapid and localized protection. Several intranasal vaccines have been developed that contain canine adenovirus in addition to B bronchiseptica and canine-parainfluenza virus antigens. Studies have thus far not been able to determine which formula of vaccination is the most efficient. Adverse effects of vaccinations are mild, but the most common effect observed up to 30 days after administration is nasal discharge. Vaccinations are not always effective. In one study it was found that 43.3% of all dogs in the study population with respiratory disease had in fact been vaccinated.\n\nDogs will typically recover from kennel cough within a few weeks. However, secondary infections could lead to complications that could do more harm than the disease itself. Several opportunistic invaders have been recovered from the respiratory tracts of dogs with kennel cough, including Streptococcus, Pasteurella, Pseudomonas, and various coliforms. These bacteria have the potential to cause pneumonia or sepsis, which drastically increase the severity of the disease. These complications are evident in thoracic radiographic examinations. Findings will be mild in animals affected only by kennel cough, while those with complications may have evidence of segmental atelectasis and other severe side effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24361666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361666", "title": "Kids of Courage", "text": "Kids of Courage\n\nKids of Courage is a non-profit charity based in the United States. The organization specializes in medically supervised trips for children and young adults with serious medical diagnoses.\n\nThe organization was founded by author and professor of medicine Dr. Stuart Ditchek, paramedic Howard Kafka and Arthur Adlerstein. Its mission is to enable children with serious medical conditions to travel, experience adventure and provide them with a social environment in which they can meet other children with similar medical backgrounds. Diagnoses include Familial Dysautonomia, Muscular Dystrophy and Childhood Cancer.\n\n\"Summer Trip\"\n\nA unique traveling Summer Camp for critically ill children, who are given a chance to disconnect from their daily struggles and experience freedom and adventure like every child. Under strict medical supervision they visit parks and attractions, bond with new friends, meet celebrities, and experience the Dream & Wish trip of a lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "2536153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2536153", "title": "Lake Oviáchic", "text": "Lake Oviáchic\n\nLake Ouiachic (also referred to as the Álvaro Obregón Reservoir) is located in the foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental and is created by the Álvaro Obregón Dam. Lake Ouiachic is fed by and drained by the Yaqui River. The dam was completed in 1952 with the purpose to regulate water flow of the Yaqui River, prevent floods, and generate electricity. Lake Ouiachic is also an expanding tourist and resort area specializing in fishing, boating, and water skiing.\n"}
{"id": "2171101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171101", "title": "Ludwig's angina", "text": "Ludwig's angina\n\nLudwig's angina is a type of severe cellulitis involving the floor of the mouth. Early on the floor of the mouth is raised and there is difficulty swallowing saliva, which may run from the person's mouth. As the condition worsens, the airway may be compromised with hardening of the spaces on both sides of the tongue. This condition has a rapid onset over hours.\nThe majority of cases follow a dental infection. Other causes include a parapharyngeal abscess, mandibular fracture, cut or piercing inside the mouth, or submandibular salivary stones. It is a spreading infection of connective tissue through tissue spaces, normally with virulent and invasive organisms. It specifically involves the submandibular, submental, and sublingual spaces.\nPrevention is by appropriate dental care including management of dental infections. Initial treatment is generally with broad-spectrum antibiotics and corticosteroids. In more advanced cases endotracheal intubation or tracheostomy may be required.\nWith the advent of antibiotics in 1940s, improved oral and dental hygiene, and more aggressive surgical approach, the rates and risk of death among those infected has significantly reduced. It is named after a German physician, Wilhelm Frederick von Ludwig, who first described this condition in 1836.\n\nLudwig's angina is a form of severe diffuse cellulitis with bilateral involvement, primarily of the submandibular space with the sublingual and submental spaces also being involved. It presents with an acute onset and spreads very rapidly meaning early diagnosis and immediate treatment planning is key to saving lives. The external signs may include bilateral lower facial swelling around the mandible and upper neck. Signs inside the mouth may include elevation of the floor of mouth due to sublingual space involvement and posterior displacement of the tongue, creating the potential for a compromised airway. Additional symptoms may include painful neck swelling, tooth pain, dysphagia, shortness of breath, fever, and general malaise. Stridor, trismus, and cyanosis may also be seen when an impending airway crisis is nearing.\n\nThe most prevalent cause of Ludwig's angina is odontogenic, accounting for approximately 75% to 90% of cases. Infections of the lower second and third molars are usually implicated due to their roots extending inferiorly below the mylohyoid muscle. Periapical abscesses of these teeth also result in lingual cortical penetration, leading to submandibular infection.\n\nHowever, oral ulcerations, infections of oral malignancy, mandible fracture, bilateral sialolithiasis-related submandibular gland infection, and penetrating injuries of the mouth floor have also been reported as potential causes of Ludwig's angina. In fact, the same microorganisms responsible for less morbid head and neck infections are found in causing extensive infection throughout the floor of mouth and neck when Ludwig's angina is critically reviewed. Patient with systemic illness, such as diabetes mellitus, malnutrition, compromised immune system, and organ transplantation are also commonly predisposed to Ludwig's angina.\n\nIt is found that one third of the cases of Ludwig's angina are associated with systemic illness. A review reporting the incidence of illnesses associated with Ludwig angina found that 18% of cases involved diabetes mellitus, 9% involved acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and another 5% were human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive.\n\nInfections originating in the roots of teeth can be identified with a dental X-ray. A CT scan of the neck with contrast material is used to identify deep neck space infections. If there is suspicion of the infection of the chest cavity, a chest scan is sometimes done.\n\nAngioneurotic oedema, lingual carcinoma and sublingual haematoma formation following anticoagulation should be ruled out as possible diagnoses.\n\nThere are a few methods that can be used for determining the microbiology of Ludwig's angina. One of the traditionally used methods is taking culture samples although it has some limitations. By taking pus samples from a patient with Ludwig's angina, the microbiology were found to be commonly polymicrobial and anaerobic. Some of the commonly found microbes are Viridans Streptococci, Staphylococci, Peptostreptococci, Prevotella, Porphyromonas and Fusobacterium.\n\nFor each patient, the treatment plan should be done with consideration of each of the individual patient's differing factors. They are namely the stage of the disease and co-morbid conditions at the time of presentation, physician experience, available resources, and personnel are critical factors in formulation of a treatment plan. There are four principles that guide the treatment of Ludwig's Angina: Sufficient airway management, early and aggressive antibiotic therapy, incision and drainage for any who fail medical management or form localized abscesses, and adequate nutrition and hydration support. Each will be explained in detail below.\n\nAirway management has been found to be the most important factor in treating patients with Ludwig's Angina, i.e. it is the “primary therapeutic concern”. Airway compromise is known to be the leading cause of death from Ludwig's Angina.\n\n\n\nAdequate nutrition and hydration support is essential in deciding the outcomes in any patient following surgery, particularly young children. In this case, pain and swelling in the neck region would usually cause difficulties in eating or swallowing, hence reducing patient's food and fluid intake. As a result, patients suffer from weight loss due to loss of fat, muscle and skin initially, followed by bone and internal organs in the late phase. Meanwhile, at the cellular level, the cells would be less able to maintain homeostasis in the presence of stressors such as infection and surgery. Patients must therefore be well-nourished and hydrated to promote wound healing and to fight off infection.\n\nExtubation, which is the removal of endotracheal tube to liberate the patient from mechanical ventilation, should only be done when the patient's airway is proved to be patent, allowing adequate breathing. This is indicated by a decrease in swelling and patient's capability of breathing adequately around an uncuffed endotracheal tube with the lumen blocked.\n\nDuring the hospital stay, patient's condition will be closely monitored by:\nMoreover, it is advised to never leave young children with significant neck swelling unattended and they should always be seated to prevent suffocation.\n\nThe term “angina”, is derived from the Latin word “\"angere\"”, which means “choke”; and the Greek word “\"ankhone\"”, which means “strangle”. Placing it into context, Ludwig's angina refers to the feeling of strangling and choking, secondary to obstruction of the airway, which is the most serious potential complication of this condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2522519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522519", "title": "Macroorchidism", "text": "Macroorchidism\n\nMacroorchidism is a disorder found in males where a subject has abnormally large testes. The condition is commonly inherited in connection with fragile X syndrome, which is also the second most common genetic cause of mental disabilities. The opposite side of the spectrum is called microorchidism, which is the condition of abnormally small testes.\n\nOther possible causes of macroorchidism are long-standing primary hypothyroidism, adrenal remnants in congenital adrenal hyperplasia, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)-secreting pituitary macroadenomas, local tumors, lymphomas, or aromatase deficiency.\n\n"}
{"id": "25454239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454239", "title": "Masculism", "text": "Masculism\n\nMasculism or masculinism may variously refer to advocacy of the rights or needs of men and boys; and the adherence to or promotion of attributes (opinions, values, attitudes, habits) regarded as typical of men and boys. \n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (OED) defines \"masculism\", or synonymously \"masculinism\", as the \"advocacy of the rights of men; adherence to or promotion of opinions, values, etc., regarded as typical of men; (more generally) anti-feminism, machismo.\"\n\nHowever, philosopher Ferrell Christensen differentiates \"masculism\" from \"masculinism\", defining the latter as promoting the attributes of manliness. \nPolitical scientist Georgia Duerst-Lahti also distinguishes the two terms, with masculism expressing the ethos of the early gender-egalitarian men's movement, while masculinism refers to the ideology of patriarchy.\n\nChristensen differentiates between \"progressive masculism\" and an \"extremist version\". The former welcomes many of the societal changes promoted by feminists, while believing that some measures reducing sexism against women have increased it against men. Nicholas Davidson, in his book \"The Failure of Feminism\", describes an extremist version of masculism which he termed \"virism\": \"What ails society is 'effeminacy'. The improvement of society requires that the influence of female values be decreased and the influence of male values increased….\" \n\nGender theories, which have frequently focused on woman-based or feminist approaches, have come to examine oppression in a masculist society also from the perspectives of men, many of whom are also subjected by that society. From a feminist perspective to philosophy, masculinism seeks to value and include only male views, and claim \"that anything that cannot be reduced or translated in men's experience should be excluded from the subject-matter of philosophy.\n\nMany masculists oppose co-educational schooling, believing that single-sex schools better promote the well-being of boys. Other masculists and equity feminists say that boys lag behind girls in educational achievement.\n\nData from the U.S. in 1994 reported that men suffer 94% of workplace fatalities. Masculist Warren Farrell has argued that men do a disproportionate share of dirty, physically demanding, and hazardous jobs.\n\nMasculists cite higher rates of suicide in men than women. Masculists express concern about violence against men being depicted as humorous, in the media and elsewhere.\n\nThey also express concern about violence against men being ignored or minimized in comparison to violence against women, some asserting gender symmetry in domestic violence. Another of their concerns is that traditional assumptions of female innocence or sympathy for women, termed benevolent sexism, may lead to unequal penalties for women and men who commit similar crimes, to lack of sympathy for male victims in domestic violence cases, and to dismissal of female-on-male sexual assault and sexual harassment cases.\n\nAccording to David Benatar, head of philosophy at the University of Cape Town, \"Custody law is perhaps the best-known area of men's rights activism\", as it is more likely in most parts of the world for the mother to obtain custody of children in case of divorce. He argues: \"When the man is the primary care-giver his chances of winning custody are lower than when the woman is the primary care-giver. Even when the case is not contested by the mother, he's still not as likely to get custody as when the woman's claim is uncontested\".\n\nIn the wake of the abolition of apartheid, South Africa has seen a resurgence of masculist Christian evangelical groups, led by two complementary men's and women's movements, the Mighty Men movement and the Worthy Women movement. The Mighty Men movement harkens back to the Victorian idea of Muscular Christianity and the movement does not lead discussions about institutionalized racism. Feminist scholars argue that the movement's lack of attention to women's rights and their historical struggle with racial equality makes it a threat to women and to the stability of the country. Scholar Miranda Pillay argues that the Mighty Men movement appeal lies in its resistance to gender equality as incompatible with Christian values, and in raising patriarchy to a \"hyper-normative status,\" beyond challenge by other claims to power.\n\nThe Worthy Women movement is a women's auxiliary to Mighty Men in advocating \"men\"ism, a belief in the inherent superiority of men over women. Their leader is Gretha Wiid. She blames South Africa's disorder on the liberation of women, and aims to restore the nation through its families, making women again subservient to their men. Her success is attributed to her balancing claims that God created the gender hierarchy, but that women are no less valuable than men, and that restoration of traditional gender roles relieves existential anxiety in post-apartheid South Africa.\n\nSome critics believe masculism focuses on male superiority or male dominance (i.e. androcentrism) to the exclusion of women. Some masculinists believe that differentiated gender roles are natural. There is some evidence for social influences (e.g. gender division of labor, socialization) as the sole or primary origin of gender differentiation. Some parts of the masculinist movement have to some extent borrowed concepts from evolutionary psychology: this theory argues that adaptation during prehistory resulted in complementary but different roles for the different genders, and that this balance has been destabilized by feminism since the 1960s.\n\nSome masculinists have been described as explicitly antifeminist by feminist activists. According to Blais and Dupuis-Déri, \"the contents of [masculinist] websites and the testimony of feminists that we questioned confirm that masculinists are generally critical of even moderate feminists and feminists at the head of official feminist organizations.\" Some masculinist activism has involved disruption of events organized by feminists and lawsuits against feminist academics, journalists, or activists. Furthermore, masculinist actions are sometimes extreme; father's rights activists have bombed family courts in Australia and have issued bomb threats in the UK, although it is ambiguous whether there was public and organized militant group involvement. They have also engaged in \"tire-slashing, the mailing of excrement-filled packages, threats against politicians and their children.\" Spokesmen for these groups have also spoken out against public awareness campaigns to prevent sexual assault, arguing that they portray a negative image of men, and one masculinist group harassed administrators of dozens of battered women's shelters and women's centers. \n\nPhilosopher Ferrell Christensen states that if masculism and feminism refer to the belief that men/women are systematically discriminated against, and that this discrimination should be eliminated, there is not necessarily a conflict between feminism and masculism, and some assert that they are both. However, many believe that one sex is more discriminated against, and thus use one label and reject the other.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37280779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37280779", "title": "Myanmar Medical Association", "text": "Myanmar Medical Association\n\nThe Myanmar Medical Association (; abbreviated MMA; formerly the Burma Medical Association) is Myanmar's only professional organisation of physicians. MMA was founded in 1949 and has a current membership of approximately 17,000 members (2011). It is administered by a central executive committee and is divided into 33 different societies dedicated to a broad range of medical specialties. MMA holds an annual conference and also provides continued medical education for its members. MMA publishes the \"Myanmar Medical Journal\".\n\nPast presidents of the organisation include:\n"}
{"id": "24396731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24396731", "title": "National University Health System", "text": "National University Health System\n\nThe National University Health System (NUHS) (Chinese: 国立大学医学组织 ; pinyin: guŏ lì dà xue yī xue zǔ zhī; Malay: Sistem Kesihatan Universiti Kebangsaan) is an academic health science center located in Singapore. It was established in January 2008 as a joint venture between the National University of Singapore and Singapore's MOH Holdings Pte Ltd. NUHS groups the National University Hospital (NUH) with the National University of Singapore's (NUS) Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry and the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health under a common governance structure in order to develop and promote academic medicine.\n\nThe NUHS focuses on combining medical education and training with extensive research to deliver research-proven clinical care to patients. In line with the collaborative focus of the NUHS, students from the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry and the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health work alongside senior healthcare professionals from the NUH to develop their skills under close supervision and mentorship. Academic research carried out in the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry and the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health also directly drives healthcare practices in the NUH.\n\nThe NUHS also has oversight over 3 national specialty centres, which are the National University Heart Centre, Singapore (NUHCS), the National University Cancer Institute, Singapore (NCIS) and the National University Centre for Oral Health, Singapore (in 2019).\n\nIn 2017, the Ministry of Health (MOH) reorganised the public healthcare system into three integrated clusters to better meet Singaporeans’ future healthcare needs, with National University Health System (NUHS) and Jurong Health Services merged. The Ng Teng Fong General Hospital (NTFGH), Jurong Community Hospital (JCH) and Jurong Medical Centre (JCM) were integrated under NUHS. The polyclinics were reorganised, in line with the three new clusters. A new polyclinic group called the National University Polyclinics group is formed and managed by NUHS.\n\nThe idea of a common governance structure first came about when Health Minister Khaw Boon Wan headed the National University Hospital. However, the idea was only revived some 20 years later after the Biomedical Sciences International Advisory Panel recommended that Singapore develop one or two strong academic medical centres to advance translational and clinical research. On 23 January 2008, the NUHS was incorporated.\n\nThe corporate office of the NUHS is currently located at 1E Kent Ridge Road, NUHS Tower Block, Singapore 119228.\n\nThe NUHS consists of four main components:\n\nIn 2004, NUH became the first Singapore hospital to receive Joint Commission International (JCI) Accreditation, an international stamp for excellent clinical practices in patient care and safety. It was also the first hospital in Singapore to receive a triple ISO certification concurrently for Quality, Environmental, and Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems in 2002\n\nIn addition to the National University Hospital and the National University of Singapore's Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry and the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, the NUHS also has oversight of a few specialized medical institutions. The National University Heart Centre, Singapore (NUHCS), is a key centre for the treatment and management of complex cardiovascular diseases with focus areas on heart failure, congenital heart disease, acute coronary syndrome and vascular disease. The National University Cancer Institute, Singapore, (NCIS) offers a broad spectrum of cancer care and management that ranges from public education, screening and early diagnosis, to treatment and long-term health maintenance. The Khoo Teck Puat Advanced Surgery Training Centre (ASTC) is the first one-stop training centre in Southeast Asia to equip surgeons from the region, the Middle East, and Europe, with the latest skills.\n\nIn 2017, the Ministry of Health (MOH) reorganised the public healthcare system into three integrated clusters to better meet Singaporeans’ future healthcare needs, with National University Health System (NUHS) and Jurong Health Services (JurongHealth) merged. The Ng Teng Fong General Hospital (NTFGH), Jurong Community Hospital (JCH) and Jurong Medical Centre (JCM). The polyclinics were reorganised, in line with the three new clusters. The National University Polyclinics group is formed under NUHS.\n\n\nSince its formation, the NUHS has pioneered a number of medical breakthroughs. This includes performing the first gynaecologic robot-assisted cancer and endoscopic surgery in South East Asia.\n\nResearch: The NUHS' research focus includes cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity, neurocognition and infectious diseases. In 2008, an NUHS research team discovered RUNX3, a gatekeeper gene which prevents the uncontrolled growth of cells leading to colorectal cancers. Colorectal cancer is ranked as the No. 1 killer in Singapore.\n\nEducation: One of the main aims of the NUHS is to provide education for Singapore's medical students. The NUS Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine currently offers two full-time undergraduate programmes, Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B., B.S) and Bachelor of Science (Nursing), which is conducted by the Alice Lee School of Nursing Studies.\n\nIn line with its mission to combine education with research, NUS Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine students are able to conduct undergraduate research under the supervision of the School's staff. This is done through the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme.\n\nThe NUHS depends heavily on external funding for most of its research projects. To date, the NUHS has won several major research grants, including the S$25m Translational and Clinical Research Flagship programmes on the study of gastric cancer as well as metabolic diseases (diabetes and obesity). The grants are funded by the National Research Foundation.\n\nSince its incorporation, the NUHS was headed by Professor Tan Chorh Chuan as Chief Executive. In December 2008, neurologist and academic Associate Professor Benjamin Ong took the helm and succeeded Professor Tan in view of the latter's appointment as President of the National University of Singapore. Internationally renowned medical oncologist and academic Professor John Wong Eu Li took on the appointment of Deputy Chief Executive of the NUHS.[4]\n\nAfter five years at the helm, Associate Professor Benjamin Ong stepped down as Chief Executive in January 2014 and was appointed Director of Medical Services at the Ministry of Health.Taking over from him as the new Chief Executive of the NUHS was its current Deputy Chief Executive, Professor John Wong Eu Li.\n\nWith the integration of public healthcare cluster in 2017, Professor John Wong Eu Li is the Group CEO, NUHS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63011", "title": "Nocturnality", "text": "Nocturnality\n\nNocturnality is an animal behavior characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day. The common adjective is \"nocturnal\", versus diurnal meaning the opposite.\n\nNocturnal creatures generally have highly developed senses of hearing, smell, and specially adapted eyesight. Such traits can help animals such as the \"Helicoverpa zea\" moths avoid predators. Some animals, such as cats and ferrets, have eyes that can adapt to both low-level and bright day levels of illumination (see metaturnal). Others, such as bushbabies and (some) bats, can function only at night. Many nocturnal creatures including tarsiers and some owls have large eyes in comparison with their body size to compensate for the lower light levels at night. More specifically, they have been found to have a larger cornea relative to their eye size than diurnal creatures to increase their : in the low-light conditions. Nocturnality helps wasps, such as \"Apoica flavissima\", avoid hunting in intense sunlight.\n\nDiurnal animals, including squirrels and songbirds, are active during the daytime. Crepuscular species, such as rabbits, skunks, tigers, and hyenas, are often erroneously referred to as nocturnal. Cathemeral species, such as fossas and lions, are active both in the day and at night.\n\nWhile most humans are diurnal, for various personal and social/cultural reasons some people are temporarily or habitually nocturnal.\n\nThe most known creatures to be nocturnal include cats, rodents, and owls, which all have heightened senses (including their sense of sight).\n\nWhile it is difficult to say which came first, nocturnality or diurnality, there is a leading hypothesis out in the evolutionary biology community. Known as the \"bottleneck theory\", it postulates that millions of years ago in the Mesozoic era, many ancestors of modern-day mammals evolved nocturnal characteristics in order to avoid contact with the numerous diurnal predators. A recent study attempts to answer the question as to why so many modern day mammals retain these nocturnal characteristics even though they are not active at night. The leading answer is that the high visual acuity that comes with diurnal characteristics isn't needed anymore due to the evolution of compensatory sensory systems, such as a heightened sense of smell and more astute auditory systems. In a recent study, recently extinct elephant birds and modern day nocturnal kiwi bird skulls were examined to recreate their likely brain and skull formation. They indicated that olfactory bulbs were much larger in comparison to their optic lobes, indicating they both have a common ancestor who evolved to function as a nocturnal species, decreasing their eyesight in favor of a better sense of smell. The anomaly to this theory were anthropoids, who appeared to have the most divergence from nocturnality than all organisms examined. While most mammals didn't exhibit the morphological characteristics expected of a nocturnal creature, reptiles and birds fit in perfectly. A larger cornea and pupil correlated well with whether these two classes of organisms were nocturnal or not.\n\nBeing active at night is a form of niche differentiation, where a species' niche is partitioned not by the amount of resources but by the amount of time (i.e. temporal division of the ecological niche). Hawks and owls can hunt the same field or meadow for the same rodents without conflict because hawks are diurnal and owls are nocturnal. This means they are not in competition for each other's prey.\n\nNocturnality is a form of crypsis, an adaptation to avoid or enhance predation. One of the reasons that (cathemeral) lions prefer to hunt at night is that many of their prey species (zebra, antelope, impala, wildebeest, etc.) have poor night vision. Many species of small rodents, such as the Large Japanese Field Mouse, are active at night because most of the dozen or so birds of prey that hunt them are diurnal. There are many diurnal species that exhibit some nocturnal behaviors. For example, many seabirds and sea turtles only gather at breeding sites or colonies at night to reduce the risk of predation to themselves and/or their offspring.Nocturnal species take advantage of the night time to prey on species that are used to avoiding diurnal predators. Some nocturnal fish species will use the moonlight to prey on zooplankton species that come to the surface at night. Some species have developed unique adaptations that allow them to hunt in the dark. Bats are famous for using echolocation to hunt down their prey, using sonar sounds to capture them in the dark. \n\nAnother reason for nocturnality is avoiding the heat of the day. This is especially true in arid biomes like deserts, where nocturnal behavior prevents creatures from losing precious water during the hot, dry daytime. This is an adaptation that enhances osmoregulation. One of the reasons that (cathemeral) lions prefer to hunt at night is to conserve water.\n\nMany plant species native to arid biomes have adapted so that their flowers only open at night when the sun's intense heat cannot wither and destroy their moist, delicate blossoms. These flowers are pollinated by bats, another creature of the night.\n\nClimate-change and the change in global temperatures has led to an increasing amount of diurnal species to push their activity patterns closer towards crepuscular or fully nocturnal behavior. This adaptive measure allows species to avoid the heat of the day, without having to leave that particular habitat. \n\nThe exponential increase in human expansion and technological advances in the last few centuries has had a major effect on nocturnal animals, as well as diurnal species. The causes of these can be traced to distinct, sometimes overlapping areas: light pollution and spatial disturbance.\n\nLight pollution is a major issue for nocturnal species, and the impact continues to increase as electricity reaches parts of the world that previously had no access. Species in the tropics are generally more affected by this due to the change in their relatively constant light patterns, but temperate species relying on day-night triggers for behavioral patterns are also affected as well. Many diurnal species see the benefit of a \"longer day\", allowing for a longer hunting period, which in turn negatively their nocturnal prey trying to avoid them.\n\nLight pollution can disorient species that are used to darkness, as their adaptive eyes are not as used to the artificial lighting. Insects are the most obvious example, who are attracted by the lighting and are usually killed by either the heat or electrical current. Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators. Sea turtles are particularly affected by this, adding to a number of threats to the different endangered species. Adults are likely to stay away from artificially lit beaches that they might prefer to lay eggs on, as there is less cover against predators. Additionally, baby sea turtles that hatch from eggs on artificially lit beaches often get lost, heading towards the light sources as opposed to the ocean.\n\nRhythmic behaviors are affected by light pollution both seasonally and daily patterns. Migrating birds or mammals might have issues with the timing of their movement for example. On a day-to-day basis, species can see significant changes in their internal temperatures, their general movement, feeding, and body mass. These small scale changes can eventually lead to a population decline, as well as hurting local trophic levels and interconnecting species. Some typically diurnal species have even become crepuscular or nocturnal as a result of light pollution and general human disturbance.\n\nThere have been documented effects of light pollution on reproductive cycles and factors in different species. It can affect mate choice, migration to breeding grounds, and nest site selection. In male green frogs, artificial light causes a decrease in mate calls, and continued to move around instead of waiting for a potential mate to arrive. This hurts the overall fitness of the species, which is concerning considering the overall decrease in amphibian populations.\n\nPredation\n\nSome nocturnal predator-prey relationships are interrupted by artificial lighting. Bats that that are fast-moving are often at an advantage with insects being drawn to light; they are fast enough to escape any predators also attracted to the light, leaving slow-moving bats at a disadvantage. Another example is harbor seals eating juvenile salmon that moved down a river lit by nearby artificial lighting. Once the lights were turned off, predation levels decreased. Many diurnal prey species forced into being nocturnal are susceptible to nocturnal predators, and those species with poor nocturnal eyesight often bear the brunt of the cost.\n\nThe increasing amount of habitat destruction worldwide as a result of human expansion has given both advantages and disadvantages to different nocturnal animals. As a result of peak human activity in the daytime, more species are likely to be active at night in order to avoid the new disturbance in their habitat. Carnivorous predators however are less timid of the disturbance, feeding on human waste and keeping a relatively similar spatial habitat as the did before. In comparison, herbivorous prey tend to stay in areas where human disturbance is low, limiting both resources and their spatial habitat. This leads to an imbalance in favor of predators, who increase in population and come out more often at night.\n\nIn zoos, nocturnal animals are usually kept in special night-illumination enclosures to invert their normal sleep-wake cycle and to keep them active during the hours when visitors will be there to see them.\n\nHedgehogs and sugar gliders are just two of the many nocturnal species kept as (exotic) pets. Cats have adapted to domestication so that each individual, whether stray alley cat or pampered housecat, can change their activity level at will, becoming nocturnal or diurnal in response to their environment or the routine of their owners. Cats normally demonstrate crepuscular behavior, bordering nocturnal, being most active in hunting and exploration at dusk and dawn.\n\n"}
{"id": "16181960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16181960", "title": "Plant disease forecasting", "text": "Plant disease forecasting\n\nPlant disease forecasting is a management system used to predict the occurrence or change in severity of plant diseases. At the field scale, these systems are used by growers to make economic decisions about disease treatments for control. Often the systems ask the grower a series of questions about the susceptibility of the host crop, and incorporate current and forecast weather conditions to make a recommendation. Typically a recommendation is made about whether disease treatment is necessary or not. Usually treatment is a pesticide application.\n\nForecasting systems are based on assumptions about the pathogen's interactions with the host and environment, the disease triangle. The objective is to accurately predict when the three factors – host, environment, and pathogen – all interact in such a fashion that disease can occur and cause economic losses.\n\nIn most cases the host can be suitably defined as resistant or susceptible, and the presence of the pathogen may often be reasonably ascertained based on previous cropping history or perhaps survey data. The environment is usually the factor that controls whether disease develops or not. Environmental conditions may determine the presence of the pathogen in a particular season through their effects on processes such as overwintering. Environmental conditions also affect the ability of the pathogen to cause disease, e.g. a minimum leaf wetness duration is required for grey leaf spot of corn to occur. In these cases a disease forecasting system attempts to define when the environment will be conducive to disease development. \n\nGood disease forecasting systems must be reliable, simple, cost-effective and applicable to many diseases. As such they are normally only designed for diseases that are irregular enough to warrant a prediction system, rather than diseases that occur every year for which regular treatment should be employed. Forecasting systems can only be designed if there is also an understanding on the actual disease triangle parameters.\n\nForecasting systems may use one of several parameters in order to work out disease risk, or a combination of factors. One of the first forecasting systems designed was for Stewart's wilt and based on winter temperature index as low temperatures would kill the vector of the disease so there would be no outbreak. An example of a multiple disease/pest forecasting system is the EPIdemiology, PREdiction, and PREvention (EPIPRE) system developed in the Netherlands for winter wheat that focused on multiple pathogens. USPEST.org graphs risks of various plants diseases based on weather forecasts with hourly resolution of leaf wetness. Forecasting models are often based on a relationship like simple linear regression where x is used to predict y. Other relationships can be modelled using population growth curves. The growth curve that is used will depend on the nature of the epidemic. Polycyclic epidemics such as potato late blight are usually best modelled by using the logistic model, whereas monocyclic epidemics may be best modelled using the monomolecular model. Correct choice of a model is essential for a disease forecasting system to be useful.\n\nPlant disease forecasting models must be thoroughly tested and validated after being developed. Interest has arisen lately in model validation through the quantification of the economic costs of false positives and false negatives, where disease prevention measures may be used when unnecessary or not applied when needed respectively. The costs of these two types of errors need to be weighed carefully before deciding to use a disease forecasting system.\n\nIn the future, disease forecasting systems may become more useful as computing power increases and the amount of data that is available to plant pathologists to construct models increases. Good forecasting systems also may become increasingly important with climate change. It will be important to be able to accurately predict where disease outbreaks may occur, since they may not be in the historically known areas.\n"}
{"id": "40482196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40482196", "title": "Precision medicine", "text": "Precision medicine\n\nPrecision medicine (PM) is a medical model that proposes the customization of healthcare, with medical decisions, treatments, practices, or products being tailored to the individual patient. In this model, diagnostic testing is often employed for selecting appropriate and optimal therapies based on the context of a patient’s genetic content or other molecular or cellular analysis. Tools employed in precision medicine can include molecular diagnostics, imaging, and analytics.\n\nIn explaining the distinction from a similar common term of personalized medicine, the National Research Council explains: \n\nOn the other hand, use of the term \"precision medicine\" as well can extend beyond treatment selection to also cover creating unique medical products for particular individuals—for example, \"...patient-specific tissue or organs to tailor treatments for different people.\" Hence, the term in practice has so much overlap with \"personalized medicine\" that they are often used interchangeably.\n\nPrecision medicine often involves the application of panomic analysis and systems biology to analyze the cause of an individual patient's disease at the molecular level and then to utilize targeted treatments (possibly in combination) to address that individual patient's disease process. The patient's response is then tracked as closely as possible, often using surrogate measures such as tumor load (v. true outcomes, such as 5 year survival rate), and the treatment finely adapted to the patient's response. The branch of precision medicine that addresses cancer is referred to as \"precision oncology\".\n\nInter-personal difference of molecular pathology is diverse, so as inter-personal difference in the exposome, which influence disease processes through the interactome within the tissue microenvironment, differentially from person to person. As the theoretical basis of precision medicine, the \"unique disease principle\" emerged to embrace the ubiquitous phenomenon of heterogeneity of disease etiology and pathogenesis. The unique disease principle was first described in neoplastic diseases as the unique tumor principle. As the exposome is a common concept of epidemiology, precision medicine is intertwined with molecular pathological epidemiology, which is capable of identifying potential biomarkers for precision medicine.\n\nThe ability to provide precision medicine to patients in routine clinical settings depends on the availability of molecular profiling tests, e.g. individual germline DNA sequencing. While precision medicine currently individualizes treatment mainly on the basis of genomic tests (e.g. Oncotype DX), several promising technology modalities are being developed, from techniques combining spectrometry and computational power to real-time imaging of drug effects in the body. Many different aspects of precision medicine are tested in research settings (e.g., proteome, microbiome), but in routine practice not all available inputs are used. The ability to practice precision medicine is also dependent on the knowledge bases available to assist clinicians in taking action based on test results.\n\nOn the treatment side, PM can involve the use of customized medical products such drug cocktails produced by pharmacy compounding or customized devices. It can also prevent harmful drug interactions, increase overall efficiency when prescribing medications, and reduce costs associated with healthcare.\n\nArtificial intelligence is providing paradigm shift toward precision medicine. Machine learning algorithms are used for genomic sequence and to analyze and draw inferences from the vast amounts of data patients and healthcare institutions recorded in every moment. AI techniques are used in precision cardiovascular medicine to understand genotypes and phenotypes in existing diseases, improve the quality of patient care, enable cost-effectiveness, and reduce readmission and mortality rates.\n\nIn his 2015 State of the Union address, U.S. President Barack Obama stated his intention to fund an amount of $215 million to the \"Precision Medicine Initiative\" of United States national. A short-term goal of the Precision Medicine Initiative was to expand cancer genomics to develop better prevention and treatment methods. In the long-term, the Precision Medicine Initiative aimed to build a comprehensive scientific knowledge base by creating a national network of scientists and embarking on a national cohort study of one million Americans to expand our understanding of health and disease.\nThe Mission Statement of the Precision Medicine Initiative read: \"To enable a new era of medicine through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward development of individualized treatments\". In 2016 this initiative was renamed \"All of Us\" and an initial pilot project had enrolled about 10,000 people by January 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44716989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716989", "title": "Prehistoric grave goods in the Philippines", "text": "Prehistoric grave goods in the Philippines\n\nGrave goods are utilitarian and ornamental objects buried with the deceased. \"Pabaon\", as present day Filipinos know, is the tradition of including the priced possessions or items of the dead to its grave because of the belief that these things might be helpful to the deceased as it travels to the life after death. This has been a practice since the neolithic times.\n\nGrave goods are symbol of social activities, and in a way reflects the urge of the people who buried the dead to show his or her social status. Grave goods provide substantial background on the technology, degree of complexity of the society, level of integration with other communities, social or group identities, individual identities, and concepts of wealth and power of the existing community.\n\nThe types and prestige values of the grave goods differ among groups, because of cultural differences. In studying grave goods, it is important to know the period of existence and to substantiate its prestige value.\n\nThis period was centered on the population's needs. Thus, utilitarian objects, such as adzes, were most common among grave goods. Ornamental objects were shell pendants, ear ornaments among others. During this period, death was conceived as the transformation of physical form into something inanimate. Goods buried along with the body were mostly composed of their personal belongings.\n\nLocal trade can already be observed in this period. This created a diversity of material possessions of individuals, leading to a diversity of grave goods. Among these were jade and agate, and earthenware pottery. Other materials were shell and some foreign trade objects.\n\nDuring this period, inter-island trade was already prominent. Grave goods were jars, metal implements, alkali glass beads, imported porcelain and local imitations, tradeware, coins, metal accessories, gold, and shell. Sex differentiation was also evident during this period wherein it is one of the basic determinants of social stratification. This was a time when social roles started to have variations therefore allowed an individual to be identified in the society based on the goods included in its grave. Iron implements were most of the finds together with male bodies while glass beads were among women.\n\nThe prestige value of grave goods are dependent on four factors:\n\nThe acquisition of the material is a factor on its prestige value. Materials that are harder to acquire, such as when the source is a remote area, the prestige value is higher.\n\nThe abundance or rarity of the source of the raw material relates to its prestige value. The rarer the material is, the higher its prestige value.\n\nHere, grave goods are evaluated on whether they are traded and reworked, traded, or locally produced. Traded items take more time to acquire, especially if these have to be reprocessed once acquired. Therefore, these items have higher values than locally produced items which are abundant and easier to acquire.\n\nThis categorizes grave goods as either utilitarian or non-utilitarian. Non-utilitarian or ornamental items have higher prestige value because these generally take more time to make, are harder to acquire and are not as abundant as utilitarian good which are seen and used in everyday living.\n\nA male adult was excavated in an open pit with stone and shell adzes. Ornamentations were shell disks with perforations near the ears and chest. Shells were of local material. Other materials were shell containers that are part of the areca nut chewing paraphernalia.\nThis site was dated back to the early neolithic age, 4630 +/- 250 BP.\n\nThis is a jar burial site where jade beads, jade bracelets, stone beads, agate bracelets, shell bracelets, shell beads, and highly decorated jars.\nThis site was dated back to the late neolithic age, 2660 +/- 80 BP and 2840 +/- 80 BP.\n\nThis is a primary burial inland site where eight burial jars were recovered, some with impressive design and some undecorated. Materials recovered were glass beads interred with females and metal implements interred with males.\nThe site is of metal age, 200 BC – AD 200.\n\nA lot of detailed anthropomorphic pottery in different types were found in this site. Materials found were shell bracelets, shell spoons, and metal implements such as daggers and bolos.\nThis site is of metal age, dating 70- 370 AD and 5 BC to AD 225.\n\nThis site consisted of sixteen dug-out wooden coffins in varying designs and woods used. Materials found were different varieties of metal implements such as bolos, metal spearheads and beads.\nThis site is of early Iron Age, AD 140 +/- 340.\n\nThis site is a huge burial site where a total of 51 burials were found. Materials were same with the other sites, with the inclusion of a large amount of trade goods from china, especially porcelain. Local imitations of porcelain were also found.\nThis site is of late 15th to early 14th century.\n\nThe grave goods found along with the bodies could be interpreted as a form of respect to the family of the dead (Barretto 2002). The family's grief was another probable explanation for high-valued goods.(Macdonald 2001) \n\nThis site best exhibited the extensive trade with other south east Asian countries. From the 207 graves excavated, a large amount of South East Asian wares were found, along with materials existent in the other sites, but understandably with greater detail and variety. Extensive use of gold by all population was also exhibited.\nThis site precedes the Spanish era.\n\n"}
{"id": "4183589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4183589", "title": "Principal investigator", "text": "Principal investigator\n\nIn the United States, the term principal investigator (PI) refers to the holder of an independent grant administered by a university and the lead researcher for the grant project, usually in the sciences, such as a laboratory study or a clinical trial. The phrase is also often used as a synonym for \"head of the laboratory\" or \"research group leader.\" While the expression is common in the sciences, it is used widely for the person or persons who make final decisions and supervise funding and expenditures on a given research project.\n\nA co-investigator (Co-I) assists the principal investigator in the management and leadership of the research project. There may be a number of co-investigators supporting a PI.\n\nIn the context of United States federal funding from agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) or the National Science Foundation (NSF), the PI is the person who takes direct responsibility for completion of a funded project, directing the research and reporting directly to the funding agency. For small projects (which might involve 1-5 people) the PI is typically the person who conceived of the investigation, but for larger projects the PI may be selected by a team to obtain the best strategic advantage for the project.\n\nIn the context of a clinical trial a PI may be an academic working with grants from NIH or other funding agencies, or may be effectively a contractor for a pharmaceutical company working on testing the safety and efficacy of new medicines.\n\nThere were 20,458 PIs on NIH R01 grants in US biomedical research in 2000. In 2013, this number has grown to 21,511. At the same time the success rate for an applicant to receive an R01 grant has gone down from 32% in 2000 to 17% in 2013.\n\nCasati, A. & Genet, C. (2014) Principal Investigators as Scientific Entrepreneurs, Journal of Technology Transfer, 39 (1): 11-32 (also available at ResearchGate)\n"}
{"id": "15133012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15133012", "title": "Reliant Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Reliant Pharmaceuticals\n\nReliant Pharmaceuticals was a company purchased by GlaxoSmithKline in December 2007 for $1.65B.\nCo-founded by Joseph J. Krivulka.\n\nIt was known for six major products, including [[Lovaza|Omacor/Lovaza](Omega-3)], [[Axid]](H2 blocker), Dynacirc CR (calcium channel blocker), Antara (fenofibrate), [[InnoPran XL]] (beta blocker), Lescol XL (Fluvastatin) )and Rythmol SR (Class IC anti-arrhythmic).\n\nReliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was a pharmaceutical company that specialized in the development, commercialization and marketing of prescription therapeutic products. Reliant marketed six cardiovascular products in the United States and focused on promoting its products to targeted primary care and specialty physicians, as well as selected hospitals and academic centers in the United States. Reliants' sales force consisted of approximately 650 sales and marketing professionals nationwide.\n\n[[Category:Pharmaceutical companies of the United States]]\n[[Category:Pharmaceutical companies of the United Kingdom]]\n[[Category:GlaxoSmithKline]]\n[[Category:Health care companies based in New Jersey]]\n"}
{"id": "2629669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2629669", "title": "Robot-assisted surgery", "text": "Robot-assisted surgery\n\nRobotic surgery, computer-assisted surgery, and robotically-assisted surgery are terms for technological developments that use robotic systems to aid in surgical procedures. Robotically-assisted surgery was developed to overcome the limitations of pre-existing minimally-invasive surgical procedures and to enhance the capabilities of surgeons performing open surgery.\n\nIn the case of robotically-assisted minimally-invasive surgery, instead of directly moving the instruments, the surgeon uses one of two methods to control the instruments; either a direct telemanipulator or through computer control. A telemanipulator is a remote manipulator that allows the surgeon to perform the normal movements associated with the surgery whilst the robotic arms carry out those movements using end-effectors and manipulators to perform the actual surgery on the patient. In computer-controlled systems the surgeon uses a computer to control the robotic arms and its end-effectors, though these systems can also still use telemanipulators for their input. One advantage of using the computerised method is that the surgeon does not have to be present, but can be anywhere in the world, leading to the possibility for remote surgery.\n\nIn the case of enhanced open surgery, autonomous instruments (in familiar configurations) replace traditional steel tools, performing certain actions (such as rib spreading) with much smoother, feedback-controlled motions than could be achieved by a human hand. The main object of such smart instruments is to reduce or eliminate the tissue trauma traditionally associated with open surgery without requiring more than a few minutes' training on the part of surgeons. This approach seeks to improve open surgeries, particularly cardio-thoracic, that have so far not benefited from minimally-invasive techniques.\n\nRobotic surgery has been criticized for its expense, by one estimate costing $1,500 to $2000 more per patient.\n\nMajor advances aided by surgical robots have been remote surgery, minimally invasive surgery and unmanned surgery. Due to robotic use, the surgery is done with precision, miniaturization, smaller incisions; decreased blood loss, less pain, and quicker healing time. Articulation beyond normal manipulation and three-dimensional magnification helps resulting in improved ergonomics. Due to these techniques there is a reduced duration of hospital stays, blood loss, transfusions, and use of pain medication.\nThe existing open surgery technique has many flaws like limited access to surgical area, long recovery time, long hours of operation, blood loss, surgical scars and marks.\n\nThe robot normally costs $1,390,000 and while its disposable supply cost is normally $1,500 per procedure, the cost of the procedure is higher. Additional surgical training is needed to operate the system. Numerous feasibility studies have been done to determine whether the purchase of such systems are worthwhile. As it stands, opinions differ dramatically. Surgeons report that, although the manufacturers of such systems provide training on this new technology, the learning phase is intensive and surgeons must operate on twelve to eighteen patients before they adapt. During the training phase, minimally invasive operations can take up to twice as long as traditional surgery, leading to operating room tie ups and surgical staffs keeping patients under anesthesia for longer periods. Patient surveys indicate they chose the procedure based on expectations of decreased morbidity, improved outcomes, reduced blood loss and less pain. Higher expectations may explain higher rates of dissatisfaction and regret.\n\nCompared with other minimally invasive surgery approaches, robot-assisted surgery gives the surgeon better control over the surgical instruments and a better view of the surgical site. In addition, surgeons no longer have to stand throughout the surgery and do not tire as quickly. Naturally occurring hand tremors are filtered out by the robot's computer software. Finally, the surgical robot can continuously be used by rotating surgery teams.\n\nCritics of the system, including the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, say there is a steep learning curve for surgeons who adopt use of the system and that there's a lack of studies that indicate long-term results are superior to results following traditional laparoscopic surgery. Articles in the newly created \"Journal of Robotic Surgery\" tend to report on one surgeon's experience.\n\nA Medicare study found that some procedures that have traditionally been performed with large incisions can be converted to \"minimally invasive\" endoscopic procedures with the use of the Da Vinci Surgical System, shortening length-of-stay in the hospital and reducing recovery times. But because of the hefty cost of the robotic system it is not clear that it is cost-effective for hospitals and physicians despite any benefits to patients since there is no additional reimbursement paid by the government or insurance companies when the system is used.\n\nRobot-assisted pancreatectomies have been found to be associated with \"longer operating time, lower estimated blood loss, a higher spleen-preservation rate, and shorter hospital stay[s]\" than laparoscopic pancreatectomies; there was \"no significant difference in transfusion, conversion to open surgery, overall complications, severe complications, pancreatic fistula, severe pancreatic fistula, ICU stay, total cost, and 30-day mortality between the two groups.\" For surgical removal of the uterus and cervix for early cervical cancer robotic and laparoscopic surgery resulted in similar outcomes with respect to the cancer.\n\nAs of 2004, three types of heart surgery are being performed on a routine basis using robotic surgery systems. These three surgery types were:\n\n\nMany studies have been undertaken in order to examine the role of robotic procedures in the field of colorectal surgery.\n\nResults to date indicate that robotic-assisted colorectal procedures outcomes are \"no worse\" than the results in the now \"traditional\" laparoscopic colorectal operations. Robotic-assisted colorectal surgery appears to be safe as well. Most of the procedures have been performed for malignant colon and rectal lesions. However, surgeons are now moving into resections for diverticulitis and non-resective rectopexies (attaching the colon to the sacrum in order to treat rectal prolapse.)\n\nWhen evaluated for several variables, robotic-assisted procedures fare equally well when compared with laparoscopic, or open abdominal operations. Study parameters have looked at intraoperative patient preparation time, length of time to perform the operation, adequacy of the removed surgical specimen with respect to clear surgical margins and number of lymph nodes removed, blood loss, operative or postoperative complications and long-term results.\n\nMore difficult to evaluate are issues related to the view of the operative field, the types of procedures that should be performed using robotic assistance and the potential added cost for a robotic operation.\n\nMany surgeons feel that the optics of the 3-dimensional, two camera stereo optic robotic system are superior to the optical system used in laparoscopic procedures. The pelvic nerves are clearly visualized during robotic-assisted procedures. Less clear however is whether or not these supposedly improved optics and visualization improve patient outcomes with respect to postoperative impotence or incontinence, and whether long-term patient survival is improved by using the 3-dimensional optic system. Additionally, there is often a need for a wider, or \"larger\" view of the operative field than is routinely provided during robotic operations., The close-up view of the area under dissection may hamper visualization of the \"bigger view\", especially with respect to ureteral protection.\n\nQuestions remain unanswered, even after many years of experience with robotic-assisted colorectal operations. Ongoing studies may help clarify many of the issues of confusion associated with this novel surgical approach.\n\nMultiple types of procedures have been performed with either the 'Zeus' or da Vinci robot systems, including bariatric surgery and gastrectomy for cancer. Surgeons at various universities initially published case series demonstrating different techniques and the feasibility of GI surgery using the robotic devices. Specific procedures have been more fully evaluated, specifically esophageal fundoplication for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux and Heller myotomy for the treatment of achalasia.\n\nOther gastrointestinal procedures including colon resection, pancreatectomy, esophagectomy and robotic approaches to pelvic disease have also been reported.\n\nRobotic surgery in gynecology is of uncertain benefit with it being unclear if it affects rates of complications. Gynecologic procedures may take longer with robot-assisted surgery but may be associated with a shorter hospital stay following hysterectomy. In the United States, robotic-assisted hysterectomy for benign conditions has been shown to be more expensive than conventional laparoscopic hysterectomy, with no difference in overall rates of complications.\n\nThis includes the use of the da Vinci surgical system in benign gynecology and gynecologic oncology. Robotic surgery can be used to treat fibroids, abnormal periods, endometriosis, ovarian tumors, uterine prolapse, and female cancers. Using the robotic system, gynecologists can perform hysterectomies, myomectomies, and lymph node biopsies.\n\nRobots are used in orthopedic surgery.\n\nSurgical robotics has been used in many types of pediatric surgical procedures including: tracheoesophageal fistula repair, cholecystectomy, nissen fundoplication, morgagni's hernia repair, kasai portoenterostomy, congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair, and others.\n\nRobotic devices started to be used in minimally invasive spine surgery starting in the mid-2000s. As of 2014, there were too few randomized clinical trials to allow judgements as to whether robotic spine surgery is more or less safe than other approaches.\n\nTransplant surgery (organ transplantation) has been considered as highly technically demanding and virtually unobtainable by means of conventional laparoscopy. For many years, transplant patients were unable to benefit from the advantages of minimally invasive surgery. The development of robotic technology and its associated high resolution capabilities, three dimensional visual system, wrist type motion and fine instruments, gave opportunity for highly complex procedures to be completed in a minimally invasive fashion. Subsequently, the first fully robotic kidney transplantations were performed in the late 2000s. After the procedure was proven to be feasible and safe, the main emerging challenge was to determine which patients would benefit most from this robotic technique. As a result, recognition of the increasing prevalence of obesity amongst patients with kidney failure on hemodialysis posed a significant problem. Due to the abundantly higher risk of complications after traditional open kidney transplantation, obese patients were frequently denied access to transplantation, which is the premium treatment for end stage kidney disease. \n\nRobotic surgery in the field of urology has become very popular, especially in the United States. It has been most extensively applied for excision of prostate cancer because of difficult anatomical access. It is also utilized for kidney cancer surgeries and to lesser extent surgeries of the bladder.\n\nAs of 2014, there is little evidence of increased benefits compared to standard surgery to justify the increased costs. Some have found tentative evidence of more complete removal of cancer and less side effects from surgery for prostatectomy.\n\nIn 2000, the first robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy was performed.\n\nBreast Surgery\n\nRobotic breast surgery involves using the robot to assist in performing nipple-sparing mastectomy and breast reconstruction. In 2015, a group of surgeons led by Dr. Antonio Toesca, in Milan, Italy demonstrated the feasibility and safety of robotic nipple-sparing mastectomy and robotic breast reconstruction. The Italian surgeons published their results in their first 29 consecutive patients. In this report, all patients had robotic mastectomy and reconstruction done through a 3 cm extra-mammary incision, hidden by the arm. Thereafter, a surgeon, Dr. Benjamin Sarfati, in Paris began performing robotic mastectomy and breast reconstruction. On March 4, 2018, Dr. Neil Tanna and colleagues performed the first robotic nipple-sparing mastectomy and robotic breast reconstruction in North America. \n\nTraditional (open) nipple-sparing mastectomy and breast reconstruction require incisions on the breast. Robotic nipple sparing mastectomy with robotic breast reconstruction is an innovative form of breast surgery that utilizes robotic technology to perform the surgery. By using the robot, the incisions can be much smaller and be placed off the breasts, far away near the armpit or the bra line.\n\nThe first robot to assist in surgery was the \"Arthrobot\", which was developed and used for the first time in Vancouver in 1983. Intimately involved were biomedical engineer Dr. James McEwen, Geof Auchinleck, a UBC engineering physics grad, and Dr. Brian Day as well as a team of engineering students. The robot was used in an orthopaedic surgical procedure on 12 March 1984, at the UBC Hospital in Vancouver. Over 60 arthroscopic surgical procedures were performed in the first 12 months, and a 1985 National Geographic video on industrial robots, \"The Robotics Revolution\", featured the device. Other related robotic devices developed at the same time included a surgical scrub nurse robot, which handed operative instruments on voice command, and a medical laboratory robotic arm. A YouTube video entitled \"Arthrobot\" illustrates some of these in operation.\n\nIn 1985 a robot, the Unimation Puma 200, was used to place a needle for a brain biopsy using CT guidance. PROBOT was then used to perform prostatic surgery and ROBODOC to assist with hip replacement surgeries. The latter was the first surgical robot that was approved by the FDA. The ROBODOC from Integrated Surgical Systems (working closely with IBM) was introduced in 1992 to mill out precise fittings in the femur for hip replacement. The purpose of the ROBODOC was to replace the previous method of carving out a femur for an implant, the use of a mallet and broach/rasp.\n\nFurther development of robotic systems was carried out by SRI International and Intuitive Surgical with the introduction of the da Vinci Surgical System and Computer Motion with the \"AESOP\" and the ZEUS robotic surgical system. The first robotic surgery took place at The Ohio State University Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio under the direction of Robert E. Michler. Examples of using ZEUS include a fallopian tube reconnection in July 1998, a \"beating heart\" coronary artery bypass graft in October 1999, and the Lindbergh Operation, which was a cholecystectomy performed remotely in September 2001.\n\nThe original telesurgery robotic system that the da Vinci was based on was developed at SRI International in Menlo Park with grant support from DARPA and NASA. Although the telesurgical robot was originally intended to facilitate remotely performed surgery in battlefield and other remote environments, it turned out to be more useful for minimally invasive on-site surgery. The patents for the early prototype were sold to Intuitive Surgical in Mountain View, California. The da Vinci senses the surgeon's hand movements and translates them electronically into scaled-down micro-movements to manipulate the tiny proprietary instruments. It also detects and filters out any tremors in the surgeon's hand movements, so that they are not duplicated robotically. The camera used in the system provides a true stereoscopic picture transmitted to a surgeon's console. Examples of using the da Vinci system include the first robotically assisted heart bypass (performed in Germany) in May 1998, and the first performed in the United States in September 1999; and the first all-robotic-assisted kidney transplant, performed in January 2009. The da Vinci Si was released in April 2009, and initially sold for $1.75 million.\n\nIn May 2006 the first artificial intelligence doctor-conducted unassisted robotic surgery was on a 34-year-old male to correct heart arrythmia. The results were rated as better than an above-average human surgeon. The machine had a database of 10,000 similar operations, and so, in the words of its designers, was \"more than qualified to operate on any patient\". In August 2007, Dr. Sijo Parekattil of the Robotics Institute and Center for Urology (Winter Haven Hospital and University of Florida) performed the first robotic assisted microsurgery procedure denervation of the spermatic cord for chronic testicular pain. In February 2008, Dr. Mohan S. Gundeti of the University of Chicago Comer Children's Hospital performed the first robotic pediatric neurogenic bladder reconstruction.\n\nOn 12 May 2008, the first image-guided MR-compatible robotic neurosurgical procedure was performed at University of Calgary by Dr. Garnette Sutherland using the NeuroArm. In June 2008, the German Aerospace Centre (DLR) presented a robotic system for minimally invasive surgery, the MiroSurge. In September 2010, the Eindhoven University of Technology announced the development of the Sofie surgical system, the first surgical robot to employ force feedback. In September 2010, the first robotic operation at the femoral vasculature was performed at the University Medical Centre Ljubljana by a team led by Borut Geršak.\n"}
{"id": "5897588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5897588", "title": "Royal Australasian College of Physicians", "text": "Royal Australasian College of Physicians\n\nThe Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) is a not-for-profit professional organisation responsible for training, educating, and representing 17,000 physicians and paediatricians and 8000 trainees in 33 medical specialties in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nSpecialties include paediatrics & child health, cardiology, respiratory medicine, neurology, \noncology, public health medicine, occupational and environmental medicine, palliative \nmedicine, sexual health medicine, rehabilitation and addiction medicine.\n\nThe College is responsible for education of trainees and the ongoing education of Fellows of the College. It also publishes two medical journals, \"The Internal Medicine Journal\" and \"The Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health\", and has a foundation which provides funding for research in the field of internal medicine.\n\nUntil the 1930s, Australian and New Zealand Physicians had to seek membership of one of the United Kingdom Colleges in London, Glasgow, Ireland or Edinburgh.\n\nIn November 1930, a group of physicians met in Melbourne to establish the Association of Physicians of Australasia \"for friendship and scientific stimulus\", which solely consisted of its members; no building or permanent base existed.\n\nIn 1934, the Association of Physicians of Australasia Council decided that an examining and executive body College should be formed to enhance the prestige of the profession, stimulate interest in medical education and research, and set a standard of professional ethical conduct. The constitution was to be modelled on that of the London College.\n\nIn 1937, the Association purchased premises at 145 Macquarie Street, Sydney, which had originally been the home of the Fairfax family. Funds were raised by the NSW Government and public donation.\n\nIn 1938, the College was incorporated and the first meeting of the Council was held in April.\n\nThe motto of \"hominum servire saluti\" (\"to serve the health of our people\") was adopted for the College coat of arms.\n\nIn September that year 47 candidates took the first examinations and 41 members were admitted.\n\nThe RACP is divided into two Divisions and three Faculties. Each Division has a number of Chapters.\n\n\n\n\nThe History of Medicine Library at the RACP has a leading collection of medical history items from Australia and around the world. The RACP established the History of Medicine Library in 1938 as a clinical library. The focus of the library changed to medical history in the mid 1950s. The History of Medicine Library continues to grow through the contributions of College Members.\n\nThe qualification of \"Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians\", abbreviated as the post-nominal initials FRACP, is a recognition of the completion of the prescribed postgraduate specialist training programme in internal adult or internal paediatric medicine of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "20055818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20055818", "title": "Samoa Red Cross Society", "text": "Samoa Red Cross Society\n\nSamoa Red Cross Society was founded in 1952 as branch of the New Zealand Red Cross Society later it got closed. It was reactivated in 1981. It has its headquarters in Apia.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30602617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30602617", "title": "Saturated fat and cardiovascular disease", "text": "Saturated fat and cardiovascular disease\n\nMost medical, scientific, heart-health, governmental, and professional authorities agree that saturated fat is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease, including the World Health Organization, the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of Medicine, the American Dietetic Association,<ref name=\"ADA/DOC\"></ref> the Dietitians of Canada, the British Dietetic Association, the American Heart Association, the British Heart Foundation, the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, the World Heart Federation, the British National Health Service, the United States Food and Drug Administration, and the European Food Safety Authority. All of these organizations recommend restricting consumption of saturated fats to reduce that risk.\n\nHowever, some meta-analyses of clinical trials and cohort studies have provided evidence against the recommendation for reduced intake of saturated fat, including one critique by scientists and one by a trade association.\n\nThe initial connection between arteriosclerosis and dietary cholesterol is attributed to the Russian pathologist Nikolay Anichkov, prior to World War I.\nDutch physician Cornelis de Langen noted the correlation between nutritional cholesterol intake and incidence of gallstones in Javanese people in 1916. de Langen showed that the traditional Javanese diet, poor in cholesterol and other lipids, was associated with a low level of blood cholesterol and low incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), while the prevalence of CVD in Europeans living in Java on a Western diet was higher. Since de Langen published his results only in Dutch, his work remained unknown to most of the international scientific community until the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nThe hypothesis that saturated fat has a detrimental effect on human health gained prominence in the 1950s as a result of the work of Ancel Keys, a US nutritional scientist. At that time in the USA, the incidence of heart disease was rapidly increasing, for reasons that were not clear. Keys postulated a correlation between circulating cholesterol levels and cardiovascular disease, and initiated a study of Minnesota businessmen (the first prospective study of CVD).\n\nKeys presented his diet-lipid-heart disease hypothesis at a 1955 expert meeting of the World Health Organization in Geneva. In response to criticism at the conference, he set out to conduct the years-long Seven Countries Study. Ancel Keys joined the nutrition committee of the American Heart Association (AHA) and successfully promulgated his idea such that in 1961, with the result that the AHA became the first group anywhere in the world to advise cutting back on saturated fat (and dietary cholesterol) to prevent heart disease. This historic recommendation was reported on the cover of Time Magazine in that same year.\n\nA 2017 systematic review focusing on adequately controlled randomized controlled trials concluded that replacing saturated fats with mostly n-6 polyunsaturated fats is unlikely to reduce coronary heart disease (CHD) events, CHD mortality or total mortality. The 2017 review showed that inadequately controlled trials (e.g., failing to control for other lifestyle factors) that were included in earlier meta-analyses explain the prior results.\n\nA 2017 systematic review by the American Heart Association recommended that decreasing saturated fat intake and increasing consumption of monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated fats could lower risk of cardiovascular disease by about 30%.\n\nA 2015 systematic review also found no association between saturated fat consumption and risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes, or death.\n\nA 2015 systematic review of randomized control trials by the Cochrane Library found that reducing saturated fat intake resulted in a 17% reduction in cardiovascular events, and that replacing saturated fats with \"cis\" unsaturated fats in particular is beneficial. It concluded: \"Lifestyle advice to all those at risk of cardiovascular disease and to lower risk population groups should continue to include permanent reduction of dietary saturated fat and partial replacement by unsaturated fats.\"\n\nIn 2014, a systematic review and meta-analysis of 72 published studies totaling 530,525 participants, looked at observational studies of dietary intake of fatty acids, observational studies of measured fatty acid levels in the blood, and intervention studies of polyunsaturated fat supplementation. The authors of the review concluded: ″Current evidence does not clearly support cardiovascular guidelines that encourage high consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids and low consumption of total saturated fats.″\n\nA 2014 systematic review looking at observational studies of dietary intake of fatty acids, observational studies of measured fatty acid levels in the blood, and intervention studies of polyunsaturated fat supplementation concluded that the findings ″do not support cardiovascular guidelines that promote high consumption of long-chain omega-3 and omega-6 and polyunsaturated fatty acids and suggest reduced consumption of total saturated fatty acids.″ Researchers acknowledged that despite their results, further research is necessary, especially in people who are initially healthy. Until the picture becomes clearer, experts recommend people stick to the current guidelines on fat consumption. Indeed, Nita Forouhi, one of the coauthors of the meta-analysis, stated to the BBC that headlines proclaiming that \"butter is back\" are \"an oversimplification, we never said that\" and noted that the study was not able to distinguish between the differing effects of reducing saturated fat intake depending on what foods were used in substitute. \"While that research is going on I don't think we should just go changing everything. It's too premature to give the public the impression that they have a licence, based on this preliminary research, which is exciting but not yet definitive, to say butter is back.\"\n\nMoreover, Walter Willett warned that the conclusions of the meta-analysis are seriously misleading, contains major errors and omissions, and should be retracted. In response to the Chowdhury review, Willett \"et al\". commented:\n\nThe 2009 \"European Society of Cardiology Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine\" states that, in cohort studies, the positive relationship between fat intake and CVDs was linked to their saturated fatty acid content.\n\n2007's \"Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation\" states that large epidemiological studies have shown consistent associations between the intake of saturated fatty acids and CHD mortality.\n\nAccording to the 2007 \"Critical Pathways in Cardiovascular Medicine\", substituting unsaturated fat for saturated fat may lower LDL cholesterol without simultaneously lowering HDL cholesterol. This dietary principle partly underlies the Mediterranean style of diet, which has been associated with reduced cardiovascular event rates in two randomized controlled trials.\n\nThe 2003 second edition of \"Evidence-based Cardiology\" in 'PartII: Prevention of cardiovascular diseases' recommends a low intake of SFA, less than 7% of daily calories, and intake of foods rich in myristic and palmitic acids should be especially reduced. The recommendation was evaluated to be supported by the best grade of available evidence.\n\nIn 2003 a World Health Organization (WHO) and Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) expert consultation report concluded: \"intake of saturated fatty acids is directly related to cardiovascular risk. The traditional target is to restrict the intake of saturated fatty acids to less than 10%, of daily energy intake and less\nthan 7% for high-risk groups. If populations are consuming less than\n10%, they should not increase that level of intake. Within these limits,\nintake of foods rich in myristic and palmitic acids should be replaced by\nfats with a lower content of these particular fatty acids. In developing\ncountries, however, where energy intake for some population groups\nmay be inadequate, energy expenditure is high and body fat stores are\nlow (BMI <18.5 kg/m2). The amount and quality of fat supply has to be\nconsidered keeping in mind the need to meet energy requirements.\nSpecific sources of saturated fat, such as coconut and palm oil, provide\nlow-cost energy and may be an important source of energy for the poor.\"\n\nIn its 2007 guidelines, the European Society of Cardiology states that there are strong, consistent, and graded relationships between saturated fat intake, blood cholesterol levels, and the mass occurrence of cardiovascular disease. The relationships are accepted as causal.\n\nThe Mayo Clinic considers saturated fats potentially harmful and monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats potentially helpful. It references the \"Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2010\" and recommends reducing foods rich in saturated fat and emphasizing options with more monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats.\n\nThe British Dietetic Association guidelines found good evidence in systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials that reducing saturated fat reduces morbidity in patients with CVD.\n\nThe 2007 position statement of the American Dietetic Association and the Dieticians of Canada holds that epidemiological studies have shown a positive association between the intake of saturated fatty acid and the incidence of coronary heart disease.\n\nThe Harvard School of Public Health holds that saturated fats should be replaced with \"cis\" monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, but that they should not be replaced with refined carbohydrates.\n\nThe Canadian Heart and Stroke Foundation assesses that consumption of saturated fat raises LDL levels, which are a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Similar positions are held by the American Heart Association, the British Heart Foundation, the National Heart Foundation of Australia, the National Heart Foundation of New Zealand, and the World Heart Federation. The Irish Heart Foundation states that saturated fats can raise LDL cholesterol and increase the chance of developing heart disease or stroke.\n\n\"The Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2010\" produced by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, says the human body makes more than enough saturated fats to meet its needs and does not require more from dietary sources. It says higher levels of saturated fats are associated with higher levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein \"bad\" cholesterol and recommends reduced saturated fat intake. The guidelines are based on the recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee (DGAC) report that incorporated the results of the review of 12 studies from 2004 to 2009 conducted by the Nutrition Evidence Library (NEL), part of the Evidence Analysis Library Division of the USDA's Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. The NEL concluded that there was \"strong\" evidence that dietary saturated fats increased serum total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and increased risk of cardiovascular disease.\n\nA 2010 debate at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics's 93rd conference stated: \"Regarding saturated fat, the key point agreed upon by the panel and scientific community at large was that researchers agree that replacing saturated fat with healthy polyunsaturated fats is beneficial for health and cardiovascular disease.\" Recommendations for dieticians emphasized using mono- and polyunsaturated fats whenever possible, avoiding trans fats. Further, \"The evidence against saturated fat may not be as strong as dietary guidelines have interpreted [it is clear] that PUFAs (especially) and MUFAs are healthy fats\", and that while there is room for saturated fats within the diet, but \"[they] should not be viewed as good for you\".\n\nA 2010 review found that the risk of coronary heart disease is reduced when saturated fatty acids are replaced with polyunsaturated fatty acids, but there was no clear benefit in replacing saturated fatty acids with carbohydrates or monounsaturated fatty acids.\n\nA 2009 review found that the best evidence showed reduced intake of saturated fat decreased the risk for coronary heart disease.\n\nAnother 2009 review found that epidemiological evidence suggested a negative influence on vascular function from saturated fat, but that the experimental evidence did not support this convincingly.\n\nA 2009 scientific conference reported that despite the contribution of dairy products to the saturated fatty acid intake of the diet, there was no clear evidence that dairy food consumption is consistently associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee report was criticized for the \"use of an incomplete body of relevant science; inaccurately representing, interpreting, or summarizing the literature; and drawing conclusions and/or making recommendations that do not reflect the limitations or controversies in the science\", stating that the evidence associating dietary saturated fat with increased risk of cardiovascular disease is inconclusive.\n\nA 2010 meta-analysis concluded that no evidence exists that dietary saturated fat is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, but this conclusion was disputed, and the authors of the meta-analysis themselves later noted: \"A critical question is what macronutrient should be used to replace saturated fat. ... Epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have provided consistent evidence that replacing saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat, but not carbohydrates, is beneficial for coronary heart disease.\"\n\nAn opinion editorial of US dietary guidelines – which recommended lower intake of saturated fat – summarized systematic reviews and meta-analyses, suggesting effects on the incidence of cardiovascular diseases by reducing dietary saturated fat were insignificant. The critique itself drew demands for retraction by more than 180 scientists, and consequently was twice corrected.\n\n"}
{"id": "92396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92396", "title": "Scarlet fever", "text": "Scarlet fever\n\nScarlet fever is a disease which can occur as a result of a group A \"streptococcus\" (group A strep) infection. The signs and symptoms include a sore throat, fever, headaches, swollen lymph nodes, and a characteristic rash. The rash is red and feels like sandpaper and the tongue may be red and bumpy. It most commonly affects children between five and 15 years of age.\nScarlet fever affects a small number of people who have strep throat or streptococcal skin infections. The bacteria are usually spread by people coughing or sneezing. It can also be spread when a person touches an object that has the bacteria on it and then touches their mouth or nose. The characteristic rash is due to the erythrogenic toxin, a substance produced by some types of the bacterium. The diagnosis is typically confirmed by culturing the throat.\nThere is no vaccine. Prevention is by frequent handwashing, not sharing personal items, and staying away from other people when sick. The disease is treatable with antibiotics, which prevent most complications. Outcomes with scarlet fever are typically good if treated. Long-term complications as a result of scarlet fever include kidney disease, rheumatic heart disease, and arthritis. It was a leading cause of death in children in the early 20th century.\n\nRash which has a characteristic appearance, spreading pattern, and desquamating process \n\"Strawberry tongue\"\nPastia's lines\nVomiting and abdominal pain\n\nTypical symptoms of streptococcal pharyngitis (also known as strep throat):\n\nThe following symptoms will usually be absent: cough, hoarseness, runny nose, diarrhea, and conjunctivitis. Their presence indicates it is more likely a viral infection.\n\nThe rash begins 12 days following the onset of symptoms caused by the strep pharyngitis (sore throat, fever, fatigue). This characteristic rash has been denoted as \"scarlatiniform\" and it appears as a diffuse redness of the skin with small papules, or bumps, which resemble goose pimples. These bumps are what give the characteristic sandpaper texture to the rash. The reddened skin will blanch when you apply pressure to it. It is possible for the skin to be itchy however it will not be painful. It usually first appears on the trunk and then gradually spreads out to the arms and legs. The palms, soles and face are usually left uninvolved by the rash. The face, however, is usually flushed, most prominently in the cheeks, with a ring of paleness around the mouth. After the rash spreads, it becomes more pronounced in creases in the skin, such as the skin folds in the inguinal and axillary regions of the body. Also in those areas it is possible for there to be Pastia’s Lines which are petechiae arranged in a linear pattern. Within 1 week of onset the rash begins to fade followed by a longer process of desquamation, or shedding of the outer layer of skin, which lasts several weeks. The desquamation process usually begins on the face and progresses downward on the body. After the desquamation the skin will be left with a sunburned appearance.\n\nThe streptococcal pharyngitis which is the usual presentation of scarlet fever in combination with the characteristic rash commonly involves the tonsils. The tonsils will appear swollen and reddened. The palate and uvula are also commonly affected by the infection. The involvement of the soft palate can be seen as tiny red and round spots known as Forscheimer spots.\n\nThe features of scarlet fever can differ depending on the age and race of the person. Children less than 5 years old can have atypical presentations. Children less than 3 years old can present with nasal congestion and a lower grade fever. Infants can potentially only present with increased irritability and decreased appetite.\n\nChildren who have darker skin can have a different presentation in that the redness of the skin involved in the rash and the ring of paleness around the mouth can be less obvious. Suspicion based on accompanying symptoms and diagnostic studies are important in these cases.\n\nFollowing exposure to streptococcus, it takes 12 hours to 7 days for the onset of the symptoms. This may include fever, fatigue, and sore throat. The characteristic scarlatiniform rash then comes 12–48 hours later. During the first few days of the rash development and rapid generalization, the Pastia's Lines and strawberry tongue will also present. The rash starts fading within 3–4 days followed by the desquamation of the rash which will last several weeks to a month. If the case of scarlet fever is uncomplicated, recovery from the fever and clinical symptoms other than the process of desquamation occurs in 5–10 days.\n\nThe complications which can arise from scarlet fever when left untreated or inadequately treated can be divided into two categories: suppurative and nonsuppurative.\n\nSuppurative complications: These are rare complications which either arise from direct spread to structures which are close to the primary site of infection, which in most cases of Scarlet Fever is the pharynx. Possible problems from this method of spread include peritonsillar or retropharyngeal abscesses, cellulitis, mastoiditis or sinusitis. It is also possible for the streptococcal infection to spread through the lymphatic system or the blood to areas of the body further away from the pharynx. A few examples of the many complications which can arise from those methods of spread include endocarditis, pneumonia, or meningitis.\n\nNonsuppurative complications: These complications arise from certain subtypes of the group A streptococci which cause an autoimmune response in the body through what has been termed molecular mimicry. The antibodies which the person’s immune system developed to attack the group A streptococci are in these cases also able to attack the person's own tissues. The following complications result depending on which tissues in the person's body are targeted by those antibodies. \n\nSpread of strep throat occurs by close contact, via respiratory droplets (for example, saliva or nasal discharge). A person in close contact with another person infected with Group A streptococcal pharyngitis has a 35% chance of becoming infected. One in ten children who are infected with Group A streptococcal pharyngitis will develop scarlet fever.\n\nThe rash of scarlet fever, which is what differentiates this disease from an isolated Group A Strep pharyngitis (or strep throat), is caused by specific strains of Group A Streptococcus which produce a pyrogenic exotoxin. These toxin producing strains cause scarlet fever in people who do not already have antitoxin antibodies. Streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxins A, B, and C (speA, speB, and speC) have been identified. The pyrogenic exotoxins are also called erythrogenic toxins and cause the erythematous rash of scarlet fever. The strains of Group A Streptococcus which cause scarlet fever need specific bacteriophages in order for there to be pyrogenic exotoxin production. Specifically, bacteriophage T12 is responsible for the production of speA. Streptococcal Pyrogenic Exotoxin A, speA, is the one which is most commonly associated with cases of scarlet fever which are complicated by the immune mediated sequelae acute rheumatic fever and poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis.\n\nThese toxins are also known as “superantigens” because they are able to cause an extensive immune response within the body through activation of some of the main cells responsible for the persons immune system. The body responds to these toxins by making antibodies to those specific toxins. However, those antibodies do not completely protect the person from future Group A Streptococcal infections since there are 12 different pyrogenic exotoxins possible.\n\nThe disease is caused by secretion of pyrogenic exotoxins by the infecting \"Streptococcus\" bacteria. Streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin A (\"speA\") is probably the best studied of these toxins. It is carried by the bacteriophage T12 which integrates into the streptococcal genome from where the toxin is transcribed. The phage itself integrates into a serine tRNA gene on the chromosome.\n\nThe T12 virus itself has not been placed into a taxon by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. It has a double-stranded DNA genome and on morphological grounds appears to be a member of the \"Siphoviridae.\"\n\nThe \"speA\" gene was cloned and sequenced in 1986. It is 753 base pairs in length and encodes a 29.244 kiloDalton (kDa) protein. The protein contains a putative 30-\namino-acid signal peptide; removal of the signal sequence gives a predicted molecular weight of 25.787 kDa for the secreted protein. Both a promoter and a ribosome binding site (Shine-Dalgarno sequence) are present upstream of the gene. A transcriptional terminator is located 69 bases downstream from the translational termination codon. The carboxy terminal portion of the protein exhibits extensive homology with the carboxy terminus of \"Staphylococcus aureus\" enterotoxins B and C1.\n\nStreptococcal phages other than T12 may also carry the \"speA\" gene.\n\nAlthough the presentation of scarlet fever can be clinically diagnosed, further testing may be required to distinguish it from other illnesses. Also, history of a recent exposure to someone with strep throat can be useful. There are two methods used to confirm suspicion of scarlet fever; rapid antigen detection test and throat culture.\n\nThe rapid antigen detection test is a very specific test but not very sensitive. This means that if the result is positive (indicating that the Group A Strep Antigen was detected and therefore confirming that the patient has a Group A Strep Pharyngitis) then it is appropriate to treat them with antibiotics. However, if the Rapid Antigen Detection Test is negative (indicating that they do not have Group A Strep Pharyngitis), then a throat culture is required to confirm since it could be a false negative result. The throat culture is the current gold standard for diagnosis.\n\nSerologic testing looks for the antibodies that the body produces against the streptococcal infection including antistreptolysin-O and antideoxyribonuclease B. It takes the body 2–3 weeks to make these antibodies so this type of testing is not useful for diagnosing a current infection. However, it is useful when assessing a patient who may have one of the complications from a previous streptococcal infection.\n\nThroat cultures done after antibiotic therapy can tell you if the infection has been removed. These throat swabs however are not indicated because up to 25% of properly treated individuals can continue to carry the streptococcal infection while asymptomatic.\n\n\nOne method is long-term use of antibiotics to prevent future group A streptococcal infections. This method is only indicated for people who have had complications like recurrent attacks of acute rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease. Antibiotics are limited in their ability to prevent these infections since there are a variety of subtypes of group A streptococci that can cause the infection.\n\nThe vaccine approach has a greater likelihood of effectively preventing group A streptococcal infections because vaccine formulations can target multiple subtypes of the bacteria. A vaccine developed by George and Gladys Dick in 1924 was discontinued due to poor efficacy and the introduction of antibiotics. Difficulties in vaccine development include the considerable strain variety of group A streptococci present in the environment and the amount of time and number of people needed for appropriate trials for safety and efficacy of any potential vaccine. There have been several attempts to create a vaccine in the past few decades. These vaccines, which are still in the development phase, expose to the person to proteins present on the surface of the group A streptococci to activate an immune response that will prepare the person to fight and prevent future infections.\n\nThere used to be a diphtheria scarlet fever vaccine. It was, however, found not to be effective. This product was discontinued by the end of World War II.\n\nAntibiotics to combat the streptococcal infection are the mainstay of treatment for scarlet fever. Prompt administration of appropriate antibiotics decreases the length of illness. Peeling of the outer layer of skin however will happen despite treatment. One of the main goals of treatment is to prevent the child from developing one of the suppurative or nonsuppurative complications, especially acute rheumatic fever. As long as antibiotics are started within 9 days, it is very unlikely for the child to develop acute rheumatic fever. Antibiotic therapy has not been shown to prevent the development of poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis. Another important reason for prompt treatment with antibiotics is the ability to prevent transmission of the infection between children. An infected individual is most likely to pass on the infection to another person during the first 2 weeks. A child is no longer contagious (able to pass the infection to another child) after 24 hours of antibiotics.\n\nThe antibiotic of choice is penicillin V which is taken by mouth in pill form. Children who are not able to take pills can be given amoxicillin which comes in a liquid form and is equally effective. Duration of treatment is 10 days. Benzathine Penicillin G can be given as a one time intramuscular injection as another alternative if swallowing pills is not possible. If the patient is allergic to the family of antibiotics which both penicillin and amoxicillin are a part of (beta-lactam antibiotics), a first generation cephalosporin is used. Cephalosporin antibiotics however can still cause adverse reactions in patients whose allergic reaction to penicillin is a Type 1 Hypersensitivity reaction. In those cases it is appropriate to choose clindamycin or erythromycin instead.\n\nTonsillectomy, although once a reasonable treatment for recurrent streptococcal pharyngitis, is not indicated. This is due to the fact that a person can still be infected with group A streptococcus without their tonsils.\n\nA drug-resistant strain of scarlet fever, resistant to macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin, but retaining drug-sensitivity to beta-lactam antibiotics such as penicillin, emerged in Hong Kong in 2011, accounting for at least two deaths in that city—the first such in over a decade. About 60% of circulating strains of the group A \"Streptococcus\" which cause scarlet fever in Hong Kong are resistant to macrolide antibiotics, says Professor Kwok-yung Yuen, head of Hong Kong University's microbiology department. Previously, observed resistance rates had been 10–30%; the increase is likely the result of overuse of macrolide antibiotics in recent years.\n\nScarlet fever occurs equally in both males and females. Children are most commonly infected, typically between 5–15 years old. Although streptococcal infections can happen at any time of year, infection rates peak in the winter and spring months, typically in colder climates.\n\nThe morbidity and mortality of scarlet fever has declined since the 18th and 19th century when there were epidemics caused by this disease. Around 1900 the mortality rate in multiple places reached 25%. The improvement in prognosis can be attributed to the use of penicillin in the treatment of this disease. The frequency of scarlet fever cases has also been declining over the past century. However, there have been several reported outbreaks of the disease in various countries in the past decade. The reason for these recent increases remains unclear in the medical community. Between 2013 and 2016 population rates of scarlet fever in England increased from 8.2 to 33.2 per 100,000 and hospital admissions for scarlet fever increased by 97%.\n\nIt is unclear when a description of this disease was first recorded. Hippocrates, writing around 400 BC, described the condition of a patient with a reddened skin and fever.\n\nThe first description of the disease in the medical literature appeared in the 1553 book \"De Tumoribus praeter Naturam\" by the Sicilian anatomist and physician Giovanni Filippo Ingrassia, where he referred to it as \"rossalia\". He also made a point to distinguish that this presentation had different characteristics than measles. It was redescribed by Johann Weyer during an epidemic in lower Germany between 1564 and 1565; he referred to it as \"scalatina anginosa\". The first unequivocal description of scarlet fever appeared in a book by Joannes Coyttarus of Poitiers, \"De febre purpura epidemiale et contagiosa libri duo\", which was published in 1578 in Paris. Daniel Sennert of Wittenberg described the classical 'scarlatinal desquamation' in 1572 and was also the first to describe the early arthritis, scarlatinal dropsy, and ascites associated with the disease.\n\nIn 1675 the term that has been commonly used to refer to scarlet fever, \"scarlatina\", was written by Thomas Sydenham, an English physician.\n\nIn 1827, Richard Bright was the first to recognize the involvement of the renal system in scarlet fever.\n\nThe association between streptococci and disease was first described in 1874 by Theodor Billroth, discussing patients with skin infections. Billroth also coined the genus name \"Streptococcus\". In 1884 Friedrich Julius Rosenbach edited the name to its current one, \"Streptococcus pyogenes,\" after further looking at the bacteria in the skin lesions. The organism was first cultured in 1883 by the German surgeon Friedrich Fehleisen. He cultured it from erysipelas lesions.\n\nAlso in 1884, the German physician Friedrich Loeffler was the first to show the presence of streptococci in the throats of patients with scarlet fever. Because not all patients with pharyngeal streptococci developed scarlet fever, these findings remained controversial for some time. The association between streptococci and scarlet fever was confirmed by Alphonse Dochez and George and Gladys Dick in the early 1900s.\n\nNil Filatow (in 1895) and Clement Dukes (in 1894) described an exanthematous disease which they thought was a form of rubella, but in 1900, Dukes described it as a separate illness which came to be known as Dukes' disease, Filatov’s disease, or fourth disease. However, in 1979, Keith Powell identified it as in fact the same illness as the form of scarlet fever which is caused by staphylococcal exotoxin and is known as staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome.\n\nScarlet fever serum from horses was used in the treatment of children beginning in 1900 and reduced mortality rates significantly.\n\nIn 1906, the Austrian pediatrician Clemens von Pirquet postulated that disease-causing immune complexes were responsible for the nephritis that followed scarlet fever.\n\nBacteriophages were discovered in 1915 by Frederick Twort. His work was overlooked and bacteriophages were later rediscovered by Felix d'Herelle in 1917. The specific association of scarlet fever with the group A streptococci had to await the development of Lancefield's streptococcal grouping scheme in the 1920s. George and Gladys Dick showed that cell-free filtrates could induce the erythematous reaction characteristic of scarlet fever, proving that this reaction was due to a toxin. Karelitz and Stempien discovered that extracts from human serum globulin and placental globulin can be used as lightening agents for scarlet fever and this was used later as the basis for the Dick test. The association of scarlet fever and bacteriophages was described in 1926 by Cantucuzene and Boncieu.\n\nAn antitoxin for scarlet fever was developed in 1924.\n\nThe first toxin which causes this disease was cloned and sequenced in 1986 by Weeks and Ferretti. The discovery of penicillin and its subsequent widespread use has significantly reduced the mortality of this once feared disease. Reports of cases of Scarlet fever in recent years has been on the rise. Countries including England, Wales, South Korea, Vietnam, China, and Hong Kong. Researchers are unsure as to what has caused the spike in cases of the disease.\n\nThe Dick test was invented in 1924 and was used to identify those susceptible to scarlet fever. The Dick test consisted of injecting a diluted strain of the streptococci known to cause scarlet fever into a person's skin. A local reaction in the skin at the site of injection appeared in people who were susceptible to developing scarlet fever. This reaction was most notable around 24 hours after the injection but could be seen as early as 4–6 hours. If there is no reaction seen in the skin, then that person was assumed to have already developed immunity to the disease and was not at risk of developing it.\n"}
{"id": "23699746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23699746", "title": "Senkichi Awaya", "text": "Senkichi Awaya\n\nSenkichi Awaya was born the second son of , a railway bureaucrat and nephew of Viscount Inoue Masaru, in the city of Sendai, after which he was named. He spent his high school years in Yonago, Tottori and then entered the First Higher School, the preparatory division to the Imperial University of Tokyo, where he studied German law.\n\nEisuke had a drinking problem, over which his wife often went to seek help at a local Christian church with her children. Christianity therefore was the most familiar religion for Senkichi since his childhood. One day when he was a high school student, Senkichi was advised by his minister to read Kanzō Uchimura's \"The Biblical Studies\", which impressed him and made him a devout Christian. Unlike his father, he grew up to be a teetotaler.\n\nAwaya started judo in his early teen, and later obtained a fifth degree black belt and became a higher-ranking winner in the national police judo championships.\n\nIn March 1922, Awaya married Sachiyo Andō, who gave birth to four sons and three daughters; five of whom survived beyond infancy.\n\nAfter graduating from the university, Awaya joined the Home Ministry, assigned to the Hiroshima Prefectural Police in 1919. He was installed as district executive of Mitsugi District in March 1923.\n\nIn July 1924, Awaya was assigned to the prefectural government of Hokkaidō, where he was appointed chief of the city planning division the following year. Living in Sapporo, he was a regular churchgoer at the Independent Church of Sapporo. Awaya had a chance to talk personally with Kanzō Uchimura, for whom he had a lifelong respect, when Uchimura visited Sapporo in the summer of 1928. Since then, Awaya and his family socialized with Uchimura and his son, who became Commissioner of the Nippon Professional Baseball later.\n\nAwaya was appointed Superintendent of the Kōchi Prefecutural Police in July 1929. He succeeded in settling a long-unsolved dispute between a fishery company and local fishermen. Shinobu Agata, who was governor of Osaka Prefecture then, appreciated Awaya's negotiating ability and asked him to be the head of the Osaka Prefectural Police. He accepted the governor's offer in 1932.\n\nOn 17 June 1933 occurred what is later called the Go-Stop Incident, in which the verbal altercation between two young men—an off-duty soldier in uniform who had ignored a traffic light and a policeman who warned the soldier— developed into fistfights, and finally into a ministerial-level conflict between the Home Ministry and the Army.\n\nHisaichi Terauchi, Commander of the 4th Division of the Army, demanded an official apology from the Osaka police, insisting that the policeman had unfairly injured the army's prestige. Awaya, however, refused to apologize because he believed that military personnel should also observe the traffic regulations as well as civilians. Although their freedom of speech was limited under the Peace Preservation Law, the public was critical of the army's highhandedness. Five months later, Awaya and Terauchi resolved their conflict through the mediation of the governor of Hyogo, with both apologizing to each other. A year later, when Awaya left the police, however, the Home Ministry and the Army made an agreement that would preclude the civilian police from handling crimes committed by military personnel and bolster militarism in Japan.\n\nAwaya was transferred to the prefectural government of Aichi in January 1935. After serving as Oita's governor for 20 months, he was farmed out to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In March 1942, he resigned his office at age 48. He sequestered himself at his house in Setagaya, Tokyo, devoted to faith at the Marunouchi Bible study group, led by Toraji Tsukamoto, the leader of Nonchurch movement after Kanzō Uchimura's death.\n\nIn 1943, Awaya was offered the mayoralty of Hiroshima by his senpai Okinori Kaya. He had not been willing to accept it until he decided to try himself when one of his friends told him that mayors should never be angry.\n\nOn the Sunday before he left Tokyo for Hiroshima, Awaya attended at the Bible study group as usual. There he talked about how he had stood in his belief and practiced teetotalism through his life in bureaucracy. Reverend Toraji Tsukamoto wrote in his diary, \"Mr. Awaya's words are proceleusmatic and impressive to the audience. Blessed is Hiroshima to have such a great mayor!\"\n\nAwaya took the mayoralty in July 1943. Militarists held bad feelings toward him, but among citizens his popularity was high for his rectitude. The hardest job that he had to do in Hiroshima was to order to demolish buildings to create firebreaks according to the military's directions.\n\nAwaya lived at the official mayoral residence in the Kakomachi district of Hiroshima apart from his family at first, but he decided to invite his family after the Great Tokyo Air Raid, believing that Hiroshima was much safer than Tokyo. His wife Sachiyo and third son Shinobu came to live in Hiroshima in April and in June 1945, respectively. On 3 August, three days before the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, Senkichi and Sachiyo Awaya invited their 3-year-old granddaughter Ayako Sakama.\n\nWhen the United States Army Air Forces dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Senkichi Awaya was eating breakfast with Shinobu and Ayako. All of them are believed to have died instantly after the bombing.\n\nThe city officials who had survived the bomb began to gather at the city office that afternoon, but the mayor was still missing. The city's treasurer went to look for Awaya and found corpses at the ruin of the mayoral residence. On 9 August, Awaya's chief secretary Kazumasa Maruyama and his coworkers went there to confirm that the half-burnt corpses were those of the mayor and his son. After finding a skeleton which appeared to be Ayako's, they carried out the unburnt parts of the bodies to cremate them at the park near the city hall.\n\nSachiyo was the only person who had escaped instant death in the mayoral residence. Seriously injured, she was carried into the Hiroshima Red Cross Hospital (Nisseki Hospital) and taken care of by her daughters, but died on 7 September that year.\n\nThe officials chose Shigetada Morishita, who had been one of the two deputy mayors, as acting mayor upon confirming Awaya's death. He was succeeded by Shichirō Kihara, whom the city council appointed mayor on 22 October 1945.\n\nToraji Tsukamoto delivered a eulogy for Awaya and his family at their official funeral service held in December 1945. They were buried at Tama Cemetery in western Tokyo.\n\nIn August 1995, a half century after the bombing, the government of Hiroshima created a monument in commemoration of Awaya's death where the mayoral residence used to stand. Tsuneo Kanazawa, the minister of the Independent Church of Sapporo, wrote an epitaph to commemorate his 51-year-long life.\n\nAwaya's private house in Setagaya, Tokyo, was inherited by his eldest daughter Motoko Sakama. It was designated a cultural asset by the government of Tokyo in 2003.\n\nAwaya's third daughter Chikako graduated from the International Christian University, receiving a scholarship from an anonymous donor who turned out to be an American woman. His fourth son Tadashi became a public official like his father.\n\nThe diary of Yasuko, Awaya's second daughter, was featured in a documentary by Ryūshō Kadota in 2009. While a student of today's Ochanomizu University, she was conscripted to work at an armaments factory in northern Tokyo during the closing months of the war. Two weeks after Japan's surrender, she went to Hiroshima to take care of her heavily injured mother until her death on 7 September 1945. Yasuko also died from radiation exposure at age 19 on 24 November of that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33926436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33926436", "title": "Sleep and metabolism", "text": "Sleep and metabolism\n\nSleep is important in regulating metabolism. Mammalian sleep can be sub-divided into two distinct phases - REM (rapid eye movement) and non-REM (NREM) sleep. In humans and cats, NREM sleep has four stages, where the third and fourth stages are considered slow-wave sleep (SWS). SWS is considered deep sleep, when metabolism is least active.\n\nMetabolism involves two biochemical processes that occur in living organisms. The first is anabolism, which refers to the build up of molecules. The second is catabolism, the breakdown of molecules. These two processes work to regulate the amount of energy the body uses to maintain itself. During non-REM sleep, metabolic rate and brain temperature are lowered to deal with damages that may have occurred during time of wakefulness.\n\nAfter eating, the pancreas releases insulin. Insulin signals muscle and fat cells to absorb glucose from food. As a result, blood glucose levels return to normal.\n\nInsulin-Resistant Metabolism\n\nBaseline levels of insulin do not signal muscle and fat cells to absorb glucose. When glucose levels are elevated, the pancreas responds by releasing insulin. Blood sugar will then rapidly drop. This can progress to type 2 diabetes.\n\nSleep loss can affect the basic metabolic functions of storing carbohydrates and regulating hormones. Reduction of sleep from eight hours to four hours produces changes in glucose tolerance and endocrine function. Researchers from the University of Chicago Medical Center followed 11 healthy young men for 16 consecutive nights. The first 3 nights, the young men slept for the normal 8 hours. The next 6 nights, they slept for 4 hours. The next 7 nights, they spent 12 hours in bed. They all had the same diet. They found that there were changes in glucose metabolism that resemble that of type 2 diabetes patients. When the participants were tested after sleep deprivation, they took 40% longer than normal to regulate blood sugar levels after a high-carbohydrate meal. The secretion of insulin and the body's response to insulin decrease by 30%. Sleep deprivation also alters the productions of hormones, lowering the secretion of thyroid stimulating hormone and increasing blood levels of cortisol.\n\nIt has also been shown that when slow-wave sleep was suppressed for three nights, young healthy subjects were 25% less sensitive to insulin. They needed more insulin to get rid of the same amount of glucose. If the body does not release more insulin to compensate, the blood-glucose levels will increase. This resembles impaired glucose tolerance, which can result in type 2 diabetes.\n\nSleep plays a vital role in regulating metabolism and appetite. When sleep deprived, the metabolic system will be out of balance, which will ultimately affect the dietary choices people make. Teens who are sleep deprived crave more carbohydrates. Sleep deprivation is a risk factor for obesity among young adults.\n\nThere are two hormones, leptin and ghrelin, that are important in appetite control. Leptin, released by adipose tissue, is a hormone that inhibits appetite and increases energy expenditure. Ghrelin, released from the stomach, is a hormone that increases appetite and reduces energy expenditure. Sleep deprivation can cause a 19% decrease in the level of leptin. Subjects were deprived of sleep for 2 nights (4 hours per night) and got compensation of sleep for the next 2 nights (10 hours per night). Leptin levels decreased by 18% and ghrelin levels increased by 28%. There was an increase in hunger level by 23 which is probably due to the reduction leptin level. Subjects also preferred high carbohydrate foods (sweets, salty food and starchy food). Craving for salty food increased by 45%. Sleep deprivation can cause people to intake food for emotional/psychological need rather than caloric need of the body.\n\nChronic sleep deprivation (less than 8 hours of sleep) was associated with increase in body mass index (BMI). In the Wisconsin sleep cohort study of 1024 patients, the shorter sleep durations showed reduced levels of leptin and elevated levels of ghrelin. In a study with 3000 patients, it has been found that men and women who sleep less than 5 hours have elevated body mass index (BMI). In another study that followed about 70.000 women for 16 years, there was a significant increase in body weight in those who slept 5 hours or less compared to those who slept 7–8 hours.\n\nAs sleep time decreased over time from the 1950s to 2000s from about 8.5 hours to 6.5 hours, there has been an increase in the prevalence of obesity from about 10% to about 23%.\n"}
{"id": "36303104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36303104", "title": "Soumana Makadji", "text": "Soumana Makadji\n\nSoumana Makadji (born 1954 in Banamba, Mali) was Minister of Health and Public Hygiene in the Council of Ministers of Mali from 17 April 2012 to September 2013, replacing Oumar Ibrahim Touré. After obtaining his baccalauréat in 1973 at the Technical High School of Bamako, he studied in University of Franche-Comté (Besançon campus) and obtained a diploma in Accountancy.\n"}
{"id": "33658602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33658602", "title": "Telémaco Susini", "text": "Telémaco Susini\n\nTelémaco Susini (January 27, 1856 – June 1, 1936) was an Argentinian physician.\n"}
{"id": "33660916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33660916", "title": "Test (assessment)", "text": "Test (assessment)\n\nA test or examination (informally, exam or evaluation) is an assessment intended to measure a test-taker's knowledge, skill, aptitude, physical fitness, or classification in many other topics (e.g., beliefs). A test may be administered verbally, on paper, on a computer, or in a predetermined area that requires a test taker to demonstrate or perform a set of skills. Tests vary in style, rigor and requirements. For example, in a closed book test, a test taker is usually required to rely upon memory to respond to specific items whereas in an open book test, a test taker may use one or more supplementary tools such as a reference book or calculator when responding. A test may be administered formally or informally. An example of an informal test would be a reading test administered by a parent to a child. A formal test might be a final examination administered by a teacher in a classroom or an I.Q. test administered by a psychologist in a clinic. Formal testing often results in a grade or a test score. A test score may be interpreted with regards to a norm or criterion, or occasionally both. The norm may be established independently, or by statistical analysis of a large number of participants.\nAn exam is meant to test a child's knowledge or\nwillingness to give time to manipulate that subject.\n\nA standardized test is any test that is administered and scored in a consistent manner to ensure legal defensibility. Standardized tests are often used in education, professional certification, psychology (e.g., MMPI), the military, and many other fields.\n\nA non-standardized test is usually flexible in scope and format, variable in difficulty and significance. Since these tests are usually developed by individual instructors, the format and difficulty of these tests may not be widely adopted or used by other instructors or institutions. A non-standardized test may be used to determine the proficiency level of students, to motivate students to study, and to provide feedback to students. In some instances, a teacher may develop non-standardized tests that resemble standardized tests in scope, format, and difficulty for the purpose of preparing their students for an upcoming standardized test. Finally, the frequency and setting by which a non-standardized tests are administered are highly variable and are usually constrained by the duration of the class period. A class instructor may for example, administer a test on a weekly basis or just twice a semester. Depending on the policy of the instructor or institution, the duration of each test itself may last for only five minutes to an entire class period.\n\nIn contrasts to non-standardized tests, standardized tests are widely used, fixed in terms of scope, difficulty and format, and are usually significant in consequences. Standardized tests are usually held on fixed dates as determined by the test developer, educational institution, or governing body, which may or may not be administered by the instructor, held within the classroom, or constrained by the classroom period. Although there is little variability between different copies of the same type of standardized test (e.g., SAT or GRE), there is variability between different types of standardized tests.\n\nAny test with important consequences for the individual test taker is referred to as a high-stakes test.\n\nA test may be developed and administered by an instructor, a clinician, a governing body, or a test provider. In some instances, the developer of the test may not be directly responsible for its administration. For example, Educational Testing Service (ETS), a nonprofit educational testing and assessment organization, develops standardized tests such as the SAT but may not directly be involved in the administration or proctoring of these tests. As with the development and administration of educational tests, the format and level of difficulty of the tests themselves are highly variable and there is no general consensus or invariable standard for test formats and difficulty. Often, the format and difficulty of the test is dependent upon the educational philosophy of the instructor, subject matter, class size, policy of the educational institution, and requirements of accreditation or governing bodies. In general, tests developed and administered by individual instructors are non-standardized whereas tests developed by testing organizations are standardized.assesment\n\nAncient China was the first country in the world that implemented a nationwide standardized test, which was called the imperial examination. The main purpose of this examination was to select able candidates for specific governmental positions. The imperial examination was established by the Sui dynasty in 605 AD and was later abolished by the Qing dynasty 1300 years later in 1905. England had adopted this examination system in 1806 to select specific candidates for positions in Her Majesty's Civil Service, modeled on the Chinese imperial examination. This examination system was later applied to education and it started to influence other parts of the world as it became a prominent standard (e.g. regulations to prevent the markers from knowing the identity of candidates), of delivering standardised tests.\n\nAs the profession transitioned to the modern mass-education system, the style of examination became fixed, with the stress on standardized papers to be sat by large numbers of students. Leading the way in this regard was the burgeoning Civil Service that began to move toward a meritocratic basis for selection in the mid 19th century in England.\n\nBritish civil service was influenced by the imperial examinations system and meritocratic system of China. Thomas Taylor Meadows, Britain's consul in Guangzhou, China argued in his \"Desultory Notes on the Government and People of China\", published in 1847, that \"the long duration of the Chinese empire is solely and altogether owing to the good government which consists in the advancement of men of talent and merit only,\" and that the British must reform their civil service by making the institution meritocratic.\nAs early as in 1806, the Honourable East India Company established a college near London to train and examine administrators of the Company's territories in India. Examinations for the Indian 'civil service'- a term coined by the Company – were introduced in 1829.\n\nIn 1853 the Chancellor of the Exchequer William Gladstone, commissioned Sir Stafford Northcote and Charles Trevelyan to look into the operation and organisation of the Civil Service. Influenced by the ancient Chinese Imperial Examination, the Northcote–Trevelyan Report of 1854 made four principal recommendations: that recruitment should be on the basis of merit determined through standardized written examination, that candidates should have a solid general education to enable inter-departmental transfers, that recruits should be graded into a hierarchy and that promotion should be through achievement, rather than 'preferment, patronage or purchase'. A Civil Service Commission was also set up in 1855 to oversee open recruitment and end patronage, and most of the other Northcote–Trevelyan recommendations were implemented over some years.\n\nThe Northcote–Trevelyan model of meritocratic examination remained essentially stable for a hundred years. This was a tribute to its success in removing corruption, delivering public services (even under the stress of two world wars), and responding effectively to political change. It also had a great international influence and was adapted by members of the Commonwealth. The Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act established a similar system in the United States.\n\nWritten examinations had been unheard of before 1702 for European education. \"The Chinese examinations were described repeatedly in Western literature on China of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.\" Standardized testing began to influence the method of examination in British universities from the 1850s, where oral examination had been the norm since the Middle Ages. In the US, the transition happened under the influence of the educational reformer Horace Mann. This shift decisively helped to move education into the modern era, by standardizing expanding curricula in the sciences and humanities, creating a rationalized method for the evaluation of teachers and institutions and creating a basis for the streaming of students according to ability.\n\nBoth World War I and World War II demonstrated the necessity of standardized testing and the benefits associated with these tests. Tests were used to determine the mental aptitude of recruits to the military. The US Army used the Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scale to test the IQ of the soldiers.\n\nAfter the War, industry began using tests to evaluate applicants for various jobs based on performance. In 1952, the first Advanced Placement (AP) test was administered to begin closing the gap between high schools and colleges.\n\nSome countries such as the United Kingdom and France require all their secondary school students to take a standardized test on individual subjects such as the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) (in England) and Baccalauréat respectively as a requirement for graduation. These tests are used primarily to assess a student's proficiency in specific subjects such as mathematics, science, or literature. In contrast, high school students in other countries such as the United States may not be required to take a standardized test to graduate. Moreover, students in these countries usually take standardized tests only to apply for a position in a university program and are typically given the option of taking different standardized tests such as the ACT or SAT, which are used primarily to measure a student's reasoning skill. High school students in the United States may also take Advanced Placement tests on specific subjects to fulfill university-level credit. Depending on the policies of the test maker or country, administration of standardized tests may be done in a large hall, classroom, or testing center. A proctor or invigilator may also be present during the testing period to provide instructions, to answer questions, or to prevent cheating.\n\nGrades or test scores from standardized test may also be used by universities to determine if a student applicant should be admitted into one of its academic or professional programs. For example, universities in the United Kingdom admit applicants into their undergraduate programs based primarily or solely on an applicant's grades on pre-university qualifications such as the GCE A-levels or Cambridge Pre-U. In contrast, universities in the United States use an applicant's test score on the SAT or ACT as just one of their many admission criteria to determine if an applicant should be admitted into one of its undergraduate programs. The other criteria in this case may include the applicant's grades from high school, extracurricular activities, personal statement, and letters of recommendations. Once admitted, undergraduate students in the United Kingdom or United States may be required by their respective programs to take a comprehensive examination as a requirement for passing their courses or for graduating from their respective programs.\n\nStandardized tests are sometimes used by certain countries to manage the quality of their educational institutions. For example, the No Child Left Behind Act in the United States requires individual states to develop assessments for students in certain grades. In practice, these assessments typically appear in the form of standardized tests. Test scores of students in specific grades of an educational institution are then used to determine the status of that educational institution, i.e., whether it should be allowed to continue to operate in the same way or to receive funding.\n\nFinally, standardized tests are sometimes used to compare proficiencies of students from different institutions or countries. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) uses Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) to evaluate certain skills and knowledge of students from different participating countries.\n\nStandardized tests are sometimes used by certain governing bodies to determine if a test taker is allowed to practice a profession, to use a specific job title, or to claim competency in a specific set of skills. For example, a test taker who intends to become a lawyer is usually required by a governing body such as a governmental bar licensing agency to pass a bar exam.\n\nStandardized tests are also used in certain countries to regulate immigration. For example, intended immigrants to Australia are legally required to pass a citizenship test as part of that country's naturalization process.\n\nWhen analyzed in the context of language texting in the naturalization processes, the ideology can be found from two distinct but nearly related points. One refers to the construction and deconstruction of the nation's constitutive elements that makes their own identity, while the second has a more restricted view of the notion of specific language and ideologies that may served in an specific purpose.\n\nTests are sometimes used as a tool to select for participants that have potential to succeed in a competition such as a sporting event. For example, serious skaters who wish to participate in figure skating competitions in the United States must pass official U.S. Figure Skating tests just to qualify.\n\nTests are sometimes used by a group to select for certain types of individuals to join the group. For example, Mensa International is a high I.Q. society that requires individuals to score at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised IQ test.\n\nWritten tests are tests that are administered on paper or on a computer (as an eExam). A test taker who takes a written test could respond to specific items by writing or typing within a given space of the test or on a separate form or document.\n\nIn some tests; where knowledge of many constants or technical terms is required to effectively answer questions, like Chemistry or Biology – the test developer may allow every test taker to bring with them a cheat sheet.\n\nA test developer's choice of which style or format to use when developing a written test is usually arbitrary given that there is no single invariant standard for testing. Be that as it may, certain test styles and format have become more widely used than others. Below is a list of those formats of test items that are widely used by educators and test developers to construct paper or computer-based tests. As a result, these tests may consist of only one type of test item format (e.g., multiple choice test, essay test) or may have a combination of different test item formats (e.g., a test that has multiple choice and essay items).\n\nIn a test that has items formatted as multiple choice questions, a candidate would be given a number of set answers for each question, and the candidate must choose which answer or group of answers is correct. There are two families of multiple choice questions. The first family is known as the True/False question and it requires a test taker to choose all answers that are appropriate. The second family is known as One-Best-Answer question and it requires a test taker to answer only one from a list of answers.\n\nThere are several reasons to using multiple choice questions in tests. In terms of administration, multiple choice questions usually requires less time for test takers to answer, are easy to score and grade, provide greater coverage of material, allows for a wide range of difficulty, and can easily diagnose a test taker's difficulty with certain concepts. As an educational tool, multiple choice items test many levels of learning as well as a test taker's ability to integrate information, and it provides feedback to the test taker about why distractors were wrong and why correct answers were right. Nevertheless, there are difficulties associated with the use of multiple choice questions. In administrative terms, multiple choice items that are effective usually take a great time to construct. As an educational tool, multiple choice items do not allow test takers to demonstrate knowledge beyond the choices provided and may even encourage guessing or approximation due to the presence of at least one correct answer. For instance, a test taker might not work out explicitly that formula_1, but knowing that formula_2, they would choose an answer close to 48. Moreover, test takers may misinterpret these items and in the process, perceive these items to be tricky or picky. Finally, multiple choice items do not test a test taker's attitudes towards learning because correct responses can be easily faked.\n\nTrue/False questions present candidates with a binary choice – a statement is either true or false. This method presents problems, as depending on the number of questions, a significant number of candidates could get 100% just by guesswork, and should on average get 50%.\n\nA matching item is an item that provides a defined term and requires a test taker to match identifying characteristics to the correct term.\n\nA fill-in-the-blank item provides a test taker with identifying characteristics and requires the test taker to recall the correct term. There are two types of fill-in-the-blank tests. The easier version provides a word bank of possible words that will fill in the blanks. For some exams all words in the word bank are used exactly once. If a teacher wanted to create a test of medium difficulty, they would provide a test with a word bank, but some words may be used more than once and others not at all. The hardest variety of such a test is a fill-in-the-blank test in which no word bank is provided at all. This generally requires a higher level of understanding and memory than a multiple choice test. Because of this, fill-in-the-blank tests[with no word bank] are often feared by students.\n\nItems such as short answer or essay typically require a test taker to write a response to fulfill the requirements of the item. In administrative terms, essay items take less time to construct. As an assessment tool, essay items can test complex learning objectives as well as processes used to answer the question. The items can also provide a more realistic and generalizable task for test. Finally, these items make it difficult for test takers to guess the correct answers and require test takers to demonstrate their writing skills as well as correct spelling and grammar.\n\nThe difficulties with essay items is primarily administrative. For one, these items take more time for test takers to answer. When these questions are answered, the answers themselves are usually poorly written because test takers may not have time to organize and proofread their answers. In turn, it takes more time to score or grade these items. When these items are being scored or graded, the grading process itself becomes subjective as non-test related information may influence the process. Thus, considerable effort is required to minimize the subjectivity of the grading process. Finally, as an assessment tool, essay questions may potentially be unreliable in assessing the entire content of a subject matter.\n\nQuizzes \n\nA quiz is a brief assessment that may cover a small amount of material that was given in a class. Some of them cover two to three lectures that were given in a period of times as a reading section or a given exercise in were the most important part of the class was summarize. However, a simple quiz usually does not count very much, and instructors usually provide this type of test in order to help and know if the student is learning the material. In addition, doing this at the time the instructor collected all can make a significant part of the final course grade.\n\nMost mathematics questions, or calculation questions from subjects such as chemistry, physics or economics employ a style which does not fall into any of the above categories, although some papers, notably the Maths Challenge papers in the United Kingdom employ multiple choice. Instead, most mathematics questions state a mathematical problem or exercise that requires a student to write a freehand response. Marks are given more for the steps taken than for the correct answer. If the question has multiple parts, later parts may use answers from previous sections, and marks may be granted if an earlier incorrect answer was used but the correct method was followed, and an answer which is correct (given the incorrect input) is returned.\n\nHigher level mathematical papers may include variations on true/false, where the candidate is given a statement and asked to verify its validity by direct proof or stating a counterexample.\n\nThough not as popular as the closed-note test, open-note tests are slowly rising in popularity. An open-note test allows the test taker to bring in all of their notes and use them while taking the test. The questions asked on open-note exams are typically more thought provoking and intellectual than questions on a closed-note exam. Rather than testing what facts you know, open-note exams force you to apply the facts to a broader question. The main benefit that is seen from open-note tests is that they are a better preparation for the real world where you don't have to memorize and have anything you need at your disposal.\n\nA physical fitness test is a test designed to measure physical strength, agility, and endurance. They are commonly employed in educational institutions as part of the physical education curriculum, in medicine as part of diagnostic testing, and as eligibility requirements in fields that focus on physical ability such as military or police. Throughout the 20th century, scientific evidence emerged demonstrating the usefulness of strength training and aerobic exercise in maintaining overall health, and more agencies began to incorporate standardized fitness testing. In the United States, the President's Council on Youth Fitness was established in 1956 as a way to encourage and monitor fitness in schoolchildren.\n\nCommon tests include timed running or the multi-stage fitness test (commonly known as the \"beep test), and numbers of push-ups, sit-ups/abdominal crunches and pull-ups that the individual can perform. More specialised tests may be used to test ability to perform a particular job or role. Many gyms, private organisations and event organisers have their own fitness tests. Using military techniques developed by the British Army and modern test like Illinois Agility Run and Cooper Test.\n\nA performance test is an assessment that requires an examinee to actually perform a task or activity, rather than simply answering questions referring to specific parts. The purpose is to ensure greater fidelity to what is being tested.\n\nAn example is a behind-the-wheel driving test to obtain a driver's license. Rather than only answering simple multiple-choice items regarding the driving of an automobile, a student is required to actually drive one while being evaluated.\n\nPerformance tests are commonly used in workplace and professional applications, such as professional certification and licensure. When used for personnel selection, the tests might be referred to as a work sample. A licensure example would be cosmetologists being required to demonstrate a haircut or manicure on a live person. The Group-Bourdon test is one of a number of psychometric tests which trainee train drivers in the UK are required to pass.\n\nSome performance tests are simulations. For instance, the assessment to become certified as an ophthalmic technician includes two components, a multiple-choice examination and a computerized skill simulation. The examinee must demonstrate the ability to complete seven tasks commonly performed on the job, such as retinoscopy, that are simulated on a computer.\n\nFrom the perspective of a test developer, there is great variability with respect to time and effort needed to prepare a test. Likewise, from the perspective of a test taker, there is also great variability with respect to the time and needed to obtain a desired grade or score on any given test. When a test developer constructs a test, the amount of time and effort is dependent upon the significance of the test itself, the proficiency of the test taker, the format of the test, class size, deadline of test, and experience of the test developer.\n\nThe process of test construction has been aided in several ways. For one, many test developers were themselves students at one time, and therefore are able to modify or outright adopt questions from their previous tests. In some countries, book publishers often provide teaching packages that include test banks to university instructors who adopt their published books for their courses. These test banks may contain up to four thousand sample test questions that have been peer-reviewed and time-tested. The instructor who chooses to use this testbank would only have to select a fixed number of test questions from this test bank to construct a test.\n\nAs with test constructions, the time needed for a test taker to prepare for a test is dependent upon the frequency of the test, the test developer, and the significance of the test. In general, nonstandardized tests that are short, frequent, and do not constitute a major portion of the test taker's overall course grade or score do not require the test taker to spend much time preparing for the test. Conversely, nonstandardized tests that are long, infrequent, and do constitute a major portion of the test taker's overall course grade or score usually require the test taker to spend great amounts of time preparing for the test. To prepare for a nonstandardized test, test takers may rely upon their reference books, class or lecture notes, Internet, and past experience. Test takers may also use various learning aids to study for tests such as flashcards and mnemonics. Test takers may even hire tutors to coach them through the process so that they may increase the probability of obtaining a desired test grade or score. In countries such as the United Kingdom, demand for private tuition has increased significantly in recent years. Finally, test takers may rely upon past copies of a test from previous years or semesters to study for a future test. These past tests may be provided by a friend or a group that has copies of previous tests or by instructors and their institutions, or by the test provider (such as an examination board) itself.\n\nUnlike a nonstandardized test, the time needed by test takers to prepare for standardized tests is less variable and usually considerable. This is because standardized tests are usually uniform in scope, format, and difficulty and often have important consequences with respect to a test taker's future such as a test taker's eligibility to attend a specific university program or to enter a desired profession. It is not unusual for test takers to prepare for standardized tests by relying upon commercially available books that provide in-depth coverage of the standardized test or compilations of previous tests (e.g., 10 year series in Singapore). In many countries, test takers even enroll in test preparation centers or cram schools that provide extensive or supplementary instructions to test takers to help them better prepare for a standardized test. In Hong Kong, it has been suggested that the tutors running such centers are celebrities in their own right. This has led to private tuition being a popular career choice for new graduates in developed economies. Finally, in some countries, instructors and their institutions have also played a significant role in preparing test takers for a standardized test.\n\nCheating on a test is the process of using unauthorized means or methods for the purpose of obtaining a desired test score or grade. This may range from bringing and using notes during a closed book examination, to copying another test taker's answer or choice of answers during an individual test, to sending a paid proxy to take the test.\n\nSeveral common methods have been employed to combat cheating. They include the use of multiple proctors or invigilators during a testing period to monitor test takers. Test developers may construct multiple variants of the same test to be administered to different test takers at the same time, or write tests with few multiple-choice options, based on the theory that fully worked answers are difficult to imitate. In some cases, instructors themselves may not administer their own tests but will leave the task to other instructors or invigilators, which may mean that the invigilators do not know the candidates, and thus some form of identification may be required. Another method is that if the student showed too many failed test at given color levels, the students have to begin again at work in through additional skills builders, at that level the student choose to drop down a color level or obtain a missing prerequisite skills. For that if the student passed the requisites number of test without a color level, the student will color by his or her name a large wall chart that provide the status of the entire class . Finally, instructors or test providers may compare the answers of suspected cheaters on the test themselves to determine if cheating did occur.\n\nDespite their widespread use, the validity, quality, or use of tests, particularly standardized tests in education have continued to be widely supported or criticized. Like the tests themselves, supports and criticisms of tests are often varied and may come from a variety of sources such as parents, test takers, instructors, business groups, universities, or governmental watchdogs.\n\nSupporters of standardized tests in education often provide the following reasons for promoting testing in education:\n\nCritics of standardized tests in education often provide the following reasons for revising or removing standardized tests in education:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7025125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7025125", "title": "Titan Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Titan Pharmaceuticals\n\nTitan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company based in San Francisco, CA developing proprietary therapeutics primarily for the treatment of central nervous system (\"CNS\") disorders. In September of 2018, Titan Pharmaceuticals underwent an IPO wherein it raised $9.5 million in gross proceeds. In the same month, it also posted approximately $1.7 million in revenue, in large part drawn from its licensing for its European intellectual property rights for Probuphine to the Italian pharmaceutical company Molteni - a leading European opioid manufacturer and also a subsidiary of the German Pharmaceutical juggernaut Merck Group. \n\nTitan's principal asset is Probuphine, a slow-release implant formulation of buprenorphine for the treatment of opioid addiction or chronic pain. FDA Approval was granted on 26 May 2016. It was licensed to Braeburn Pharmaceuticals for marketing and commercialization.\n\nAs of its November 14th earnings call, Titan Pharmaceuticals is on track to commercialize its opioid addiction solution at a valuation between $75 and $100 million dollars. \n\n"}
{"id": "13250293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13250293", "title": "Trent Accreditation Scheme", "text": "Trent Accreditation Scheme\n\nThe Trent Accreditation Scheme (TAS), now replaced \"de facto\" by a number of independent accreditation schemes, such as the QHA Trent Accreditation, was a British accreditation scheme formed with a mission to maintain and continually evaluate standards of quality, especially in health care delivery, through the surveying and accreditation of health care organisations, especially hospitals and clinics, both in the UK and elsewhere in the world.\n\nThe Trent UK Accreditation Scheme, or TAS UK, ceased to operate in May 2010, when a majority of Board members decided to end the scheme.\n\nSubsequently, a number of independent accreditation schemes were set up, including the British-based scheme QHA Trent Accreditation.\n\nTrent's basic mission resembled that of the USA's Joint Commission International, or JCI, and other major international healthcare accreditation groups, although there were some significant differences in the way the different groups work.\n\nApart from hospitals in the United Kingdom, Trent also surveyed a large number of private sector hospitals in Hong Kong. and at the time of its demise had been developing links with hospitals in Cyprus.\n\nThe approach Trent took to Clinic and Hospital Accreditation was based on the axiom that no single healthcare system, whether European, American, Asian or otherwise in origin, has the right to claim a monopoly viewpoint over what represents acceptable quality and best clinical practice throughout the world, and no one country has the absolute right to tell another how their hospitals should be run. What is vital is that the quality of care which patients receive should be of the highest possible standard, and also that the hospitals and clinics providing that care should be independently capable when it comes to working out how best to maintain those standards and how best to respond to any new challenges which will inevitably come along. If the overall standards of a hospital or clinic can be shown to be of acceptable quality, then it is desirable, and even ideal, that local differences related to culture and to legislation should be specifically discussed and incorporated into the assessment standards in an appropriate fashion. That said, Trent was very interested in the medical ethical standards of the hospitals it worked with.\n\nTo achieve all of this, Trent worked in close partnership with participating hospitals and clinics to generate an appropriate and mutually acceptable set of standards to survey against. Because the world of healthcare is constantly changing, the standards were constantly reviewed and up-dated through a system of working jointly with representatives of partner hospitals.\n\nTrent developed various ways to ensure local participation, and even ownership, over the accreditation process in a locality. Trent utilised UK-sourced surveyors who were either working in the British National Health Service, or NHS, or had retired in recent times, and hence have valuable experience and insight \"at the coal face\", and in Hong Kong Trent also appoints locally domiciled surveyors (see later). Trent surveyors are drawn from a wide variety of professional backgrounds, but especially from the worlds of medicine, dentistry, nursing, the professions complementary to medicine (e.g. physiotherapy, pharmacy etc.) and healthcare management/administration, so as to ensure an appropriately broad portfolio of knowledge and skills are always present within the surveying teams and the wider organisation. Surveyors were all volunteer professionals rather than salaried employees.\n\nTrent surveys were not just a matter of working through a “tick-list” of standards, a process which Trent believed might elevate standards to a certain level but nevertheless do little to inculcate a culture of “thinking for oneself” – instead, Trent surveys involved direct face-to-face conversation with all levels of staff, including clinical medical staff and senior management (for this reason, qualified medical doctors are included in all surveying teams organised by Trent) and Trent surveyors expected full freedom to go anywhere in the hospital or clinic under survey and to talk to anyone they choose to. Discussion and analysis of the data thus generated, not only by the Trent team but also by the hospital or clinic under survey, represented a major component of Trent's approach to hospital and clinic accreditation, and reflected an underlying philosophy that the whole process was about improving services to patients and the ability of an organisation to work effectively towards that aim.\n\nTrent surveyors evaluated a vast range of modalities of a hospital's (or clinic's) activities and governance, including management, estates, equipment, clinical audit, research, education and training, as well as clinical/medical activity. In Hong Kong hospitals, survey teams always consisted of 2 or 3 surveyors from the UK working together with (usually) 2 based in Hong Kong and who were actively working in the local hospitals. One surveyor will be nominated as the lead. The Hong Kong-based surveyors were nominated by the participating hospitals, and after receiving training they always surveyed hospitals other than their own. This approach led to unrivaled opportunity and potential for the sharing of ideas about best practice between hospitals working in the same locality, and the development of camaraderie. Also, patients were spoken to, and their views and experiences also sought.\n\nAt the end of a survey, the key findings were initially presented by the Lead Surveyor to the hospital or clinic undergoing the survey, this event taking place almost always on the last day. The findings were subsequently digested, analysed and put into a more detailed printed report, with positive virtues being highlighted as well as problems. However, because of the end-of-survey oral presentation, hospitals and clinics could start putting remedial action into place as soon as possible.\n\nAfter a round of surveys, a joint meeting was held at which the printed reports of all the hospital and clinic surveys conducted in that particular round are discussed jointly and in depth by the Trent Board (which had both local and UK representation) together with senior representatives of the hospital or clinic being surveyed, and a decision was then taken as to whether or not accreditation would be granted unconditionally, or if it would be subject to conditions.\n\nThe Trent approach to accreditation ensured that the local hospitals and clinics enjoyed some ownership over the whole process, which would not be the case if all of the standards, all of the surveyors and all of the decisions regarding who was successful or not in achieving accreditation were imposed unilaterally from outside. It helped to build up the confidence of participating hospitals in their ability to develop ways to maintain and improve quality in a way that schemes which operate da more didactic approach to standards and their assessment would not. It also meant that there were Trent surveyors constantly present in the majority of the scheme’s participating hospitals.\n\nTrent was a member of the United Kingdom Accreditation Forum (UKAF) and an institutional member of ISQUA .\n\nWith the advent of medical tourism, international healthcare accreditation has increasingly grown in importance. A number of accreditation organisations sourced from a number of countries fulfil this internationally orientated role, including:\n\n\nNo single accreditation scheme enjoys exclusive rights to be seen as an overall world-wide-relevant scheme, and some hospitals are looking towards multiple accreditation to achieve performance credibility in different parts of the world.\n\nThe Trent Scheme was the first accreditation scheme to survey and accredit a hospital in Asia, in Hong Kong in 2000 . Since then others such as JCI have entered the market, with JCI first accrediting Bumrungrad International Hospital in Thailand in 2002.\n\nThe UK-based Trent Accreditation Scheme (TAS UK) ceased surveying and accreditation activities in 2010. Subsequently, the British-based scheme QHA Trent Accreditation began operating.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3737971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737971", "title": "Vacuum exercise", "text": "Vacuum exercise\n\nThe vacuum exercise is an exercise which involves contracting some internal abdominal muscles, primarily the transverse abdominal muscle, and not as much the diaphragm.\n\nRepetitions of the exercise may be used as a form of endurance training, and light strength training. There is difficulty building strength in the muscle, as it is not easy to apply resistance training to the deeper internal muscles.\n\nThe reasons for performing this exercise vary. It has been done for aesthetic purposes in bodybuilding competitions (to suck the abdomen in, making it appear less bulgy). It can be done to enhance overall core stability and strength. It is used in belly dance to actively perform flutters, engaging various fibres in the muscle selectively. Some believe the pressures it exerts upon the intestines are an aid to digestion. It is used in reverse breathing upon exhalation.\n\nPeople may also sometimes contract these muscles in public to reduce the appearance of their abdomen, consciously or unconsciously. \"Sucking in\" the stomach to appear thinner may be most common form of this exercise, but with little of the intensity or long-term purpose of the other forms.\n\nIn performing a vacuum (activating the transverse abdominis), one draws one's bellybutton inward, toward the spine. Some perform a vacuum in conjunction with bending over, reaching overhead, or when lifting heavy weights, although the benefit and healthiness of this is disputed (some advocated just tensing the midsection, with primary focus more so on the lower back). Increasing the range of motion (how far it is drawn in), the intensity (very little can be done, other than resisting gravity) or the duration are the methods of making the muscles stronger. Performing flutters or Tabata intervals of high intensity and rest similar to kegel exercises is also common. It may also be possible to vary the pressures by contorting the body or exerting various pressures on tissues connected to the transversus abdominis, although how this might be done is currently unknown.\n\nPeople who are predisposed to inguinal herniation should avoid this exercise as it increases intra abdominal pressure.\n\nIn the Hatha yoga asanas known as cat stretch and Adho Mukha Svanasana, the exercise can be performed while on all-Fours so that the muscles must resist gravity, making a slight difference in the resistance required.\n\nThe pranayama known as kapalabhati involves exhaling powerfully and rapidly a number of times while sitting with the legs crossed in a meditation Adana.This is known as Breath of Fire in Kundalini yoga.\n\nSat Kriya is fundamental to Kundalini yoga and could be practiced on its own every day for at least 3 minutes. \nA method of developing long-term daily endurance in the muscles is to tie a string around the waist at the bellybutton level. The string is tied at 3/4 of one's maximum vacuum point. The string should be tight, but not noticeably cutting into the skin. When the transverse abdominis relaxes, the abdominal wall (belly) expands and the string will tighten for immediate feedback, reminding the user to contract the TA.\n\nHypopressive exercises also involve the transverse abdominal, but they are based upon reflex contraction of the abdominal wall, rather than voluntary contractions that are a feature of traditional abdominal exercises. The significance of this is thought to be that hypopressive exercises increase the base tone of the abdominal wall (as well as the pelvic floor) and hence reduce resting waist circumference.\n"}
{"id": "49932546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49932546", "title": "Vaginal syringe", "text": "Vaginal syringe\n\nA vaginal syringe was an object used in the 19th century in the Western world for douching, treating diseases and for birth control. Vaginal syringes were fairly common at the time, but were not openly discussed because of taboos about discussing feminine hygiene. Vaginal syringes were most often made of metal, glass or Bakelite.\n\nVaginal syringes were marketed under various names, such as the ones made by the E. Edwards and Company of New York called \"Lady's Friend\" or the \"Diamond Syringe No. 10.\" It was important for manufacturers to be vague in advertising because they could be arrested on obscenity charges, like Ezra Heywood was for advertising a vaginal syringe in his newspaper in 1882. His involvement in the issue led his wife, Angela Heywood to speak openly about birth control and feminine hygiene as a woman's \"natural right.\" Others, like Sarah Chase, were arrested for selling vaginal syringes as a method of birth control. Vaginal syringes have been recorded in paintings by the 17th century artist, Jan Steen. Women have created and patented vaginal syringes for use as birth control as early as the 1879 model developed by Ann Palmer.\n\nVaginal syringes were used to treat maladies such as leucorrhea or disease of the \"pelvic viscera\" by injecting water or water and chemicals into the vagina. Vaginal syringes were also used to treat menstrual cramps.\n\nThe vaginal syringe was also used to promote the Victorian notion that douching was an appropriate method of feminine hygiene. By the 1930s, \"many reputable gynecologists\" were reporting that \"habitual use of a vaginal syringe\" was unhealthy.\n\nThe vaginal syringe as a method of birth control was available to women in the early nineteenth century. In the 1860s, Henry Dyer Grindle, advocated using vaginal syringes for the application of spermicide into the vagina after sexual intercourse. Women used different types of spermicides with the vaginal syringes including alum, chloride of zinc, baking soda, vinegar, borax, white oak bark, carbolic acid and other chemical combinations. Some chemicals which could be used as a douche were \"capable of inducing an abortion.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49276032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49276032", "title": "Vermifilter", "text": "Vermifilter\n\nA vermifilter (also vermi-digester) is an aerobic treatment system, consisting of a biological reactor containing media that filters organic material from wastewater. The media also provides a habitat for aerobic bacteria and composting earthworms that produce humus. The \"trickling action\" of the wastewater through the media dissolves oxygen into the wastewater. This is an important feature because bacteria and worms that rapidly decompose organic substances need oxygen to survive. Wastewater is purified by removing pathogens and oxygen demand.\n\nVermifilters are most commonly used for sewage treatment and for agro-industrial wastewater treatment. Treatment can take place in either large centralized systems or by smaller on-site sewage treatment. Vermifilters are also used if wastewater requires treatment before it can be safely discharged into the environment.\n\nVermifilters can be used for primary, secondary and tertiary treatment of blackwater and greywater. On-site systems can treat influent from flush toilets (vermifilter toilets). In this case, the treated effluent is disposed of to either surface or subsurface leach fields. Solid material (such as fecal matter and toilet paper) is retained, de-watered and digested by bacteria and earthworms. This converts material into humus. The liquid passes through filtration media to which microorganisms attach themselves and secondary treatment occurs. At that point, organic compounds naturally biodegrade. The oxygen dissolved in the water allows further degradation to take place.\n\nVermifilters are low cost aerobic wastewater treatment options. Because energy is not required for aeration, vermifilters can be considered \"passive treatment\" systems (pumps may be required if gravity flow is not possible). Another advantage is the high treatment efficiency given the low space requirement.\n\nA great number of terms are in use to describe vermifilters, including for example the words digester, composting, vermi-trickling filters or vermicomposting. Further alternative names for this process include aerobic biodigester or biological filter with earthworms.\n\nWhen this kind of sanitation system is used to treat only the mixture of excreta and water from flush toilets or pour flush toilets (called blackwater) then the term \"toilet\" is added to the name of the process, such as \"vermi-digester toilet\" or \"tiger (worm) toilet\".\n\nVermifiltration was first advocated by researchers at the University of Chile in 1992 as a low cost sustainable technology suitable for decentralised sewage treatment in rural areas. Vermifilters offer treatment performance similar to conventional decentralised wastewater treatment systems but with potentially higher hydraulic processing capacities.\n\nVermifilters are a type of wastewater treatment biofilter or trickling filter but with the addition of earthworms to improve treatment efficiency. Vermifilters provide an aerobic environment and wet substrate that facilitates microorganism growth as a biofilm. Microorganisms perform biochemical degradation of organic matter present in wastewater. Earthworms regulate microbial biomass and activity by directly or/and indirectly grazing on microorganisms. Biofilm and organic matter consumed by composting earthworms is then digested into biologically inert castings (humus). The vermicast is incorporated into the media substrate, slowly increasing its volume. As this builds up it can be removed and applied to soil as an amendment to improve soil fertility and structure.\n\nMicroorganisms present are heterotrophic and autotrophic. Heterotrophic microorganisms are important in oxidising carbon (decomposition) whereas autotrophic microorganisms are important in nitrification.\n\nAs a result of oxidation reactions, biodegradation and microbial stimulation by enzymatic action, organic matter decomposition and pathogen destruction occurs in the vermifilter. In a study where municipal wastewater was treated in a vermifilter, removal ratios for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) were 90%, chemical oxygen demand (COD) 85%, total suspended solids (TSS) 98%, ammonia nitrogen 75% and fecal coliforms eliminated to a level that meets World Health Organisation guidelines for safe re-use in crops.\n\nVermifilters can be used for primary, secondary and tertiary treatment of blackwater and greywater.\n\nVermifilters can be used for aerobic primary treatment of domestic blackwater. Untreated blackwater enters a ventilated enclosure above a bed of filter medium. Solids accumulate on the surface of the filter bed while liquid drains through the filter medium and is discharged from the reactor. The solids (feces and toilet paper) are aerobically digested by aerobic bacteria and composting earthworms into castings (humus), thereby significantly reducing the volume of organic material.\n\nPrimary treatment vermifilter reactors are designed to digest solid material, such as contained in raw sewage. Twin-chamber parallel reactors offer the advantage of resting one reactor while the other is active, to facilitate hygienic removal of humus with reduced pathogen levels.\n\nWorms actively digest the solid organic material. An equilibrium is reached whereby volume digested by a stable population of worms matches the input volume of solid waste. Seasonal and environmental factors (such as temperature) and variable influent volumes can cause buildup of solid waste as a pile. Although oxygen is excluded from the centre of this \"wet\" compost pile, worms work from the outside in and introduce air as necessary into the pile to meet their nutritional requirements. This food resource buffer ensures primary treatment vermifilters have a level of resilience and reliability, provided space is provided for a pile to build up. There is some evidence that the wet environment facilitates digestion of solid waste by worms. The volume of vermicast humus increases only slowly and occasionally needs to be removed from the primary treatment reactor.\n\nPrimary treatment of wet mixed blackwater can also include greywater containing food solids, grease and other biodegradable waste. Solid material is reduced to stable humus (wormcastings), with volume reductions of up to tenfold.\n\nThe process produces primary treated blackwater, with much of the solid organic material removed from the effluent. Because liquid effluent is discharged almost immediately on entering the digester, little dissolved oxygen is consumed by the wastewater through the filtration stage. However, oxygen demand is leached into the wastewater flow through the filter as worms digest retained solids. This oxygen demand can be removed with secondary treatment vermifilter reactors. Primary treatment vermifilters provide a similar level of liquid effluent treatment to a septic tank, but in less time because digestion of solids by worms takes place rapidly in the aerobic environment.\n\nThe liquid effluent is either discharged directly to a drain field or undergoes secondary treatment before being used for surface irrigation of soil.\n\nSecondary and tertiary treatment vermifilters can be underneath the primary vermifilter in a single tower but are typically single reactors, where several reactors can be chained in series as sequential vermifilters. Drainage within the reactor is provided by filter media packed according to the hydraulic conductivity and permeability of each material that is present within the vermifilter. The filter packing retains the solid particles present in the effluent wastewater, increases the hydraulic retention time and also provides a suitable habitat for sustaining a population of composting earthworms. This population requires adequate moisture levels within the filter media, but also adequate drainage and oxygen levels.\n\nSprinklers or drippers can be used in secondary and tertiary treatment vermifilter reactors (see image).\n\nHydraulic factors (hydraulic retention time, hydraulic loading rate and organic loading rate) and biological factors (earthworm numbers, levels of biofilm) can influence treatment efficiency.\n\nVermifilters are enclosed reactors made from durable materials that eliminate vermin entry, usually plastic or concrete. Ventilation must be sufficient to ensure an aerobic environment for the worms and microorganisms, while also inhibiting entry of unwanted flies. Temperature within the reactor needs to be maintained within a range suitable for the species of compost worms used.\n\nInfluent entry is from above the filter media. Full-flush toilets can have the entry point into the side of the reactor, whereas micro-flush toilets, because these do not provide sufficient water to convey solids through sewer pipes, are generally installed directly above the reactor. For primary treatment reactors, sufficient vertical space must be provided for growth of the pile. This is dependent on volume of solids in the influent and decomposition rate. Secondary and tertiary treatment reactors can use sprinklers or tricklers to distribute the influent wastewater evenly over the filter media to improve treatment efficiency of the filter media.\n\nVermifilter reactors may have three different filter sections: an organic filter as the top layer that provides habitat for the earthworms; the inorganic or inert filter - constituting a layer of gravel and a layer of sand; and the drainage layer or equalizer (a sump where the treated effluent is discharged and/or recirculated to the top of the reactor). The filter media may be suspended above a sump in a basket. Alternatively the filter media might sit on a drainage layer of coarse gravel or pervious plastic drainage coil. Synthetic geotextile cloth is used to retain the filter media in place above the drainage layer. To remain aerobic, adequate ventilation must be provided, along with an outlet for the liquid effluent to drain away.\n\nDrainage within the vermifilter reactor is provided by the filter media. The filter media has the dual purpose of retaining the solid organic material while also providing a habitat suitable for sustaining a population of composting worms. This population requires adequate moisture levels within the media, along with good drainage and aerobic conditions.\n\nCommon filter packing materials include sawdust, wood chips, coir, bark, peat, and straw for organic packing. Gravel, quartz sand, river bed gravel, pumice, mud balls, glass balls, ceramsite and charcoal are commonly used for inert packing. Surface area and porosity of filter packing materials influence treatment performance. Thus materials with low granulometry and large surface area may improve the performance of the vermifilter.\n\nVermifilters can be constructed as single tower systems, or separate staged reactors (either gravity or pump operated) for the treatment of wastewater according to design requirements (primary, secondary, tertiary treatment). More stages can increase level of treatment because multiple stage systems provide accumulating aerobic conditions suitable for nitrification of ammonium and removal of COD.\n\nThe design parameters of vermifilters include stocking density of earthworms (although over time earthworm population tends to be self-moderating), filter media composition, hydraulic loading rate, hydraulic retention time and organic loading rate. Hydraulic retention time and hydraulic loading rate both affect treatment and effluent quality. Hydraulic retention time is the actual time the wastewater is in contact with the filter media and is related to the depth of the vermifilter (which may increase over time due to the accumulation of earthworm vermicastings), reactor volume and type of material used (porosity). The hydraulic retention time determines wastewater inflow rate (hydraulic loading as influent volume per hour).\n\nIn principle, provided the environment is aerobic, the longer the wastewater remains inside the filter, the greater the BOD and COD removal efficiency will be, but at the expense of hydraulic loading. Wastewater requires sufficient contact time with the biofilm to allow for the adsorption, transformation, and reduction of contaminants. Hydraulic loading rate is an essential design parameter and equates to the volume and of wastewater that a vermifilter can reasonably treat in a given time. For a given system, higher hydraulic loading rates will cause hydraulic retention time to decrease and therefore reduce level of treatment. Hydraulic loading rate may depend on parameters such as structure, effluent quality and bulk density of filter packing, along with method of effluent application. Common Hydraulic retention time values in vermifiltration systems range from 1 to 3 hours. Hydraulic loading rates commonly vary between 0.2 m m day, 3.0 m m day or 10-20 g L. Organic loading rate is defined as the application of soluble and particulate organic matter (as BOD) per unit area per unit time.\n\nTreatment efficiency is influenced by health, maturity and population abundance of earthworms. Abundance is a fundamental parameter for efficient operation of a vermifiltration system. Different values are reported in literature usually in grams or number of individuals per volume of filter packing or surface area of filter packing. Common densities vary between 10 g L and 40 g L per filter packing material.\n\nAn abundance of earthworms improves treatment efficiency, in particular BOD, TSS and NH removal. This is because earthworms release organic matter into the filter media and stimulate nitrogen mineralization. Earthworm castings may have substances which contribute to higher BOD removal.\n\nA vermifilter has low mechanical and manual maintenance requirements, and, where gravity operated, requires no energy input. Recirculation, if required for improved effluent quality, would require a pump. \n\nAn annual application of dry organic materials on the top of the filter media may be required for secondary and tertiary treatment vermifilters.\nThe volume of vermicast increases only slowly and occasionally vermicompost needs to be removed from the vermifilter.\n\nSolids accumulate on the surface of the organic filter media (or filter packing). The liquid fraction drains through the medium into the sump or equaliser and is either discharged from the reactor or recirculated to the top entry for further treatment. Wastewater is discharged to the surface of the filter packing by direct application or by sprinklers, drippers or tricklers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35627827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35627827", "title": "War on Women", "text": "War on Women\n\nWar on Women is a slogan in United States politics used to describe certain Republican Party policies and legislation as a wide-scale effort to restrict women's rights, especially reproductive rights. Prominent Democrats such as Nancy Pelosi and Barbara Boxer, as well as feminists, have used the phrase to criticize proponents of these laws as trying to force their social views on women through legislation. The slogan has been used to describe Republican policies in areas such as access to reproductive health services, particularly birth control and abortion services; the prosecution of criminal violence against women; the definition of rape for the purpose of the public funding of abortion; and workplace discrimination against women.\n\nWhile used in other contexts, and prior to 2010, it became a common slogan in American political discourse after the 2010 congressional elections. The term is often used to describe opposition to the contraceptive mandate in Obamacare and policies to defund women's health organizations that perform abortions, such as Planned Parenthood.\n\nThe concept again gained attention in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, when Republican nominee Donald Trump drew notice for a history of inflammatory statements and actions toward women.\n\nThe phrase and the concept have been criticized by Republicans and some pro-life Democrats. Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus described it as an over-simplified fiction advanced by Democrats and the media while other Republicans contended that such rhetoric was used as a distraction from President Barack Obama and the Democrats' handling of the economy. In August 2012, Todd Akin's controversial comments regarding pregnancy and rape sparked renewed media focus on the concept. Republicans have tried to turn the phrase against Democrats by using it to argue hypocrisy for not critiquing sex scandals of members within their Party who have cheated, sexted, and harassed women; and for not supporting bills to combat sex-selective abortion.\n\nIn 1989, radical feminist Andrea Dworkin wrote in a book introduction about \"war on women\" and, in 1997, she collected that and other writings in \"Life and Death\", for which the subtitle was \"Unapologetic Writings on the Continuing War Against Women\". Feminist Susan Faludi's 1991 book \"\", argued that throughout the 1980s the media created a \"backlash\" against the feminist advances of the 1970s. Former Republican political consultant Tanya Melich's 1996 memoir, \"The Republican War Against Women: An Insider's Report from Behind the Lines\", describes the incorporation of the pro-life movement and opposition to the Equal Rights Amendment by Republicans as a divergence from feminist causes.\n\nGeorge W. Bush's administration met with resistance from feminists and women's rights activists throughout his Presidency. In 2004 The Feminist Press published Laura Flanders' collection of essays \"The W Effect: Bush's War On Women\". In 2006 economist Barbara Finlay's critique of the Bush administration's treatment of women was published by Zed Books under the title \"George W. Bush and the War on Women: Turning Back the Clock on Progress\".\n\nIn the 2010 midterm elections, the Republican Party (GOP) won the majority in the House of Representatives. On January 4, 2011, the day after Congress convened, Kaili Joy Gray of the liberal Daily Kos wrote an opinion piece titled \"The Coming War on Women\". In the article, she outlined many of the measures that Republicans intended to push through the House of Representatives, including personhood laws, fetal pain laws, and the effort to defund Planned Parenthood. In February 2011, an AlterNet article by Sarah Seltzer and Lauren Kelley entitled \"9 New laws in the GOP's War on Women\" began to document state-level legislation restricting abortion access and rights. That same month, New York Representative Jerrold Nadler referred to the proposed No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, one of the Congress's first actions and one that would have changed policy to allow only victims of \"forcible rape\" or child sex abuse to qualify for Medicaid funding for abortion, as \"an entirely new front in the war on women and their families\". Florida Representative and Chair of the Democratic National Committee Debbie Wasserman Schultz began using the term \"War on Women\" in March 2011.\n\nThe \"War on Women\" slogan was used often when describing the unprecedented rise in the passage of provisions related to women's health and reproductive rights in 2011 and 2012. In 2011, state legislatures across the United States introduced over 1100 provisions related to women's health and reproductive rights, and in the first quarter of 2012 an additional 944 provisions were introduced in state legislatures, half of which would restrict access to abortion. Legislation has focused on mandatory ultrasounds, narrowing the time when abortions may be performed and limiting insurance coverage of abortion.\n\nDemocratic strategist Zerlina Maxwell wrote an editorial for \"U.S. News & World Report\" in which she cited a Guttmacher Institute analysis showing state legislatures enacted 135 pieces of legislation affecting women's reproductive rights as evidence that the \"Republican 'War on Women' is no fiction.\" The analysis found that between 2000 and 2011, the number of states hostile to abortion rights have increased markedly, and that in 2011 there was an unprecedented rise in the number of provisions passed by state legislatures restricting abortion.\n\nMany states have adopted model legislation written by Americans United for Life, a pro-life advocacy group. In June 2011, Charmaine Yoest and Denise M. Burke of Americans United, acknowledged the expression in an op-ed for \"The Wall Street Journal\", writing that \"Indiana is being threatened with the loss of federal funding for health care and being held up to scorn as having 'declared war on women.'\"\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, \"War on Women\" was used to describe the legislation passed by many states requiring that women seeking abortions first undergo government-mandated ultrasounds. Some states require that women view the image of the fetus and others require that women be offered the opportunity to listen to the fetal heartbeat. Since many women's pregnancies are not far enough along to get an image via a traditional ultrasound, transvaginal ultrasounds, which involve the physician inserting a probe into the woman's vagina, may be required, but these requirements vary state to state. Critics have questioned the value of having a medically unnecessary procedure, and characterized it as similar to some states' legal definition of rape. Writer Megan Carpentier underwent the procedure and indicated that although it was not comparable to being raped, the process was \"uncomfortable to the point of being painful, emotionally triggering... and something that no government should force its citizens to undergo to make a political point.\" However, in an article critical of the assumptions of those on both sides of the issue, sociologist Tracy Weitz, who opposes mandatory ultrasound, notes that \"the use of trans-vaginal ultrasounds is routine among abortion providers.\"\n\nVirginia State legislators passed a bill in 2012 requiring women to have an ultrasound before having an abortion. The legislation, signed by Governor Bob McDonnell, would require that the provider of an abortion make a copy of the fetal image and include it in the file of the patient. In Louisiana, where pregnant women are already required to view ultrasounds of their fetuses before receiving an abortion, lawmakers proposed a bill that would require them to listen to the embryonic/fetal heartbeat as well. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett drew criticism when he said of his state's new mandatory transvaginal ultrasound law that \"You can't make anybody watch, okay? Because you just have to close your eyes. As long as it's on the exterior and not the interior.\"\n\nIn June 2013, Representative Trent Franks of Arizona, passed a national bill in the House Judiciary Committee that would ban abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy. The bill did not include exceptions for rape, incest or health of the mother. In responding to the bill's lack of exception for rape victims, Franks stated that \"the incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy are very low,\" which was compared to the controversial statements made by Todd Akin; studies show that the incidence of pregnancy from rape is approximately equal to or higher than the rate from consensual sex. Afterwards, the House Rules Committee added exceptions for rape and incest. Georgia legislators passed HB 954, a \"fetal pain bill\" criminalizing abortions performed after the 20th week of pregnancy. The bill, which does not contain exemptions for rape or incest, has been referred to as the \"women as livestock bill\" by opponents after Representative Terry England made a comparison between women seeking abortions for stillborn fetuses to delivering calves and pigs on a farm.\n\nIn April 2012, Arizona passed legislation banning abortions occurring 20 weeks after a woman's last menstrual period. A judge from the District Court initially upheld this ban, but the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in August 2012 that the ban could not be enforced until an appeal on the law had been decided. The Ninth Circuit then struck down the law as unconstitutional in May 2013. Eight other states, including Nebraska, Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Idaho and Oklahoma, have passed such bills; unlike Arizona, the gestational age in these states is calculated from fertilization (20 weeks post-fertilization-which means 22 weeks LMP). In 2013, Idaho's ban was struck down as unconstitutional by a federal judge. States such as Ohio have proposed so-called \"heartbeat bills\" that would prohibit abortions when the heartbeat of the fetus can be detected. Fetal heartbeats can be detected as early as six weeks into a pregnancy.\n\nIn 2011, voters in Mississippi rejected Initiative 26, a measure that would have declared that human life begins at fertilization, which had drawn support from conservative Republicans and Democrats. Critics of the initiative indicated that the law would have made abortion illegal even in cases where the mother's life is in danger.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, the regulatory burden on abortion providers has increased. TRAP laws (Targeted Regulation of Abortion Providers) have been passed in numerous states. In 2015, the United States Supreme Court agreed to an emergency appeal regarding a Texas law that would have shut down 10 of the remaining 19 abortion clinics within the state. Sometime in the fall of 2015, the Supreme Court will decide whether or not to hear the clinics' full appeal of the ruling, which, if held, would be the largest abortion case before the Supreme Court in nearly 25 years.\n\nIn February 2011, South Dakota state legislators considered a bill that would expand that state's definition of justifiable homicide to include killings committed by a party other than a pregnant woman for the purpose of preventing harm to a fetus, a measure interpreted by critics as allowing the killing of abortion providers. Similar legislation was considered in Iowa.\n\nSeveral state legislatures have passed or are considering legislation to prevent parents from suing doctors who fail to warn them of fetal problems, which are sometimes known as wrongful birth lawsuits. Some of the laws, such as one proposed in Arizona, make exceptions for \"intentional or grossly negligent acts\", while others do not.\n\nA Kansas bill passed March 2012 requires doctors to warn women seeking abortions that they are linked to breast cancer, a claim that has been refuted by the medical community.\n\nIn April 2012, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker signed into law a bill requiring doctors who prescribe the medical abortion pill to have three meetings with patients or be subject to felony charges. Planned Parenthood suspended non-surgical abortions in the state.\n\nOn January 20, 2012, Health and Human Services' Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced a mandate requiring that all health plans provide coverage for all contraceptives approved by the FDA as part of preventive health services for women. Following complaints from Catholic bishops, an exception was created for religious institutions whereby an employee of a religious institution that does not wish to provide reproductive health care can seek it directly from the insurance company at no additional cost. Missouri Senator Roy Blunt proposed an amendment (the Blunt Amendment) that would have \"allowed employers to refuse to include contraception in health care coverage if it violated their religious or moral beliefs\", but it was voted down 51-48 by the U.S. Senate on March 1, 2012. A bill passed by the Arizona House would allow employers to exclude medication used for contraceptive purposes from their health insurance plans.\n\nIn February 2012, Republican Congressman Darrell Issa convened an all-male panel addressing religious freedom and contraceptive mandates for health insurers. He did not allow Sandra Fluke, a Georgetown University Law Center student who was proposed as a witness by the Democrats, to participate in the hearing, arguing that Fluke was not a member of the clergy. Democratic Representatives then staged a separate panel where Fluke was allowed to speak. Later that month, American conservative talk-show host Rush Limbaugh controversially called Sandra Fluke a \"slut\" and \"prostitute\" and continued in similar fashion for the next two days. Foster Friess, the billionaire supporting the candidacy of Rick Santorum, suggested in February 2012 that women put aspirin between their knees as a form of contraception. Limbaugh echoed the sentiment, saying he would \"buy all of the women at Georgetown University as much aspirin to put between their knees as they want.\" Nancy Pelosi circulated a petition and asked that Republicans in the House of Representatives disavow the comments by Friess and Limbaugh, which she called \"vicious and inappropriate\".\n\nSeveral Democrats used the phrase \"War on Women\" to criticize the Republican Party after House Republicans passed legislation to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood in February 2011. Texas, Indiana and Kansas have passed legislation in an effort to defund the organization. Arizona, Ohio and New Hampshire are considering similar legislation. In Texas, lawmakers reduced funds for family planning from $111M to $37M. The future of the Women's Health Program in Texas, which receives 90% of its funding from the federal government, is unclear. The Indiana legislature passed a bill restricting Medicaid funds for Planned Parenthood. Indiana Representative Bob Morris later referred to the Girl Scouts of the USA as a tactical arm of Planned Parenthood. A 2011 Kansas statute cut funding to Planned Parenthood.\n\nOn January 31, 2012, breast cancer organization Susan G. Komen for the Cure stopped funding Planned Parenthood, citing a congressional investigation by Rep. Cliff Stearns and a newly created internal rule about not funding organizations under any federal, state or local investigation. Four days later, Komen's Board of Directors reversed the decision and announced that it would amend the policy to \"make clear that disqualifying investigations must be criminal and conclusive in nature and not political\". Several top-level staff members resigned from Komen during the controversy.\n\nThe National Organization for Women (NOW), in the U.S., in 2011, stated its opinion that \"the 'war on women' isn't restricted to U.S. women\", saying that the House of Representatives planned to \"cut ... international family planning assistance... [to] include the elimination of all U.S. funds designated for UNFPA\" (now known as the United Nations Population Fund).\n\nIn January 2011, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act moved to change how rape is treated when used to determine whether abortions qualify for Medicaid funding. Under the language of the bill, only cases of \"forcible rape\" or child sexual abuse would have qualified. Political activist groups Moveon.org and Emily's List charged that this constituted a Republican attempt to \"redefine rape\".\n\nIn 2014, Michigan law prohibited all public and most private insurers from covering abortions including in cases of rape and incest. It requires women to buy separate insurance and has been called \"rape insurance\" by opponents because of the possibility that women will need to have separate insurance for an abortion resulting from rape.\n\nUnsuccessful Missouri Republican candidate to the U.S. Senate Todd Akin made controversial comments in August 2012 asserting (falsely) that women who are victims of \"legitimate rape\" rarely experience pregnancy from rape. While he issued an apology for his comments, they were widely criticized, and they sparked a renewed focus on Republican attitudes towards women and \"shift[ed] the national discussion to divisive social issues that could repel swing voters rather than economic issues that could attract them\".\n\nThere were multiple calls from Republicans for Akin to step down as nominee. \"The Washington Post\" reported a \"stampede\" of Republicans dissociating from Akin. NRSC chairman John Cornyn said the Republican Party would no longer provide him Senate election funding. A campaign spokesman for Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan said both disagreed with Akin's position and would not oppose abortion in instances of rape. Ryan reportedly called Akin to advise him to step aside. RNC Chairman Reince Priebus warned Akin not to attend the upcoming 2012 Republican convention and said he should resign the nomination. He described Akin's comments as \"biologically stupid\" and \"bizarre\" and said that \"This is not mainstream talk that he's referring to and his descriptions of whatever an illegitimate rape is.\"\n\nOther Republican candidates in the 2012 election also created controversy with their comments on rape. Indiana Senate candidate Richard Mourdock, when discussing his opposition to exceptions on abortion bans in cases of rape, said, \"I think even if life begins in that horrible situation of rape, that it is something that God intended to happen.\" Tom Smith, the Senate candidate in Pennsylvania, compared pregnancy from rape to pregnancy out of wedlock. Akin, Mourdock, and Smith all lost their races due to backlash from women voters.\n\nColumnist Margery Eagan has said that opposition to reforming the military in order to better prosecute sexual assaults constitutes a war on women. Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia was criticized for saying that part of the cause of the sexual assault was young officers' \"hormone level created by nature\".\n\nThe renewal of the Violence Against Women Act, which provides for community violence prevention programs and battered women's shelters, was fiercely opposed by conservative Republicans in 2012. The Act was originally passed in 1994 and has been reauthorized by Congress twice. Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell, who has previously voted against renewal of the Act, said the bill was a distraction from a small business bill. However, in 2013 a strengthened version of the act was passed by Congress with bipartisan support.\n\nIn February 2011, Ms. magazine charged House Republicans with launching a new \"War on Women\" for their proposal to cut the WIC budget by 10%. The WIC program, which President Barack Obama has called a spending priority, is a federal assistance program for low-income pregnant women, breastfeeding women, and infants and children under the age of five. The program had been running a surplus, primarily due to decreases in the cost of milk, which make up 20% of WIC expenditures, and lower participation than expected. WIC's budget was later cut by 5.2% as part of the bipartisan budget sequestration in 2013.\n\nIn April 2012, Governor Scott Walker's repeal of Wisconsin's \"Equal Pay Enforcement Act\" was described by opponents as furthering the \"War on Women\", which became a big issue in his recall election. The \"Equal Pay Enforcement Act\" was passed in 2009 in response to the large gap between the wages of men and women in Wisconsin. Among other provisions, it allowed workplace discrimination victims redress in the less costly and more accessible state court system, rather than in federal court. Defending the repeal, Walker stated that the Act had essentially been nothing but a boon for trial lawyers, incentivizing them to sue job creators, including female business owners, and that the law was being used to clog up the legal system in his state. While it is still illegal in Wisconsin to pay women less on the basis of their sex, the repeal was criticized for reinforcing the gender pay gap, a recurrent theme in the struggle for women's rights. Republican State Senator Glenn Grothman said of the repeal, \"You could argue that money is more important for men. I think a guy in their first job, maybe because they expect to be a breadwinner someday, may be a little more money-conscious.\" Law student Sandra Fluke, criticized Grothman's comment, highlighting legislation that supports equal pay for equal work, such as the federal \"Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009\".\n\nA May 2012 Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that 31 percent of women and 28 percent of men believed there was an ongoing and wide-scale effort to \"limit women's reproductive health choices and services\". 45 percent of women and 44 percent of men responded that some groups would like to limit these choices and services, but it's not wide‐scale. Democrats were more likely than Republicans to say there is a movement, but the largest gap was between liberal and conservative ideologies. Among those women believing these efforts to be wide-scale, 75 percent saw this as \"a bad thing\" against 16 percent who saw this as \"a good thing\". In the same poll, 42 percent of women and men have said they have taken some action in response to what they heard regarding reproductive health issues.\n\nIn the Colorado race of the 2014 midterm elections, the Republican candidate Cory Gardner unseated the incumbent Democratic Senator Mark Udall. NARAL Pro-Choice America gives Udall a 100% rating for abortion rights, and Gardner earned a 0% rating. Udall ran a number of TV ads highlighting his abortion stance, which critics said was a negative campaign that overplayed the \"war on women\" issue.\n\nSandra Fluke stood as a candidate in California, losing by 61 to 39.\n\nPolitical analysts have interpreted the 2016 Hillary Clinton presidential campaign as appealing to a female constituency, and have used the phrase \"war on women\" to describe Republican opposition. Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina said \"If Hillary Clinton were to face a female nominee, there are a whole set of things that she won't be able to talk about. She won't be able to talk about being the first woman president. She won't be able to talk about a war on women without being challenged. She won't be able to play the gender card.\"\n\nDonald Trump, a Republican candidate for the 2016 Presidency attended a Fox News debate in August 2015, where Megyn Kelly asked him about how he would respond to a Hillary Clinton campaign saying that he was waging a \"war on women\". In a later interview with Don Lemon on \"CNN Tonight\", Trump said that Kelly is a \"lightweight\" and had \"blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever\". Trump tweeted that his remark referred to Kelly's \"nose\" but was interpreted by critics as a reference to menstruation. RedState.com editor Erick Erickson cancelled Trump's invitation to a RedState meeting, saying \"there are just real lines of decency a person running for President should not cross\".\n\nCritics of the term have denied that a War on Women exists and some have suggested that it is a ploy to influence women voters. Reince Priebus, the Chairman of the RNC, referred to the War as a \"fiction\", saying \"If the Democrats said we had a war on caterpillars and every mainstream media outlet talked about the fact that Republicans have a war on caterpillars, then we'd have problems with caterpillars.\" Republican Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers called the war a myth, saying \"It's an effort to drive a political wedge in an election year.\" Referring to the 2010 elections and Nancy Pelosi, she said that \"It could be argued that the women actually unelected the first woman Speaker of the House.\" South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley said in 2012 \"There is no war on women. Women are doing well.\" Republican Representative Paul Ryan mocked the idea of a Republican War on Women, saying \"Now it's a war on women; tomorrow it's going to be a war on left-handed Irishmen or something like that.\"\n\nSenator John McCain, when asked by journalist David Gregory if there was a Republican War on Women, said \"I think that there is a perception out there because of how this whole contraception issue played out — ah, we need to get off of that issue, in my view.\"\n\nRepublican Senator Lisa Murkowski countered the criticism from her fellow party members, challenging them to \"go home and talk to your wife and your daughters\" if they did not think there was a war on women, saying \"It makes no sense to make this attack on women.\"\n\nAfter the 2012 rape and pregnancy controversies, Republican strategists met with aides of Republican figures to advise them on how to run against female candidates.\n\nMembers of the Democratic Party, both prominent and local, have been accused of participating in the war on women. In a column for \"USA Today\", Glenn Reynolds wrote in July 2013 that \"most of the action in the war on women seems to be coming from the Democratic front,\" referring to the allegations of sexual harassment against San Diego mayor Bob Filner, the Anthony Weiner sexting scandal, and the Eliot Spitzer prostitution scandal. The Republican National Senatorial Committee has also used these scandals in press releases, tying Democratic Senators in Iowa and New Hampshire to the allegations.\n\nThe messaging from Republicans was described as unlikely to be effective by Garance Franke-Ruta in \"The Atlantic\" because \"[the War on Women] was an argument about Republican policies on women ... rather than about reprehensible individual behavior.\" Noting that many of the targets are not on upcoming ballots, Franke-Ruta continued by saying the Republican Party \"is going to need its own pro-active framework for thinking about what is happening in America and why women have been drawn to Democrats in numbers that matter in key elections.\"\n\nJonathan Alter characterized the phrase as an \"alliteratve but unfair notion\".\n\nDavid Weigel called for \"a moment of silence\" in his article entitled \"The 'War on Women' Is Over: The life cycle of a political talking point, from birth to adolescence to death.\" In it he explained his understanding of the stages in the \"life cycle\" of the Democratic \"talking point\".\n\nMolly Redden wrote an article for \"Mother Jones\" entitled \"The War on Women is Over -- and Women Lost\". She described the difficulties faced by abortion providers: \"Activists have been calling it the 'war on women.' But the onslaught of new abortion restrictions has been so successful, so strategically designed, and so well coordinated that the war in many places has essentially been lost.\"\n\nFeminist Camille Paglia has called the term \"War on Women\" a \"tired cliché that is as substance-less as a druggy mirage but that the inept GOP has never been able to counter.\"\n"}
{"id": "12593652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12593652", "title": "Zafrullah Chowdhury", "text": "Zafrullah Chowdhury\n\nZafrullah Chowdhury (born 27 December 1941) is a Bangladeshi public health activist. He is the founder of Gonoshasthaya Kendra (meaning the People's Health Center in Bengali), a rural healthcare organisation. Dr. Chowdhury is known more for his work in formulating the Bangladesh National Drug Policy in 1982.\n\nHe spent his early childhood in Kolkata and later his family settled in Dhaka. He was one of ten children born to his parents. After attending Nabakumar School at Bakshibazar, he studied at Dhaka College. He studied medicine at Dhaka Medical College, where he got involved with leftist political ideologies. As the general secretary of the Dhaka Medical College students' union, he held a press conference to expose the corruption at the hospital. After a turbulent student life, he finished his MBBS degree in 1964 and left for the UK for post-graduate studies in general and vascular surgery. In 1971, he fought for independence during Bangladesh Liberation War.\nHe was involved in setting up the 480-bed Bangladesh Hospital for freedom fighters and the refugees. The hospital was run by a team of Bangladeshi doctors, medical students and volunteers. Women with no previous training in healthcare were trained within days to help out the patients. This experience in the field hospital led him to believe that an effective healthcare delivery system can be developed in rural Bangladesh by training women as a primary healthcare delivery platform. This achieved worldwide credibility when it was eventually published in The Lancet.\n\nIn 1972 Dr. Chowdhury set up the Gonoshasthaya Kendra. Actually the idea was introduced in a concept paper titled, 'Basic Health Care in Rural Bangladesh' in Dhaka. The centre focuses on providing basic healthcare to the rural areas. The centre also runs a university, vocational training centre, agricultural cooperatives, hospital, a printing press, community schools and a generic drug manufacturing plant. Gonoshasthaya Kendra has been very successful in providing family planning services, lowering maternal, infant mortality rates. Though limited in its reach, it pioneered the introduction of cheaper generic drugs. In 1973, Gonoshasthaya Kendra introduced a Rural Healthcare Insurance System, the first of its kind in Bangladesh.\n\nCritiques have pointed out that rather than being national, the centre's reach has been confined to specific areas. However, Zafrullah Chowdhury believes that public health is a state matter, it can never be left to the private sector.\n\nDr. Chowdury gained prominence by being the driving force in formulating the Bangladesh National Drug Policy in 1982. Before that, 4,000 commercial drugs were available in the market, mostly manufactured by the multi-national companies or imported from abroad. Most of the drugs were out of reach for majority of the people. Some of these drugs were unnecessary and even dangerous whereas the most essential 150 remained in short supply.\n\nNational drug policy changed all that. Following WHO guidelines for the developing countries, the policy restricted manufacturing and import of number of drugs to 225. It emphasised on manufacturing of generic drugs and manufacturing them locally. The result has been the wider availability of drugs at drastically reduced prices. And today, Bangladesh has turned into a drug exporting country.\nIn 2015, the International Crimes Tribunal, which was set up to try perpetrators of war crimes committed during Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971, charged Zafrullah Chowdhury on charge of contempt of court and sentenced him to \"one hour\" of 'confinement in the dock inside the courtroom\" and fined him 5000 taka. The court found guilty of contempt of court for his statement expressing concern over British journalist David Bergman's conviction. This came as a surprise to many as being a freedom fighter, he was one of the vocal supporters of the controversial tribunal.\n\n\n"}
