{"id": "6773512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6773512", "title": "American–Israeli Cooperative Enterprise", "text": "American–Israeli Cooperative Enterprise\n\nThe American–Israeli Cooperative Enterprise (AICE) is a non-profit 501(c)(3) U.S.-based organization established in 1993 \"to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship.\"\n\nAICE's goals are enhancing the understanding and appreciation of Israel through social and educational programs in the United States, disseminating information about Israel; aiding efforts of students and faculty attempting to counteract anti-Zionist rhetoric and activities; promoting the study of Israel’s political system, culture, and society; and developing American universities’ appreciation of Israel as a subject worthy of serious attention. AICE's goals also include highlighting areas where Israel might contribute to the betterment of America, and publishing studies to identify specific programs and approaches that can benefit Americans. According to its mission statement, AICE aims to provide a vehicle for research, study and discussion between the peoples and governments of the United States and Israel; to facilitate of partnership between both nations; organize and publish joint activities that benefit the two; and provide resources, material, and more to promote scholarship in the field of Israel studies.\n\nOver the years, AICE's material has been cited by news and media outlets such as CNN, Yahoo news, Haaretz, USA Today and others.\n\nA member of the Israel on Campus Coalition, AICE is independently supported by donations from various foundations and individuals. Shlomo Avineri, Gerald Steinberg, Joshua Teitelbaum, Bernice Manocherian are among the organization's board members.\n\nAICE maintains a database that containing joint U.S.-Israel activities. The database includes recipients of grants from the Binational Science Foundation (BSF), the Binational Agricultural Research and Development Foundation (BARD) and the Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation (BIRD). Its Economic Partnership Databank contains information on more than 10,000 U.S. companies doing business in or with Israel. To address the critical need to develop new scholars and place established Israel scholars on campus, AICE has created the Israel Scholar Development Fund (ISDF). Some of their other major projects include bringing Israeli professors to teach Israel-related courses on U.S campuses, supporting visiting Israeli scholars teaching in the US.\n\nAICE fellowship program, \"Schusterman Visiting Israeli Professors\", brings Israeli academics to American campuses in order to ensure that expertise in the field will continue to be available from Israel while expanding within the United States. Visiting Israeli professors come from the Israeli universities Hebrew University, University of Haifa, Tel Aviv University, Ben Gurion University, and Bar Ilan University. In 2008, AICE financially assisted 29 Israelis (26 professors and three postdoctoral fellows) offering 70 courses in 27 universities throughout the United States and a further 11 graduate fellows and two postdoctoral research fellows. In the 2014-15 academic year, AICE reportedly selected 20 VIPs.\n\nAICE's initiatives also include:\n\n\nBooks published by the American–Israeli Cooperative Enterprise include: \n\n"}
{"id": "43616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43616", "title": "Arsinoe II", "text": "Arsinoe II\n\nArsinoë II (, 316 BC – unknown date between July 270 and 260 BC) was a Ptolemaic queen and co-regent of the Ptolemaic Kingdom of ancient Egypt.\n\nArsinoe was queen of Thrace, Anatolia and Macedonia by marriage to King Lysimachus () and co-ruler of the Ptolemaic Kingdom with her brother-husband, Pharaoh Ptolemy II Philadelphus ( \"Ptolemy the Sibling-Loving\"). Arsinoe was given the unprecedented Egyptian title \"King of Upper and Lower Egypt\", marking her as a full pharaoh.\n\nArsinoë was the first daughter of Pharaoh Ptolemy I Soter (Greek: Πτολεμαίος Σωτήρ, \"Ptolemy the Savior\"), founder of the Hellenistic state of Egypt, and his second wife Berenice I of Egypt.\n\nShe was born in Memphis, but was raised in the new city of Alexandria, where her father moved his capital early on. Nothing is known of her childhood or education, but judging from her later life as patron of scholars and noted for her learning, she is estimated to have been given a high education. Her brothers where tutored by intellectuals hired by their fathers, and it is regarded likely that she attended these lessons as well: she corresponded with the intellectual Strato of Lampsacus later in life, and he may have previously been her tutor.\n\nAt about age 15, Arsinoë married King Lysimachus (who was then around 60 years old), with whom she had three sons: Ptolemy Epigonos, Lysimachus, and Philip. \n\nIn order to position her sons for the throne, she had Lysimachus' first son, Agathocles, poisoned on account of treason.\n\nArsinoe reportedly paid for a rotunda in the Samothrace temple complex, where she was likely an initiate.\n\nAfter Lysimachus' death in battle in 281 BC, she fled to Cassandreia () and married her paternal half-brother Ptolemy Keraunos, one of the sons of Ptolemy I Soter from his previous wife, Eurydice of Egypt. The marriage was for political reasons as they both claimed the throne of Macedonia and Thrace (by the time of his death Lysimachus was ruler of both regions, and his power extended to southern Greece and Anatolia). Their relationship was never good. \n\nAs Ptolemy Keraunos was becoming more powerful, she decided it was time to stop him and conspired against him with her sons. This action caused Ptolemy Keraunus to kill two of her sons, Lysimachus and Philip, while the eldest, Ptolemy, was able to escape and to flee north, to the kingdom of the Dardanians. \n\nShe herself sought refuge in the Samothrace temple complex, which she had benefited during her tenure as queen. She eventually left from Samothrace for Alexandria, Egypt, to seek protection from her brother, Ptolemy II Philadelphus. \n\nIt is not known which year she left for Egypt. She may have left so early as 280, directly after the murder of the younger sons, or as late as 276, when the claim of her eldest son to the Macedonian throne had clearly failed after the succession of Antigonus II Gonatas. \n\nIn Egypt, she is believed to have instigated the accusation and exile of her brother Ptolemy II's first wife, Arsinoe I. Whether this was actually true is unknown: it is not known which year she arrived in Egypt, and her sister-in-law may already have been exiled at that point, or her divorce may have taken place without her involvement.\n\nWhatever the case, after the divorce of Ptolemy, Arsinoe II then married her brother. As a result, both were given the epithet \"Philadelphoi\" ( \"Sibling-loving (plural)\") by the presumably-scandalized Greeks. The closer circumstances and reasons behind the marriage is not known. \n\nHer role as queen was unprecedented in the dynasty at the time and became a role model for later Ptolemaic queens: she acted alongside her brother in ritual and public display, became a religious and literal patron and was included in the Egyptian and Greek cults created by him for them. Sharing in all of her brother's titles, she apparently was quite influential, having towns dedicated to her, her own cult (as was Egyptian custom), appearing on coinage and contributing to foreign policy, including Ptolemy II's victory in the First Syrian War between Egypt and the Seleucid Empire. \n\nAccording to Posidippus, she won three chariot races at the Olympic Games, probably in 272 BC.\n\nAfter her death, Ptolemy II continued to refer to her on official documents, as well as supporting her coinage and cult. In establishing her worship as a goddess he justified his own cult.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8090116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8090116", "title": "Athena School", "text": "Athena School\n\nThe Athena School is an independent, co-educational school for Preschool to Year 10 students located in Newtown, an inner western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. The teaching approaches of the school are based on the works of L. Ron Hubbard. The school is registered by the Board of Studies, Teaching and Educational Standards and is a member of the NSW Association of Independent Schools.\n\nThe school uses Study Tech.\n\nThe school is affiliated with the Church of Scientology with teachings based on L. Ron Hubbard's philosophy of education, centered on overcoming the fundamental barriers that prevent one from fully comprehending one’s studies. Per their website, the school states, \"The Athena School is licensed under Applied Scholastics International to use the educational philosophy of author and humanitarian L. Ron Hubbard. As he is also the founder of Scientology, there can be some assumption that The Athena School is a religious school when we are not. The Athena School does not promote any one religion. Our students learn tolerance and respect in accordance with Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\"\n\nSince 2007, all teachers are registered with the Board of Studies, Teaching and Educational Standards.\n\nThe Athena School follows the guidelines set out by the NSW Board of Studies in its curriculum.\n\nIn March 2010 the Greens New South Wales party lodged an official complaint about the school to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission due to an advertising leaflet which fails to reveal the school's link to Scientology. The Principal of the school said the Applied Scholastics study method did not teach the Scientology religion, \"We follow the Board of Studies curriculum. We use the study method of L. Ron Hubbard. It is a method of study, it is not teaching Scientology.\"\n\nIn 2015 the school started a \"green school\" program with Street Coolers, a community-focused organisation with a mission to cool our urban areas. This involved the school utilising several machines capable of creating several kilograms of compost per day, a reverse-vending machine open to the public, which allows individuals to recycle plastic bottles and aluminium cans for coupons, as well as energy and weather monitoring to assess power usage and how the weather affects this. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27735702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27735702", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Morocco", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Morocco\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Morocco began about 1946. In 1953 the Bahá'ís initiated a Ten Year Crusade during which a number of Bahá'ís pioneered to various parts of Morocco—many of whom came from Egypt and a few from the United States including Helen Elsie Austin. By April 1955 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Ceuta was elected. By January 1958 the first Bahá'í summer school was held in Rabat. By spring 1958 the Bahá'í population may have been 100 and there were six assemblies and a regional committee coordinated activities promulgating the religion. In 1960 the first all-Moroccan local assembly was elected in Zaouiat Cheikh and most of its members were Berbers. On December 7, 1961 an article in Al Alam laments the decline of Islam and attacks the Bahá'ís. During the year Bahá'í homes are entered by police and literature of the religion is taken. On April 12 four Bahá'ís are arrested in Nador. A regional National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa was organized which included Morocco in 1962. In 1963 a survey of the community counted 10 Assemblies, 12 organized groups (between 1 and 9 adults) of Bahá'ís. In 1963 the arrests in Morocco had gotten attention from Hassan II of Morocco, US Senator Kenneth B. Keating and Roger Nash Baldwin, then Chairman of the International League for the Rights of Man and would echo in analyses of politics of Morocco for years to come. All Bahá'í meetings were prohibited in 1983 followed by arrests. This time the response emphasized the non-partisan and obedience to government principles of the religion. 1992 estimates by the US Department of State counted some 150-200 Bahá'ís. while 2001 through 2009 estimates mention the Bahá'í community at 350 to 400 persons. However Association of Religion Data Archives and Wolfram Alpha estimated 33,000 Bahá'ís in 2005 and 2010, the third largest religion in the country.\n\nThere is a mention of contact with a Bahá'í in Morocco in 1946 but it's unclear with division (Spanish, French, International Zone.) In August 1947 Marie Claudet, former member of the Baha'i Assembly of Guayaquil (Ecuador) was reported in May to be en route to French Morocco. In 1953 the Bahá'ís initiated a Ten Year Crusade during which a number of Bahá'ís pioneered to various parts of Morocco—many of whom came from Egypt and a few from the United States. Starting in September for the Moroccan International Zone they first to arrive were: Manuchihi Hizari, and Hurmuz Zindih. Manouchehr Hezari earned the title of Knight of Bahá’u’lláh as the very first to settle in Tangier (then an international city). The family stayed many years after Tangier was annexed by the Kingdom of Morocco. Manouchehr worked as an engineer and later as a station manager for Voice of America radio. Then in October more arrivals came—Dr. Helen Elsie Austin and Muhammad-'Ali Jalili came. In November Husayn & Nusraat Ardikani, 'Ali Akhbar & Shayistih Rafi'i, and 'Abbas Rafi'i arrived. For Spanish Morocco in October 1953 they were: Fawzi Zaynu'l-'Abidin & family, Luella McKay, John & Earleta Fleming, and Alyce Janssen. Others arrived in April 1954—Richard & Evelyn Walters and Richard & Mary L. Suhm. Helen Austin was teaching at the American School of Tangier from 1954 to 1957. She was a member of the regional National Assembly of North and West Africa (1953–58), and, in her lifetime, Local Spiritual Assemblies in five countries—including Morocco. Another American family pioneered to Morocco starting in 1956 up to 1960, one returning for a period in 1967-8. By February 1955 there is mention of conversions from the Moroccan population. By April 1955 the first Local Spiritual Assembly of Ceuta, an enclave of Spain in Morocco, was elected. Sometime during 1956 a Roman Catholic priest lodges a complaint against the Bahá'ís of Morocco with the Moroccan Security Service. By January 1958 the first Bahá'í Summer School was held in Rabat. By spring 1958 the Bahá'í population may have been 100 and there were six assemblies and a regional committee is coordinating activities promulgating the religion. In 1960 the first all-Moroccan local assembly was elected in Zaouiat Cheikh and most of its members were Berbers. A regional National Spiritual Assembly for North East is organized in 1956. In 1957 the first Tuareg joins the religion. Louella McKay was another pioneer from about spring 1959 through the fall of 1963 in Spanish Morocco.\n\nA regional National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa was organized in 1962-3 including the merging countries of French, Spanish Morocco and the Moroccan International Zone centered on Tangiers. In 1963 a survey of the community counted 10 Assemblies, 12 organized groups of Bahá'ís and 8 isolated individuals. The assemblies were: Casablanca, Ceuta, Fez, Kenitra, Larache, Marrakesh, Meknès, Nador, Rabat, Sala, Tetuan and Zaouiat Cheikh.\n\nIn Morocco there were episodes of religious persecution in 1962-1963, on the basis of condemnation from Allal El Fassi when 15 Bahá'ís were arrested for their religious convictions; three were given death sentences. On December 7, 1961 an article in Al Alam laments the decline of Islam and attacks the Bahá'ís. During the year Bahá'í homes are entered by police and literature of the religion is taken. On April 12 four Bahá'ís are arrested in Nador. In September the Bahá'ís in the United States contacted Hassan II of Morocco during a visit to the United Nations. On October 31, fourteen Bahá'ís are arrested and are charged with rebellion, disorder, attacks on public security, being an association of criminals, and attacking religious faith. On 10 December the trial begins with charges of sedition. On the 14th the verdict is given—four are acquitted as they claim to be Muslims, one is acquitted through family connections, one is released on 15 years probation, five are committed to life imprisonment and three are sentenced to death. The sentences are appealed to the Moroccan supreme court. Initially Bahá'ís did not publicize the events. On December 17, 1962 news is released among the Bahá'ís and efforts are aimed at asking for the applicability of the UN charter which condemns religious intolerance. On January 31 Roger Nash Baldwin, then Chairman of the International League for the Rights of Man, appeared before a UN sub-commission of Preventing Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and states that, as far as they knew, the Bahá'í prisoners in Morocco are the only example in recent history where members of a religions have been condemned to death solely for holding and expressing religious views regarded as heretical. This appeal through the UN was supported by nearly the entire body of the Harvard Divinity School. There were months of diplomatic efforts; US Senator Kenneth B. Keating stated in the U.S. Senate on February 18, 1963, \"How far religious freedom under the Moroccan Constitution really applies, will be revealed in the coming weeks when the appeal before the Supreme Court [of Morocco] is heard.\" On March 31, 1963 during a visit to the United States and the United Nations, Hassan II of Morocco was interviewed on television on Meet the Press then with Lawrence E. Spivak and was asked about the treatment of Bahá'ís in his own country. He addressed the audience saying that the Bahá'í Faith was not a religion and \"against good order and also morals\". However, on April 2 he makes a public statement that if the Supreme Court confirms the penalty of death that he would grant them a royal pardon. However, on November 23 the Supreme Court hears the appeals and reversed the decision of the lower court. On December 13 the prisoners are actually released. Coverage in newspapers of the day included Wisconsin, Winnipeg and Lethbridge, Canada and Elyria Ohio as well as the New York Times. \"The New Republic\" January 25, 1964 issue had an article by Roger Nash Baldwin, founder of the American Civil Liberties Union and member of the International League for the Rights of Man (an organization accredited by the UN which aims to spread civil liberties around the world). Baldwin mentions how the League, by applying public pressure on the King of Morocco helped save the lives of the Bahá'í prisoners who had been sentenced to death. Baldwin was quoted discussing the League, \"All this adds up to the very tiny beginnings of a system by which the UN itself would examine and process complaints and ultimately help set up a world court of human rights.\"\n\n\"Morocco, Old Land, New Nation\" published in 1966 discusses briefly the exploitation of the religion by a Moroccan political party, in an effort to dramatize a claim \"to be the stanch defender of faith and country,\" and the resultant persecution and imprisonment of several young Baha'i men from Nador. Concerning the Faith, the authors write: \"The attractiveness of the movement stemmed from its belief in world brotherhood (a factor in its recent appeal in certain parts of Africa), the dedication of its organizers, and the vitality of its discussions, which contrasted sharply with the small concern in Morocco with the possibility of modernizing Islam.\" The reactions of various Moroccan leaders, newspaper publicity, and the final reversal of the convictions are noted.\n\nThe first summer school of Morocco for Bahá'ís was held in Meknes, from August 31 to September 6. Over twenty participants were gathered on a farm situated in a suburb of Meknes, belonging to one of the Persian pioneers, Hossein Rowhani Ardakani. The city of Meknes, with more than seventy registered Baha'is, has the largest Bahá'í community in Morocco in 1964. Bahá'ís from Morocco, Tunisia, Belgium, England, Monte Carlo and the Netherlands attended a school in Périgueux, France and shared news of the progress of the religion in their countries. Before June 1965 Hand of the Cause Taráz'u'lláh Samandarí visited the Bahá'ís of Morocco. The Rabat Bahá'í community hosted the May 1–2, 1965 convention for the regional national assembly of North West Africa. All the delegates, except one, were present. The three Benelux countries held their schools at a combined site at De Vechtstrom in the northern Netherlands from August 23 through 30 1965 together with 150 attendees from fifteen countries including Morocco, Tunisia, Japan, Great Britain, United States and others from Europe. The second summer school of Morocco was held in Meknes, August 23 to 29, 1965 with about one hundred Bahá'ís and inquirers and for the first time a greater number of women were present than at previous schools. Issam Tahan died on August 8, 1965 in London during treatment for heart problems. He was the small boy who, while his father was in prison in Morocco, chanted a prayer before the audience at the first Bahá'í World Congress. A summer school in Meknes was held August 1–7, 1966, which attracted about forty participants. Basic courses on administration and history were given, with additional lectures on special topics such as Women and the Bahá'í Faith, Bahá'í Faith and education, and a special study of the Message of the Universal House of Justice to Bahá'í youth. The first winter school was held in Rabat February 25–26, 1967 with twenty-five communities represented. In before fall 1967 Hands of the Cause William Sears and Shu'á'u'lláh `Alá' met with the Bahá'ís in Casablanca and the regional national assembly for a week. The fifth national summer school was held in Meknes September 3–9, 1967, with about 70 attendees from 14 localities. A young girl from Marrakech delivered a prepared lecture on the role of women in the Baha'i Faith presenting an example of women as efficient and active participants. The annual convention for the regional assembly was held in Rabat in April 1968. An international conference was held in Madrid in early April, 1969, organized by the National Youth Committee of Spain with over thirty young Baha'is attendees, representing Austria, England, France, Italy, Morocco, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland. In 1968 a Bahá'í was arrested and would spend four years in prison. The 1970 French summer school, held at Annecy/Sevrier from August 30 to September 8, had attendees of 150 persons from Germany, England, Belgium, Denmark, India, Luxembourg, Dominica, Morocco, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia. However, in 1970 the annual Convention did not take place due to the situation in Morocco. The elections were accomplished through mail correspondence. On October 6, 1971 Morassa (Yazdi) Rawhani, a pioneer since February 1957, died. She had actively participated in the formation of two assemblies of Rabat and Sale. Her burial in the Bahá'í Cemetery at Rabat, was attended by a large number of believers of Morocco, the majority native believers; also in attendance was a representative from the Iranian Embassy in Rabat. After four years of imprisonment Allal Rouhani has been released and on January 30, 1972, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of North-West Africa held a luncheon attended by about sixty Bahá'ís and friends from all the local assemblies in the area. The Universal House of Justice was represented by Salim Nounou from France.\n\nIn 1975 the regional assembly of North West Africa was split into North and West separately. The regional National Assembly of Northern Africa included Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Spanish Sahara. In July 1975 the National Summer School of Spain in July which was at- tended by believers from Spain, Germany, France, and Morocco. More than one parent/child conference was sponsored by the Bahá'ís of Morocco to mark the International Year of the Child. At the discussions on the draft of the \"Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief\" at the \"Social, Cultural and Humanitarian Affairs Committee\" of the United Nations General Assembly there were several mentions of situation of the Bahá'ís in Iran—the Moroccan delegate made reference to \"religious fanaticism\" in a statement which also provoked a reply from Iran. Manuchihi Hizari, one of the first Bahá'ís in Morocco, left with his family in 1982 for the United States where he died in 2010. However persecutions occurred again in Morocco in 1983. All Bahá'í meetings were prohibited. Published polemics in the 1970s and 1980s continued. In June 1984 a Bahá'í in Tetuan is arrested and sentenced to three years in prison for violating the ban on meetings. A response to these developments was to seek diplomatic redress emphasizing the non-partisan and obedience to government principles of the religion.\n\nBahá'ís have more recently been denied passports and can practice their religion only in private.\n\nThe events of 1962–3 are still considered a note on Moroccan politics. The 50th anniversary of the religion in Cameroon attracted some 560 Bahá'ís including visitors from a host of countries including Morocco in 2003. Moroccan Bahá'ís have managed to obtain acceptable national ID cards, avoiding the Egyptian identification card controversy. The religion is still considered heretical or some kind of non-religion religion according to Ayyad Ablal, a Moroccan sociologist.\n\n1992 estimates by the US Department of State counted some 150-200 Bahá'ís while 2001 through 2009 estimates mention the Bahá'í community, mostly in Rabat and Casablanca, at 350 to 400 persons. However Association of Religion Data Archives and Wolfram Alpha estimated 30,000 Bahá'ís in 2005 and 2010, the third largest religion in the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives quotes Census figures of 350 to 400 Bahá'í adherents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007738", "title": "Bahá'í divisions", "text": "Bahá'í divisions\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has had challenges to its leadership, usually at the death of the head of the religion. The vast majority of Bahá'ís have followed a line of authority from Bahá'u'lláh to `Abdu'l-Bahá to Shoghi Effendi to the Custodians to the Universal House of Justice. Sects diverging from this line of leadership have failed to attract a sizeable following. In this sense, there is only one \"major\" branch of the Bahá'í Faith, represented by at least 5 million adherents, whereas the groups that have broken away have either become extinct with time, or have remained very small in number, representing far less than 0.1% of all Bahá'ís. Globally the Bahá'í community has maintained its unity.\n\nBahá'í scriptures define a Lesser Covenant regarding succession which is intended to keep the Bahá'ís unified. Claimants challenging the widely accepted successions of leadership are shunned by the majority group as Covenant-Breakers.\n\nA separate entry discusses the Bahá'í/Bábí split.\n\nBahá'u'lláh remained in the Akka-Haifa area under house arrest until his death in 1892. According to the terms of his will, his eldest son `Abdu'l-Bahá was named the centre of authority; Mírzá Muhammad `Alí, the eldest son from Bahá'u'lláh's second wife, was assigned a secondary position.\n\nPursuant to his role as Centre of the Covenant, `Abdu'l-Bahá became the head of the Bahá'í community. Soon Muhammad `Ali complained that `Abdu'l-Bahá was not sharing authority and he started working against his elder brother. Most members of the families of Bahá'u'lláh's second and third wives supported Muhammad `Alí; however, there were very few outside of Haifa who followed him.\n\nMuhammad `Alí's machinations with the Ottoman authorities resulted in `Abdu'l-Bahá's re-arrest and confinement in Acre. They also caused the appointment of two official commissions of inquiry, which almost led to further exile and incarceration of `Abdu'l-Baha to North Africa. In the aftermath of the Young Turk revolution, Ottoman prisoners were freed thus ending the danger to `Abdu'l-Baha. Meanwhile, Ibrahim George Kheiralla, a Syrian Christian, converted to the Bahá'í Faith, emigrated to the United States and founded the first American Bahá'í community. Initially, he was loyal to 'Abdu'l-Bahá. With time Kheiralla began teaching that `Abdu'l-Baha was the return of Christ, and this was becoming the widespread understanding among the Bahá'ís in the United States, despite `Abdu'l-Baha's efforts to correct the mistake. Later on, Kheiralla switched sides in the conflict between Bahá'u'lláh's sons and supported Mirza Muhammad Ali. He formed the Society of Behaists, a religious denomination promoting Unitarian Bahaism in the U.S., which was later led by Shua Ullah Behai, son of Mirza Muhammad Ali, after he emigrated to the United States in June 1904 at the behest of his father. Muhammad `Alí's supporters either called themselves Behaists or \"Unitarian Bahá'ís\". From 1934 to 1937, Behai published Behai Quarterly a Unitarian Bahai magazine written in English and featuring the writings of Muhammad Ali and various other Unitarian Bahais.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá's response to determined opposition during his tenure was patterned on Bahá'u'lláh's example and evolved across three stages. Initially, like Bahá'u'lláh, he made no public statements but communicated with his brother Muhammad `Alí and his associates directly, or through intermediaries, in seeking reconciliation. When it became clear that reconciliation was not possible, and fearing damage to the community, 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote to the Bahá'ís explaining the situation, identifying the individuals concerned and instructing the believers to sever all ties with those involved. Finally, he sent representatives to those areas most affected by the problem.\n\nThe function of these representatives was to explain matters to the Bahá'ís and to encourage them to persevere in cutting all contact. Often these chosen individuals would have `Abdu'l-Bahá's authority to open up communications with those involved to try to persuade them to return. In Iran, such envoys were principally the four Hands of the Cause appointed by Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nWhen `Abdu'l-Bahá died, his Will and Testament explained in some detail how Muhammad `Alí had been unfaithful to the Covenant, identifying him as a Covenant-breaker and appointing Shoghi Effendi as leader of the Faith with the title of Guardian. Bahá'í authors such as Hasan Balyuzi and Adib Taherzadeh set about refuting the claims of Muhammad `Alí. This represented what is often described as the most testing time for the Bahá'í Faith. The Behaists rejected the authority of the Will and Testament of `Abdu'l-Bahá, claiming loyalty to the leadership succession as they inferred it from Baha'u'llah's Kitab-i-Ahd.\n\nThis schism had very little effect. In the `Akká area, the followers of Muhammad `Alí represented six families at most, they had no common religious activities, and were almost wholly assimilated into Muslim society. A modern academic observer has reported an attempt to revive the claims of Muhammad Ali in order to lend legitimacy to a newly established sect avowing loyalty to Bahá'u'lláh but rejecting the authority that Bahá'u'lláh gave to 'Abdu’l-Bahá and to the Universal House of Justice. In addition, Nigar Bahai Amsalem, the great-granddaughter of Bahá'u'lláh and granddaughter of both Mirza Muhammad Ali and Bahá'u'lláh's youngest son Badi'u'llah, was interviewed in the 2006 Israeli mockumentary film \"Baha'is In My Backyard\". It mentions that she has built a shrine at the tomb of Mirza Muhammad Ali and opposes the Universal House of Justice. She withheld information on the extent of her opposition during her interview for the film.\n\nAt 24, Shoghi Effendi was particularly young when he assumed leadership of the religion in 1921, as provided for by `Abdu'l-Bahá in his Will and Testament. He had received a Western education at the Syrian Protestant College and later at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nAt this time Muhammad-`Alí revived his claim to leadership of the Bahá'í community. He seized the keys of the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh at the mansion of Bahjí, expelled its keeper, and demanded that he be recognized by the authorities as the legal custodian of that property. However, the Palestine authorities, after having conducted some investigations, instructed the British officer in `Akká to deliver the keys into the hands of the keeper loyal to Shoghi Effendi.\n\nAfter the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá, Ruth White questioned the Will's authenticity as early as 1926, and openly opposed Shoghi Effendi's Guardianship, publishing several books on the subject. She wrote a letter to the United States Postmaster General and asked him, among other things, to prohibit the National Spiritual Assembly from \"using the United States Mails to spread the falsehood that Shoghi Effendi is the successor of `Abdu'l-Bahá and the Guardian of the Cause.\" She also wrote a letter to the High Commissioner for Palestine; both of these letters were ignored.\n\nAnother division occurred primarily within the American Bahá'í community, which increasingly consisted of non-Persians with an interest in alternative spiritual pursuits. Many had been strongly attracted to the personality of `Abdu'l-Bahá and the spiritual teachings of the Bahá'í Faith. Some regarded it as an ecumenical society to which all persons of goodwill—regardless of religion—might join. When Shoghi Effendi made clear his position that the Bahá'í Faith was an independent religion with its own distinct administration through local and national spiritual assemblies, a few felt that he had overstepped the bounds of his authority. Most prominent among them was a New York group including Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, Lewis and Julia Chanler, who founded the \"New History Society\", and its youth section, the Caravan of East and West. Sohrab and the Chanlers refused to be overseen by the New York Spiritual Assembly, and were expelled by Shoghi Effendi as Covenant-breakers. They argued that the expulsion was meaningless because they believed the faith could not be institutionalized. The New History Society published several works by Sohrab and Chanler and others. Sohrab accepted the legitimacy of Shoghi Effendi as Guardian, but was critical of the manner of his leadership and the methods of organizing the Bahá'í administration. The New History Society attracted fewer than a dozen Bahá'ís, however its membership swelled to several thousand for a time. The New History Society was active until 1959 and is now defunct. The Caravan House, aka Caravan Institute, later disassociated itself from the Bahá'í Faith, and remained as an unrelated non-profit educational organization.\n\nAll of the divisions of this period were short-lived and restricted in their influence.\n\nIn 1932 Shoghi Effendi's great aunt, Bahiyyih Khanum, died. She was highly respected and had instructed all to follow Shoghi Effendi through several telegrams she had sent around the world announcing the basics of the provisions of `Abdu'l-Bahá's will and was witness to the actions relatives took in violation of provisions of the will. Bahíyyih Khánum had devoted much of her life towards protecting the accepted leadership of the Bahá'í Faith and after Shoghi Effendi's appointment there was little internal opposition until after her death when nephews began to openly oppose Shoghi Effendi over Bahá'u'lláh's house in Baghdad.\nSome family members disapproved of his marriage to a Westerner, Mary Maxwell — daughter of one of the foremost disciples of `Abdu'l-Bahá — in 1937. They claimed that Shoghi Effendi introduced innovations beyond the Iranian roots of the Faith. This gradually resulted in his siblings and cousins disobeying his instructions and marrying into the families of Covenant-breakers, many of whom were expelled as Covenant-breakers themselves. However, these disagreements within Shoghi Effendi's family resulted in no attempts to create a schism favouring an alternative leader. At the time of his death in 1957, he was the only remaining male member of the family of Bahá'u'lláh who had not been expelled. Even his own parents had openly fought against him.\n\nShoghi Effendi died in 1957 without explicitly appointing a successor Guardian. He had no children, and during his lifetime all remaining male descendants of Bahá'u'lláh had been excommunicated as Covenant-breakers. He left no will. Shoghi Effendi's appointed Hands of the Cause unanimously voted it was impossible to legitimately recognize and assent to a successor. The Bahá'í community was in a situation not dealt with explicitly in the provisions of the Will and Testament of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Furthermore, the Universal House of Justice had not yet been elected, which represented the only Bahá'í institution authorized to adjudicate on matters not covered by the religion's three central figures. To understand the transition following the death of Shoghi Effendi in 1957, an explanation of the roles of the Guardian, the Hands of the Cause, and the Universal House of Justice is useful.\n\nOther than allusions in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh to the importance of the Aghsán, the role of the Guardian was not mentioned until the reading of the Will and Testament of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Shoghi Effendi later expressed to his wife and others that he had no foreknowledge of the existence of the Institution of Guardianship, least of all that he was appointed as Guardian.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá warned the Bahá'ís to avoid the problems caused by his half-brother Muhammad `Alí. He stipulated the criteria and form for selecting future Guardians, which was to be clear and unambiguous. His will required that the Guardian appoint his successor \"in his own life-time ... that differences may not arise after his [the Guardian's] passing.\" The appointee was required to be either the first-born son of the Guardian, or one of the Aghsán (literally: Branches; male descendants of Bahá'u'lláh). Finally, `Abdu'l-Bahá left a responsibility to nine Hands of the Cause, elected from all of the Hands, who \"whether unanimously or by a majority vote, must give their assent to the choice of the one whom the Guardian of the Cause of God hath chosen as his successor.\"\n\nThe will also vested authority in the Guardian's appointed assistants, known as the Hands of the Cause, giving them the right to \"cast out from the congregation of the people of Bahá\" anyone they deem in opposition to the Guardian.\n\nThe roles of the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice are complementary, the former providing authoritative interpretation, and the latter providing flexibility and the authority to adjudicate on \"questions that are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book.\" The authority of the two institutions was elucidated by `Abdu'l-Bahá in his will, saying that rebellion and disobedience towards either the Guardian or the Universal House of Justice, is rebellion and disobedience towards God. Shoghi Effendi went into further detail explaining this relationship in \"The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh\", indicating that the institutions are interdependent.\n\nShortly after Shoghi Effendi's death, the 27 then-living Hands of the Cause (Hands) deliberated over whether or not they could legitimately consent to any successor. Only two members present could translate between English and Persian. Following these events Time Magazine reported that there were debates about two possible candidates for Guardian.\n\nOn November 25, 1957, the Hands signed a unanimous proclamation stating that he had died \"without having appointed his successor\"; that \"it is now fallen upon us... to preserve the unity, the security and the development of the Bahá'í World Community and all its institutions\"; and that they would elect from among themselves nine Hands who would \"exercise ... all such functions, rights and powers in succession to the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith... as are necessary to serve the interests of the Bahá'í World Faith, and this until such time as the Universal House of Justice... may otherwise determine.\" This body of nine Hands became known as the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land, sometimes referred to as the Custodians.\n\nThat same day the Hands passed a unanimous resolution that clarified who would have authority over various executive areas. Among these were:\n\nIn their deliberations following Shoghi Effendi's passing they determined that they were not in a position to appoint a successor, only to ratify one, so they advised the Bahá'í community that the Universal House of Justice would consider the matter after it was established.\n\nIn deciding when and how the International Bahá'í Council would develop into the Universal House of Justice, the Hands agreed to carry out Shoghi Effendi's plans for moving it from the appointed council, to an officially recognized Bahá'í Court, to a duly elected body, and then to the elected Universal House of Justice. In November 1959, referring to the goal of becoming recognized as a non-Jewish religious court in Israel, they said: \"this goal, due to the strong trend towards the secularization of Religious Courts in this part of the world, might not be achieved.\" The recognition as a religious court was never achieved, and the International Bahá'í Council was reformed in 1961 as an elected body in preparation for forming the Universal House of Justice. The Hands of the Cause made themselves ineligible for election to both the council and the Universal House of Justice.\n\nUpon the election of the Universal House of Justice at the culmination of the Ten Year Crusade in 1963, the nine Hands acting as interim head of the religion closed their office.\n\nCharles Mason Remey was among the Hands who signed the unanimous proclamations in 1957, acknowledging that Shoghi Effendi had died without having appointed his successor. He was also among the nine Custodians initially elected to serve in the Holy Land as interim head of the religion.\n\nOn 8 April 1960, Remey made a written announcement that he was the second Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith and explained his \"status for life as commander in chief of Bahá’í affairs of the world\" in this proclamation which he requested to be read in front of the annual US convention in Wilmette.\n\nHe based his claim on his having been appointed President of the first International Bahá'í Council by Shoghi Effendi in 1951. The appointed council represented the first international Bahá'í body. Remey believed that his appointment as the council's president meant that he was the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nRegarding the authority of the Hands of the Cause, Remey wrote in his letter that the Hands \"have no authority vested in themselves... save under the direction of the living Guardian of the Faith.\" He further commanded the Bahá'ís to abandon plans for establishing the Universal House of Justice.\n\nRemey never addressed the requirement that Guardians should be male-descendants of Bahá'u'lláh, of whom Remey was not. His followers later referred to letters and public statements of `Abdu'l-Bahá calling him \"my son\" as evidence that he had been implicitly adopted but these claims were almost universally rejected by the body of the Bahá'ís.\n\nIn response, and after having made many prior efforts to convince Remey to withdraw his claim, the Custodians took action and sent a cablegram to the National Spiritual Assemblies on 26 July 1960. Two days later the Custodians sent Mason Remey a letter informing him of their unanimous decision to declare him a Covenant-breaker. They cited the Will and Testament of `Abdul-Bahá, the unanimous joint resolutions of November 25, 1957, and their authority in carrying out the work of the Guardian as their justification. Anyone who accepted Remey's claim to the Guardianship was also expelled.\n\nRemey attracted about 100 followers in the United States and a few others in Pakistan and Europe. Remey maintained his claim to Guardianship, and went on to establish what came to be known as the Orthodox Bahá'ís Under the Hereditary Guardianship, which later broke into several other divisions based on succession disputes within the groups that followed Remey. Although initially disturbing, the mainstream Bahá'ís paid little attention to his movement within a few years. As of 2006 his followers represent two or three groups that maintain little contact with each other, comprising a few hundred members collectively. \n\nThe Bahá'í institutions and believers around the world pledged their loyalty to the Hands of the Cause, who dedicated the next few years to completing Shoghi Effendi's Ten Year Crusade, culminating with the election of the Universal House of Justice in 1963. It was at this time the Custodians officially passed their authority as the head of the Faith to the Universal House of Justice, which soon announced that it could not appoint or legislate to make possible the appointment of a second Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi.\n\nA short time later it elaborated on the situation in which the Guardian would die without being able to appoint a successor, saying that it was an obscure question not covered by Bahá'í scriptures, that no institution or individual at the time could have known the answer, and that it therefore had to be referred to the Universal House of Justice, whose election was confirmed by references in Shoghi Effendi's letters that after 1963 the Bahá'í world would be led by international plans under the direction of the Universal House of Justice.\n\nMason Remey and his successors asserted that a living Guardian is essential for the Bahá'í community, and that the Bahá'í writings required it. The basis of these claims were almost universally rejected by the body of the Bahá'ís, for whom the restoration of scripturally sanctioned leadership of the Universal House of Justice proved more attractive than the claims of Mason Remey.\n\nThe House commented that its own authority was not dependent on the presence of a Guardian, and that its legislative functioning was unaffected by the absence of a Guardian. It stated that in its legislation it would be able to turn to the mass of interpretation left by Shoghi Effendi. The Universal House of Justice addressed this issue further early after its election clarifying that \"there is nowhere any promise or guarantee that the line of Guardians would endure forever; on the contrary there are clear indications that the line could be broken.\"\n\nAll those that professed belief in Mason Remey as the second Guardian did not accept the Universal House of Justice established in 1963.\n\nAmong the Bahá'ís who accepted Mason Remey as the second Guardian, several further divisions have occurred based on conflicting opinions of legitimacy and succession of authority. They began to split into smaller groups even before his death in 1974. Small Remeyite groups are now largely confined to the United States. Some of these divisions are described below.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" reports the following:\n\nRemey died at the age of 99 living many of his last years in Florence, Italy.\n\nIn 1962 Mason Remey asked his supporters in the United States to organize themselves and elect a \"National Spiritual Assembly Under the Hereditary Guardianship\" (NSAUHG). The Assembly was incorporated in New Mexico in 1964.\n\nIn 1964 the NSAUHG filed a lawsuit against the National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Bahá'ís of the United States to receive the legal title to the Bahá'í House of Worship in Illinois, and all other property owned by the NSA. The NSA counter-sued and won. Later that year, Remey asked the NSAUHG to dissolve, as well as the second International Bahá'í Council that he had appointed with Joel Marangella, residing in France, as president. Marangella, Donald Harvey, and Jacques Soghomonian had previously served on the National Spiritual Assembly of France (in 1961) and had been declared Covenant-breakers when they accepted Mason Remey as the next Guardian.\n\nAfter 1966, some followers of Mason Remey began forming their own groups based on different understandings of succession.\n\nJoel Marangella was president of Remey's \"Second International Bahá'í Council\", and claimed in 1969 to have been secretly appointed by Remey as Guardian several years earlier. His supporters came to be known as Orthodox Bahá'ís. Membership data is scarce. One source estimated them at no more than 100 members in 1988, and the group claimed a United States membership of about 40 in a 2007 court case. Websites claiming to represent the Orthodox community indicate followers in the United States and India. Joel Marangella died in San Diego, California on Sept 1, 2013.\n\nLeland Jensen accepted Remey's claim to the Guardianship and later left the group. In 1969 he was convicted of \"a lewd and lascivious act\" for sexually molesting a 15-year-old female patient, and he served four years of a twenty-year sentence in the Montana State Prison. It was in prison that Jensen converted several inmates to his ideas of being what he called the \"Establisher\" of the Bahá'í Faith, stemming from his belief that the Bahá'í administrative order became corrupted. After being paroled in 1973 and before Remey's death, Jensen formed a group called the Bahá'ís Under the Provisions of the Covenant.\n\nSince the 1970s, Jensen believed Remey's adopted son Joseph Pepe was the Guardian, an idea that Pepe rejected several times. In 1991 Jensen appointed followers to a second International Bahá'í Council (sIBC), intending that it would grow into an elected Universal House of Justice after a nuclear holocaust. Jensen died in 1996.\n\nA researcher has noted that since 1980 BUPC membership has never exceeded 200 nationwide, and declined in size significantly by 1990 and beyond. Adherents were mostly concentrated in Montana.\n\nDonald Harvey (d.1991), was appointed by Remey as \"Third Guardian\" in 1967. After Harvey's death in 1991, leadership of this group went to Jacques Soghomonian, a resident of Marseilles, France. Soghomonian died in 2013 and passed the successorship to E.S. Yazdani.\n\nFrancis Spataro of New York City, who supported Donald Harvey's claim as Remey's successor, independently organized \"The Remey Society\" after losing favor with Harvey. Spataro published books about Charles Mason Remey, and at one time had a newsletter with about 400 recipients. When Spataro began to preach that Charles Mason Remey was a \"Prophet\", Harvey cut all ties to Spataro. He then continued to promote the life and works of Charles Mason Remey. In 1995 Francis Spataro became an Old Catholic priest and left the Bahá'í religion altogether. The Remey Society is now extinct.\n\nThe term Free Bahá'ís has been used by or about a small number of Bahá'ís that have attempted schism from the main body of believers of the Bahá'í Faith. More specifically, it is a form of belief that rejects the authority of Shoghi Effendi, appointed in 1921 to lead the community following the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá. \n\nThe term was first used by Hermann Zimmer, who revived the earlier claims of Ruth White that the \"Will and Testament of `Abdu'l-Bahá\" was forged. White's claim was widely rejected by other Bahá'ís of the time, including Bahá'ís who, like her, were enemies of Shoghi Effendi. White was able to gather the support of a single Bahá'í in Germany, Wilhelm Herrigel, who took up her cause; only a few Bahá'ís followed him, and most repudiated him following his death in 1932.\n\n\"The House of Mankind and the Universal Palace of Order\" followed Jamshid Ma'ani and John Carré, but appears now to be defunct. In the early 1970s a Persian man named Jamshid Ma'ani claimed he was \"The Man\"; or a new Manifestation of God. He gained a few dozen Iranian Bahá'í followers. John Carré heard of Jamshid, and wrote a book trying to get other Bahá'ís to accept a new, third Manifestation. Carré even invited \"The Man\" to live in his home in California, but soon concluded, after living with \"The Man\" for four months, that \"The Man\" was not at all godly or spiritual and certainly not a Manifestation of God. \"The Man\" went back to Iran, and Carré ended all association with him.\n\nRex King rejected all claimants to the Guardianship after Shoghi Effendi including Remey. He claimed that he, Rex King, was a \"regent\" pending the emergence of the second Guardian who was in \"occultation\". His group called themselves the Orthodox Bahá'í Faith under the Regency. King died in 1977 and appointed four of his family as the council of regents. This group today calls itself the \"Tarbiyat Baha'i Community\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35288841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35288841", "title": "Bible translations into Native American languages", "text": "Bible translations into Native American languages\n\nBiblical translations into the indigenous languages of North and South America have been produced since the 16th century.\n\nMark, translated by Peter Wzokhilain, was printed in 1830. It was republished in 2011 by Jesse Bruchac.\n\nRoger and Ruth Spielmann of Wycliffe Bible Translators together with local Algonquin people, translated a new translation into modern Algonquin. John was published in 1993. The complete New Testament was published in 1998.\n\nThe first portion of the Bible in Ojibwa, part of the Algonquian language family in Canada, was the Gospels of St Matthew and St John, translated by Peter and John Jones and printed in 1829-31. There are three complete translations of the New Testament in this language: One by Edwin James in 1833, another by Henry Blatchford in 1844 (reprinted in 1856 and 1875), and a third by Frederick O'Meara in 1854 (reprinted in 1874). O'Meara also translated the Psalms (1856) and the Pentateuch (1861), and Robert McDonald translated the Twelve Minor Prophets (1874). Jim Keesic translated about fifty percent of the old testament, and revised the New Testament. This was published by the Canadian Bible Society in August 2008. Bob Bryce and Henry Hostetler also worked on this project.\n\nJonathan Meeker's translation of Matthew and John in the Ottawa dialect appeared in 1841-44. P. Jones's Ottawa dialect translation of Genesis was published in 1835 by the Toronto Auxiliary Bible Society.\n\nMark and John have also been translated into the Ojicree dialect.\n\nMatthew and the Acts were translated by Johnston Lykins and published by the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1844.\n\nThe first Bible portion in Arapaho language (Algonquian family) was translated by John Kliewer, a Mennonite missionary, who translated Matthew 9:1-8. This was published with commentary in a ten-page pamphlet by Wm. J. Krehbiel in 1888. The first book was done by John Roberts, an Episcopal missionary, and Michael White Hawk who translated the Gospel of Luke into Arapaho language for the American Bible Society in 1903.\n\n\nBlackfoot language is part of the Algonquian family. Matthew's gospel was translated by John William Tims and published in 1890 by the British and Foreign Bible Society. He also published \"Readings From the Holy Scriptures\" containing the first three chapters of Genesis and selections from the gospels. Donald and Patricia Frantz of Wycliffe Bible Translators published their translation of Mark in 1972. The work was taken over by Greg and Angela Thomson, whose gospel of John was published by the Canadian Bible Society in 1979. Shortly afterwards Acts was also released in audio format. Most of Luke has also been translated.\n\nRodolphe Petter, a Swiss linguist, and Mennonite missionary, translated the New Testament and part of the Old Testament into Cheyenne (Algonquian family). His translation of the New Testament was \"from the original Greek, with comparison to the Latin Vulgate and other translations\". The first portion of the Bible published were some small translations in the Cheyenne Reading Book, published in 1895. Luke and John were printed together in 1902 and again in 1912. The complete New Testament was first published in 1934.\n\nIn 1975 Wayne and Elena Leman, of Wycliffe Bible Translators, started a translation of the Bible from the original languages into colloquial Cheyenne. (Petter's translation is in a more formal, literal style). Their translation has the complete text for Luke, Philippians, 1 Peter, 1 John as well as portions from other books. It was dedicated on 28 January 2007.\n\nAbraham Luckenbach \"Scripture Narratives from the New Testament\" was published in 1801 followed by his \"Forty-six selected Scripture Narratives from the Old Testament\" in 1838. In the in-between time, Dencke's translation of the Epistles of John was printed in 1818 and David Zeisberger's Harmony of the Gospels was published in 1821.\n\nSilas Rand published with selections from scripture (both the Old and New Testaments) in 1863. This was followed by his translation of John which was published in 1870.\n\nRichard and Carla Bartsch of Wycliffe Bible Translators translated Luke's gospel, which was published in 1996 by the International Bible Society. Selections from the Bible were published in 2008 by Wycliffe.\n\nMicmac language is part of the Algonquian family. In 1844, the Gospel of Mark was translated into Micmac by Native Evangelist Paul Osunkhirine. St Matthew's Gospel was translated in 1853 by Silas Rand. He then continued to translate the entire New Testament, which was published in 1871 as \"Pelā Kesagǔnoodǔmǔkawa\". He also translated and had published Genesis, Exodus, and the Psalms. Rand translated into Micmac from Hebrew and Greek. A new version of the New Testament was published in Micmac in 1999. The work was coordinated by Wycliffe Bible Translators, Watson and Marilyn Williams, both of whom dedicated nearly 30 years to the completion of the work. The team included three translation assistants, Manny Metallic, Nellie Wysote, and Marion Wilmot, community members, and others. Chiefs Ronald Jacques and the late Alphonse Metallic, and the Canadian Bible Society were also recognized for their work on the Bible.\n\nThe New Testament was translated by the language and translation department of the Naskapi Development Corporation, Kawawachikamach Quebec, and Wycliffe Bible Translators. Key people involved in the translation were Bill Jancewicz and Silas Nabinicaboo. Genesis was also translated. The New Testament was published in 2007 by the Canadian Bible Society and simultaneously by the Naskapi Development Corporation.\n\nMatthew, translated by Johnston Lykins, was printed in 1836 and a revision in 1842, and John, translated by Francis Barker was published in 1846. A translation of John was published in 1858, perhaps a revision of Barker's. The four gospels, translated by Thomas W. Alford (Ganwrpiahsikv) was published in 1929.\n\nThe Wampanoag language or \"Massachuset language\" (Algonquian family) was the first North American Indian language into which any Bible translation was made; John Eliot began his Natick version in 1653 and finished it in 1661-63, with a revised edition in 1680-85. It was the first Bible to be printed in North America.\n\nIn 1709 Experience Mayhew published his translation, in the Martha's Vineyard dialect, of the Psalms and John's Gospel.\n\nBible translations and hymns in the Ree or Saniś language., Fort Berthold Mission, 1905.\n\nExternal Links:\n\nIn Mohawk (an Iroquoian language), extracts from the Bible were printed as early as 1715. The Gospel of St Mark, by Joseph Brant, in 1787; and St John, by John Norton, in 1805. Between 1827 and 1836 the rest of the New Testament (except 2 Corinthians) was translated by H. A. Hill, W. Hess, and J. A. Wilkes, and the whole was printed in successive parts. The first part of the Old Testament in Mohawk is Isaiah, translated by William Hess, and printed in 1839. A new version of the Gospels, translated by Chief Joseph Onasakenrat, and reviewed by Jean Dion and P. Laforte, was printed in 1880. Onasakenrat was working on completing translating the Bible, but only got till Hebrews, dying before it was completed, his manuscript was never published. Jonah, Daniel, Ruth, Esther, and 2 Corinthians have been recently translated by a team of Mohawk Bible Translators led by Mavis Etienne. They are working on completing the Mohawk Bible translation. Wycliffe Bible Translators is involved.\n\nDavid M. Cory translated Luke, and this was published by the American Bible Society in 1942.\n\nFive hundred copies of Luke, translated by Thompson S. Harris, was printed in 1829 by the American Bible Society. The Four Gospels, translated by Asher Wright, were published in 1874.\n\nWycliffe Bible Translator's Randall and Anna Speirs translation of Mark in the Santa Clara dialect was published in 1969. Their translation of James into the San Juan dialect was published in 1973.\n\nMark, Luke, Acts, and 1 Peter in the Santa Clara dialect, and John, Romans, Philippians, 1,2 Thessalonians, 1,2 Timothy, Titus, Philemon, James, and 1, 2, 3 John in the San Juan dialect were published together as a volume in 1984 and digitally published in 2012.\n\nEsther Martinez was also involved in this project.\n\nWycliffe Bible Translators Barbara J Allen and Donna B Gardiner's translation of Mark was published in 1978 and again in 1980, Acts in 1981, John in 1987, James in 1985,\n\nMark, translated by David and Alice Hull was published by Wycliffe Bible Translators in 1976. Luke, translated by Corrie Kontak and Janet Kunkel was published in 1992 by Messengers of Christ.\n\nMayan languages are subdivided into Huastecan, Yucatecan, Ch'olan, Q'anjobalan, Mamean, and Quichean.\n\n\nPhilip and Mary Baer of Wycliffe Bible Translators are working on Lacandon language (Mayan family) Bible translation for the 1,000 speakers of Lacandon in Mexico. The New Testament was complete in 1978 and published by the World Bible League as \"A QUET U T'ɅNO' A RIC'BENO\". There has since been progress on the Old Testament.\n\nIn Choctaw language (one of the Muskogean languages), three of the Gospels, translated by Alfred Wright, were printed as early as 1831, and the complete New Testament, by Wright and Cyrus Byington, in 1848. There translation of Joshua, Judges and Ruth were published as one volume in 1852. Psalms in 1886 (translated C. Byington and J. Edwards.) and the Pentateuch in 1867. The first and second book of Samuel and the first book of Kings followed in 1913, as did John Edwards translation of 2 Kings. First and Second Samuel and the first book of Kings was drafted by Joseph Dukes and then finalized by Alfred Wright.\n\nWycliffe Bible Translators working on a translation into modern Choctaw. Jonah and Amos were published separately 1996.\n\nLuke 2:1-20 was published by SIL in 1981. Gene Burnham and David Rising of Wycliffe Bible Translators were working on translation. Bel Abbey was also involved on this project.\n\nMark was translated into Mikasukee by Wycliffe Bible Translators David and Virginia West and was published in 1980. They also published \"Stories from Genesis\" in 1985.\n\nJohn, translated by Davis and Lykins, was published in 1835. Another version translated by Buckner was published in 1860. The New Testament (first published in 1887 and again in 1906), Psalms (published 1908) and Genesis (published 1893) were translated by Anna Eliza Robertson with the help of many Muskogee Christians. They were translated from the original Greek and Hebrew, Robertson knew Greek and other missionaries helped her with the Hebrew. James Ramsey and John Edwards helped with the old testament translations. The New \nTestament went through five revisions during Robertson's life. The New Testament was reprinted by Wiyo Publishing Company in 2011.\n\nThe Oto-Manguean languages consist of several families:\n\nKenneth L. Pike - Evangelical, translated into Mixtec language (Oto-Manguean family)\n\nAlfred E. Price's translation of Luke was published in 1899.\n\nMatthew, translated by Spalding, was twice printed (in 1845 and 1871). Both John and the first epistle of John, translated by George Ainslie, appeared in 1876. A harmony of the four gospels, translated by Joseph M. Cataldo, was published in 1914\n\nJames McCullagh's translation of Matthew was published by the Aiyansh Mission in 1895. He later translated the whole New Testament. James was published in 1918\n\nWilliam Ridley's translation of Matthew was published in 1885, Mark in 1887, Luke in 1887, John in 1889, The letters of Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Thessalonians, Timothy, Titus and Philemon, James, 1, 2 Peter, 1, 2 John and Jude were published in 1898.\n\nJoseph Giordia's \"Lu tel kaimintis kolinzuten kuitlt smiimii\" (Some narratives from the Holy Bible\") was published by the St. Ignatius Print in 1879.\n\nMark was published in 1979. Acts 1-15 in 1981. 1 Timothy was printed in 1984. 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Titus, Philemon were published as one volume in 1991. James, Colossians and Galatians were published in 2005. It is hoped that the New Testament can be dedicated in 2012.\n\nThe Dakota language Bible translation was started with Thomas Williamson and Joseph Renville, a fur trader of French and Dakotan descent. Williamson first modified the Latin alphabet to \"work\" for Dakota, he then spent day after day for two or three winters in Renville's warehouse, reading verse by verse from his French Bible. Renville would then give the Dakota, and Williamson would write it down. They finished Mark and John this way. In 1837 Williamson was joined by Stephen Riggs. Both of them learned Dakota, and then compared the tentative translation with the original Greek.\n\nIn 1843 they offered a corrected version of Luke and John to the American Bible Society to be printed. It took nearly 40 years before the full Bible was translated. Williamson never lived to see it finished, as he died in 1879. Their work was revised by Williamson's son, the Rev. John Williamson.\n\nGenesis 1842; Luke and John 1843; New Testament 1865; Holy Bible 1879;\n\nEugene Buechel published \"Wowapi Wakan Wicowoyake Yuptecelapi Kin\" (The Abridged Bible Stories) in the Lakhota dialect in 1924. It included a selection of texts modeled after the German \"Biblische Geschichte\".\n\nMercy Poorman, Velma Young, and Ed L. Bausell translated Riggs and Williamson's 1887 John from the Dakota dialect into the Lakota dialect. This was published in 1997 by Tiospaye Bible Baptist. The Lakota Bible Translation Project has translated various small booklets with selections from scripture, and in 2006 published Luke's gospel. The Lakota Bible Translation Project's translators include Jerry Yellowhawk, Rosalie Little Thunder, and Ben Black Bear.\n\nThe four Gospels, Acts, Genesis and chapters 19 and 20 of Exodus were translated by John Stacy and Jacob Stucki and published by the American Bible Society in 1907. Helen Miller published a revised version of these texts in 2009.\n\nMatthew was translated by Samuel Irvin and William Hamilton. It was published in 1843 by the Ioway and Sac mission press. Exodus 20, Psalm 11 and 15 were also translated and included in a literacy book printed the same year.\n\n\"Washashe wageress pahvgreh tse\" (Osage: \"𐓏𐓘𐓻𐓘𐓻𐓟 𐓏𐓘𐓹𐓟𐓧𐓟𐓲 𐓄𐓛𐓷𐓤𐓧𐓟 𐓊𐓟\"), a book with passages from scripture translated by William Regus and William Montgomery was published in 1834. This book includes selections from Proverbs, Genesis, Exodus, Isaiah and the four gospels.\n\nNote: Some vowels in Washashe wageress pahvgreh tse were not standard and thus rather hard to find in unicode. The above sample has those letters changed to their IPA equivalents: (ɔ, ʌ, ĩ, õ)\n\n\"Hymns and scripture selections in the Mandan language\" was published in 1905 by Berthold Mission.\n\nLazarus Wesley translated Mark into Stoney Nakoda in the 1970s. Quentin Lefthand, assisted by Virginia Wesley, Allie Lefthand, Clarence Lefthand, Mary Kaquitts, Yvonne Lefthand and other members of the Stoney community (along with Wycliffe consultant Rob Taylor) translated Luke, Acts, Genesis, James and Revelation into Stoney Nakoda between 2007 and Quentin's death in 2011. Luke was published in DVD format in 2009 and Acts followed in 2012. It is expected that Genesis will be published in 2015 and Revelation in 2016.\n\nScott and Lynanne Palmer, of Wycliffe Bible Translators, are working on translating the Bible into the Havasupai language. Luke was published in the 1980s, and at least 86% of the rest of the New Testament and Genesis has been drafted.\n\nMelvin Swartout's 1899 \"Shorter catechism and hymnal\" included a few selections from the Bible, specifically the ten commandments, the Lord's prayer, Matt 5:3-10 (the Beatitudes), John 14, 1 Timothy 1:16, John 3:16, and John 11:25, 26.\n\nAlfred James Hall, working together with William Brotchie translated portions of the Bible into the Kwak'wala language. Matthew was published in 1882 by the British and Foreign Bible Society. John was published in 1884, Luke in 1894, Acts in 1897 and Mark in 1900. All were published by the British and Foreign Bible Society.\n\nThe first portion of the Bible in Haida language (Language isolate) of Alaska, 500 copies of Matthew, became available in 1891. It was translated by Charles Harrison (missionary), a Church Missionary Society missionary at Masset. Harrison was sent out in 1882, and returned to England in 1891, being succeeded by the Rev. John Henry Keen. Harrison also published a book entitled \"Old Testament Stories in the Haida language\", this was published after he had already returned to England, in 1893. In 1897 Keen's version of the Acts was published: till then Matthew was the only printed book in the language. Keen also prepared Luke, John, 1 Corinthians, Psalms, and parts of Genesis. (see account of his method of translation, Report of the British and Foreign Bible Society, 1898, p. 317); Luke and John were published in 1899. It is unclear what happened to Keen's manuscripts for Genesis, Psalms, and 1 Corinthians, as they were never published.\n\nJohn Menaul translated Exodus 20 (the ten commandments) and Matthew 5 (The sermon on the mount) into Keres. It was published in 1883 at the Laguna Mission Press.\n\nPortions of the Bible were translated into Eastern Keres in the 1930s by H. Carroll Whitener. Matthew was published in 1933 and John was published in 1935 and Acts in 1936. Portions into Western Keres were translated from the 1960s with the first full book being completed in 1997.\n\nEdward W. Moser - American Evangelical, into the Seri language of Mexico.\n\nIn 1906, Andrew VanderWagen, with the help of Nich Tumaka, translated Mark and perhaps other portions into the Zuñi language (a language isolate) of western New Mexico and eastern Arizona. In the 1930s and 1940s, George Yff and Rex Natewa, with the help of Wycliffe Bible Translator Carroll Whitener translated Matthew and John. These translations had many problems, including the fact that they used grammatical sentence structure based on English instead of on Zuñi.\n\nAfter extensive study of the Zuñi language, and massive recordings of their folklore, and after creating a writing system that worked for their language, Curtis Cook translated the gospel of Mark (published in 1970), John (published 2011) and Acts (in 1978) into the Zuñi language. Cook's chief language helper was Lorenzo Chavez\n\nLuke and Genesis have been translated by Wycliffe translators Bill and Carolyn Murray. They have been released on a media DVD. The Murray's, together with Rose Chapman, Sherry Siutza and Delbert Haloo are currently working on a translation of Galatians.\n\n\nThe gospel of Mark was translated into Chinook Jargon and published in 1912.\n"}
{"id": "913782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913782", "title": "Brian Griffin", "text": "Brian Griffin\n\nBrian Griffin is a fictional character from the American animated television series \"Family Guy\". An anthropomorphic white dog voiced by Seth MacFarlane, he is one of the show's main characters as a member of the Griffin family. He primarily works in the series as a less-than-adept writer struggling to find himself, attempting essays, novels, screenplays, and newspaper articles.\n\nHe first appeared on television, along with the rest of the family, in a 15-minute short on December 20, 1998. Brian was created and designed by MacFarlane himself. MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company, based on \"The Life of Larry\" and \"Larry & Steve\", two shorts made by MacFarlane featuring a middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve. After the pilot was given the green light, the Griffin family appeared in the episode \"Death Has a Shadow\". Brian's appearance is a redesign of Steve the dog from MacFarlane's previous show.\n\nBrian has been featured in many items of merchandise for \"Family Guy\", and he is considered to be one of the show's biggest merchandising icons. He has also made crossover appearances in the other MacFarlane-produced shows, such as \"American Dad!\" and \"The Cleveland Show\".\n\nAs a character, Brian has been very well received by critics and fans. When Brian was killed off in the season 12 episode \"Life of Brian\", the events of the episode received substantial attention from the media and elicited strongly negative reactions from fans of the show. Brian subsequently returned two episodes later, in \"Christmas Guy\", after Stewie travels back in time to save him.\n\nBrian is a white-furred anthropomorphic dog. He can talk, generally walks on his hind legs (using his front legs as arms), has opposable thumbs, drives a second-generation Toyota Prius (with the license plate \"BRI-DOG\"), and often acts more rationally than the other characters in the series. He is the pet dog and close friend of the Griffin family, and, although anthropomorphic animals are not a regular element of the show, Brian's human attributes receive little acknowledgment and no explanation; he is largely treated as a human character. Brian has a particularly close relationship with Stewie, and many of the show's sub-plots center around them. They are occasionally at the center of the plot, for instance in the \"Road to...\" episodes. Brian and Stewie have a love/hate relationship in which they constantly bicker and insult each other, and yet show affection to each other several times. In the episode \"Brian and Stewie\", they admit that they love each other as friends, and give each other's lives purpose.\n\nBrian is very fond of dry martinis and is seen to have some issues in various episodes when he is told or forced to stop drinking. These episodes suggest that Brian is possibly an alcoholic. He smokes occasionally, although in the episode \"Mr. Griffin Goes to Washington\", after seeing Peter promoting a corrupt cigarette company, he quit smoking, a habit he resumed at the end of that episode. He also occasionally smokes marijuana. After a brief stint as a drug sniffing dog, he developed a severe cocaine addiction, but after spending time in rehab he managed to quit.\n\nHe is the son of Coco and Biscuit, who were normal dogs, though Brian's human attributes have been present since he was a puppy. He claims his father is racist, and Brian seems to have inherited these tendencies. Brian received an Ivy League education, having attended Brown University, as seen in \"Brian Goes Back to College\" but was shy one course from graduating. He is also an Iraq War veteran because Stewie signed them both up for the Army, in \"Saving Private Brian\". \"Family Guy\" uses a floating timeline in which the characters do not age much, so the show is always assumed to be set in the current year. However, several of the characters, such as Meg Griffin, have aged two to three years since the show's pilot episode, while others, such as Stewie and Brian, have aged very little. At the start of the series, Brian was 7, but is currently 8 years old.\n\nIn several episodes, events have been linked to specific times, although this timeline has been contradicted in subsequent episodes. An example of this is when in \"Brian: Portrait of a Dog\", Peter is shown in a flashback finding a fully grown Brian as a stray. However, in \"The Man with Two Brians\", Brian tries to regain attention from the Griffin family by showing them home videos of him as a puppy, although none of the videos of him as a puppy showed any member of the Griffin family, so it is possible that the videos were filmed by a previous owner. He also has a human son named Dylan, who was a regular marijuana smoker, before Brian managed to turn Dylan's life around, from a violent, uneducated teenager, to a well-mannered friendly young man. Stewie is very confused upon how Brian as an 8-year-old dog can have a teenage son, and Brian's remark about it being in dog years confuses him even further.\n\nBrian is a political liberal, who supports legalizing marijuana and gay marriage and ending the \"war on terror\". He is also an atheist, although in the episode \"April in Quahog\" he starts praying out of panic when, as an April Fool's joke, news anchors Tom Tucker and Diane Simmons trick the entire town of Quahog into believing that the world is about to end.\n\nBrian is an aspiring but struggling writer – this is said to be a reference to Snoopy from \"Peanuts\". Brian is unemployed, but he is often seen writing various novels, screenplays or essays. His difficult writing career and apparent lack of talent is used as a recurring joke throughout the series. In the episode \"Play it Again, Brian\", Brian won an award for an essay he wrote, though he later admits that he plagiarized the piece.\n\nBrian has written since college, as told in \"Brian Griffin's House of Payne\", in which his TV drama pilot is accepted (and then drastically amended) by a local studio.\n\nIn the episode \"Movin' Out\", Brian starts writing his book \"Faster Than The Speed of Love\", which is revealed to be a rip-off of the \"Iron Eagle\" films, specifically \"\".\n\nIn the episode \"420\", Brian finally publishes his novel \"Faster Than the Speed of Love\", and the novel is shipped, but it is critically panned and does not sell a single copy. In the episode \"Dog Gone\", he receives an invitation (from the Rhode Island Society for Special Literary Excellence) to an award ceremony celebrating his novel. Brian, convinced that he is a great writer, attempts to gain the family's interest in this piece of news but fails to do so. Once he arrives at the \"award ceremony\", however, he discovers that he has misunderstood the meaning of the word \"special\".\n\nLater in the episode \"Brian Griffin's House of Payne\", he writes a television script entitled \"What I Learned on Jefferson Street\", and it was shown to a TV network who picked it up after reading it. Although the script was good, the finished product was not, as James Woods intervened and turned Brian's script into a farcical comedy piece revolving around Woods going back to college, where he is roommates with a monkey named Mr. Teenie. In the episode \"Brian Writes a Bestseller\", Brian writes a bestselling self-help book, \"Wish It, Want It, Do It\", which he wrote in a few hours and consists mostly of blank pages. The book is an immediate success, but Brian lets the fame go to his head. He eventually causes the downfall of his book's popularity, and things go back to normal. It is mentioned again to get a girl in \"Yug Ylimaf\".\n\nBrian's latest literary attempt came in the episode \"Brian's Play\", where Brian writes a play entitled \"A Passing Fancy\". The play becomes very popular in Quahog; however, Brian is upset when he realizes that Stewie had since written a play which was better than his. Stewie's play was eventually shown on Broadway. Brian became depressed, as he only wanted to be a good writer for the few years which remain of his life, and not have to be overshadowed by Stewie, who has his whole life ahead of him.\n\n\"Family Guy\" creator Seth MacFarlane created a cartoon short entitled \"Life of Larry\". The short centered around a middle-aged man named Larry and his anthropomorphic dog Steve. In 1997, when MacFarlane was working for Hanna-Barbera Studios, writing for shows such as \"Johnny Bravo\", \"Dexter's Laboratory\", and \"Cow and Chicken\", he made a sequel to \"Life of Larry\". The short caught the eye of 20th Century Fox representatives, who asked him to create a TV series revolving around the characters. MacFarlane received a US$50,000 budget to develop a pilot for the show, which was, as MacFarlane stated in a 2006 interview, \" about one twentieth of what most pilots cost\". MacFarlane claims to have drawn inspiration from several sitcoms, namely \"The Simpsons\" and \"All in the Family\". Several premises were also carried over from several 1980s Saturday morning cartoons he watched as a child, namely \"The Fonz and the Happy Days Gang\", and \"Rubik, the Amazing Cube\".\n\nIn three months, MacFarlane created the Griffin family and developed a pilot for the show he called \"Family Guy\". Brian's character was largely based on Steve, and Larry would be the main inspiration for the Peter character.\nThe voice of Brian is provided by series creator Seth MacFarlane, who also provides the voices of many other characters including Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire. Brian's voice is MacFarlane's normal speaking voice. William H. Macy auditioned unsuccessfully for the role.\n\nIn the episode \"Road to the Multiverse\", Brian was voiced by Japanese actor Kotaro Watanabe in a scene where everything in the world is Japanese.\n\nAhsan Haque of IGN has given Brian a positive review, calling him the best talking man-dog. He also praised Brian's adventures with Stewie calling them, \"center of many of the show's best bits\". Haque later made a list titled \"Family Guy: Stewie and Brian's Greatest Adventures\", where he stated that \"Brian and Stewie paired together has always been a winning formula for Family Guy\". They also praised the selection of Brian to play Chewbacca as they stated in the \"Blue Harvest\" review. In their list of \"What Else Should Family Guy Make Fun Of?\", IGN commented that Brian would be perfect to play Q, if \"Family Guy\" ever decides to make a James Bond parody.\nHowever, in a review of the seventh season, Haque wrote that Brian \"unfortunately was terribly misused this season. He's degenerated into nothing more than a soapbox for the political views of the writers\". In a review of the eighth season, following his transition into a heel character, Ramsey Isler stated that Brian \"left his lofty position as the voice of reason and switched to pretentious loser\".\n\nTodd VanDerWerff of The A.V. Club praised the Brian character, and stated that \"Brian has always been the show's best character and its most developed one\". In a 2004 interview, Seth MacFarlane noted his similarities to Brian. He also revealed that Brian is his favorite character, because he feels most comfortable when playing that role.\n\nIn IGN's \"\"Family Guy\": Top 10 Fights\", Brian's fight with Stewie in the episode \"Patriot Games (season 4, 2006) is ranked number 5. In IGN's \"Top 10 musical moments in \"Family Guy\"\", Brian ranked number 6, number 5, and number 3 with the songs, \"The Freakin' FCC\" from \"PTV\" (season 4, 2005), \"Never Gonna Give You Up\" from \"Meet the Quagmires\" (season 5, 2007) and \"This House Is Freakin' Sweet\" from \"Peter, Peter, Caviar Eater\" (season 2, 1999) respectively. In a list of the Top 25 \"Family Guy\" characters compiled by IGN, Brian was placed second on the list (behind Stewie). They stated that \"man's best friend is a poor understatement\" with regards to Brian.\n\nBrian's death was the main focus in the season twelve episode \"Life of Brian\". After Stewie destroys his time machine because of the risks of changing history and losing their lives, Brian and Stewie arrive home with a street hockey net they had found in a dump, where Stewie destroyed his time machine for good. As he is setting it up, Brian is struck by a reckless driver in a hit and run and later succumbs to his injuries at the veterinary clinic. Stewie is unable to rebuild the time machine as he cannot acquire a new power supply. After a month of mourning the loss of their beloved pet, the family replaces Brian with a new dog, named Vinny. The death of Brian in the episode \"Life of Brian\" was met with massive opposition and anger from \"Family Guy\" fans around the world, many of whom threatened to boycott the show due to Brian's absence. Family Guy's official Facebook and Twitter pages were bombarded with messages and comments from fans demanding that they bring Brian back. Hostile messages were also directed towards Family Guy's producing staff, including the show's creator, Seth MacFarlane. MacFarlane later thanked fans \"for caring so much about the canine Griffin, he is overcome with gratitude.\" Fan petitions sprang up within hours of \"Life of Brian\"'s first airing, also receiving media attention including most prominently a Change.org petition directed towards Seth MacFarlane, making the petition one of the fastest-growing entertainment-related petitions on the site, attracting over 120,000 signatures.\n\nTwo episodes later in \"Christmas Guy\", Stewie still misses Brian dearly and spots a past incarnation of himself who has traveled forward in time to Christmas (An event referenced in \"Life of Brian\"). Stealing the time machine's return pad from his past self while Vinny provides a distraction, Stewie goes back in time and saves Brian's life, at the cost of erasing himself from history. Brian is extremely grateful for being saved, but Stewie of this timeline finds Brian's affections unnerving, not knowing the reason behind them. The episode ends with the family sitting around their Christmas tree with everything back to normal. After \"Christmas Guy\" aired, Seth MacFarlane tweeted, \"you didn't really think we'd kill off Brian, did you? Jesus, we'd have to be fucking high.\"\n\nBrian is featured in a \"Family Guy\" parody in the \"South Park\" episode \"Cartoon Wars Part I\". The scene depicted a conversation between Peter and Brian leading to one of the show's trademark cut-away gags; like Peter, Brian was rendered in the distinct animation style of \"South Park\". Brian also appeared in one episode of Seth MacFarlene's other animated sitcom, \"American Dad!\" titled \"The People vs. Martin Sugar.\" When Stan Smith begins to mention his list of \"Top 10 Fictitious Dogs,\" with the last one being Brian, he briefly appears confused asking Stan, \"Uh, do I know you?\", which is an homage to MacFarlane himself since he voices both characters.\n\nBrian was also featured, along with Stewie, in an advertisement for Wheat Thins. He and Stewie also introduced the 2007 Emmy Awards with a song which recapped the events in television, over the past year. The song was adapted from the one sung by Brian, Stewie and Peter in the \"Family Guy\" episode \"PTV\".\n\nBrian is featured on the \"\" CD, and also plays a significant part in \"Family Guy Video Game!\", the first \"Family Guy\" video game, which was released by Sierra Entertainment in 2006. He (along with Stewie) features at the center of Family Guy's second video game, \"\".\n\nMacFarlane recorded exclusive material of Brian's voice and other \"Family Guy\" characters for a 2007 pinball machine of the show by Stern Pinball. In 2004, the first series of \"Family Guy\" toy figurines was released by Mezco Toyz, each member of the Griffin family had their own toy, with the exception of Stewie, of whom two different figures were made. Over the course of two years, four more series of toy figures have been released.\n\nAs of 2009, six books have been released about the \"Family Guy\" universe, all published by HarperCollins since 2005. This include \"\" (), which covers the entire events of the episode \"It Takes a Village Idiot, and I Married One\", and \"Family Guy and Philosophy: A Cure for the Petarded\" (), a collection of seventeen essays exploring the connections between the series and historical philosophers. which include Brian as a character.\nA book written from Brian's point of view (actually written by Andrew Goldberg) was published in 2006. It was called \"Brian Griffin's Guide to Booze, Broads and the Lost Art of Being a Man\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25159004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25159004", "title": "Burqa Barbie", "text": "Burqa Barbie\n\nBurqa Barbie is a creation of Eliana Lorena, an Italian designer. It is a Mattel Barbie doll wearing a burqa.\n\n"}
{"id": "8215273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8215273", "title": "Daheshism", "text": "Daheshism\n\nDaheshism (in Arabic الداهشية) is a spiritual message established by Dr. Dahesh (real name Salim Moussa Achi) in 1942:\n\nOn March 23, 1942, at the age of thirty three, Dr. Dahesh proclaimed in Beirut a spiritual message in which he called upon all people to embrace the ideals, the essence of their religions, not reducing their faith into external shows of pagan-like rituals and practices. He declared his belief that humans—like all the other creatures on Earth—are subject to a cosmic law system. \n\nThe just dispensations of this spiritual system apportion to humans their reincarnation on Earth, or in other worlds, according to their deserts. This cycle of reincarnation will come to an end only when they achieve spiritual transcendence by their own free will, integrating themselves into the spirit world. \n\nProclaimed by Salim Moussa Achi (\"Doctor Dahesh\") on March 23, 1942, Daheshism is a spiritual doctrine whose tenets are built around the belief in a deeply mysterious, non-anthropomorphic, ever-present and watchful God. \nDaheshism teaches that all the major prophets (e.g., Abraham, Moses, David, Buddha, Jesus, and Mohammad) emanated from the same source known as The Christ. However — and as per a written directive by Doctor Dahesh — a Daheshist is obligated to respect other cultures' idea of God, to refrain from proselytizing, and never to engage in any sort of coercion. Daheshism believes in the intrinsic correlation between all the major religions: while Daheshism implies a “Unity of Religions,” it recognizes the necessity for those different religions. From a Daheshist perspective, a Christian, for example, need only become a better Christian. \n\nA Daheshist believes that all of creation is spread out over a multidimensional universe divided into three principal realms, each divided into 150 levels:\n\nThe utmost 150 levels make up the World of the Spirits, also known as The Divine Worlds. The highest, or purest of these Divine Worlds, are called The Heavens — the realm of God almighty. \n\nDaheshists believe that since no one can transgress certain limits — ever — the prospect of peering into the realm of God is therefore impossible. \n\nThe realm of the Spirits comprises 150 levels; within these levels, dwell the Spirits. From these Spirits, extends a network of energy signatures known to the Daheshists as the Spiritual Fluids, in various degrees of loftiness, and depth, forming two subsequent realms known as Paradise, and Hell, each divided into 150 levels.\n\nSpiritual Fluids are therefore the utmost-fundamental sentient energy building blocks, as well as the fabric and hidden consciousness of the realms of Paradise and Hell.\n\nDaheshists believe in the existence of an equitable universal justice system that allows the Spiritual Fluids of all living — and non-living matter alike — to leave one plane of existence and reincarnate into another, according to their actions and tendencies. It is through these many cycles of reincarnation that Spiritual Fluids are given the opportunity to purify themselves in order to materialize in progressively better worlds, with the ultimate goal to become one with God. \n\nTo a Daheshist, as sad and tragic as it may often feel, death is but a transition from one reality into another whose setting and circumstances that lie waiting are the direct consequences of one’s thoughts and actions. \n\nDaheshism is summarized in the following five points:\n\nDaheshists believe that Doctor Dahesh was, in part, a materialization of a Spiritual Fluid from THE CHRIST — the source of all the prophets, including Jesus Christ and Moses.\n\nThe Dahesh Heritage Center and The Daheshist Publishing Company, located on Broadway, New York, publish many books related to Dr. Dahesh's literature; Daheshism history; beliefs and news; and art-related literature as Dr. Dahesh was an avid art collector. His art collection is gathered in the Dahesh Museum of Art in New York.\n\nThe Daheshist Publishing Company also publishes the quarterly publication \"Dahesh Voice\" (in Arabic صوت داهش) in English and Arabic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1356363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356363", "title": "Dakini", "text": "Dakini\n\nA ḍākinī (; ; ; alternatively ) is a type of spirit in Vajrayana Buddhism. The Sanskrit term is likely related to the term for drumming, while the Tibetan term means \"skygoer\" and may have originated in the Sanskrit \"khecara\", a term from the \"Cakrasaṃvara Tantra\". Dakinis are often represented as consorts in Yab-Yum representations. The masculine form of the word is \"\", which is usually translated into Tibetan as \"pawo\" \"hero\" ().\n\nThe ḍākinī (and the ḍāka) appeared in medieval legends in India (such as in the \"Bhagavata Purana\", \"Brahma Purana\", \"Markandeya Purana\" and \"Kathasaritsagara\") as a demon in the train of Kali who feeds on human flesh. \n\nAs a key tantric figure, the ḍākinī does appear in Tangmi; the ḍākinī figure disseminated into Japanese culture from Shingon Buddhism, evolving into the \"dakini-ten\" (\"ten\" means \"deva\" in Japanese), becoming linked to the kitsune iconography.\n\nThe ḍākinī appears in a Vajrayana formulation of the Buddhist refuge formula known as the Three Roots. Most commonly she appears as the dharmapala, alongside a guru and yidam.\n\nThe archetypal ḍākinī in Tibetan Buddhism is Yeshe Tsogyal, consort of Padmasambhava.\n\nAlthough ḍākinī figures appear in Hinduism and Bon, ḍākinīs occur most notably in Vajrayana Buddhism and especially Tibetan Buddhism. The khandroma, generally of volatile or wrathful temperament, acts somewhat as spiritual muse for spiritual practice. Dakinis are energetic beings in female form, evocative of the movement of energy in space. In this context, the sky or space indicates śūnyatā, the insubstantiality of all phenomena, which is, at the same time, the pure potentiality for all possible manifestations. \n\nJudith Simmer-Brown, based on teachings she received from Tibetan lamas, identifies four main classes of ḍākinī. These follow the twilight language tradition of esoteric Buddhism in referring to secret, inner, outer and outer-outer classes of ḍākinīs.\n\n\nDakinis can also be classified according to the Trikaya, or three bodies of buddhahood.\n\nWhen considered as a stage on the Vajrayana Path, the ḍākinī is the final stages: the first is the guru, which corresponds to the initial realization of the true condition of reality, as this is introduced by the guru in the empowerment, if the disciple obtains what the Inner Tantras call peyi yeshe () or the clarity of shunyata. The second is the devata, which corresponds to the meditation insofar as the devata is the method used for developing the state discovered in the initial realization of the true condition of reality. The third stage is the ḍākinī insofar as the ḍākinī is the source of the activities based on the realization of the guru and the meditation of the devata.\n\nIn Dzogchen these three correspond to tawa (\"lta ba\"), gompa (\"sgom pa\") and chöpa (\"spyod pa\"): the first is the direct vision of the true nature of reality rather than an intellectual view of reality, as is the case with the term in other vehicles; the second is the continuity of this vision in sessions of meditation; and the third is the continuity of this vision in everyday activities. As a tantric practice, imperfections are utilised to make the vision uninterrupted. As the Base, the ḍākinīs are the energies of life; as the Path, they are the activities of advanced practitioners; as the Fruit, they are the actionless activities of realized Masters.\n\nBeing associated with energy in all its functions, ḍākinīs are linked with the revelation of the Anuttarayoga Tantras, which represent the path of transformation, whereby the energy of negative emotions or \"kleshas\", called poisons, is transformed into the luminous energy of enlightened awareness yielding the most profound experience of clear light. Thubten Yeshe explains: When the completion stage practices have been mastered and we have gained control over our subtle energy winds and so forth, there will come a time when the dakas and dakinis will come... physically embracing such a consort is necessary to bring all the pervading energy winds into the central channel, a prerequisite for opening the heart center and experiencing the profoundest level of clear light.\n\nIn some instances, the terms \"ḍāka\" and \"ḍākinī\" have been used for practitioners of tantric yoga themselves. In other instances, just \"ḍākinī\" was used for female practitioners, while male practitioners were just known as \"yogi\". Padmasambhava was known as a yogi and Yeshe Tsogyal, a Tibetan princess, yogini and consort of Padmasambhava, as a ḍākinī.\n\nMiranda Shaw, associate professor of religion at University of Richmond, said in an interview in 1995, \"In Sanskrit there is only one word, Dakini. There are only female Dakinis... there is no male Dakini. It is an impossibility and a contradiction in terms.\"\n\nWhereas Jan Willis in the chapter \"Ḑākinī; Some Comments on Its Nature and Meaning\" points out that \"'she' is \"not\" 'female'. Though the \"ḍākinī\" assuredly most often appears in female form... this is but one of the \"myriad\" of ways Absolute Insight chooses to make manifest its facticity\".\n\nTibetan Lamas trained in the Gelug school, such as Sermey Khensur Lobsang Tharchin and Kelsang Gyatso, and those of the Karma Kagyu school such as Khenpo Karthar Rinpoche, write freely of \"dakas and dakinis\". Thubten Yeshe clarifies their meaning: \"what are dakas and dakinis? Simply speaking they are males and females who possess advanced experiences of tantric transformation and control and are therefore able to increase the blissful wisdom of a highly qualified practitioner\".\n\nAlthough the ḍākinī imagery appears to have come to Japan via Kūkai's introduction of Tangmi in Shingon Buddhism in the early 9th century; her form appears more like the ḍākinīs of Hindu iconography than those found in Tibetan Buddhism. During the decline of the Heian period, the ḍākinī image was mixed together with images of foxes and half-naked women, acquiring the names , , and . In the Middle Ages, the Emperor of Japan would chant before an image of the fox Dakini-ten during his Enthronement, and both the \"shōgun\" and the emperor would venerate Dakini-ten whenever they saw it, as it was a common belief at the time that ceasing to pay respects to Dakini-ten would cause the immediate ruin of the regime.\n\nAlthough Dakini-ten was said to be a powerful Buddhist deity, the images and stories surrounding it in Japan in both medieval and modern times are drawn from local \"kitsune\" mythology. The modern folk belief, often printed in Japanese books about religion, is that the fox image was a substitute for the Indian jackal, but the jackal is not associated with Dakini anywhere. As another example of the connection between Dakini-ten and the government of Japan, in the \"Genpei Jōsuiki\" it is claimed that Taira no Kiyomori met a \"kitsune\" on the road and that his subsequent performance of Dakini-ten rites caused him to rise from an unimportant clan leader to the ruler of the entire nation.\nIn the early modern period, the ḍākinī rite devolved into various spells called Dakini-ten, Atago Gongen. Those who felt wronged in their village could go to a corrupt yamabushi who practiced black magic, and get him to trap a \"kitsune\" and cause it to possess a third party. Reports of possession became especially common in the Edo and Meiji periods. For details, see \"kitsunetsuki\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253372", "title": "Divinization (Christian)", "text": "Divinization (Christian)\n\nIn Christian theology, divinization (deification, making divine, \"theopoesis\" or \"theosis\") is the transforming effect of divine grace, the spirit of God, or the atonement of Christ. Although it literally means to become divine, or to become a god, most Christian denominations do not interpret the doctrine as implying an overcoming of a fundamental metaphysical difference between God and humanity, for example John of the Cross had it: \"it is true that its natural being, though thus transformed, is as distinct from the Being of God as it was before\".\n\nThe term originally was used in Greco-Roman pagan society to venerate a ruler. It was inconceivable to Jewish piety. Yet, with a time, it was adopted in Eastern Christianity by the Greek Fathers to describe spiritual transformation of a Christian. The change of human nature was understood by them as a consequence of a baptized person being incorporated into the Church as the Body of Christ. Divinization was thus developed within the context of incarnational theology. The teaching about deification of a Christian can be found as early as in the works of Irenaeus, a Greek Father who was a head of the church of Lyons (c. 130–202) e.g. in the preface to his \"Adversus Haereses\" vol. 5. Athanasius of Alexandria was an author of the phrase about Jesus Christ which has become popular in Christmas homilies: \"He was made human so that he might make us gods\" (\"De incarnatione\" 54,3, cf. \"Contra Arianos\" 1.39). Divinization in the context of the Eucharist was taught by Gregory of Nyssa and Cyril of Alexandria. The term never meant for them breaching the absolute ontological distinction between God and his creation. \n\nThere were many different references to divinization in the writings of the Church Fathers.\n\nIn the second century, Irenaeus, bishop of Lyons (c. 130–202) said that God had \"become what we are, that He might bring us to be even what He is Himself.\" He added:\nDo we cast blame on him [God] because we were not made gods from the beginning, but were at first created merely as men, and then later as gods? Although God has adopted this course out of his pure benevolence, that no one may charge him with discrimination or stinginess, he declares, \"I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are sons of the Most High.\" ... For it was necessary at first that nature be exhibited, then after that what was mortal would be conquered and swallowed up in immortality.\n\nAt about the same time, Clement of Alexandria (c. 150–215), wrote: \"Yea, I say, the Word of God became a man so that you might learn from a man how to become a god.\" Clement further stated that \"[i]f one knows himself, he will know God, and knowing God will become like God. . . . His is beauty, true beauty, for it is God, and that man becomes a god, since God wills it. So Heraclitus was right when he said, 'Men are gods, and gods are men.'\" Clement of Alexandria also stated that \"he who obeys the Lord and follows the prophecy given through him ... becomes a god while still moving about in the flesh.\"\n\nJustin Martyr c. 100–165) insisted that in the beginning men \"were made like God, free from suffering and death,\" and that they are thus \"deemed worthy of becoming gods and of having power to become sons of the highest.\"\n\nAthanasius, bishop of Alexandria (c. 296–373), stated his belief in literal deification: \"The Word was made flesh in order that we might be made gods. ... Just as the Lord, putting on the body, became a man, so also we men are both deified through his flesh, and henceforth inherit everlasting life.\" Athanasius also observed: \"For the Son of God became man so that we might become God.\"\n\nAugustine of Hippo (354–430) said: \"But he himself that justifies also deifies, for by justifying he makes sons of God. 'For he has given them power to become the sons of God' [referring to John 1:12]. If then we have been made sons of god, we have also been made gods.\" \"To make human beings gods,\" Augustine said, \"He was made man who was God\" (sermon 192.1.1). Augustine goes on to write that \"[they] are not born of His Substance, that they should be the same as He, but that by favour they should come to Him... (Ibid)\".\n\nOther references to divinization in the writings of the Church Fathers include the following:\n\n\n\nThe teaching of deification or \"theosis\" in Eastern Orthodoxy refers to the attainment of \"likeness of God\", \"union with God\" or \"reconciliation with God\". Deification has three stages in its process of transformation: \"katharsis\", \"theoria\", \"theosis\". \"Theosis\" as such is the goal, it is the purpose of life, and it is considered achievable only through a synergy (or cooperation) between humans' activities and God's uncreated energies (or operations). \"Theosis\" is an important concept in Eastern Orthodox theology deriving from the fact that Eastern Orthodox theology is of an explicitly mystical character. Theology in the Eastern Orthodox Church is what is derived from saints or mystics of the tradition, and Eastern Orthodoxy considers that \"no one who does not follow the path of union with God can be a theologian.\" In Eastern Orthodoxy, theology is not treated as an academic pursuit, but it is based on revelation (see gnosiology), meaning that Eastern Orthodox theology and its theologians are validated by ascetic pursuits, rather than academic degrees (i.e. scholasticism).\n\nAccording to the \"Westminster Dictionary of Christian Theology\", as quoted by Millet and Reynolds:\n\nAccording to Hierotheos Vlachos, divinization, also called \"theosis\", \"is the participation in the Uncreated grace of God\" and \"is identified and connected with the \"theoria\" (vision) of the Uncreated Light\". \"\"Theoria\" is the vision of the glory of God. \"Theoria\" is identified with the vision of the uncreated Light, the uncreated energy of God, with the union of man with God, with man's \"theosis\". This vision, by which faith is attained, is what saves: \"Faith comes by hearing the Word and by experiencing \"theoria\" (the vision of God). We accept faith at first by hearing in order to be healed, and then we attain to faith by \"theoria\", which saves man.\" It is also one of the means by which Christians came to know the Trinity: \"The disciples of Christ acquired the knowledge of the Triune God in \"theoria\" (vision of God) and by revelation.\"\n\nFor many Church Fathers, \"theosis\" goes beyond simply restoring people to their state before the Fall of Adam and Eve, teaching that because Christ united the human and divine natures in Jesus' person, it is now possible for someone to experience closer fellowship with God than Adam and Eve initially experienced in the Garden of Eden, and that people can become more like God than Adam and Eve were at that time. Some Eastern Orthodox theologians go so far as to say that Jesus would have become incarnate for this reason alone, even if Adam and Eve had never sinned.\n\nThe journey toward theosis includes many forms of praxis. The most obvious form being Monasticism and Clergy. Of the Monastic tradition the practice of hesychasm is most important as a way to establish a direct relationship with God. Living in the community of the church and partaking regularly of the sacraments, and especially the Eucharist, is taken for granted. Also important is cultivating \"prayer of the heart\", and prayer that never ceases, as Paul exhorts the Thessalonians (1 and 2). This unceasing prayer of the heart is a dominant theme in the writings of the Fathers, especially in those collected in the Philokalia. It is considered that no one can reach theosis without an impeccable Christian living, crowned by faithful, warm, and, ultimately, silent (hesychast), continuous Prayer of the Heart. The \"doer\" in deification is the Holy Spirit, with whom the human being joins his will to receive this transforming grace by praxis and prayer, and as Saint Gregory Palamas teaches, the Christian mystics are deified as they become filled with the Light of Tabor of the Holy Spirit in the degree that they make themselves open to it by asceticism (divinization being not a one-sided act of God, but a loving cooperation between God and the advanced Christian, which Palamas considers a synergy). This synergy or co-operation between God and Man does not lead to mankind being absorbed into the God as was taught in earlier pagan forms of deification like Henosis. Rather it expresses unity, in the complementary nature between the created and the creator. Acquisition of the Holy Spirit is key as the acquisition of the spirit leads to self-realization.\n\nThe term \"divinization\" is characteristic of Eastern Christian thought. Western Christianity, at least since Augustine of Hippo (354-430) named as the \"doctor of grace\", has always preferred to speak about supernatural grace transforming a Christian according to the Image of Christ. One cannot say, though, that the action of God on human nature conveyed in the term \"divinization\" (\"theosis\") is alien to the Roman Catholic teaching, as is evident in Augustine repeating the famous phrase of Athanasius of Alexandria: \"To make human beings gods, he was made man, who was God\" (\"Deos facturus qui homines erant, homo factus est qui Deus erat\" ). It is evident from what the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" says of Christians as partakers of the divine nature:\n\nArguably the most prolific of the medieval scholastic theologians, St. Thomas Aquinas, wrote:\n\nOf a more modern Roman Catholic theologian it has been said: \"The theological vision of Karl Rahner, the German Jesuit whose thought has been so influential in the Roman Catholic Church and beyond over the last fifty years, has at its very core the symbol of \"theopoiesis\". The process of divinization is the center of gravity around which move Rahner's understanding of creation, anthropology, Christology, ecclesiology, liturgy, and eschatology. The importance of this process for Rahner is such that we are justified in describing his overall theological project to be largely a matter of giving a coherent and contemporary account of divinization.\" Joshua Bloor in his article reveals the rise in deification from an array of Western traditions, looking closely at the Catholic Theologian Catherine LaCugna, arguing that LaCugna sees deification as \"personal communion with God, which deifies the human in the process, conforming him/her into being Christ-like\"\n\nThe Roman Rite liturgy expresses the doctrine of divinization or \"theosis\" in the prayer said by the deacon or priest when preparing the Eucharistic chalice: \"Per huius aquae et vini mysterium eius efficiamur divinitatis consortes, qui humanitatis nostrae fieri dignatus est particeps\" (\"By the mystery of this water and wine may we come to share in the divinity of Christ who humbled himself to share in our humanity.\")\n\nThe Catholic Church teaches that God gives to some souls, even in the present life, a very special grace by which they can be mystically united to God even while yet alive: this is true mystical contemplation. This is seen as the culmination of the three states, or stages, of perfection through which the soul passes: the purgative way (that of cleansing or purification, the Greek term for which is κάθαρσις, \"katharsis\"), the illuminative way (so called because in it the mind becomes more and more enlightened as to spiritual things and the practice of virtue, corresponding to what in Greek is called Θεωρία, \"theoria\"), and the unitive way (that of union with God by love and the actual experience and exercise of that love, a union that is called θέωσις, \"theosis\").\n\nThe writings attributed to St. Dionysius the Areopagite were highly influential in the West, and their theses and arguments were adopted by Peter Lombard, Alexander of Hales, Albert the Great, St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Bonaventure. According to these writings, mystical knowledge must be distinguished from the rational knowledge by which we know God, not in his nature, but through the wonderful order of the universe, which is a participation of the divine ideas. Through the more perfect knowledge of God that is mystical knowledge, a knowledge beyond the attainments of reason even enlightened by faith, the soul contemplates directly the mysteries of divine light. In the present life this contemplation is possible only to a few privileged souls, through a very special grace of God: it is the θέωσις (theosis), μυστικὴ ἕνωσις (mystical union). Meister Eckhart too taught a deification of man and an assimilation of the creature into the Creator through contemplation.\n\nDeification, to which, in spite of its presence in the liturgical prayers of the West, Western theologians have given less attention than Eastern, is nevertheless prominent in the writing of Western mystics.\n\nSt. Catherine of Siena had God say: \"They are like the burning coal that no one can put out once it is completely consumed in the furnace, because it has itself been turned into fire. So it is with these souls cast into the furnace of my charity, who keep nothing at all, not a bit of their own will, outside of me but are completely set afire in me. There is no one who can seize them or drag them out of my grace. They have been made one with me and I with them.\"\n\nSt. John of the Cross, OCD wrote: \"In thus allowing God to work in it, the soul ... is at once illumined and transformed in God, and God communicates to it His supernatural Being, in such wise that it appears to be God Himself, and has all that God Himself has. And this union comes to pass when God grants the soul this supernatural favour, that all the things of God and the soul are one in participant transformation; and the soul seems to be God rather than a soul, and is indeed God by participation; although it is true that its natural being, though thus transformed, is as distinct from the Being of God as it was before.\"\n\nOrestes Brownson wrote: \"The principle of the order founded by the incarnation of the Word is the deification of the creature, to make the creature one with the Creator, so that the creature may participate in the divine life, which is love, and in the divine blessedness, the eternal and infinite blessedness of the holy and ineffable Trinity, the one ever-living God. Creation itself has no other purpose or end; and the incarnation of the Word, and the whole Christian order, are designed by the divine economy simply as the means to this end, which is indeed realized or consummated in Christ the Lord, at once perfect God and perfect man, indissolubly united in one divine person. The design of the Christian order is, through regeneration by the Holy Ghost, to unite every individual man to Christ, and to make all believers one with one another, and one with him, as he and the Father are one. All who are thus regenerated and united, are united to God, made one with him, live in his life, and participate in his infinite, eternal, and ineffable bliss or blessedness.\"\n\nOut of the English Reformation, an understanding of salvation in terms closely comparable to the Orthodox doctrine of theosis was recognized in the Anglican tradition, J. Bloor examines deification/theosis in the late Anglican Priest and theologian Canon A. M. (Donald) Allchin, but it is also explored in the writings of Lancelot Andrewes, who described salvation in terms vividly reminiscent of the early fathers:\n\nC.S. Lewis, speaking on his personal belief in the subject of literal deification, stated as follows:\n\nIn a more complete statement on his beliefs in literal deification, C.S. Lewis stated in his book, \"Mere Christianity\" as follows:\n\nTheosis is not emphasized in Protestant theology except among Quakers who believed that they experienced celestial inhabitation and Methodists/Wesleyans, whose religious tradition has always placed strong emphasis on entire sanctification, and whose doctrine of sanctification has many similarities with the Catholic/Eastern Orthodox concept of theosis or divinization.\n\nEarly during the Reformation, thought was given to the doctrine of union with Christ (\"unio cum Christo\") as the precursor to the entire process of salvation and sanctification. This was especially so in the thought of John Calvin.\n\nHenry Scougal's work \"The Life of God in the Soul of Man\" is sometimes cited as important in keeping alive among Protestants the ideas central to the doctrine. In the introductory passages of his book, Scougal describes \"religion\" in terms that evoke the doctrine of theosis:\n\nBased on their spiritual experiences and tested against the testimony of scripture, George Fox and early Quakers believed that celestial inhabitation was a normal experience within the early church where individuals and communities were led by the living presence of Christ dwelling within them. George Fox wrote:\n\n\"The scriptures saith God will dwell in men, and walk in men … Doth not the Apostle say, the saints were partakers of the divine nature? And that God dwells in the saints, and Christ is in them, except they be reprobates? And do not the saints come to eat the flesh of Christ? And if they eat his flesh, is it not within them?\"\n\n\"Theosis\" as a doctrine developed in a distinctive direction among Methodists, and elsewhere in the pietist movement which reawakened Protestant interest in the asceticism of the early Catholic Church, and some of the mystical traditions of the West. Distinctively, in Wesleyan Protestantism theosis sometimes implies the doctrine of \"entire sanctification\" which teaches, in summary, that it is the Christian's goal, in principle possible to achieve, to live without any (voluntary) sin (\"Christian perfection\"). In 1311 the Roman Catholic Council of Vienne declared this notion, \"that man in this present life can acquire so great and such a degree of perfection that he will be rendered inwardly sinless, and that he will not be able to advance farther in grace\" (Denziger §471), to be a heresy. Thus this particular Protestant (primarily Methodist) understanding of theosis is substantially different from that of the Roman Catholic, Orthodox, or Anglican Churches. This doctrine of Christian perfection was sharply criticized by many in the Church of England during the ministry of John Wesley and continues to be controversial among Protestants and Anglicans to this day.\n\nMore recently, the Finnish school of Lutheran thought has drawn close associations between theosis and justification. Primarily spearheaded by Tuomo Mannermaa, this line of theological development grew out of talks between the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and the Russian Orthodox Church between 1970 and 1986. Mannermaa argues in his book, \"Christ Present in Faith\", that the real exchange between Christ and sinful humanity, a theme prevalent in Luther's writing, is synonymous with Eastern views of theosis. It is in this real exchange which Mannermaa says \"the union between Christ and the believer makes the latter a ‘completely divine [person] .\" While this departure from traditional Lutheran thought is sometimes hailed as \"the threshold of a third Luther Renaissance,\" other Lutheran scholars disagree and argue that the idea of theosis violates Luther's theology of the cross principles by ignoring the real distinction that is axiomatic for not only Luther, but for orthodox Christianity as a whole. One of the most prominent scholars is Robert Kolb, who primarily roots this critique in Luther's use of marriage metaphors concerning the Christian's relationship with God. Kolb writes \"This view ignores the nature of the ‘union’ of bride and bridegroom that Luther employed so far.\"\n\nEvangelical scholarship has yielded yet another view of theosis. Patristic scholar Donald Fairbairn has argued that theosis in the Greek Fathers is not an ontological exchange between the Son and the Christian. In general Fairbairn argues that the change that occurs in theosis is \"something more than mere status but less than the possession of God's very substance.\" In his book, \"Life in the Trinity\", he argues that through our relationship with the Son we are brought into the same kind of relationship with the Father (and Spirit) that the Son has. He supports this argument by identifying a distinction between the Son's warm-fellowship with the Father, and his ontological union with the Father. He argues that the Greek Fathers, primarily Athanasius and Cyril of Alexandria were clear that we never share ontological union with God, but only this intimate fellowship.\n\nThere has been a modern revival of the concept of theosis (often called \"manifest sonship\" or \"Christedness\") among Christians who hold to the doctrine of universal reconciliation or \"apocatastasis\", especially those with a background in the charismatic Latter Rain Movement or even the New Age and New Thought movements. The statement of faith of the Christian Universalist Association includes theosis in one of its points.\n\nA minority of charismatic Christian universalists believe that the \"return of Christ\" is a corporate body of perfected human beings who are the \"Manifested Sons of God\" instead of a literal return of the person of Jesus, and that these Sons will reign on the earth and transform all other human beings from sin to perfection during an age that is coming soon (a particularly \"universalistic\" approach to millennialism). Some liberal Christian universalists with New Age leanings share a similar eschatology.\n\nThe practice of ascetic prayer called hesychasm in the Eastern Orthodox Church is centered on the enlightenment or deification, theosis of man.\n\nWhile Constantinople experienced a succession of councils alternately approving and condemning doctrine concerning hesychasm, the Western Church held no council in which to make a pronouncement on the issue, and the word \"hesychasm\" does not appear in the \"Enchiridion Symbolorum et Definitionum\" (Handbook of Creeds and Definitions), the collection of Roman Catholic teachings originally compiled by Heinrich Joseph Dominicus Denzinger.\n\nDespite the fact that the hesychast doctrine of Gregory Palamas has never been officially condemned by the Catholic Church, Western theologians tended to reject it, often equating it with quietism. This identification may have been motivated in part by the fact that \"quietism\" is the literal translation of \"hesychasm\". However, according to Kallistos Ware, \"To translate 'hesychasm' as 'quietism', while perhaps etymologically defensible, is historically and theologically misleading.\" Ware asserts that \"the distinctive tenets of the seventeenth century Western Quietists are not characteristic of Greek hesychasm.\" Elsewhere too, Ware argues that it is important not to translate \"hesychasm\" as \"quietism\".\n\nFor long, Palamism won almost no following in the West. and the distrustful attitude of Barlaam in its regard prevailed among Western theologians, surviving into the early 20th century, as shown in Adrian Fortescue's article on hesychasm in the 1910 Catholic Encyclopedia. In the same period, Siméon Vailhé described some aspects of the teaching of Palamas as \"monstrous errors\", \"heresies\" and \"a resurrection of polytheism\", and called the hesychast method for arriving at perfect contemplation \"no more than a crude form of auto-suggestion\"\n\nThe 20th century saw a remarkable change in the attitude of Roman Catholic theologians to Palamas, a \"rehabilitation\" of him that has led to increasing parts of the Western Church considering him a saint, even if uncanonized. John Meyendorff describes the 20th-century rehabilitation of Palamas in the Western Church as a \"remarkable event in the history of scholarship.\" Andreas Andreopoulos cites the 1910 Catholic Encyclopedia article by Fortescue as an example of how Barlaam's distrustful and hostile attitude regarding hesychasm survived until recently in the West, adding that now \"the Western world has started to rediscover what amounts to a lost tradition. Hesychasm, which was never anything close to a scholar's pursuit, is now studied by Western theologians who are astounded by the profound thought and spirituality of late Byzantium.\"\n\nSome Western scholars maintain that there is no conflict between Palamas's teaching and Roman Catholic thought, and some have incorporated the essence-energies distinction into their own thinking. For example, G. Philips asserts that the essence-energies distinction as presented by Palamas is \"a typical example of a perfectly admissible theological pluralism\" that is compatible with the Roman Catholic magisterium.\n\nJeffrey D. Finch claims that \"the future of East-West rapprochement appears to be overcoming the modern polemics of neo-scholasticism and neo-Palamism\".\n\nPope John Paul II repeatedly emphasized his respect for Eastern theology as an enrichment for the whole Church, declaring that, even after the painful division between the Christian East and the See of Rome, that theology has opened up profound thought-provoking perspectives of interest to the entire Church. He spoke in particular of the hesychast controversy. The term \"hesychasm\", he said, refers to a practice of prayer marked by deep tranquillity of the spirit intent on contemplating God unceasingly by invoking the name of Jesus. While from a Catholic viewpoint there have been tensions concerning some developments of the practice, the Pope said, there is no denying the goodness of the intention that inspired its defence, which was to stress that man is offered the concrete possibility of uniting himself in his inner heart with God in that profound union of grace known as \"theosis\", divinization.\n\nAmong the treasures of \"the venerable and ancient tradition of the Eastern Churches\" with which he said Catholics should be familiar, so as to be nourished by it, he mentioned in particular \"the teaching of the Cappadocian Fathers on divinization (which) passed into the tradition of all the Eastern Churches and is part of their common heritage. This can be summarized in the thought already expressed by Saint Irenaeus at the end of the second century: God passed into man so that man might pass over to God. This theology of divinization remains one of the achievements particularly dear to Eastern Christian thought.\"\n\nMormonism includes a belief in the doctrine of exaltation, by which is meant a literal divinization. According to Mormon scholars, there are similarities between the Mormon belief of eternal progression and the beliefs found in the patristic writings of the first, second, and third centuries A.D.\n\nAccording to Mormonism's founder, Joseph Smith, through obedience to Christ and the gradual acquisition of knowledge, the faithful may eventually become heirs of God in the afterlife and \"inherit all things\" as Christ himself \"inherited all things.\" Mormons believe they will continue to worship and be subject to God the Father in the name of Christ in the afterlife.\n\nMormons do not characterize the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in terms of an immaterial, formless substance or essence that sets godhood apart as a separate genus from humanity. They believe this classification of divinity was originated by post-apostolic theologians, whose speculations on God were influenced by Greek metaphysical philosophers such as the Neoplatonists, who described their notions of deity in similar terms of a divine substance/essence (ousia)—i.e., terms which were unknown to the pre-Nicean Christian world. Mormons believe that through modern day revelation, God restored the doctrine that all humans are spiritually begotten (Hebrews 12:9, Acts 17:28–29) sons and daughters of Heavenly Father, and thus are all part of the same heavenly family. Because humans are literally God's children, they can also be heirs of his glory, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ (Romans 8:16–17). Mormons believe that the \"glory of God is intelligence, in other words, light and truth\" (D&C 93:36), therefore the process of inheriting his glory is a process of learning. As a crucial step in this process, all of God's spirit children had the choice to come to earth in order to receive a body and continue their development. Mormons believe that the fallen state of humanity (mortality) was not the result of an unplanned cancellation of God's plan for an eternal earthly paradise, rather it was a crucial step that provides the opportunity to learn and grow in the face of opposition (2 Nephi 2:11, 25). Thus, the purpose of earth life is to gain knowledge and experience—which includes overcoming trials and mistakes through the atonement of Jesus Christ, and using the lessons learned to become stronger and wiser, more like their Heavenly Father (D&C 98:3). Those who endure to the end (Matthew 24:13, Mark 13:13) while in mortality, as well as those who accept the gospel after death (see baptism for the dead), will be able to dwell in the presence of God, where they can continue to grow in light and truth, which \"light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day\" (D&C 50:24). Mormons believe that the Father and the Son both possess glorified, immortal bodies (D&C 130:22), and that thanks to Christ's resurrection, humans will also resurrect and inherit this same type of body (Philippians 3:21).\n\n"}
{"id": "6405696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6405696", "title": "Eddie Long", "text": "Eddie Long\n\nEddie Lee Long (May 12, 1953 – January 15, 2017) was an American pastor who served as the senior pastor of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church, a megachurch in unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, from 1987 until his death in 2017.\n\nWhen Long started as pastor for New Birth Church, there were 300 church members, which grew to 25,000. During this time, Long was a subject of a Senate investigation, concerning whether he personally profited from his church's tax-exempt status, which eventually ended without a finding of wrongdoing. Also, civil lawsuits were filed against him alleging sexual abuse of underage male members of his parish. Long denied wrongdoing through his attorneys and privately settled the lawsuits out of court for undisclosed amounts.\n\nLong was born in Huntersville, North Carolina, on May 12, 1953, the son of the Rev. Floyd M. Long, Jr. and Hattie Long. He attended North Carolina Central University in Durham, North Carolina, where he received a bachelor's degree in Business Administration in 1977. In 2008, Long donated $1 million to the university to establish a professorship in his name, saying \"I am making (the donation) from my own personal income,\" which comes from various real estate ventures and also as royalties from his books. Long then worked as a factory sales representative for the Ford Motor Corporation, but was fired after he submitted expense reports that included personal telephone calls.\n\nLong claimed to hold a doctorate in \"Pastoral Ministry\" from the unaccredited International College of Excellence, which is not recognized by either the Council for Higher Education Accreditation or United States Department of Education, the two institutions responsible for recognizing educational accrediting institutions in the United States\n\nFollowing his dismissal from Ford, he moved to Atlanta to study theology and became the pastor of a small Jonesboro, Georgia church. In 1987 he became the pastor of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church, which at the time had around 300 members. Under Long, membership grew to 25,000. The church may be considered part of the Bapticostal movement. Long married Dabara S. Houston in 1981 and they were divorced soon afterwards. The couple have a son, Edward Long. Houston said she was the victim of \"cruel treatment\" and was afraid of Long's \"violent and vicious temper,\" according to Fulton County Superior Court records. She and her son allegedly \"had to flee the couple's Fairburn home in order to ensure their safety\". Long vigorously denied the allegations and in 1985 Houston was awarded custody of the then 2-year-old son.\n\nLong married Vanessa Griffin in 1990. After he was accused of sexually molesting young fatherless boys in the church, she filed for divorce in December 2011. On the same day New Birth's public relations firm claimed that she had rethought her decision and would withdraw her petition: \"Upon further prayerful reflection Vanessa Long is withdrawing the divorce petition.\" However Griffin's attorneys later confirmed that she would continue with the divorce. In response, Long stated that he would be taking a leave of absence from his ministry in an attempt to save his marriage, and that \"he needed time to take care of 'some family business.'\" Later that month, New Birth Christian Academy, founded by Long, announced it was closing due to lack of donations and \"sending hundreds of students scrambling to find a new school by the following week\", in the wake of Long's marital and sexual problems.\n\nOn February 17, 2012, one of Long's lawyers, Lawrence Cooper, confirmed to \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" that Vanessa Long had asked that the divorce petition be dismissed. Cooper declined to say if the Longs were reunited. In an emailed response to the AJC, Vanessa's lawyers declined to comment. On September 5, 2012, during the Heart to Heart Women's Ministry Conference at New Birth, Vanessa Long stated that while she struggled with the decision to divorce Long following those accusations of sexual misconduct with male minors, she chose to return to her marriage and to the New Birth family so she could share her experience and offer guidance for others.\n\nIn 1994, Long was given the title \"bishop\" in the Full Gospel Baptist Church Fellowship, a group of black Baptist churches that embraced Pentecostal practices. Long's sermons, writings and teachings emphasize a \"chain of command\" between certain superiors and subordinates characterized by \"respect, submission and obedience\". Long saw the first link in the chain as being a man choosing to be respectful, submissive and obedient to God. A woman chooses to be respectful, submissive and obedient to her father or husband. To live otherwise is to be outside of the divinely established order, and will result in the loss of spiritual and natural benefits.\n\nIn 2006, Long was chosen by the family of Martin Luther King, Jr. to host and officiate the funeral for Mrs. Coretta Scott King, wife of the late civil rights pioneer. The event was attended by four Presidents (George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Jimmy Carter).\n\nLong was a prominent supporter of George W. Bush's faith-based initiatives. His ministry received a $1 million grant from the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Rev. Timothy McDonald suggested a link between Long's anti-gay activity and the grant saying \"If you look at the black pastors who have come out with the faith-based money, they're the same ones who have come out with campaigns on the gay marriage issue.\" On January 31, 2012, a video was released depicting a ceremony at New Birth Missionary Baptist Church wherein Messianic Jewish preacher Ralph Messer presented a Torah scroll to Long, wrapped him in it, and symbolically elevated him to a position of spiritual kingship before a cheering congregation. Some Jewish leaders objected and characterized the ceremony as disrespectful to the Jewish faith and traditions.\n\nIn 2005, the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" reported that between 1997 and 2000, Long received more than $3.07 million worth of compensation and benefits from his non-profit charity, 'Bishop Eddie Long Ministries Inc.' Long contended that the charity did not solicit donations from members but instead gained its income from royalties, speaking fees and several large donations. In 2007 a three-year investigation by the United States Senate Committee on Finance into the tax-exempt status of six ministries, including Long's, concluded that there were no definitive findings of wrongdoing. Donations to the church dropped significantly following the investigation of Long's salary and church finances.\n\nCNN has said \"Long frequently denounces homosexual behavior.\" Long has ministered \"homosexual cure\" programs to recruit gays and lesbians for what he called \"Sexual Reorientation\" conferences and his church offers an ongoing \"Out of the Wilderness\" ministry to help convert homosexuals into heterosexuals.\n\nIn 2004, Long led a march with Bernice King to the grave of her father, Martin Luther King, Jr. The march was a protest against same-sex marriage and in support of a national constitutional amendment to limit marriage rights to couples comprising \"one man and one woman.\"\n\nIn 2006, Long's appearance at Atlanta's Interdenominational Theological Center's spring graduation led to Black theologian James Cone—who was scheduled to receive an honorary degree—to boycott the ceremony. Thirty-three graduating seniors sent a letter to the seminary's president \"questioning Long's theological and ethical integrity to be their commencement speaker.\" Many students did not agree with Long's beliefs that God can \"deliver\" homosexuals and his teachings on prosperity. A 2007 article in the Southern Poverty Law Center's magazine called him \"one of the most virulently homophobic black leaders in the religiously based anti–gay movement.\"\n\nIn September 2010, Maurice Robinson, Anthony Flagg, Jamal Parris and Spencer LeGrande filed separate lawsuits alleging that Long used his pastoral influence to coerce them into sexual relationships with him. The plaintiffs state that Long placed the men on the church’s payroll, bought them cars and other gifts, including overseas trips.\n\nThe lawsuits stated that Long would \"discuss the Holy Scripture to justify and support the sexual activity.\" Long denied the allegations through his attorneys and spokesman. In a prepared statement, Long said, \"I have devoted my life to helping others and these false allegations hurt me deeply.\"\n\nOn September 26, Long spoke to the New Birth congregation but he did not address the issue directly. Long spoke of painful times and said, \"I've been accused. I'm under attack. I want you to know, as I said earlier, I am not a perfect man, but this thing, I'm going to fight.\" Long's unwillingness to address the accusations by name prompted a group of over 70 people, headed by the pastor of a small church in South Carolina, to hold a protest rally on the steps of the Georgia state Capitol on October 31, 2010, calling for Long's resignation.\n\nThe \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" reported in May 2011, that the lawsuits were settled out of court; terms were undisclosed. Later, on media outlets indicated that Centino Kemp was the fifth accuser who also settled On May 30, 2011, an episode of the documentary series \"Sex Scandals In Religion\" aired on Canadian television network VisionTV. It took an investigative look at the allegations of inappropriate sexual behavior by Long with young men in his care.\n\nIn August 2016, Long received major attention on Twitter when he posted a video on Facebook of himself which showed his drastic weight loss. In the video, he said he was eating \"raw vegetables\" instead of a \"slave menu\" and that he was not on any medications.\n\nIn September 2016, Long issued a statement saying he was \"recovering\" from an unspecified illness and that the illness was \"unrelated\" to his diet.\n\nLong died on January 15, 2017, at the age of 63. The church issued a statement describing the cause of death as an \"aggressive form of cancer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2709301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2709301", "title": "Erenagh", "text": "Erenagh\n\nThe medieval Irish office of erenagh (Old Irish: \"airchinnech\", Modern Irish: \"airchinneach\", Latin: \"princeps\") was responsible for receiving parish revenue from tithes and rents, building and maintaining church property and overseeing the termonn lands that generated parish income. Thus he had a prebendary role. The erenagh originally had a tonsure but took no other holy orders; he had a voice in the Chapter when they consulted about revenues, paid a yearly rent to the Bishop and a fine on the marriage of each daughter. The role usually passed down from generation to generation in certain families in each parish. After the Reformation and the Dissolution of the Monasteries the role of erenagh became subsumed in the responsibilities of the parson in each parish.\n\nThe common surname McInerney is derived from the Irish, Mac an Airchinnigh (son of the erenagh). As may be supposed, this surname arose in various areas in Ireland leading to numerous unrelated bearers of the name. The most prominent group of the family were associated with the County of Clare since at least the late 13th century when they were first recorded in the annals of the county and are still numerous in that county today. This sept was subordinate to the McNamaras and it was from them that the family originally derived. The McInerneys in County Clare were based in the Barony of Lower Bunratty on their ancestral estates in and around the present day townlands of Ballysallagh, Ballynacragga and Dromoland (parish of Kilnasoolagh). Members of the family held substantial property there until the Cromwellian confiscations of the 1650s, whereby several members of the family were transplanted to other areas of the County, in part due to their involvement in the 1641 rebellion. Today the name is numerous in County Clare, Limerick and Dublin, and can be found in the United States, Canada, Australia, England and New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "4141930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4141930", "title": "Festival of Muslim Cultures", "text": "Festival of Muslim Cultures\n\nThe Festival of Muslim Cultures, a national celebration of Muslim cultures held in the United Kingdom, began in January 2006 and ended July 2007. It imitated an earlier event in 1976. \n\nFrom official site;\n\"The festival was created out of the need to encourage a better understanding between Muslims and non-Muslims (as a two-way process), to promote respect for Muslim cultures and to demonstrate how culture creates the pathways that connect us all together.\" Organizers say that festival events were chosen because they represent the best of the Muslim arts world and they \"portray diversity and plurality\".\n\nPrince Charles was a patron & the festival director is Isabel Carlisle. Shiban Akbar of the MCB was on the Advisory Board.\n\nAs a founder trustee, the late Dr Zaki Badawi played a key role from the beginning in shaping the Festival.\n\nThe festival, a registered charity, receives government funding from; Arts Council England, City of London, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), Home Office and British Council. It has a provisional budget of £6,000,000 which is around $10,500,000 USD.\n\nIn August 2005, The Observer reported that the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) used its influence in Whitehall to gain a place on the festival's board of trustees. Festival organisers were instructed to comply with Islamic sharia law to gain the MCB's full support. \nThe organisers are now concerned that the festival will lose political backing if they invite performers who are seen to be 'un-Islamic'. Festival organisers already hope to invite the Uzbek singer, Sevara Nezarkhan, who does not wear the headscarf or 'hijab' and has worked with Jewish 'klezmer' musicians. It also intends to exhibit the 14th-century world history of Rashid al-Din, which represents the human form and the prophet Mohammed himself, thought by some strict Muslims to be forbidden. Other performers could include the Senegalese musician Youssou N'dour and the Bangladeshi-British dancer Akram Khan. The Observer understands that the Foreign Office insisted that the festival organisers involved the MCB before they would give them their full backing. As a result, an MCB nominee has been taken on to the festival's board of trustees. One source close to the festival organisers said, \"We constantly found our efforts were being blocked and it kept coming back to the MCB and its sympathisers within Whitehall.\"\n\nThe MCB responded with, \"The MCB believes that the Festival will need to be broad-based, inclusive and mindful of the teachings of Islam if it is to have the support of British Muslims.\"\n\nJust days after the controversy surrounding MCB Secretary General Iqbal Sacranie's comments on homosexuality, the conservative British Muslim establishment became embroiled in another homophobia scandal. On 23 January 2006 Sandra Laville reported in The Guardian, 'Promotional publicity states that the festival will feature the 'diversity and plurality' of Muslim cultures, but gay Muslims say they have been refused permission to present an event.’\nAaron Saeed, Muslim affairs spokesman for the gay rights group OutRage!, wrote to festival director Isabel Carlisle, offering to stage an event celebrating the lives and experiences of gay Muslims in Britain and abroad but his offer was refused.\n\nIn Isabel Carlisle's reply, she justifies the exclusion of gay Muslims on the grounds 'we are not prepared to present works that will give offence to significant numbers.' However, when interviewed for The Guardian she claimed that gay Muslim participation was rejected because the festival does not want to feature 'political' themes.\n\n“This is not what her rejection letter states,\" said Aaron Saeed. \"It says we have been turned down because gay Muslims would give offence. Our proposal was not political. It was for a series of cultural events about the lives and experiences of lesbian and gay Muslims. We planned to organise these events in conjunction with gay Muslim individuals and organisations beyond OutRage!. These were never envisaged as OutRage! events. We made that clear. This ban is straightforward homophobia. It is deeply offensive to suggest that gay Muslim people are not a valid part of the Muslim community.\" \n\nSaeed concludes, \"It is appalling that a registered charity is allowed to discriminate against gay people ... It is time the conservative leadership of the Muslim community got used to the fact that gay Muslims are here to stay and here to fight.\"\nMuhammad Yusuf, a member of the Interfaith Alliance, said it was a \"matter of regret\" that a festival aiming to reflect the diversity of Muslim culture was not prepared to take on board a facet that was different by reason of sexual orientation.\n\nInitial events included\nOther events planned by the Festival's programme partners ranged from drama from the Middle East; a colourful contribution to the Edinburgh Festivals; a conference on \"Faith and Identity in Contemporary Culture\" in Manchester; a gathering of poets in Bradford and Leeds; contemporary British Muslim artists in Birmingham; a Pakistani film festival in Glasgow as well as a Sufi Festival; Muslim writers at the Hay Literary Festival; Quranic recitation in Leicester; an arts programme in Cardiff; and early music in York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3948140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3948140", "title": "Francis John McConnell", "text": "Francis John McConnell\n\nFrancis John McConnell (August 18, 1871 – August 18, 1953) was an American social reformer and a bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church, elected in 1912.\n\nBorn on August 18, 1871, in Trinway, Ohio, he died on August 18, 1953, in Lucasville, Ohio.\n\nMcConnell was a graduate of the Ohio Wesleyan University and the Boston University School of Theology. He was an ordained minister in the Methodist Episcopal Church for many years, serving among other places a large church in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nBefore election to the episcopacy, McConnell served as the president of DePauw University, Greencastle, Indiana, 1909-1912. During his presidency he led the university's first major fund drive, the Campaign for the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Fund, which produced a total subscription of $550,546.\n\nFrancis John McConnell was a major second-generation advocate of Boston personalism who sought to apply the philosophy to social problems of his time.\n\nMcConnell is best known for his quote \"We need a type of patriotism that recognizes the virtues of those who are opposed to us\".\n\n\nMcConnell, Bishop Francis John, \"The Christlike God\", A survey of the Divine Attributes from the Christian Point of View, copyright 1927 by the author, first edition printed March 1927, The Abingdon Press, New York and Cincinnati.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2177020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177020", "title": "Freedom of religion in Italy", "text": "Freedom of religion in Italy\n\nFreedom of religion in Italy is guaranteed under the 1947 constitution of the Italian Republic. Before that religious toleration was provided for by the constitution of the Kingdom of Italy which in turn derived from the Albertine Statute granted to his subjects by Carlo Alberto of the Kingdom of Sardinia in 1848, the Year of Revolutions.\n\nArticle 1 of the Albertine Statute identified Roman Catholicism as the single religion of state but declared that other existing confessions were tolerated in conformance with the laws. This declaration led rapidly to the opening of the ghettoes and the emancipation of the Waldensians. Toleration was limited however: Article 28, while declaring that there should be a free press, stated specifically that Bibles, catechisms, liturgies and prayer books could not be printed without episcopal permission; religious propaganda was also prohibited by the state. Nevertheless, in the years leading up to the unification of Italy the Kingdom of Sardinia was more tolerant than other states on the peninsula: in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany the practice of religions other than Catholicism was punishable by imprisonment or exile.\n\nThe Kingdom of Italy inherited in effect the Piedmontese-Sardinian constitution and on 18 March 1871 a major advance in religious freedom in the country was made by an order of the day introduced by the liberal reformist Pasquale Stanislao Mancini which established that all religions should be treated equally.\n\nThe Fascist period was marked by the Concordat between the state and the Catholic Church, known as the Lateran treaty of 1929. Other Christian denominations and other religions, however, faced renewed repression. In 1935 the Pentecostals were declared prejudicial to the integrity of the race. Salvationists and Jehova's Witnesses, as well as the Pentecostals were liable to imprisonment or exile while other minority Christian groups faced notable restrictions. Although antisemitism was not embedded in Italian Fascism from the start, in order to please his ally Adolf Hitler, in the late 1930s Benito Mussolini approved the Italian Racial Laws. In the latter stages of the Second World War, in particular during the period of the Italian Social Republic and of German occupation of much of the peninsula, many Jews, as well as non-jew political dissidents and even Catholic priests, were deported to the Nazi death camps.\n\nThe 1947 Constitution of the Italian Republic enshrined religious freedoms in passages including the following:\n\nVarious laws enacted during the Fascist period remained in force, however, and a number of trials took place involving Pentecostals and Jehova's Witnesses. This changed in 1955 with the advent of the Constitutional Court which abolished or modified legislation on relevant matters which it found inconsistent with the constitutional guarantees of religious freedom.\n\nIn 1984, following a revised accord with the Vatican, Catholicism lost its status as the official religion of the Italian state and Italy became a secular state.\n\nControversy however remains, particularly abroad, over certain Fascist-era laws that are still in force and that have not been declared unconstitutional. In 2009 the European Court of Human Rights, in a case brought by an Italian mother who wanted her children to have a secular education, ruled against the display of crucifixes in the classrooms of Italian state schools. It found that 'The compulsory display of a symbol of a given confession in premises used by the public authorities… restricted the right of parents to educate their children in conformity with their convictions' and that it restricted the 'right of children to believe or not to believe'. This ruling was in marked contrast with the position of the Italian courts that had ruled in 2005 that crucifixes were allowed to be present in polling stations and, in 2006, that display of crucifixes in state schools was allowed on the basis that the crucifix symbolised core Italian social values.\n\nItaly is a predominantly Roman Catholic country, with minorities of Muslims (mostly from recent immigration), Sikhs and Jews. Christian Protestants are historically few. A few Protestants, such as two-time Prime Minister Sidney Sonnino, have distinguished themselves.\n\n97.67% of Italians are baptised according to the rite of the Catholic Church. According to a survey of Eurispes 2006, 87.8% of the population declares itself Catholic and 36.8% practitioner. However a large percentage of Catholics do not necessarily support all the directions of the Church, as demonstrated by the referendum about divorce or abortion.\n\nThe Catholic Church was the State church until it was de facto disestablished with the 1948 Constitution, then definitely with the 1984 revision of the Lateran Treaty. Now Italy is a secular state\n\nIn Italy in 2006 there were 53 million Christians, 4 million Atheists and Agnostics, 1.2 million Muslims, 160,000 Buddhists, 115,000 Hindus, 70,000 Sikhs, 45,000 Jews and 15,000 Pagans.\n\nThe Catholic Church holds considerable influence on some political parties. The fact that the Roman Catholic Church has a direct influence on political parties is object of controversy among those who favour the independence of politics and in particular among those whose views on divorce, abortion, euthanasia and same-sex marriages are opposed to Christian ethics and in particular to Catholic doctrine.\n\nUsage of Catholic symbolism (especially crosses) in courts and schools has been contested by minorities, but was ruled legal; some contend that this is in violation of the principles of religious freedom outlined in the Constitution of Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "16074828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16074828", "title": "Georgian Wicca", "text": "Georgian Wicca\n\nGeorgian Wicca is a tradition, or denomination, in the neopagan religion of Wicca. In its organisation, it is very similar to British Traditional Wicca groups such as Gardnerian Wicca, however, it does not trace its initiatory line to one of the old English covens. \n\nThe name \"Georgian\" refers to its founder, George Patterson, who founded the tradition in 1970 in the United States.\n\nThe Georgian Tradition was founded in 1970 by George Eliott (Pat) Patterson III, when he began teaching his first students, two women called Zanoni Silverknife and Tanith. It began as a small coven in Patterson’s home, in Bakersfield, California.\n\nPatterson claimed to have received early teachings from members of a Celtic Coven in Boston. He told his early initiates when World War II began, he enlisted in the Armed Forces and served for four years. On his return to Boston, he found family members had destroyed his Book and ritual items. He could not find the family he'd studied with. Despite research into this history, there is no independent evidence any such coven existed. At other times, he told students and initiates that he had been initiated into either the Alexandrian or Gardnerian Tradition, and at one point also claimed to have been initiated into the Craft by his father. Investigation of the claims of initiation into either the Alexandrian or Gardnerian Traditions have demonstrated no verification in the records of either of those traditions; initiation by his father can neither be proved nor disproved.\n\nSoon after forming the group, Patterson applied to the State of California for legal status as an incorporated church and through the Universal Life Church had a charter (1971) and Ministerial credentials for himself and Silverknife.\n\nPatterson gathered information, lessons and lore from many helpful sources. These included Doris and Sylvester Stuart of England, Lady Gwen Thompson of the New England Covens of Traditionalist Witches (N.E.C.T.W.), and others. The Georgian Tradition is based on Gardnerian and Alexandrian Wicca practices, incorporating Etruscan lore from Leland, using those rites and rituals shared by the Sylvestrians and N.E.C.T.W. as well as material from New York Covens of Traditionalist Witches (N.Y.C.T.W); Lord Hermes (Edmund Buczynski) and Lady Siobhan (Order of the Silver Wheel) were most helpful. Many of the rituals are similar to those published in various books on what is sometimes called \"British Traditional Wicca\" (BTW), such as Janet and Stewart Farrar's \"Eight Sabbats for Witches\" and \"The Witches' Way\", as well as the privately distributed version of what was later published as Ed Fitch's \"Grimoire of the Shadows\".\n\nGeorgian Wicca is therefore similar to Alexandrian and Gardnerian Wiccan practice, in that it is an initiatory line and oath-bound. Georgian Wicca, however, is not a recognized member of the BTW, as it lacks an important requirement - initiatory lineage back to one of the BTW covens in England. Therefore, it is considered BTW-derived.\n\nBeginning in 1976, Patterson edited the \"Georgian Newsletter\", a chatty, informal correspondence that helped to build the community of Georgians and link them with one another. Following his death in 1984, the newsletter continued for a few years, and subsequently ceased publication. The newsletter contained bits of gossip, \"Helpful Hints\", book reviews, and the ever popular feature \"Being a Witch is ... \"\n\nFollowing a lengthy hiatus, the Georgian Newsletter was revived as a free publication in 2007 by members of the tradition, a current archive (as of May 2013) exists at The Georgian Wicca Tradition Newsletter.\n\nGeorgians are now worldwide and growing; many are in the Armed Forces, carrying the Tradition with them. Recently, there has been an upsurge in those interested in reconnecting with or learning about the Georgian Tradition.\n\nAt present, there are known Georgian Covens in British Columbia, California, Florida, Oregon, Colorado, Maryland, Michigan, Washington, Utah, and Oklahoma. There is also a current effort being made to reconnect members of the Tradition.\n\nIn S. M. Stirling's Emberverse series, the Singing Moon Coven, which forms the basis of the Wiccan Clan MacKenzie, is described as:\n\nan eclectic Georgian group who favor Celtic symbolism\n\nA number of aspects of Georgian Wiccan derived practice are portrayed in the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49342017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49342017", "title": "Gurudwara Reetha Sahib", "text": "Gurudwara Reetha Sahib\n\nGurudwara Reetha Sahib is situated in district Champawat, Uttrakhand, India. It is 16 hours journey away from Chandigarh (581 km) approx. This gurudwara holds a very sacred place in Sikh Religion as Guru Nanak Dev Ji himself had visited this place with Bhai Mardana JI.\n\nGurdwara Meetha Reetha Sahib was constructed around year 1960 and is situated near the village Deyuri in Uttrakhand. Guru Nanak Dev Ji visited this place with Bhai Mardana Ji. There were Jogis sitting under the reetha (soapnut) trees. Guru Nanak Dev ji sat under a reetha tree and asked Bhai Mardana Ji to eat a reetha. Reethas are usually bitter in taste but the reetha which Guru Nanak Dev Ji plucked for Bhai Mardana Ji was sweet. Jogis were surprised by all this and later they come to know that on which side Guru Nanak Dev Ji was sitting all the reethas has become sweet. These trees are still there in the Gurudwara and the reethas are still said to be sweet in taste. This is the reason why this place is called Meetha Reetha Sahib. Even today the people who visits the Gurudwara gets sweet reethas (soapnuts) as prashad. Due to its religious background this place is considered as a holy place for Sikhs. The temple of Devnath is also located beside the Gurudwara. On Baisakhi purnima, Sikh fair is held in this Gurudwara as this place is very sacred.Gurudwara's first caretaker was Lala Baisakhi Ram from Haldwani.\n"}
{"id": "2338651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338651", "title": "Jambudvipa", "text": "Jambudvipa\n\nJambudvīpa () is the dvīpa (\"island\" or \"continent\") of the terrestrial world, as envisioned in the cosmologies of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, which is the realm where ordinary human beings live.\n\nThe word Jambudvīpa literally refers to \"the land of Jambu trees\" where \"jambu\" is the name of the species (also called Jambul or Indian Blackberry) and \"dvīpa\" means \"island\" or \"continent\".\n\nSurya Siddhanta, an astronomical text, refers to Northern Hemisphere of the earth as Jambudvipa whereas the Southern hemisphere is referred to as Patala.\n\nAccording to Puranic cosmography, the world is divided into seven concentric island continents (\"sapta-dvipa vasumati\") separated by the seven encircling oceans, each double the size of the preceding one (going out from within). The seven continents of the Puranas are stated as Jambudvipa, Plaksadvipa, Salmalidvipa, Kusadvipa, Krouncadvipa, Sakadvipa, and Pushkaradvipa. Seven intermediate oceans consist of salt-water, sugarcane juice, wine, ghee, yogurt, milk and water respectively. The mountain range called Lokaloka, meaning \"world-no-world\", stretches across this final sea, delineating the known world from the dark void.\n\nContinent Jambudvipa (\"Indian Blackberry Island\"), also known as \"Sudarshanadvipa\", forms the innermost concentric island in the above scheme. Its name is said to derive from a Jambu tree (another name for the Indian Blackberry). The fruits of the Jambu tree are said, in the Viṣṇupurāṇa (ch.2) to be as large as elephants and when they become rotten and fall upon the crest of the mountains, a river of juice is formed from their expressed juice. The river so formed is called Jambunadi (Jambu river) and flows through Jambudvipa, whose inhabitants drink its waters. Insular continent Jambudvipa is said to comprise nine \"varshas\" (zones) and eight significant \"parvatas\" (mountains).\n\nMarkandeya Purana portrays Jambudvipa as being depressed on its south and north and elevated and broad in the middle. The elevated region forms the varsha named \"Ila-vrta\" or \"Meruvarsha\". At the center of Ila-vrta lies the golden Mount Meru, the king of mountains. On the summit of Mount Meru, is the vast city of Lord Brahma, known as \"Brahmapuri\". Surrounding Brahmapuri are 8 cities - the one of Lord Indra and of seven other \"Devatas\".\n\nMarkandeya Purana and Brahmanda Purana divide Jambudvipa into four vast regions shaped like four petals of a lotus with Mount Meru being located at the center like a pericarp. The city of \"Brahmapuri\" is said to be enclosed by a river, known as \"Akash Ganga\". \"Akash Ganga\" is said to issue forth from the foot of Lord Vishnu and after washing the lunar region falls \"through the skies\" and after encircling the Brahmapuri \"splits up into four mighty streams\", which are said to flow in four opposite directions from the landscape of Mount Meru and irrigate the vast lands of Jambudvipa.\n\nThe common names of the dvīpas, having their varṣas (9 for Jambu-dvīpa, 7 for the other dvīpas) with a mountain and a river in each varṣa, is given in several Purāṇas . There is a distinct set of names provides, however, in other Purāṇas . The most detailed geography is that described in the \"Vāyu Purāṇa\" .\n\nThe Buddhist cosmology divides the (circle of the earth) into three separate levels: Kāmadhātu (Desire realm), Rūpadhātu (Form realm), and Ārūpyadhātu (Formless realm). In the Kāmadhātu is located Mount Sumeru which is said to be surrounded by four island-continents. \"The southernmost island is called Jambudvīpa\". The other three continents of Buddhist accounts around Sumeru are not accessible to humans from Jambudvīpa. Jambudvīpa is shaped like a triangle with a blunted point facing south, somewhat like the Indian subcontinent. In its center is a gigantic Jambu tree from which the continent takes its name, meaning \"Jambu Island\".\n\nJambudipa, one of the four Mahādīpas，or great continents，which are included in the Cakkavāla and are ruled by a Cakkavatti．They are grouped round MountSineru．In Jambudīpa is Himavā with its eighty-four thousand peaks，its lakes，mountain ranges，etc.．\n\nThis continent derives its name from the Jambu-tree （also called Naga） which grows there，its trunk fifteen yojanas in girth，its outspreading branches fifty yojanas in length，its shade one hundred yojanas in extent and its height one hundred yojanas （Vin．i．30； SNA．ii．443； Vsm．i．205f； Sp．i．119，etc.．）．On account of this tree，Jambudīpa is also known as Jambusanda （SN．vs．552； SNA．i．121）．The continent is ten thousand yojanas in extent； of these ten thousand，four thousand are covered by the ocean，three thousand by the Himālaya mountains，while three thousand are inhabited by men （SNA．ii．437； UdA．300）．\n\nJambudvīpa is the region where the humans live and is the only place where a being may become enlightened by being born as a human being. It is in Jambudvīpa that one may receive the gift of Dharma and come to understand the Four Noble Truths, the Noble Eightfold Path and ultimately realize the liberation from the cycle of life and death. Another reference is from the Buddhist text Mahavamsa, where the emperor Ashoka's son Mahinda introduces himself to the Sri Lankan king Devanampiyatissa as from Jambudvipa, referring to what is now the Indian subcontinent.\n\nAccording to Jain cosmology, Jambūdvīpa is at the centre of Madhyaloka, or the middle part of the universe, where the humans reside. \"Jambūdvīpaprajñapti\" or the treatise on the island of Roseapple tree contains a description of Jambūdvīpa and life biographies of and King Bharata. \"Trilokasāra\" (Essence of the three worlds), \"Trilokaprajñapti\" (Treatise on the three worlds), \"Trilokadipikā\" (Illumination of the three worlds) and (Summary of Jain geography) are the other texts that provide the details of Jambūdvīpa and Jain cosmology.\nMadhyaloka consists of many continent-islands surrounded by oceans, first eight whose names are:\n\nMount Meru is at the centre of the world surrounded by Jambūdvīpa, in form of a circle forming a diameter of 100,000 yojanas.\n\nJambūdvīpa continent has 6 mountains, dividing the continent into 9 zones (Ksetra). The names of these zones are:\nJambudweep Jain tirtha in Hastinapur, constructed under supervision of Gyanmati Mataji, is a depiction of \"Jambudvipa\" as per Jain cosmology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11475251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11475251", "title": "Jewish cemetery", "text": "Jewish cemetery\n\nA Jewish cemetery ( \"beit almin\" or \"beit kvarot\") is a cemetery where members of the Jewish faith are buried in keeping with Jewish tradition. Cemeteries are referred to in several different ways in Hebrew, including \"bet kevarot\" (house of tombs), \"beit almin\" or \"bet olam\" (house of eternity), the \"bet chayyim\" (house of the [eternal] life) and \"bet shalom\" (house of peace).\n\nThe land of the cemetery is considered holy and a special consecration ceremony takes place upon its inauguration. According to Jewish tradition, Jewish burial grounds are sacred sites and must remain undisturbed in perpetuity. Establishing a cemetery is one of the first priorities for a new Jewish community. A Jewish cemetery is generally purchased and supported with communal funds.\n\nShowing proper respect for the dead (\"kevod ha-met\") is intrinsic to Jewish law. The connection between the soul and the human body after death is an essential aspect of Jewish belief in the eternity of the soul. Thus, disinterring the dead, deriving benefit from a corpse or grave, or acting in any way that may be perceived as \"ridiculing the helpless\" (\"l’oeg l’rash\"), such as making derogatory remarks or joking, but also partaking in the pleasures or needs of the living, such as eating, drinking or smoking, are forbidden in the presence of the dead.\n\nShowing proper respect for the dead also requires a prompt burial, the waiver of certain rabbinic restrictions on Shabbat and religious holidays to insure proper care of the dead, the ritual cleaning (\"tahara\") and dressing of the body in shrouds (\"tachrichim\") before burial, and laws concerning proper conduct in a cemetery. \n\nTo ensure that the requirements for Jewish burial are met and that each member of the community is afforded a proper burial, Jewish communities establish burial societies known as the Chevra Kadisha (\"The Holy Society\") to provide these services free of charge. In larger Jewish communities, cemeteries are sometimes subdivided into sections according to the \"chevra kadisha\" that uses and is responsible for that section of the cemetery's care and upkeep.\nEarly Jewish cemeteries were located outside of the city. In the Diaspora, it is traditional to bury the dead with the feet in the direction of Jerusalem. The tombstones usually have inscriptions in Hebrew and the regional language. During the Nazi Germany regime, Jewish cemeteries all over Europe were destroyed and desecrated.\n\nThe largest Jewish cemeteries of Europe can be found in Budapest, Łódź, Prague, Warsaw, Vienna and Berlin. Other Jewish cemeteries in Europe include the Jewish Cemetery in Khotyn and the Chatam Sofer Memorial (part of the Old Jewish Cemetery in Bratislava).\n\nThe mission of the International Jewish Cemetery Project is to document every Jewish burial site in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6774674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6774674", "title": "Jewish views on contraception", "text": "Jewish views on contraception\n\nThe Jewish view on birth control currently varies between the Orthodox, Conservative and Reform branches of Judaism. Among Orthodox Judaism, use of birth control has been considered only acceptable for use in limited circumstances. Conservative Judaism, while generally encouraging its members to follow the traditional Jewish views on birth control has been more willing to allow greater exceptions regarding its use to fit better within modern society. Reform Judaism has generally been the most liberal with regard to birth control allowing individual followers to use their own judgment in what, if any, birth control methods they might wish to employ.\n\nRegulations regarding contraception affect the traditional streams of Judaism (including the Haredi and Modern Orthodox varieties) more so than others because of their strict adherence to Halakhah, or Jewish law. These regulations affect liberal strains of Judaism (including the Reform, Reconstructionist, and Conservative movements; particularly in Western society) much less, where the emphasis is on applying Halakhah to modern life rather than observing it strictly. Many modern Jews feel that the benefits of contraception, be they female health, family stability, or disease prevention, uphold the commandment in Judaism to \"choose life\" much more strongly than they violate the commandment to \"be fruitful and multiply\".\n\nAmong traditional interpretations of the Torah, active prevention of pregnancy is in violation of the commandment \"be fruitful and multiply\" (Genesis ). Some Rabbinic authorities further consider the possibility (generally not accepted) that a union that by definition cannot lead to pregnancy would amount to \"spilling seed\", the sin of Onan ( ). A woman’s obligation being overridden in Jewish law by the danger of childbirth which opens up the option of them taking steps toward preventing pregnancy.\n\nThe option of contraception is raised by the Talmud (tractate Yevamot 12b), where the use of a pessary is discussed for women who are too young to get pregnant, presently pregnant, or nursing. In each case, either the woman or her child is at risk for serious complications, and this is the basis for many rabbinic authorities permitting contraception in situations where pregnancy would seriously harm the woman. In those cases, the most \"natural\" method is preferred; as the use of a condom or pessary creates a physical barrier, \"the pill\" (or an intrauterine device) is preferred by most authorities. Fertility awareness methods (modern improvements over the rhythm method) are difficult to use, because many infertile days coincide with the ritually impure days of niddah.\n\nOrthodox rabbis believe that the positive commandment of being fruitful and multiplying is a male obligation. Consequently, wives may choose abstinence as birth control, but husbands are not permitted to decline their wives if they are not in niddah.\n\nContraceptive measures that lead to male sterility, are not ever permitted for their interfering with a man's obligation, only ever being permitted in life-threatening circumstances for the man such as some forms of cancer. For example, a crushed or mangled man may not be permitted to marry anyone but a convert under Jewish law, and halachic authorities see vasectomy as a form of maiming, even if already married to a non-convert becoming maimed intentionally or accidentally including an vasectomy does obligate divorce unless a successful repair surgery is performed and sperm flow is returned (based on Deuteronomy ).\n\nWhen Orthodox Jewish couples contemplate the use of contraceptives, they generally consult a rabbi competent on this topic who evaluates the need for the intervention and which method is preferable from a \"halachic\" point of view.\n\nThe Midrash of Genesis speaks of the origins of oral contraceptives: \"In the early time of creation, in the time of Lemech, a medicine was known, the taking of which prevented a woman's conception.\"\n\nInasmuch as the strict letter of the law, as understood by classic authorities, does not obligate the fathering of limitless number of children beyond the requirement to produce at least one child of each gender or according to another opinion until two male offspring are born, there is wide latitude within halacha to limit family sizes, although usage of contraception varies from community to community.\n\nMany Modern Orthodox authorities are inclined to permit contraception for a broad array of reasons, with some arguing that a couple may decide to delay procreation even without specific rabbinic permission.\n\nGenerally, the introduction of hormonal contraception in the 1960s did not cause the stir within Jewish circles that it caused in other religious groups. A number of responsa from rabbinic decisors (\"poskim\") outlined the proper approach to the new phenomenon. There has been little talk of the potential risk of increased promiscuity (\"z'nut\").\n\nAn innovative use of the combined oral contraceptive pill in Judaism is employed by some young brides. The laws of family purity prohibit sexual intercourse while a woman is menstruating (see \"niddah\"). In order to decrease the chance of menstruation occurring just before (or on) the wedding night, some brides briefly regulate their periods in the months leading up to their wedding.\n"}
{"id": "4774439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774439", "title": "Jewish wedding", "text": "Jewish wedding\n\nA Jewish wedding is a wedding ceremony that follows Jewish laws and traditions.\n\nWhile wedding ceremonies vary, common features of a Jewish wedding include a ketubah (marriage contract) which is signed by two witnesses, a wedding canopy (\"chuppah\" or \"huppah\"), a ring owned by the groom that is given to the bride under the canopy, and the breaking of a glass.\n\nTechnically, the Jewish wedding process has two distinct stages: \"kiddushin\" (sanctification or dedication, also called \"erusin\", betrothal in Hebrew) and \"nissuin\" (marriage), when the couple start their life together. The first stage prohibits the woman to all other men, requiring a religious divorce (get) to dissolve, and the final stage permits the couple to each other. The ceremony that accomplishes nisuin is known as chuppah.\n\nToday, \"erusin/kiddushin\" occurs when the groom gives the bride a ring or other object of value with the intent of creating a marriage. There are differing opinions as to which part of the ceremony constitutes \"nissuin/chuppah\"; they include standing under the canopy - itself called a \"chuppah\" - and being alone together in a room (yichud). While historically these two events could take place as much as a year apart, they are now commonly combined into one ceremony.\n\nBefore the wedding ceremony, the chatan (groom) agrees to be bound by the terms of the ketubah, or marriage contract, in the presence of two witnesses, whereupon the witnesses sign the ketubah. The ketubah details the obligations of the groom to the kallah (bride), among which are food, clothing, and marital relations. This document has the standing of a legally binding agreement. It is often written as an illuminated manuscript that is framed and displayed in their home. Under the chuppah, it is traditional to read the signed ketubah aloud, usually in the Aramaic original, but sometimes in translation. Traditionally, this is done to separate the two basic parts of the wedding. Non-Orthodox Jewish couples may opt for a bilingual ketubah, or for a shortened version to be read out.\n\nA traditional Jewish wedding ceremony takes place under a Chuppah or wedding canopy, symbolizing the new home being built by the couple when they become husband and wife.\n\nPrior to the ceremony, Ashkenazi Jews have a custom to cover the face of the bride (usually with a veil), and a prayer is often said for her based on the words spoken to Rebecca in Genesis 24:60. The veiling ritual is known in Yiddish as \"badeken\". Various reasons are given for the veil and the ceremony, a commonly accepted reason is that it reminds the Jewish people of how Jacob was tricked by Laban into marrying Leah before Rachel, as her face was covered by her veil (see Vayetze). Sephardi Jews do not perform this ceremony.\n\nIn many Orthodox Jewish communities, the bride is escorted to the chuppah by her father and mother known by Ashkenazi Jews as \"unterfirers\" (Yiddish, lit. ones who lead under).\n\nThe bride traditionally walks around the groom three or seven times when she arrives at the Chuppah. This may derive from Jeremiah 31:22, “A woman shall surround a man”. The three circuits may represent the three virtues of marriage: righteousness, justice and loving kindness (see Hosea 2:19). Seven circuits derives from the Biblical concept that seven denotes perfection or completeness. Sephardic Jews do not perform this ceremony.\n\nIn traditional weddings, two blessings are recited before the betrothal; a blessing over wine, and the \"betrothal blessing\", which is specified in the Talmud. The wine is then tasted by the couple.\n\nThe groom gives the bride a ring, traditionally a plain wedding band, and recites the declaration: \"Behold, you are consecrated to me with this ring according to the law of Moses and Israel\". The groom places the ring on the bride’s right index finger. According to traditional Jewish law, two valid witnesses must see him place the ring.\n\nDuring some egalitarian weddings, the bride will also present a ring to the groom, often with a quote from the Song of Songs: \"Ani l'dodi, ve dodi li\" (I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine), which may also be inscribed on the ring itself. This ring is sometimes presented outside the chuppa to avoid conflicts with Jewish law.\n\nThe Sheva Brachot or seven blessings are recited by the hazzan or rabbi, or by select guests who are called up individually. Being called upon to recite one of the seven blessings is considered an honour. The groom is given the cup of wine to drink from after the seven blessings. The bride also drinks the wine. In some traditions, the cup will be held to the lips of the groom by his new father-in-law and to the lips of the bride by her new mother-in-law. Traditions vary as to whether additional songs are sung before the seven blessings.\n\nAfter the bride has been given the ring, or at the end of the ceremony (depending on local custom), the groom breaks a glass, crushing it with his right foot, and the guests shout \"\" ( 'congratulations'). At some contemporary weddings, a lightbulb may be substituted because it is thinner and more easily broken, and it makes a louder popping sound.\n\nThe origin of this custom is unknown, although many reasons have been given. The primary reason is that joy must always be tempered. This is based on two accounts in the Talmud of rabbis who, upon seeing that their son's wedding celebration was getting out of hand, broke a vessel – in the second case a glass – to calm things down. Another explanation is that it is a reminder that despite the joy, Jews still mourn the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem. Because of this, some recite the verses \"If I forget thee / O Jerusalem...\" (Ps. 137:5) at this point. Many other reasons have been given by traditional authorities.\n\nFormer Sephardic Chief Rabbi of Israel Ovadia Yosef has strongly criticized the way this custom is sometimes carried out, arguing that \"Many unknowledgeable people fill their mouths with laughter during the breaking of the glass, shouting 'mazel tov' and turning a beautiful custom meant to express our sorrow\" over Jerusalem's destruction \"into an opportunity for lightheadedness.\"\n\nReform Judaism has a new custom where brides and grooms break the wine glass together.\n\nYichud (Hebrew for \"togetherness\" or \"seclusion\") refers to the Ashkenazi practice of leaving the bride and groom alone for 10–20 minutes after the wedding ceremony. The couple retreats to a private room. Yichud can take place anywhere, from a rabbi's study to a synagogue classroom. The reason for yichud is that according to several authorities, standing under the canopy alone does not constitute \"chuppah\", and seclusion is necessary to complete the wedding ceremony. However, Sephardic Jews do not have this custom, as they consider it a \"davar mechoar\", a \"repugnant thing\", compromising the couple's modesty.\n\nIn Yemen, the Jewish practice was not for the groom and his bride to be secluded in a canopy (\"chuppah\"), as is widely practiced today in Jewish weddings, but rather in a bridal chamber that was, in effect, a highly decorated room in the house of the groom. This room was traditionally decorated with large hanging sheets of colored, patterned cloth, replete with wall cushions and short-length mattresses for reclining. Their marriage is consummated when they have been left together alone in this room. This ancient practice finds expression in the writings of Isaac ben Abba Mari (c. 1122 – c. 1193), author of \"Sefer ha-'Ittur\", concerning the Benediction of the Bridegroom: \"Now the \"chuppah\" is when her father delivers her onto her husband, bringing her into that house wherein is some new innovation, such as the sheets… surrounding the walls, etc. For we recite in the Jerusalem Talmud, \"Sotah\" 46a (\"Sotah\" 9:15), 'Those bridal chambers, (\"chuppoth hathanim\"), they hang within them patterned sheets and gold-embroidered ribbons,' etc.\"\n\nDancing is a major feature of Jewish weddings. It is customary for the guests to dance in front of the seated couple and entertain them. Traditional Ashkenazi dances include:\n\n\nAfter the meal, Birkat Hamazon (Grace after meals) is recited, followed by sheva brachot. At a wedding banquet, the wording of the blessings preceding Birkat Hamazon is slightly different from the everyday version. Prayer booklets called \"benchers,\" may be handed out to guests. After the prayers, the blessing over the wine is recited, with two glasses of wine poured together into a third, symbolising the creation of a new life together.\n\nIn recent years, the governing bodies of several branches of Judaism have developed standard Jewish prenuptial agreements designed to prevent a man from withholding a get (Jewish bill of divorce) from his wife, should she want one. Such documents have been developed and widely used in the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom and other places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3972273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3972273", "title": "Jobert of Syria", "text": "Jobert of Syria\n\nJobert of Syria (also known as Gilbert, Josberto, or Joubert) was the seventh Grand Master of the Knights Hospitaller in Syria from 1172 to his death, which is thought to have occurred in 1177.\n\nHe succeeded Cast de Murols (1170–1172), while Cast's predecessor, Gilbert d'Aissailly, who was still living, had been deposed. The memory of Gilbert must have informed Jobert of how not to waste the Order's funds, for he seems to have been a responsible steward of the order's assets. He set aside property for the production of white bread for the poor at the hospital in Jerusalem.\n\nIn August 1174, he refused to commit, along with the other Orders, to aiding the Sicilian Navy in attacking Egypt with Miles de Plancy, the regent of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. In December he joined the new regent, Raymond III of Tripoli, in a planned attack on Sultan Saladin. He and his forces were with the army that menaced Homs after Saladin had taken it. No battle was fought and the Franks left in exchange for the release of hostages and remission of ransoms.\n\nIn 1176, Baldwin IV of Jerusalem confirmed a grant of lands in Egypt to the Order in exchange for assistance from Jobert in the planned campaign there. Though Jobert supported the Egyptian policy, he is last mentioned in January 1177, and his successor, Roger de Moulins, did not agree with the plan, which was abandoned.\n"}
{"id": "3470750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3470750", "title": "Khivi", "text": "Khivi\n\nKhivi () (1506–1582) also referred to as Mata Khivi or Bibi Khivi was the wife of Guru Angad Dev, second Sikh guru.\n\nMata Khivi Ji was born in 1506 into a Marwaha Khatri family to Devi Chand and Karan Devi in village Sanghar near Amritsar. Devi Chand was a businessman and money lender. She was married to Lehna, a resident of Khadur in 1519 at the age of 13, who went on to become second guru of Sikhs and was named Guru Angad Dev. The couple had four children; two sons Datu and Dasu and two daughters Anokhi and Bibi Amro. According to some sources, couple had three children (omitting Anokhi). Mata Khivi Ji lived for 30 years after her husband's death. She lived to the age of 75.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28797043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28797043", "title": "Lilu (mythology)", "text": "Lilu (mythology)\n\nA lilu or lilû is a masculine Akkadian word for a spirit, related to Alû, demon.\nIt is disputed whether, if at all, the Akkadian word \"lilu\", or cognates, is related to the Hebrew word \"liyliyth\" in Isaiah 34:14, which is thought to be a night bird by some modern scholars such as Judit M. Blair. The Babylonian concept of lilu may be more strongly related to the later Talmudic concept of Lilith (female) and lilin (female).\n\nIn Akkadian literature lilu occurs.\n\nIn Sumerian literature lili occurs.\n\nIn the Sumerian king list the father of Gilgamesh is said to be a \"lilu\".\n\nThe wicked Utukku who slays man alive on the plain.\n\nDating of specific Akkadian, Sumerian and Babylonian texts mentioning \"lilu\" (masculine), \"lilitu\" (female) and \"lili\" (female) are haphazard. In older out-of-copyright sources, such as R. Campbell Thompson's \"The Devils and Evil Spirits of Babylonia\" (1904) specific text references are rarely given. An exception is K156 which mentions an \"ardat lili\" Jo Ann Scurlock and Burton R. Andersen (2005) see the origin of \"lilu\" in treatment of mental illness.\n\nHeinrich Zimmern (1917) tentatively identified \"vardat lilitu\" KAT3, 459 as paramour of \"lilu\". \n"}
{"id": "10410307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10410307", "title": "List of African Methodist Episcopal churches", "text": "List of African Methodist Episcopal churches\n\nThis is a list of African Methodist Episcopal Churches, covering local churches of the African Methodist Episcopal Church and also local churches of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, which is related.\n\nThe African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church was founded by Richard Allen in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1816, and split off African-American members from the white-dominated Methodist Episcopal Church denomination to make an independent denomination. It is based in the United States but seven of its 20 districts are overseas, including in Liberia, the United Kingdom, Angola, and South Africa. Its Women's Missionary Service, an NGO, operates in 32 countries.\n\nThe African Methodist Episcopal Zion (AME Zion) church evolved as a division within the Methodist Episcopal Church denomination. The first AME Zion church was founded in 1800. Like the AME Church, the AME Zion Church sent missionaries to Africa in the first decade after the American Civil War and it also has a continuing overseas presence.\n\nThe AME and AME Zion churches are in full communion (along with the United Methodist Church, the African Union Methodist Protestant Church, the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Union American Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nRichard Allen founded the AME church in 1816. Sarah Allen was known as its \"founding mother\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190495", "title": "List of Greek Orthodox Patriarchs of Alexandria", "text": "List of Greek Orthodox Patriarchs of Alexandria\n\nThe Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria has the title Pope and Patriarch of Alexandria and All Africa.\n\nThe following list contains all the incumbents of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79223", "title": "List of biblical names starting with J", "text": "List of biblical names starting with J\n\n<br>\nA – B – C – D – E – F – [[List of biblical names starting within Xs – [[List of biblical names starting with H|H]] – [[List of biblical names starting with I|I]] – J – [[List of biblical names starting with K|K]] – [[List of biblical names starting with L|L]] – [[List of biblical names starting with M|M]] – [[List of biblical names starting with N|N]] – [[List of biblical names starting with O|O]] – [[List of biblical names starting with P|P]] – [[List of biblical names starting with Q|Q]] – [[List of biblical names starting with R|R]] – [[List of biblical names starting with S|S]] – [[List of biblical names starting with T|T]] – [[List of biblical names starting with U|U]] – [[List of biblical names starting with V|V]] – [[List of biblical names starting with Y|Y]] – [[List of biblical names starting with Z|Z]]\n\n\n\n[[Category:Biblical people|J]]\n[[Category:Lists of biblical names|J]]"}
{"id": "43358465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43358465", "title": "List of church ruins on Gotland", "text": "List of church ruins on Gotland\n\nThere are in total nineteen known ruined churches on the Swedish island of Gotland, in the Baltic Sea twelve of which lie in Visby, the island's main town. Of these, ten lie within the medieval city walls. Three additional church ruins in Visby are known through written sources, but today completely vanished.\n\nGotland began to gradually abandon Norse religion and adopt Christianity during the 11th century. While the earliest churches were wooden, construction of stone churches began during the 12th century. The church building period was fairly short; in the countryside stone churches were erected between the early 12th and mid-14th centuries, while in Visby the last churches were inaugurated during the 15th century.\n\nSome of these churches have since fallen into ruin. Of the 94 medieval parish churches in the countryside, 91 are still in use. Three were abandoned following the Reformation, when parishes were merged, and some churches became superfluous. There are in addition three chapel ruins, or ruins of small churches, in the countryside. There are also the ruins of two Cistercian abbeys, one in the countryside and one just outside the city wall of Visby.\n\nAlthough the exact number of churches that existed in Visby during the Middle Ages is unknown, there were certainly more than in any other Swedish city, and at least twelve within the city walls. Visby grew to become an important trading port during the Middle Ages, and most of the churches in the city were built during the 12th and 13th centuries. The churches were not, as in the countryside, only parish churches. Some belonged to abbeys, almshouses or served groups of traders of a specific nationality, such as the Russian Church or present-day Visby Cathedral, which was originally a church used by German traders.\n\nFollowing the Black Death, the invasion of Gotland by Valdemar IV of Denmark and the Battle of Visby in 1361, and a general decrease in trade, Gotland entered a period of decline. From about 1361, building activity therefore dropped. The inauguration of \"Sankta Karin\" in 1412 marks the end of church building activity in Visby. When troops from Lübeck pillaged the city in 1525, and probably damaged several of the churches, the social and economic rationale for sustaining them had vanished. With the advent of the Reformation soon afterwards, the religious rationale to sustain the upkeep of the many churches also permanently disappeared. All monasteries were abolished and all churches within the city walls except one (present-day Visby Cathedral) were abandoned and left to decay. During the following centuries, some church ruins were used as quarries. In 1805 the church ruins were protected by law and in 1863 the Swedish state for the first time allocated money for their conservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51402522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51402522", "title": "List of churches in Iași", "text": "List of churches in Iași\n\nThe city of Iași, Romania is home to a large number of historic churches and monasteries. Unless otherwise noted, these belong to the Romanian Orthodox Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "31701991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31701991", "title": "List of presidents of Mountain View College (Philippines)", "text": "List of presidents of Mountain View College (Philippines)\n\nThe following is a list of the presidents of Mountain View College.\n\n"}
{"id": "38878460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38878460", "title": "Making Chastity Sexy", "text": "Making Chastity Sexy\n\nMaking Chastity Sexy: The Rhetoric of Evangelical Abstinence Campaigns is a 2011 book by Christine Gardner, a professor at Wheaton College. In it, Gardner states that sexual abstinence teachings by Evangelicals are currently \"using sex to sell abstinence\" by promising more satisfying sexual activity within marriage for those who abstain from premarital sex; she argues that this rhetoric reinforces selfish desires for gratification, sets people up for divorce and dissatisfaction with marriage, and simply adapts \"secular forms for religious ends\".\n\nThe book investigates three Evangelical organizations that advocate sexual abstinence: Silver Ring Thing, True Love Waits, and Pure Freedom. In addition to these United States-based sexual abstinence organizations, the book studies one Africa-based sexual abstinence organization. The image on the book cover depicts a female human abdomen exposed by a crop top and low-rise jeans; a navel piercing is encircled by a tattoo of the words \"True Love Waits\" in cursive. In preparation for writing the book, Gardner spent five years doing research at chastity events in various locations in both the United States and Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nFrank Schaeffer called the book \"important and perceptive in a profound way\". In 2012, \"Making Chastity Sexy\" won the Stephen E. Lucas Debut Publication Award for a scholarly monograph or book in the field of communication studies.\n"}
{"id": "611452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=611452", "title": "Medicine bag", "text": "Medicine bag\n\nA medicine bag is usually a small pouch, worn by some Indigenous peoples of the Americas, that contains sacred items. A personal medicine bag may contain objects that symbolize personal well-being and tribal identity. Traditionally, medicine bags are worn under the clothing. Their contents are private, and often of a personal and religious nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "27143799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27143799", "title": "Meggen Lawn Cross", "text": "Meggen Lawn Cross\n\nMeggen Lawn Cross is a supposedly supernatural mark of a cross in the ground in Meggen, a village near Argenbühl in Ravensburg District. The Cross first appeared on June 30, 1972 in form of a bald spot in the surrounding field. Later a cross with a length of 3.3 metres and a width of 1.6 metres appeared. \nThe cross reappears each year. Its origin is unknown. Investigations by the University of Hohenheim have been unable to find any cause for the phenomenon.\n\n"}
{"id": "5471976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5471976", "title": "Messianic Jewish Alliance of America", "text": "Messianic Jewish Alliance of America\n\nThe Messianic Jewish Alliance of America (MJAA) was founded in 1915 as the Hebrew Christian Alliance of America, changing its name in 1975. It follows on from the International Hebrew Christian Alliance between the Hebrew Christian Alliance of Great Britain and that of America.\n\nThe Hebrew Christian Alliance of America began in the early 19th century as a mission by Hebrew Christians to other Jews. Various independent efforts were united at the Hebrew Christian Alliance of the United States in 1905, in partnership with Hebrew Christian Alliances of other countries, most notably the Hebrew Christian Alliance of Great Britain founded by Rev. Carl Schwartz 1866. The organization was under the sponsorship of Rev. Philip Milledoler of the Reformed Dutch Church. Their efforts led to the formation in December 1816 of the first American Christian mission to Jews, which was incorporated on April 14, 1820 as the American Society for Meliorating the Condition of the Jews. There were, however, few Jews in the US at the time, and the organization was run by Christian leaders of a variety of denominations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54722303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54722303", "title": "Moses Davies", "text": "Moses Davies\n\nMoses Davies (1799 – 6 January 1866) was a Welsh musician and composer. He was born in Defynnog, Brecknockshire (now in Powys), but in 1803 his parents moved to Merthyr Tydfil, where he grew up. He was an able singer and took to studying, and later teaching, music. In 1827 he was appointed precentor of the Calvinistic Methodist chapel in Pontmorlais. He was a pioneer of music in congregational churches in the Merthyr area and his innovative ideas saw women being used to sing treble parts. This provoked much opposition, and he resigned his post. However, in 1834 he was persuaded to resume his position and, except for a period in London (from 1842 to 1848), he remained in the post until retirement.\n\nHis compositions include 24 hymn-tunes, which were included in \"Caniadau Seion\" (R. Mills, 1840), \"Telyn Seion\" (R. Beynon) and \"Haleliwia\" (Griffith Harries).\n\nHe died in January 1866 and was buried in Cefn-coed-y-cymmer.\n"}
{"id": "4648647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4648647", "title": "Nagarparkar", "text": "Nagarparkar\n\nNagarparkar (, ), is a town in at the base of the Karoonjhar Mountains in Tharparkar District in Sindh province of Pakistan that is known for the Nagarparkar Temples - a pilgrimage site for Hindus and Jains. Located at a distance of 129 km from Mithi, in Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nThe town name comes from the original word \"Nangar Parkar\". It is at the foot of the Karoonjhar Hills. It is situated at a distance of about 16 km from south and about 23 from east from the Indian border. At one time the area was under the sea, which had to be crossed; the name \"Parkar\" means \"to cross over\". Nagarparkar has Taluka Chachro on its north, and on its west is Taluka Mithi of Tharparkar District, while on east of it lies Barmer (Rajasthan) and on its south is Rann Kachchh. The area surrounding the city is a rocky belt called Parkar, and the remaining part is a sandy area.\n\nThe Karoonjhar hills surround Nagarparkar for 16 miles. The granite stone of this mountain is used for making tiles. There is a saying that the Karoonjhar hills provide 1-1/4 kilos of gold every day in the form of red granite stone, china clay, and honey. In summer, different sounds are audible from the rock due to sulphur deposits.\n\nThe region once had a significant Jain population. Shri Gaudi Parshvanth Stavan describes the Parkar country as the most glorious of all regions of India.\nThe remains of a number of Jain temples are popular tourist attractions and heritage sites in the region.\n\nDurga Mata temple, on Churrio Jabal hill in Choryo village, is one of the two hindu temples in this place. On Shivratri 200,000 pilgrims visit the temples. Hindus cremate the dead and ashes are preserved till Shivratri for immersion in the into holy water. Richer Pakistani Hindus go to India to immerse the ashes in Ganges and the rest visit Nagarparkar to immerse the ashes. This area has been leased by the government for the mining by dynamite blasting of the hills on which the temples are located. This is posing a threat to the temples. Angry pilgrims held a protest against mining.\n\nThe Bhodesar Mosque was built by Nasir-ud-Din Mahmud Shah of Gujarat in 1505 AD. It is built in the Hindu temple architecture/Jain architect style.\n\nThe population of the taluka is 153,106, out of which 90,893 are Hindus and 62,213 are Muslims. There is one rest house beneath the Karoonjhar Mountain, but it partially collapsed during the 2001 Gujarat earthquake. The town is an ancient place of Hindu worship. Sardharo, Anchlesar, and Jain temples are situated there.\n\nNagarparkar usually get rains from Monsoon System during June to September (by BOB Lows & Depressions). Average Annual Rainfall of Nagarparkar = 358 mm\n\n990 mm was recorded in year 2011 during July to September (which was highest rainfall during 21st Century)\n\nHighest All Time Annual Rainfall of Nagarparkar = 1089 mm in 1893 (Umair Dero)\n\nLowest All Time Annual Rainfall of Nagarparkar = 17 mm in 1899 (Umair Dero)\n\nAverage Monthly Rainfall (mm) of Nagarparkar (Listed Below) -\n\nJanuary --- 1.3 \n\nFebruary --- 1.7 \n\nMarch --- 1.1 \n\nApril --- 1.9 \n\nMay --- 3.0 \n\nJune --- 29.0 \n\nJuly --- 147.5\n\nAugust --- 102.5\n\nSeptember --- 60.8\n\nOctober --- 5.2\n\nNovember --- 3.1\n\nDecember --- 0.9\n\nTotal --- 358.0 mm\n\n--- CLIMATIC CONDITIONS ---\n\nNagarparkar is usually hot during Summer when temperatures\nvaries from 40°C to 45°C\n\nIn Winters, the weather is usually cool with temperatures between 5°C to 15°C\n"}
{"id": "603791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603791", "title": "Nezha", "text": "Nezha\n\nNezha (哪吒) is a protection deity in Chinese folk religion. His official Taoist name is \"Marshal of the Central Altar\" (). He was then given the title \"Third Lotus Prince\" () after he became a deity.\n\nAccording to Meir Shahar, Nezha is ultimately based on two figures from Hindu mythology. The first is a yaksha from the \"Ramayana\" named Nalakubar, the son of Yaksha King Kubera and nephew of the antagonist Ravana. The link to Nalakubar is established through variants in his Chinese name appearing in Buddhist sutras. The original variant Naluojiupoluo () changed to Naluojubaluo (), Nazhajuwaluo (), and finally Nazha (). The simple addition of the \"mouth radical\" () to Na () changes the name to the current form Nezha (). The second figure is the child god Krishna. Both Krishna and Nezha are powerful children that defeat mighty serpents, Kaliya in the case of the former and Ao Bing in the latter. The \"Bhagavata Purana\" describes how Nalakubar was rescued from imprisonment within a tree by Krishna. A 10th-century Tantric Buddhist sutra mentions a child god that seems to be an amalgam of Krishna and Nalakubar called Nana (). In addition, Nalakubar’s father Kubera was eventually absorbed into the Buddhist pantheon as the Heavenly King Vaiśravaṇa. Shahar notes that Vaisravana was somehow connected to the historical Tang Dynasty general Li Jing. This explains the name and position of Nezha’s father, the Pagoda-Bearing Heavenly King Li Jing.\n\nAccording to \"Fengshen Yanyi\", Nezha was born during the Shang dynasty in a military fortress at Chentang Pass. His father was a military commander named Li Jing, who later became the \"Pagoda-wielding Heavenly King\". Nezha's mother, Lady Yin, gave birth to a ball of flesh after being pregnant with him for three years and six months. Li Jing thought that his wife had given birth to a demon and attacked the ball with his sword. The ball split open and Nezha jumped out as a boy instead of an infant. Nezha could speak and walk immediately after birth. He was later accepted by the immortal Taiyi Zhenren as a student. He had two older brothers, Jinzha, a disciple of Wenshu Guangfa Tianzun, and Muzha.\n\nOne day, the people of Chentang Pass asked for rain, and sacrificed much food to the East Sea Dragon King Ao Guang. The King rejected the food, instead wanting girls and boys to eat. He sent Ye Sha to capture for him a girl and boy. Nezha and two other children were playing by the sea when Ye Sha appeared and captured one of Nezha's friends. Nezha then fought him and injured him severely, causing him to return to the King and beg for someone else to take care of Nezha. The Dragon King sent Ao Bing, his third son, but the latter was slain by Nezha. Ao Guang called for his brothers and confronted Nezha and his family. He threatened to flood Chentang Pass and report Nezha to the Jade Emperor. To save his family and the people, Nezha committed suicide himself then carving up his own flesh and dismembering his bones \"returning\" these to his parents in repayment for the debt of his birth. The Dragon Kings then hosted a huge celebration.\n\nAfter Nezha had committed suicide to return his body to his parents, he appeared in his mother's dream. In the dream, he asked her to build a temple for him, so that his soul would have a place to rest. This constitutes a link to Nezha's birth because the night before Nezha was born, Lady Yin had a dream where a Taoist put something into her bosom and told her to take this child. For both incidences, a dream was used to communicate a message.\n\nHis mother then secretly built a temple for Nezha and this temple later flourished. This temple became very well known and grew vastly because Nezha granted miracle cures to the sick and the crippled. However, Li Jing soon found out about this temple and burnt it down because he was still angry at Nezha and felt that he had already caused too much trouble for their family.\n\nLi Jing burning the temple caused Nezha to desire his father's death. Thus, enmity between father and son grew. Nezha was later brought back to life by his teacher, Taiyi Zhenren, who used lotus roots to construct a human body for his soul and gave him two new weapons: the Wind Fire Wheels () and the Fire-tipped Spear (). With the reincarnation of Nezha by his master, Li Jing and Nezha fought many battles. However, Li Jing soon realized that his mortal body was no match for Nezha and so he ran for his life. On the run, he met his second son, Muzha, who fought and was defeated by Nezha. At this, Li Jing tried to commit suicide but was saved by Wenshu Guangfa Tianzun, who also contained Nezha. In the end, Nezha was forced to submit to his father by another deity, Randeng Daoren.\n\nNezha is often depicted as a youth, instead of an adult. He is often shown flying in the sky riding on the Wind Fire Wheels (), has the Universe Ring () around his body (sometimes in his left hand), the Red Armillary Sash () around his shoulders and a Fire-tipped Spear () in his right hand. Sometimes, he is shown in his \"three heads and six arms\" form (). He has the ability to spit rainbows in some legends.\n\nNezha has frequently appeared in Chinese mythology and ancient Chinese literature such as \"Fengshen Yanyi\" (or \"Investiture of the Gods\"), although the story of \"Nezha conquering the sea\" is the most well known among Chinese households.\n\nIn \"Journey to the West\", Nezha was a general under his father, \"Pagoda-wielding Heavenly King\" Li Jing. He fought the Monkey King, Sun Wukong, when the latter rebelled against the Jade Emperor. They became friends later. Nezha made some appearances in the novel to help the four protagonists defeat powerful demons including his adoptive sister - Lady Earth Flow.\n\nNezha increased in popularity in 1979 with the film \"Nezha Conquers the Dragon King\" (1979), which was screened at the 1980 Cannes Film Festival. On 30 May 2014, Google paid homage to the film with an animated doodle on their Hong Kong search engine's homepage.\n\nNezha is one of the leading characters in \"Gods of Honour\", starring Benny Chan, a Hong Kong television series which was adapted from the novel \"Fengshen Bang\". It ran for 40 episodes.\n\nIn 2003, China Central Television (CCTV) released a new children’s animated series \"The Legend of Nezha\", which ran for 52 episodes.\n\nNezha appears as an antagonist in the Chinese animated film \"Havoc in Heaven\" (1961; 1964), losing a fight to Sun Wukong.\n\nNezha appears as two of the playable characters in Koei's \"Warriors Orochi 3\". Nezha first appears as an arrogant Mystic general, brought back to life as a cyborg (rather than out of lotus roots) whose weapons are levitating discs or wheels. Traveling back in time, the player encounters the more human-looking confident youth Nezha, who wields a fire-tipped spear.\n\nNe Zha is a playable character in the multiplayer online battle arena video game \"Smite\", where he is a melee assassin.\n\nOn December 16, 2015, Third Person Shooter Action game \"Warframe\" released a playable character named and themed after Nezha.\n\nNezha is also a collectible character in Netmarble's mobile RPG \"Seven Knights\" where the character is actually female but still retains much of Nezha's mythos and characteristics.\n\nNezha is also playable character in the multiplayer online battle arena mobile game \"hero's evolved\", ( as a girl ) where she is a melee fighter.\n\nA 2017 announcement from the leadership of Hasbro confirmed that Nezha will appear in a crossover with the \"Transformers\" franchise.\n\nNezha appears as a recurring demon and Persona in various games of Megami Tensei franchise, under the names Nataku or Nata Taishi.\n\nNezha appears in Fate/Grand Order as a gender-bend Lancer class Servant.\n\nNezha is one of the inspirations for Chiaotzu in the popular manga series Dragon Ball.\n\nNezha is one of the many characters used in battle in the game Monster Super League, MSL, where he is actually portrayed as a girl rather than a boy.\nHe has 5 types, grass, water, fire, light and dark. Fire being represented as his original form.\n\nThe 1992 film Rebels of the Neon God by Tsai Ming-liang references Nezha.\n\nNezha is worshipped in Chinese folk religion and is called \"Marshal of the Central Altar\" or \"Prince Nezha\", the \"Third Prince\".\n\nAs in traditional folklore, Nezha flies around swiftly on his wind fire wheels, so he is also regarded as the tutelary god of many professional drivers, like trucks, taxis, or sightseeing bus drivers. They tend to place a small statue of Nezha in the vehicles for a safe drive.\n\nIt is also said Nezha is the patron of gamblers - mischievous enough to give winning numbers to lottery winners.\n\nThe Xinying Prince's Temple in Tainan, built in 1728, is the founding temple of the cult in Taiwan.\n\nTaiwan's Techno Prince Nezha dance groups were invited to perform in the opening ceremonies of the World Games 2009 in Kaohsiung and the 2009 Summer Deaflympics in Taipei, presenting a fusion of popular culture and Chinese traditional art.\n\nNezha is a well-known Taoist deity in Japan. The Japanese refer to Nezha as \"Nataku\" or \"Nata\", which came from the readings of Xiyouji or Seiyuki (西遊記) in Japanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "24409675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24409675", "title": "Parkindo", "text": "Parkindo\n\nParkindo (, Indonesian Christian Party) was a political party in Indonesia from 1950 to 1973.\nFounded by Johannes Leimena and Melanchton Siregar, the former Military Governor of North Sumatra, who has known as a local teacher in Tarutung. Its support was concentrated in Protestant areas of Indonesia. It had considerable influence despite the small number of Christians in Indonesia due to the large numbers of Christians in the civil service, the Army and educational establishments and because of the high profile of party leader Johannes Leimena who served in several Indonesian cabinets and as deputy prime minister. In the 1955 Indonesian legislative election, the party won 2.6% of the vote and eight seats in the People's Representative Council. However, in the 1971 elections, the last it contested before being merged into the Indonesian Democratic Party, it gained only 1.34% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "53124833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53124833", "title": "Ranabir Singh Thapa", "text": "Ranabir Singh Thapa\n\nRanabir Singh Thapa () also spelled Ranbir, Ranavir or Ranvir also known by the late ascetic name Swami Abhayananda () was a Nepalese Army General, prominent politician and minister of state. In 1837, he became Acting Mukhtiyar (equivalent to Prime Minister) of Nepal for a brief period. He was a prominent member of Thapa dynasty. He later turned ascetic and was known by the Sanyasi name Swami Abhayananda.\n\nRanabir Singh was born as the youngest son of \"Sanukaji\" Amar Singh Thapa and Satyarupa Maya. He was the brother of Mukhtiyar Bhimsen Thapa.\n\nHe was the Commander of the Makwanpur-Hariharpur axis during Anglo-Nepalese war. In 1871 BS (1814 AD) he was deputed to Makwanpur to command the troops. He was leading 4000 soldiers against Major General Marley and Major General Woods. They were lured to major killing area by Ranabir Singh but Major-General Woods did not advance from Bara Gadhi.\n\nHe was appointed chief member at the Royal Palace to keep observation on the King and Queen. After the death of Queen Tripurasundari of Nepal, the royal seal by which government orders were approved naturally went into the hands of the senior queen Samrajya Lakshmi Devi, who knew all too well of its powers and wanted to emulate the queens of the past by establishing her own regency. Sensing Samrajya Laxmi's ambition, Ranbir Singh started to stroke her dislike of Bhimsen in the hopes of becoming the \"Mukhtiyar\" himself. There was a quarrel between Mathabar Singh Thapa and Ranabir Singh regarding the latter's loyalty shift towards the senior Queen Samrajya Lakshmi resulting in Mathabar resigning from the commandership of Sri Nath Regiment. Getting a whiff of this matter, Bhimsen strongly reprimanded Ranbir Singh which caused him to resign from his General's position and live in retirement in his house at Sipamandan. However, Bhimsen later managed to placate his brother, by giving him the title of Chota (Little) General, and send him to Palpa as its governor. King Rajendra supported Bhimsen instead of Ranabir Singh and the removal of Ranabir Singh sabotaged the Queen's plan. \n\nIn April 1835, Bhimsen also hatched a plan to make a state visit to Britain, hoping to force Britain to acknowledge the sovereignty of Nepal; but since he could not make the visit himself, his nephew Colonel Mathabar Singh Thapa was chosen as the representative of Nepal, bearing a few gifts and a letter from King Rajendra addressed to King William IV. In this process, Ranbir Singh, the governor of Palpa, was made Full General beside the promotion of Mathabar Singh Thapa and Sher Jung Thapa. After the annual muster at the beginning of 1837, an investigation was also started to check Bhimsen's expenditures in establishing various battalions. Such events led the courtiers to feel that Bhimsen's \"Mukhtiyari\" would not last very long; thus Ranbir Singh Thapa, in the hopes of becoming the next \"Mukhtiyar\", wrote a letter to the King asking him to be recalled to Kathmandu from Palpa. His wish was granted; and Bhimsen, pleased to see his brother after many years, made Ranbir Singh the acting \"Mukhtiyar\" and decided to go to his ancestral home in Borlang Gorkha for the sake of pilgrimage. On 24 July 1837, Rajendra's youngest son, Devendra Bikram Shah, an infant of six months, died suddenly. It was at once rumored that the child had died of poison intended for his mother the Senior Queen Samrajya Laxmi Devi: given at the instigation of Bhimsen, or someone of his party. On this charge, Bhimsen, his brother Ranbir Singh, his nephew Mathbar Singh, their families, the court physicians, Ekdev and Eksurya Upadhyay, and his deputy Bhajuman Baidya, with a few more of the nearest relatives of the Thapas were incarcerated, proclaimed outcasts, and their properties confiscated. \n\nFearful that the Pandes would re-establish their power, Fatte Jang Shah, Ranganath Poudel, and the Junior Queen Rajya Laxmi Devi obtained from the King the liberation of Bhimsen, Mathabar, and the rest of the party, about eight months after they were incarcerated for the poisoning case. Sensing that a catastrophe was going to befall the Thapas, Mathabar Singh fled to India while pretending to go on a hunting trip; Ranbir Singh gave up all his property and became a sanyasi, titling himself Abhayanand Puri; but Bhimsen Thapa preferred to remain in his old home in Gorkha. He was rendered by the following full name in his ascetic life Shreemant Paramahamsa Paribrajakacharya Swami Abhayananda Giri Nepali.\n\n"}
{"id": "594703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594703", "title": "Religion in Canada", "text": "Religion in Canada\n\nReligion in Canada encompasses a wide range of groups and beliefs.\n\nChristianity is the largest religion in Canada, with Roman Catholics having the most adherents. Christians, representing 67.3% of the population in 2011, are followed by people having no religion with 23.9% of the total population. Other faiths include Muslims (3.2%), Hindus (1.5%), Sikhs (1.4%), Buddhists (1.1%), and Jews (1.0%). Rates of religious adherence are steadily decreasing. The preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms refers to God. The monarch carries the title of \"Defender of the Faith\". However, Canada has no official religion, and support for religious pluralism and freedom of religion is an important part of Canada's political culture.\nBefore the European colonization, Aboriginal religions were largely animistic or shamanistic, including an intense tribal reverence for spirits and nature. The French colonization beginning in the 17th century established a Roman Catholic francophone population in New France, especially Acadia (later Lower Canada, now Nova Scotia and Quebec). British colonization brought waves of Anglicans and other Protestants to Upper Canada, now Ontario. The Russian Empire spread Orthodox Christianity in a small extent to the tribes in the far north and western coasts, particularly hyperborean nomadics like the Inuit; Orthodoxy would arrive to the mainland with immigrants from the Soviet Union, Eastern Bloc, Greece and elsewhere during the 20th century.\n\nWith Christianity in decline after having once been central and integral to Canadian culture and daily life, Canada has become a post-Christian, secular state despite the majority of Canadians claiming an affiliation with Christianity. The majority of Canadians consider religion to be unimportant in their daily lives, but still believe in God. The practice of religion is now generally considered a private matter throughout society and the state.\n\nCanada today has no official church, and the government is officially committed to religious pluralism. While the Canadian government's official ties to religion, specifically Christianity are few, the Preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms makes reference to \"the supremacy of God. The national anthem in both official languages also refers to God. Nevertheless, the rise of irreligion within the country and influx of non-Christian peoples has led to a greater separation of government and religion, demonstrated in forms like \"Christmas holidays\" being called \"winter festivals\" in public schools. Some religious schools are government-funded as per Section Twenty-nine of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nCanada is a Commonwealth realm in which the head of state is shared with 15 other countries. As such, Canada follows the United Kingdom's succession laws for its monarch, which bar Roman Catholics from inheriting the throne. Within Canada, the Queen's title includes the phrases \"By the Grace of God\" and \"Defender of the Faith.\"\n\nChristmas and Easter are nationwide holidays, and while Jews, Muslims, and other religious groups are allowed to take their holy days off work, they do not share the same official recognition. In 1957, the Parliament declared Thanksgiving \"a day of general thanksgiving to almighty God for the bountiful harvest with which Canada has been blessed.\"\n\nThere was an ongoing battle in the late 20th century to have religious garb accepted throughout Canadian society, mostly focused on Sikh turbans. The Canadian Armed Forces authorized the wearing of turban in 1986, eventually the Royal Canadian Mounted Police followed in 1988 and eventually other federal government agencies accepted members wearing turbans.\n\nIn the Canada 2011 National Household Survey (the 2011 census did not ask about religious affiliation but the survey sent to a subset of the population did), 67% of the Canadian population list Roman Catholicism or Protestantism or another Christian denomination as their religion, considerably less than 10 years before in the Canada 2001 Census, where 77% of the population listed a Christian religion.\n\nIn recent years there have been substantial rises in non-Christian religions in Canada. From the 1991 to 2011, Islam grew by 316%, Hinduism 217%, Sikhism 209%, and Buddhism 124%. The growth of non-Christian religions expressed as a percentage of Canada's population rose from 4% in 1991 to 8% in 2011. In terms of the ratio of non-Christians to Christians, it rose from 21 Christians (95% of religious population) to 1 non-Christian (5% of religious population) in 1991 to 8 Christians (89%) to 1 non-Christian (11%) in 2011, a rise of 135% of the ratio of non-Christians to Christians, or a decline of 6.5% of Christians to non-Christians, in 20 years.\n\nIncludes Aboriginal spirituality, Pagan, Wicca, Unity – New Thought – Pantheist, Scientology, Rastafarian, New Age, Gnostic, Satanist, etc.\n\nBefore the arrival of Europeans, the First Nations followed a wide array of mostly animistic religions and spirituality. The first Europeans to settle in great numbers in Canada were French Latin Rite Roman Catholics, including a large number of Jesuits who established several missions in North America. They were dedicated to converting the Natives; an effort that eventually proved successful.\n\nThe first large Protestant communities were formed in the Maritimes after they were conquered by the British. Unable to convince enough British immigrants to go to the region, the government decided to import continental Protestants from Germany and Switzerland to populate the region and counterbalance the Roman Catholic Acadians. This group was known as the Foreign Protestants. This effort proved successful and today the South Shore region of Nova Scotia is still largely Lutheran. After the Expulsion of the Acadians beginning in 1755 a large number of New England Planters settled on the vacated lands bringing with them their Congregationalist belief. During the 1770s, guided by Henry Alline, the New Light movement of the Great Awakening swept through the Atlantic region converting many of the Congregationalists to the new theology. After Alline's death many of these Newlights eventually became Baptists, thus making Maritime Canada the heartland of the Baptist movement in Canada.\n\nThe Quebec Act of 1774 acknowledged the rights of the Roman Catholic Church throughout Lower Canada in order to keep the French Canadians loyal to Britannic Crown. Roman Catholicism is still the main religion of French Canadians today.\nThe American Revolution beginning in 1765 brought a large influx of Protestants to Canada when United Empire Loyalists, fleeing the rebellious United States, moved in large numbers to Upper Canada and the Maritimes. They comprised a mix of Christian groups with a large number of Anglicans, but also many Presbyterians and Methodists.\n\nWhile Anglicans consolidated their hold on the upper classes, workingmen and farmers responded to the Methodist revivals, often sponsored by visiting preachers from the United States. Typical was Rev. James Caughey, an American sent by the Wesleyan Methodist Church from the 1840s through 1864. He brought in the converts by the score, most notably in the revivals in Western Canada from 1851 to 1853. His technique combined restrained emotionalism with a clear call for personal commitment, coupled with follow-up action to organize support from converts. It was a time when the holiness movement caught fire, with the revitalized interest of men and women in Christian perfection. Caughey successfully bridged the gap between the style of earlier camp meetings and the needs of more sophisticated Methodist congregations in the emerging cities.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century in the Maritimes and Upper Canada, the Anglican Church held the same official position it did in England. This caused tension within English Canada, as much of the populace was not Anglican. Increasing immigration from Scotland created a very large Presbyterian community and they and other groups demanded equal rights. This was an important cause of the 1837 Rebellion in Upper Canada. With the arrival of responsible governments, the Anglican monopoly was ended.\n\nIn Lower Canada, the Roman Catholic Church was officially pre-eminent and had a central role in the colony's culture and politics. Unlike English Canada, French Canadian nationalism became very closely associated with Roman Catholicism. During this period, the Roman Catholic Church in the region became one of the most reactionary in the world. Known as Ultramontane Catholicism, the church adopted positions condemning all manifestations of liberalism.\n\nIn politics, those aligned with the Roman Catholic clergy in Quebec were known as \"les bleus\" (the blues). They formed a curious alliance with the staunchly monarchist and pro-British Anglicans of English Canada (often members of the Orange Order) to form the basis of the Canadian Conservative Party. The Reform Party, which later became the Liberal Party, was largely composed of the anti-clerical French Canadians, known as \"les rouges\" (the reds) and the non-Anglican Protestant groups. In those times, right before elections, parish priests would give sermons to their flock where they said things like \"Le ciel est bleu et l'enfer est rouge\" (\"Heaven/the sky is blue and hell is red\").\n\nIn 1871, national census revealed 56.45% as Protestants, 42.80% as Roman Catholic, 0.05% as Pagans, 0.03% as Jewish, 0.02% as Mormons, 0.15% as irreligious and 0.49% as unspecified.\n\nBy the late nineteenth century, Protestant pluralism had taken hold in English Canada. While much of the elite were still Anglican, other groups, including the Methodists, had become very prominent as well. The schools and universities created at this time reflected this pluralism with major centres of learning being established for each faith. One, King's College, later the University of Toronto, was set up as a non-denominational school. The influence of the Orange Order was strong, especially among Irish Protestant immigrants, and comprised a powerful anti-Catholic force in Ontario politics; its influence faded away after 1920.\n\nThe late nineteenth century also saw the beginning of a large shift in Canadian immigration patterns. Large numbers of Irish and Southern European immigrants were creating new Roman Catholic communities in English Canada. Western Canada saw the arrival of significant Eastern Orthodox immigrants from Eastern Europe as well as Mormon and Pentecostal immigrants from the United States and Ireland.\n\nIn 1919–20 Canada's five major Protestant denominations (Anglican, Baptist, Congregational, Methodist, and Presbyterian) cooperatively undertook the \"Forward Movement.\" The goal was to raise funds and to strengthen Christian spirituality in Canada. The movement invoked Anglophone nationalism by linking donations with the Victory Loan campaigns of the First World War, and stressed the need for funds to Canadianize immigrants. Centred in Ontario, the campaign was a clear financial success, raising over $11 million. However the campaign exposed deep divisions among Protestants, with the traditional Evangelists speaking of a personal relationship with God and the more liberal denominations emphasizing the Social Gospel and good works. Both factions (apart from the Anglicans) agreed on prohibition, which was demanded by the WCTU.\n\nAs of 1931, Roman Catholics were the largest religious body in Canada, with 4 million people. Following it were the United Church of Canada (including Methodists, Congregationalists and Presbyterians), with 2 million; the Anglican Church, with nearly 2 million; and the Presbyterian Church, with approximately 870,000. The Canada Year Book 1936 reported that \"of the non-Christian sects, 155,614 or 1.50% were Jews, 24,087 or 0.23% were Confucians, 15,784 or 0.15% were Buddhists and 5,008 or 0.05% were pagans.\n\nDomination of Canadian society by Protestant and Roman Catholic elements continued until well into the 20th century. Until the 1960s, most parts of Canada still had extensive Lord's Day laws that limited what one could do on a Sunday. The English Canadian elite were still dominated by Protestants, and Jews and Roman Catholics were often excluded. A slow process of liberalization began after the Second World War in English Canada. Overtly Christian laws were expunged, including those against homosexuality. Policies favouring Christian immigration were also abolished.\n\nIn 1951, a nationwide census was taken after incorporation of predominantly Protestant province of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nAccording to statistics provided by Statistics Canada, Protestants held a slight majority in the country between 1871 and 1961. Despite Canada's large Roman Catholic population, this fact is confirmed by nine consecutive national censuses. By 1961, Roman Catholics overtook Protestants as the most numerous religious group, although—unlike Protestants—they never reached the absolute majority status (>50%).\n\nThe most overwhelming change occurred during the Quiet Revolution in Quebec in the 1960s. Up to the 1950s, the province was one of the most traditional Roman Catholic areas in the world. Church attendance rates were high, and the schools were largely controlled by the Church. In the 1960s, the Catholic Church lost most of its influence in Quebec, and religiosity declined sharply. While the majority of Québécois are still professed Latin rite Roman Catholics, rates of church attendance have decreased dramatically. Since then, Common law relationships, abortion, and support for same-sex marriage are more common in Quebec than in the rest of Canada.\n\nEnglish Canada also underwent secularization. The United Church of Canada, the country's largest Protestant denomination, became one of the most liberal major Protestant churches in the world. Flatt argues that in the 1960s Canada's rapid cultural changes led the United Church to end its evangelical programs and change its identity. It made revolutionary changes in its evangelistic campaigns, educational programs, moral stances, and theological image. However, membership declined sharply as the United Church affirmed a commitment to gay rights including marriage and ordination, and to the ordination of women.\n\nIn 1971, Canada was 47% Catholic, 41% Protestant, 4% Other Religion and 4% Unaffilliated.\n\nMeanwhile, a strong current of evangelical Protestantism emerged. The largest groups are found in the Atlantic provinces and Western Canada, particularly in Alberta, Southern Manitoba and the Southern interior and Fraser Valley region of British Columbia, also known as the \"Canadian Bible Belt\", as well as parts of Ontario outside the Greater Toronto Area. The social environment is more conservative, somewhat more in line with that of the Midwestern and Southern United States, and same-sex marriage, abortion, and common-law relationships are less widely accepted. This movement has grown sharply after 1960. The evangelicals increasingly influence public policy. Nevertheless, the overall proportion of evangelicals in Canada remains considerably lower than in the United States and the polarization much less intense. There are very few evangelicals in Quebec and in the largest urban areas, which are generally secular, although there are several congregations above 1000 members in most large cities.\n\nThe Canadian community is one of the earliest western communities of Bahá'ís, at one point sharing a joint National Spiritual Assembly with the United States, and is a co-recipient of `Abdu'l-Bahá's Tablets of the Divine Plan. The first North American woman to declare herself a Bahá'í was Kate C. Ives, of Canadian ancestry, though not living in Canada at the time. Moojan Momen, in reviewing \"The Origins of the Bahá'í Community of Canada, 1898–1948\" notes that \"the Magee family... are credited with bringing the Bahá'í Faith to Canada. Edith Magee became a Bahá'í in 1898 in Chicago and returned to her home in London, Ontario, where four other female members of her family became Bahá'ís. This predominance of women converts became a feature of the Canadian Bahá'í community...\"\n\nThe majority of Canadian Christians attend church services infrequently. Cross-national surveys of religiosity rates such as the Pew Global Attitudes Project indicate that, on average, Canadian Christians are less observant than those of the United States but are still more overtly religious than their counterparts in Western Europe. In 2002, 30% of Canadians reported to Pew researchers that religion was \"very important\" to them. A 2005 Gallup poll showed that 28% of Canadians consider religion to be \"very important\" (55% of Americans and 19% of Britons say the same). Regional differences within Canada exist, however, with British Columbia and Quebec reporting especially low metrics of traditional religious observance, as well as a significant urban-rural divide, while Alberta and rural Ontario saw high rates of religious attendance. The rates for weekly church attendance are contested, with estimates running as low as 11% as per the latest Ipsos-Reid poll and as high as 25% as per \"Christianity Today\" magazine. This American magazine reported that three polls conducted by Focus on the Family, Time Canada and the Vanier Institute of the Family showed church attendance increasing for the first time in a generation, with weekly attendance at 25 per cent. This number is similar to the statistics reported by premier Canadian sociologist of religion, Prof. Reginald Bibby of the University of Lethbridge, who has been studying Canadian religious patterns since 1975. Although lower than in the US, which has reported weekly church attendance at about 40% since the Second World War, weekly church attendance rates are higher than those in Northern Europe.\n\nAs well as the large churches – Roman Catholic, United, and Anglican, which together count more than half of the Canadian population as nominal adherents – Canada also has many smaller Christian groups, including Orthodox Christianity. The Egyptian population in Ontario and Quebec (Greater Toronto in particular) has seen a large influx of the Coptic Orthodox population in just a few decades. The relatively large Ukrainian population of Manitoba and Saskatchewan has produced many followers of the Ukrainian Catholic and Ukrainian Orthodox Churches, while southern Manitoba has been settled largely by Mennonites. The concentration of these smaller groups often varies greatly across the country. Baptists are especially numerous in the Maritimes. The Maritimes, prairie provinces, and southwestern Ontario have significant numbers of Lutherans. Southwest Ontario has seen large numbers of German and Russian immigrants, including many Mennonites and Hutterites, as well as a significant contingent of Dutch Reformed. Alberta has seen considerable immigration from the American plains, creating a significant Mormon minority in that province. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints claimed to have 178,102 members (74,377 of whom in Alberta) at the end of 2007. And according to the Jehovah's Witnesses year report there are 111,963 active members (members who actively preach) in Canada.\n\nCanada as a nation is becoming increasingly religiously diverse, especially in large urban centres such as Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal, where minority groups and new immigrants who make up the growth in most religious groups congregate. Two significant trends become clear when the current religious landscape is examined closely. One is the loss of ‘secularized' Canadians as active and regular participants in the churches and denominations they grew up in, which were overwhelmingly Christian, while these churches remain a part of Canadians' cultural identity. The other is the increasing presence of ethnically diverse immigration within the religious makeup of the country.\n\nAs Mainline Protestants and Roman Catholics have experienced drastic losses over the past 30 years, others have been expanding rapidly: overall by 144% in ‘Eastern' religions during the 1981–1991 decade. Considering Canada's increasing reliance on immigration to bolster a low birth rate, the situation is only likely to continue to diversify. This increased influx of ethnic immigrants not only affects the types of religions represented in the Canadian context but also the increasingly multicultural and multilingual makeup of individual Christian denominations. From Chinese Anglican or Korean United Church communities, to the Lutheran focus on providing much needed services to immigrants new to the Canadian context and English language, immigration is making changes.\n\nFor some Protestant denominations, adapting to a new secular context has meant adjusting to their non-institutional roles in society by increasingly focusing on social justice. However the pull between conservative religious members and the more radical among the church members is complicated by the numbers of immigrant communities who may desire a church that fulfils a more ‘institutionally complete' role as a buffer in this new country over the current tension filled debates over same-sex marriage, ordination of women and homosexuals, or the role of women in the church. This of course will depend on the background of the immigrant population, as in the Hong Kong context where ordination of Florence Li Tim Oi happened long before women's ordination was ever raised on the Canadian Anglican church level.\n\nAs well a multicultural focus on the churches part may include non-Christian elements (such as the inclusion of a Buddhist priest in one incident) which are unwelcome to the transplanted religious community. Serving the needs and desires of different aspects of the Canadian and newly Canadian populations makes a difficult balancing act for the various mainline churches which are starved for money and active parishioners in a time when 16% of Canadians identify as non-religious and up to two-thirds of those who do identify with a denomination use the church only for its life-cycle rituals governing birth, marriage, and death. The church retains that hold in their parishioners' lives but not the commitment of time and energy necessary to support an aging institution.\n\nEvangelical portions of the Protestant groups proclaim their growth as well but as Roger O'Tool notes they make up 7% of the Canadian population and seem to gain most of their growth from a higher birthrate. What is significant is the higher participation of their members in contrast to Mainline Protestants and Roman Catholics. This high commitment would seem to translate into the kind of political power evangelicals in the United States enjoy but despite Canada's historically Christian background as Lori Beaman notes neatly \"...[forming] the backdrop for social process\" explicit religiosity appears to have not effectively moved the government towards legal discrimination against gay marriage. Much as many Roman Catholics in Quebec ignore the Church's stance on birth control, abortion, or premarital sex, the churches do not dictate much of the daily lives of regular Canadians.\n\nThere was a major religious revival in Toronto in the nineties known as the Toronto Blessing at a small Vineyard Church near the Toronto Pearson International Airport. This religious event was the largest tourist attraction to Toronto in the year 1994. This event was characterized by unusual religious ecstascy such as being slain in the Spirit, laughing uncontrollably, and other odd behavior.\n\nA 2015 study estimates some 43,000 believers in Christ from a Muslim background in Canada, most of whom belong to the evangelical tradition.\n\nIn mid-1870s Hutterites moved from Europe to the Dakota Territory in the United States to avoid military service and other persecutions. During World War I Hutterites suffered from persecutions in the United States because they are pacifist and refused military service. They then moved almost all of their communities to Canada in the Western provinces of Alberta and Manitoba in 1918. In the 1940s, there were 52 Hutterite colonies in Canada.\n\nToday, more than 75% of the world's Hutterite colonies are located in Canada, mainly in Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, the rest being almost exclusively in the United States. The Hutterite population in North America is about 45,000 people.\n\nFirst Mennonites arrived in Canada in 1786 from Pennsylvania, but following Mennonites arrived directly from Europe. The Mennonite Church Canada had about 35,000 members in 1998.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) has had a presence in Canada since its organization in New York State in 1830. Canada has been used as a refuge territory by members of the LDS Church to avoid the anti-polygamy prosecutions by the United States government. The first LDS Church in Canada was established in 1895 in what would become Alberta; it was the first stake of the Church to be established outside the United States. The LDS Church has founded several communities in Alberta.\n\nIn 2011, the LDS Church of Canada claimed around 200,000 members; the 2011 Canadian National Household Survey calculates around 100,000. It has congregations in all Canadian provinces and territories and possess at least one temple in six of the ten provinces, including the oldest LDS temple outside the United States. Alberta is the province with the most members of the LDS Church in Canada, having approximately 40% of the total of Canadian LDS Church members and representing 2% of the total population of the province (the National Household survey has Alberta with over 50% of the Canadian Mormons and 1.6% of the province's population), followed by Ontario and British Columbia.\n\nThe Catholic Church in Canada, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope and the Canadian Conference of Catholic Bishops, has the largest number of adherents to a religion in Canada, with 38.7% of Canadians (13.07 million) reported as Catholics in the 2011 National Household Survey, in 72 dioceses across the provinces and territories, served by about 8,000 priests. It was the first European faith in what is now Canada, arriving in 1497 when John Cabot landed on Newfoundland and raised the Venetian and Papal banners, claiming the land for his sponsor King Henry VII of England, while recognizing the religious authority of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe entire Catholic Church in Canada is placed under the Primate of Canada which corresponds to the Archdiocese of Quebec and is bishop, the Primate of Canada. Actually, Gérald Cyprien Lacroix is the Primate of Canada. The Pope is represented in Canada by the Apostolic Nunciature in Canada (Ottawa).\n\nAnglican Church of Canada is the only official church of the Anglican Communion in Canada. Across Canada there are approximately 1,700 individual churches or parishes, which are organized into 30 different dioceses, each led by a bishop. The national church office is known as General Synod. The Primate is the Archbishop Fred Hiltz, national pastoral leader.\n\nAdherents of Eastern Orthodox Christianity in Canada belong to several ecclesiastical jurisdictions. Historically, Eastern Orthodoxy was introduced to Canada during the course of 19th century, mainly through emigration of Christians from Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Honoring such diverse heritage, Eastern Orthodoxy in Canada is traditionally organized in accordance with patrimonial jurisdictions of autocephalous Eastern Orthodox Churches, each of them having its own hierarchy with dioceses and parishes. According to 2011 census data, Greek Orthodox community constitutes the largest Eastern Orthodox community in Canada, with 220,255 adherents. It is followed by other communities: Russian Orthodox (25,245), Ukrainian Orthodox (23,845), Serbian Orthodox (22,780), Romanian Orthodox (7,090), Macedonian Orthodox (4,945), Bulgarian Orthodox (1,765), Antiochian Orthodox (1,220) and several other minor communities within Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nAdherents of Oriental Orthodox Christianity in Canada also belong to several ethnic communities and ecclesiastical jurisdictions. According to 2011 census data, Coptic Orthodox community constitutes the largest Oriental Orthodox community in Canada, with 16,255 adherents. It is followed by other communities: Armenian Orthodox (13,730), Ethiopian Orthodox (3,025), Syriac Orthodox (3,060) and several other minor communities within Oriental Orthodoxy.\n\nFour years after Canada's founding in 1867, the 1871 Canadian Census found 13 Muslims among the population. Today, Islam is the second largest religion in Canada, practised by 3.2% of the total population. The first Canadian mosque was constructed in Edmonton in 1938, when there were approximately 700 Muslims in the country. This building is now part of the museum at Fort Edmonton Park. The years after World War II saw a small increase in the Muslim population. However, Muslims were still a distinct minority. It was only with the removal of European immigration preferences in the late 1960s that Muslims began to arrive in significant numbers.\n\nAccording to Canada's 2001 census, there were 579,740 Muslims in Canada, just under 2% of the population. In 2006, the Muslim population was estimated to be 0.8 million or about 2.6%. In 2010, the Pew Research Centre estimated there were about 0.9 million Muslims in Canada. About 65% were Sunni, while 15% were Shia. In the 2011 National Housing Survey, Muslims constituted 3.2% of the population making them largest religious adherents after Christianity. Islam is the fastest growing religion in Canada. Sunni Islam is followed by the majority while there are significant numbers of Shia Muslims. Ahmadiyya also has a significant proportion with more than 25,000 Ahmadis living in Canada. There are also non-denominational Muslims\n\nIn 2007, the CBC introduced a popular television sitcom called \"Little Mosque on the Prairie\", a contemporary reflection and critical commentary on attitudes towards Islam in Canada. In 2008, the Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper, visited the Baitun Nur Mosque, the largest mosque in Canada for its inaugural session with the Head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community.\n\nThe Jewish community in Canada is almost as old as the nation itself. The earliest documentation of Jews in Canada are British Army records from the Seven Years' War from 1754. In 1760, General Jeffrey Amherst, 1st Baron Amherst attacked and won Montreal for the British. In his regiment there were several Jews, including four among his officer corps, most notably Lieutenant Aaron Hart who is considered the father of Canadian Jewry. In 1807, Ezekiel Hart was elected to the legislature of Lower Canada, becoming the first Jew in the British Empire to hold an official position. Hart was sworn in on a Hebrew Bible as opposed to a Christian Bible. The next day an objection was raised that Hart had not taken the oath in the manner required for sitting in the assembly – an oath of abjuration, which would have required Hart to swear \"on the true faith of a Christian\". Hart was expelled from the assembly, only to be re-elected two more times. In 1768, the first synagogue in Canada was built in Montreal, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue of Montreal. In 1832, partly because of the work of Ezekiel Hart, a law was passed that guaranteed Jews the same political rights and freedoms as Christians.\n\nThe Jewish population saw a growth during the 1880s due to the pogroms of Russia and growing anti-Semitism. Between the years of 1880 and 1930 the Jewish population grew to 155,000. In 1872, Henry Nathan, Jr. became the first Jewish Member of Parliament, representing the Victoria, BC area in the newly created House of Commons. The First World War halted the flow of immigrants into Canada, and after the War there was a change in Canada's immigration policy to limit the immigration of people from \"non-preferred nations\", i.e., those not from the United Kingdom or otherwise White Anglo-Saxon Protestant nations. In June 1939 Canada and the United States were the last hope for 907 Jewish refugees aboard the steamship SS St. Louis which had been denied landing in Havana although the passengers had entry visas. The Canadian government ignored the protests of Canadian Jewish organizations. King said the crisis was not a \"Canadian problem\" and Blair added in a letter to O.D. Skelton, Undersecretary of State for External Affairs, dated June 16, 1939, \"No country could open its doors wide enough to take in the hundreds of thousands of Jewish people who want to leave Europe: the line must be drawn somewhere.\" The ship finally had to return to Germany. During the Second World War almost twenty thousand Canadian Jews volunteered to fight overseas. Nearly 40,000 Holocaust survivors moved to Canada in the late 1940s to rebuild their lives.\n\nToday the Canadian Jewish community is the fourth largest in the world and practices in both of the official languages of Canada. There is an increase in the number of people that use Hebrew, other than religious ceremonies, while there is a decline in the Yiddish language. Most of Canada's Jews live in Ontario and Quebec, with Toronto being the largest Jewish population centre. In 2009, anti-Semitic incidents jumped fivefold, \n\nHindus in Canada generally come from one of four groups. The first is primarily made up of Indian immigrants who began arriving in British Columbia about 100 years ago and continue to immigrate today (Hindus from all over India immigrate to Canada today, but the largest Indian subgroups are the Gujaratis and Punjabis). The second major group of Hindus immigrated from Sri Lanka, going back to the 1940s, when a few hundred Sri Lankan Tamils migrated to Canada. The 1983 communal riots in Sri Lanka precipitated the mass exodus of Tamils. Another major subgroup of Hindus immigrated from Caribbean countries such as Trinidad and Guyana and form big communities in the Greater Toronto Area. These immigrants are often referred to as Indo-Caribbean. A third group is made up of Canadian converts to the various sects of Hinduism through the efforts of the Hare Krishna movement, the Gurus during the last 50 years, and other organizations. Finally, the small Nepalese Canadian community is mostly Hindu.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Census of Canada, there were 297,200 practitioners of Hinduism. However, the non-profit organization \"Association for Canadian Studies\" estimates the Hindu population grew to 372,500 by 2006, or just under 1.2% of the population of Canada. The vast majority of Hindus reside in Ontario (primarily in Toronto, Scarborough, Brampton, Hamilton, Windsor and Ottawa), Quebec (primarily around the Montreal area) and British Columbia, (primarily around the Vancouver area).\n\nThere is a small, rapidly growing Buddhist community in Canada. At the 2001 census, 300,346 Canadians identified their religion as Buddhist, about 1% of the country's population.\n\nBuddhism has been practised in Canada for more than a century and in recent years has grown dramatically. Buddhism arrived in Canada with the arrival of Chinese labourers in the territories during the 19th century. Modern Buddhism in Canada traces to Japanese immigration during the late 19th century. The first Japanese Buddhist temple in Canada was built at the Ishikawa Hotel in Vancouver in 1905. Over time, the Japanese Jōdo Shinshū branch of Buddhism became the prevalent form of Buddhism in Canada and established the largest Buddhist organization in Canada.\n\nThe first official Jain temple was established in Toronto in 1988. This temple served both the Digambar and Svetambara communities.\n\nSikhs are the largest religious group among Indo-Canadians. According to the 2011 census there were 468,670 Sikhs in Canada. Sikhs have been in Canada since at least 1897.\n\nCensus data showed Neopaganism grew by 281 per cent between 1991 and 2001, making it the fastest growing religion in Canada during that decade.\n\nIn Neo-Druid history a notable community was the Reformed Druids of North America, one of whose four founders was Canadian, which served both the US Druid community and the Canadian Druid community. Neo-Druidism largely spread in Canada through the Ancient Order of the Druids during the 19th century.\n\nIrreligious Canadians include atheists, agnostics, and humanists. The surveys may also include those who are spiritual, deists, and pantheists. In 1991 they made up 12.3% of the Canadian population. In the 2001 census this number increased to 16.2% and increased again in 2011 to 23.9%. Some non-religious Canadians have formed associations, such as the Humanist Association of Canada, Toronto Secular Alliance or the Centre for Inquiry Canada, as well as a number of University Campus Groups.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, the major religions in Canada have the following median age. Canada has a median age of 37.3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17304014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17304014", "title": "Roll the Bones (song)", "text": "Roll the Bones (song)\n\n\"Roll the Bones\" is the title track and second single from Rush's 1991 album of the same name.\n\nThe music of \"Roll the Bones\" was written by Geddy Lee and Alex Lifeson, and its lyrics by Neil Peart. The lyrics reflect on taking chances in life, and urging those unsure to \"roll the bones,\" a term used for dice. \n\n\"But the bottom line...is to take the chance, roll the bones, if it's a random universe and that's terrifying and it makes you neurotic and everything, never mind. You really have to take the chance or else nothing's going to happen.\"\n- Neil Peart, \"It's A Rap\" interview, February 1992\n\nAs a \"lyrical experiment\", Peart wrote a \"rap\" section in his lyrics, as a result of listening to \"the better rap writers\", like LL Cool J and Public Enemy. The band considered seeking out a real rapper to perform this section of the song, or even considered approaching the section with a camp or comedic sensibility, and hiring singer-songwriter Robbie Robertson or actor/comedian John Cleese. According to Geddy Lee, \"We couldn't make up our minds really if we wanted to be influenced by rap or satirize it, so I think that song kind of falls between the cracks and in the end I think it came out to be neither, it came out to be something that is very much us.\" Ultimately, the \"rap\" was performed by Lee: his altered voice is achieved through a drastic lowering of pitch and adding various effects.\n\n\"Roll the Bones\" would be played on every Rush tour since the song's release, up to the 2007-2008 Snakes And Arrows Tour, when it was removed from the setlist. In 2015, the song was included in the setlist for the Rush R40 Tour. The R40 performance features an accompanying video for the rap section that had lip synching cameos from Peter Dinklage, Chad Smith, Jay Baruchel, Les Claypool, Tom Morello, Paul Rudd, Jason Segel and \"Trailer Park Boys\" actors John Paul Tremblay, Robb Wells and Mike Smith.\n\nAll music by Alex Lifeson and Geddy Lee and lyrics by Neil Peart.\n\nUS promo:\n\nUK 7\" release:\n\nUK Picture Disc release:\n\nUK 2-Disc Limited Edition release:Disc 1\nDisc 2\n\nGerman 7\" release:\n\n12\" release\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1082306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082306", "title": "Roman Catholic Bishop of Plymouth", "text": "Roman Catholic Bishop of Plymouth\n\nThe Bishop of Plymouth is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Plymouth in the Province of Southwark, England.\n\nThe diocese covers an area of and consists of the counties of Cornwall, Devon and Dorset. The see is in the City of Plymouth where the bishop's seat is located at the Cathedral Church of Saint Mary and Saint Boniface.\n\nThe diocese of Plymouth was one of the dioceses erected on 29 September 1850 from the Vicariate Apostolic of the Western District. The bishop is the Right Reverend Mark O'Toole, the 9th Bishop of Plymouth, who was appointed on 9 November 2013 by Pope Francis.\n\n"}
{"id": "37955081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37955081", "title": "Semanario Hebreo", "text": "Semanario Hebreo\n\nSemanario Hebreo (Hebrew Weekly) is a Spanish-language Jewish weekly newspaper published in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nIt was founded in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "9342349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9342349", "title": "Sistan", "text": "Sistan\n\nSīstān (Persian/Baloch/Pashto: سیستان), known in ancient times as Sakastan (Persian/Baloch/Pashto: ساكاستان; \"the land of the Saka\"), is a historical and geographical region in present-day eastern Iran (Sistan and Baluchestan Province) and southern Afghanistan (Nimruz, Kandahar).\n\nSistan derives its name from \"Sakastan\" (\"the land of the Saka\"). The Sakas were a Scythian tribe which from the 2nd century BC to the 1st century migrated to the Iranian Plateau and Indus valley, where they carved a kingdom known as the Indo-Scythian Kingdom. In the Bundahishn, a Zoroastrian scripture written in Pahlavi, the province is called \"Seyansih\". After the Arab conquest of Iran, the province became known as Sijistan/Sistan.\n\nThe more ancient Old Persian name of the region - prior to Saka dominance - was \"zaranka\" (\"waterland\"; cf. Pashto \"dzaranda\"). This older form is also the root of the name Zaranj, capital of the Afghan Nimruz Province.\n\n\"Encyclopædia Iranica\" says \"The name of the country and its inhabitants is first attested as Old Persian \"z-r-k\" (i.e., Zranka) in the great Bīsotūn inscription of Darius I, apparently the original name. This form is reflected in the Elamite (Sir-ra-an-qa and variants), Babylonian (Za-ra-an-ga), and Egyptian (\"srng\" or \"srnḳ\") versions of the Achaemenid royal inscriptions, as well as in Greek Zarángai, Zarangaîoi, Zarangianḗ (Arrian; Isidore of Charax), and Sarángai (Herodotus) and in Latin Zarangae (Pliny). Instead of this original form, characterized by non-Persian z (perhaps from proto-IE. palatal \"*γ\" or \"*γh\"), in some Greek sources (chiefly those dependent upon the historians of Alexander the Great) the perhaps hypercorrect Persianized variant (cf. Belardi, p. 183) with initial d-, *Dranka (or even *Dranga?), reflected in Greek Drángai, Drangḗ, Drangēnḗ, Drangi(a)nḗ (Ctesias; Polybius; Strabo; Diodorus; Ptolemy; Arrian; Stephanus Byzantius) and Latin Drangae, Drangiana, Drangiani (Curtius Rufus; Pliny; Ammianus Marcellinus; Justin) or Drancaeus (Valerius Flaccus, \"Argonautica\" 6.106, 6.507) occurs.\"\n\nIn the Shahnameh, Sistan is also referred to as Zabulistan, after the region in the eastern part of Iran. In Ferdowsi's epic, Zabulistan is in turn described to be the homeland of the mythological hero Rostam.\n\nIn prehistoric times, the Jiroft Civilization covered parts of Sistan and Kerman Province (possibly as early as the 3rd millennium BC).\n\nLater the area was occupied by Aryan tribes related to the Indo-Aryans and Iranian Peoples. Eventually a kingdom known as Arachosia was formed, parts of which were ruled by the Medean Empire by 600 BC. The Medes were overthrown by the Achaemenid Persian Empire in 550 BC, and the rest Arachosia was soon annexed. In the 4th century BC, Macedonian king Alexander the Great annexed the region during his conquest of the Persian Empire and founded the colony of \"Alexandria in Arachosia\" (modern Kandahar).\n\nAlexander's Empire fragmented after his death, and Arachosia came under control of the Seleucid Empire, which traded it to the Mauryan dynasty of India in 305 BC. After the fall of the Mauryans, the region fell to their Greco-Bactrian allies in 180 BC, before breaking away and becoming part of the Indo-Greek Kingdom. Indo-Parthian king Gondophares was leader of Sistan around c. 20–10 BCE as it was part of the Indo-Parthian Kingdom which was also called Gedrosia, its Hellenistic name.\n\nAfter the mid 2nd century BC, much of the Indo-Greek Kingdom was overrun by tribes known as the Indo-Scythians or Saka, from which Sistan (from Sakastan) eventually derived its name. The Indo-Scythians were defeated around 100 BC by the Parthian Empire, which briefly lost the region to its Suren vassals (the Indo-Parthian) around 20 AD, before the region was conquered by the Kushan Empire in the mid 1st century AD. The Kushans were defeated by the Sassanid Persian Empire in the mid 3rd century, first becoming part of a vassal Kushansha state, before being overrun by the Hephthalites in the mid 5th century. Sassanid armies reconquered Sistan in by 565 AD, but lost the area to the Arab Rashidun Caliphate after the mid 640s.\n\nThe province was formed in ca. 240, during the reign of Shapur I, in his effort to centralise the empire; before that, the province was under the rule of the Parthian Suren Kingdom, whose ruler Ardashir Sakanshah became a Sasanian vassal during the reign of Shapur's father Ardashir I (r. 224–242), who also had the ancient city Zrang rebuilt, which became the capital of the province. Shapur's son Narseh was the first to appointed as the governor of province, which he would govern until 271, when the Sasanian prince Hormizd was appointed as the new governor. Later in ca. 281, Hormizd revolted against his cousin Bahram II. During the revolt, the people of Sakastan was one of his supporters. Nevertheless, Bahram II managed to suppress the revolt in 283, and appointed his son Bahram III as the governor of the province. \n\nDuring his early reign, Shapur II (r. 309-379) appointed his brother Shapur Sakanshah as the governor of Sakastan. Peroz I (r. 459–484), during his early reign, put an end to dynastic rule in province by appointing a Karenid as its governor. The reason behind the appointment was to avoid further family conflict in the province, and in order to gain more direct control of the province.\n\nDuring the Muslim conquest of Persia, the last Sasanian king Yazdegerd III fled to Sakastan in the mid-640s, where its governor Aparviz (who was more or less independent), helped him. However, Yazdegerd III quickly ended this support when he demanded tax money that he had failed to pay.\n\nIn 650, Abd-Allah ibn Amir, after having secured his position in Kerman, sent an army under Mujashi ibn Mas'ud to Sakastan. After having crossed the Dasht-i Lut desert, Mujashi ibn Mas'ud arrived to Sakastan. However, he suffered a heavy defeat and was forced to retreat.\n\nOne year later, Abd-Allah ibn Amir sent an army under Rabi ibn Ziyad Harithi to Sakastan. After some time, he reached Zaliq, a border town between Kirman and Sakastan, where he forced the dehqan of the town to acknowledge Rashidun authority. He then did the same at the fortress of Karkuya, which had a famous fire temple, which is mentioned in the Tarikh-i Sistan. He then continued to seize more land in the province. He thereafter besieged Zrang, and after a heavy battle outside the city, Aparviz and his men surrendered. When Aparviz went to Rabi to discuss about the conditions of a treaty, he saw that he was using the bodies of two dead soldiers as a chair. This horrified Aparviz, who in order to spare the inhabitants of Sakastan from the Arabs, made peace with them in return for heavy tribute, which included a tribute of 1,000 slave boys bearing 1,000 golden vessels. Sakastan was thus under the control of the Rashidun Caliphate.\n\nHowever, only two years later, the people of Zarang rebelled and defeated Rabi ibn Ziyad Harithi's lieutenant and Muslim garrison of the city. Abd-Allah ibn Amir then sent 'Abd al-Rahman ibn Samura to Sistan, where he managed to suppress the rebellion. Furthermore, he also defeated the Zunbils of Zabulistan, seizing Bust and a few cities in Zabulistan.\n\nDuring the First Islamic Civil War of 656–661, the people of Zarang rebelled and defeated the Muslim garrison of the city. In 658, Yazdegerd III's son Peroz III invaded Sistan and established a kingdom there, known in Chinese sources as the \"Persian Area Command\". However, in 663, he was forced to leave the region after suffering a defeat to newly established Umayyad Caliphate, who had succeeded the Rashiduns.\n\nSistan became a province of the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphates. In the 860s, the Saffarid dynasty emerged in Sistan and proceeded to conquer most of the Islamic East, until it was checked by the Samanids in 900. After the Samanids took the province from the Saffarids, it briefly returned to Abbasid control, but in 917 the governor Abu Yazid Khalid made himself independent. He was followed by a series of emirs with brief reigns until 923, when Ahmad ibn Muhammad restored Saffarid rule in Sistan. After his death in 963, Sistan was ruled by his son Khalaf ibn Ahmad until 1002, when Mahmud of Ghazni invaded Sistan, ending the Saffarid dynasty.\n\nA year later, Sistan revolted. In response, Mahmud brought an army to suppress the revolt. Mahmud's Hindu troops sacked the mosque of Zarang massacring the Muslims inside.\n\nIn 1029, Tadj al-Din I Abu l-Fadl Nasr founded the Nasrid dynasty, who were a branch of the Saffarids. They became vassals of the Ghaznavids. The dynasty then became vassals of the Seljuks in 1048, Ghurids in 1162, and the Khwarezmians in 1212. Mongols sacked Sistan in 1222 and Nasrid dynasty was ended by Khwarezmians in 1225.\n\nIn 1236, Shams al-Din 'Ali ibn Mas'ud founded Mihrabanid dynasty, another branch of Saffarids, as melik of Sistan for Ilkhanate. Mihrabanid contested with Kartids during Mongol rule. Sistan declared independence in 1335 after demise of Ilkhanate. 1383 Tamerlane conquered Sistan and forced Mihrabanids to become vassals. Overlordship of Timurids was ended in 1507 due to Uzbek invasion in 1507. Uzbeks were driven in 1510 and Mihrabanids became vassals of Safavids until 1537 Safavids deposed the dynasty and gained full control of Sistan.\n\nSafavid rule was lasted till 1717 except Uzbeks rule between 1524 and 1528 and 1578 and 1598. In this year Hotaki dynasty conquered it. Nadir Shah reconquered in 1727. After assassination of Nadir Shah, Sistan under rule of Durrani Empire in 1747. Between 1747 and 1872 Sistan was contested with Persia and Afghanistan. The border dispute between Persia and Afghanistan was solved by Sistan Boundary Mission, led by British General Frederick Goldsmid, who agreed to most of Sistan in Persia but the Persians won the withdrawal of the right bank of the Helmand. The countries were not satisfied.\n\nThe border was defined more precisely with the Second Sistan Boundary Commission (1903-1905) headed by Arthur Mac Mahon, who had a difficult task due to lack of natural boundaries. The part assigned Persia was included in the province of Balochistan (which took the name of Sistan and Baluchistan in 1986) being the capital Zahedan. In Afghanistan it was part of the Sistan province of Farah-Chakansur that was abolished in the administrative reorganization of 1964 to form the province of Nimruz, with capital Zaranj.\n\nSistan has a very strong connection with Zoroastrianism and during Sassanid times Lake Hamun was one of two pilgrimage sites for followers of that religion. In Zoroastrian tradition, the lake is the keeper of Zoroaster's seed and just before the final renovation of the world, three maidens will enter the lake, each then giving birth to the \"saoshyans\" who will be the saviours of mankind at the final renovation of the world.\n\nThe most famous archaeological sites in Sistan are Shahr-e Sukhteh and the site on Kuh-e Khwajeh, a hill rising up as an island in the middle of Lake Hamun.\n\n"}
{"id": "24781568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24781568", "title": "Sukhlal Sanghvi", "text": "Sukhlal Sanghvi\n\nSukhlal Sanghvi (1880–1978), also known as Pandit Sukhlalji, was a Jain scholar and philosopher. He belonged to the Sthanakvasi sect of Jainism. Pandit Sukhlal lost his eyesight at the age of sixteen on account of smallpox. However, he overcame this handicap and became profoundly versed in Jain logic and rose to become a professor at Banaras Hindu University. Paul Dundas calls him one of the most incisive modern interpreters of Jain philosophy. Dundas notes that Sanghavi represents what now seems to be a virtually lost scholarly and intellectual world. He was a mentor for famous Jain scholar Padmanabh Jaini. During his lifetime he won such awards as the Sahitya Akademi Award and won recognition from the Government of India by getting Padma Bhushan award. Sukhlalji was also known as \"Pragnachaksu\" because he was so vastly learned despite being visually challenged.\n\nSukhlal was born in the village of Limli village of Surendranagar district, Gujarat on 8 December 1880 (fifth day of the bright day of the month of Margshirsh in Vikram Samvat 1937). He belonged to Visa Shrimali Vanik community (merchant community) of Gujarat. Talshi Sanghvi and his first wife Maniben were his parents. His mother died when he was four years old. He was raised in Limbdi by his distant relative, Muljibhai from Sayla. He lost his eyesight following small pox infection when he was sixteen. This made him more introspective and he devoted his life to learning.\n\nHe attended discourses of Jain monks, and studied scriptures with the help of a reader. In 1904, he joined Shri Yashovijaya Jain Sanskrit Pathshala at Benaras. Within three years he committed to memory the whole of \"Siddha-Hema-vyakarana\". Besides grammar, he studied \"Tarkasamraha\", \"Muktavali\", and \"Vyaptichakra\" with various commentaries. He also became well-conversant with epics like \"Raghuvamsha\", \"Maghakavya\", and \"Naishadhacharitam\", besides \"Alamkarashastra\" and \"Kosha\". For further studies he went to Mithila in 1911, and then to Kashi where he devoted himself to a study of philosophy and literature. Later, he went to Agra where he edited important Jain works like \"Panchapratikramana\", the first four Karma granthas of Devendrasuri. and \"Yogadarsana\" and \"Yogavimshika\" of Haribhadra Suri. After passing Nyayacarya examination he continued to teach at Jain pathshalas where his students included future scholar-monks like Muni Jinvijay, Muni Lalitvijay and Muni Punyavijay.\n\nIn 1922 he joined Puratattva Mandir of Gujarat Vidyapith as professor of Indian philosophy. Here he edited Sanamatitarka of Siddhasena Divakara in five volumes containing valuable indices and appendices. He was assisted by Pandit Bechardasji in this task. From 1933 to 1944 he was a professor of Jain Philosophy at Benaras Hindu University. He devoted most of his time to writing and editing a number of valuable works in Sanskrit, Hindi, and Gujarati. He edited Tattvarthasutra and Nyayavatara in Gujarati with texts and translations. He edited Pramana-mimamsa by Hemacandra, with detailed introduction and notes. He not only corrected the original readings with the help of the photocopies of the original manuscripts but also gave other comparative readings. He critically edited Jayarashi's Tatavapaplava—a systematic work of Charvakas which brought him wide recognition. He threw new light on the history of Buddhist philosophy by editing Archata’s commentary on Dharmakirti's \"Hetubindu\". After retirement from Banaras Hindu University in 1944, he came back to Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan where he worked with Jain monk Acarya Jinavijayaji. In 1957, Sukhlalji was invited by the M.S. University of Baroda to deliver five lectures on Indian philosophy, which were published in Gujarati (1951), Hindi (1971) and English (1977). His scholarly lectures or \"Atma-Paramatma\" and \"Sadhana\" delivered at Gujarat Vidyasabha were also published in Hindi and Gujarati under the title of \"Adhyatma vicharana\" The University of Bombay also invited him for lectures on Acharya Haribhadra, which were published both in Gujarati (1961) and in Hindi (1966).\n\nYoung Sukhlalji was inspired by the writings of Pandit Nathuram Premi, who was to become a close family friend. Sukhlalji was non-sectarian in his attitude and shared a good rapport with many Digambara scholars like Premiji and observed their mutual respect:\n\nSukhlalji also mentored three scholars of Jainism – Mahendrakumar Nyayacarya, Padmanabh Jaini and Dalsukh Malvania. Out of these, the second and third were his direct students. Sukhlalji always insisted on learning of Pali Canon for understanding Jainism and encouraged young Padmanabh Jaini to visit Sri Lanka to study Buddhism. Author B. K. Matilal notes that Sukhlalji advocated \"a non-partisan historical comparative study of any Sanskrit philosophical text\" and noted in his preface to \"Advanced Studies in Indian Logic and Metaphysics (1961)\":\n\"I became firmly convinced that the study of any philosophical system inevitably demands certain prerequisites and these prerequisites include a fairly accurate understanding of the historical inter-relationships between the various philosophical systems of India.\"\n\nHe was known for his vast learning, sound scholarship, remarkable memory and for being a very ethical and conscientious person. Pandit Sukhlalji worked with a vast array of scholars and was good friends with all of them, despite not always agreeing with them. Some of the luminaries he worked with include: Muni Jinavijaya, Muni Punyavijaya, Acarya Premi Suri, Pandit Nathuram Premi, Pandit Jugalkishore Mukhtar, Dr. Hiralal Jain, Dr A. N. Upadhye, Dr. Mahendrakumar Nyayacarya, Prof. Dr. Padmanabh Jaini, Dr. Dalsukh Malvania and Dr. Nagin J. Shah.\n\nPresident of India, Dr. Radhakrishnan, himself a reputed philosopher and scholar paid glowing tributes to Sukhlalji by saying that his life was that of an ascetic performing \"Jnanayajna\" (Worship of Knowledge).\n\nSukhlalji was a prolific writer. He edited and translated many texts from Sanskrit to Gujarati and Hindi. A partial list of his works is enumerated below:\n\n"}
{"id": "23579592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23579592", "title": "United Church of Christ in the Philippines", "text": "United Church of Christ in the Philippines\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the Philippines (Tagalog: \"Ang Nagkaisang Iglesia ni Cristo sa Pilipinas\"; Ilokano: \"Nagkaykaysa nga Iglesia Ni Cristo iti Filipinas\") is a Christian denomination in the Philippines. Established in its present form in Malate, Manila, it resulted from the merger of the Evangelical Church of the Philippines, the Philippine Methodist Church, the Disciples of Christ, the United Evangelical Church and several independent congregations.\nThe United Church is a mainline Protestant group in the Philippines with around 1,500,000 members and 1,593 pastors in 2,564 congregations as of 2008. Its main office is located at 877 EDSA, West Triangle, Quezon City. Metro Manila.\n\nPresbyterian missionaries in the Philippines in April 1901 invited missionaries of other evangelical churches to a conference to discuss the possibility of working together in the proclamation of the gospel of faith alone as the only way of salvation for Filipino Catholics, Muslims and pagans. Representatives included those from the Methodist Episcopal Church , the United Brethren in Christ (UBC) , the Northern Baptist Church , the Christian and Missionary Alliance, the Free Methodist Church, the British and Foreign Bible Society, the American Bible Society, and the Presbyterian Church.\n\nThe Evangelical Union was then formed on April 26, 1901. The evangelical churches agreed to call themselves “The Evangelical Church” (with the original denomination name in parenthesis below it). From 1898 to 1905 these are the mission churches joining in the agreement:\n\nManila was opened to all denominations and mission agencies. The Seventh-day Adventist Church and Protestant Episcopals did not join because they wanted to go to all parts of the archipelago.\nThe United Evangelical Church of the Philippines was organized in March 1929. It was a union of Presbyterian, United Brethren in Christ, and Congregationalist denominations along with the United Church of Manila. The Methodist and the (Northern) Baptist who were part of the Evangelical Union refused to join the new union. The doctrinal statement of union was the Nanking Agreement which was itself based on that of the Union Theological Seminary in Nanking, China. It had four major points:\n\nSince it included United Brethren in Christ in northern Luzon, Presbyterians in southern Luzon and the Visayas and Congregationalists in Mindanao, the UEC was spread throughout the country. Enrique Sobrepena, a young leader in the United Brethren in Christ, was elected as the Moderator of the General Assembly.\n\nAfter the foundation of the Iglesia Evangelica Metodista en las Islas Filipinas (IEMELIF) by Nicolas V. Zamora, a second major split occurred in the Methodist Church on March 23, 1933. About three years before, Melecio de Armas, a prominent minister had been accused by his colleagues of immorality towards a teenage girl, a church member. At the 1932 Philippine Annual Conference, a committee found the minister guilty and recommended his expulsion from the ministry, but the minister appealed the decision to the Appellant Committee of the General Conference of the Methodist Church of America (GCMCA). This Committee decided that it does not have enough evidence against the minister, so it acquitted him—thereby overturning the decision of the Philippine Conference. This brought to everyone’s attention the subordinate position of the Philippine church. Bishop Herbert Welch, at the 1933 Annual Conference, declared the matter closed, and reinstated the minister.\n\nAs a result, a group led by Samuel Stagg, pastor of the influential Central Church (now Central United Methodist Church on T.M. Kalaw), and including five other missionaries and 27 ordained Filipino ministers led by Cipriano Navarro and Melquiades Gamboa, a U.P. professor, left the church and declared themselves the General Conference of the Methodist Church in the Philippine Islands (GCMCPI). All but 41 members of Central Church left their newly dedicated gothic cathedral. This group formed the Philippine Methodist Church, with Navarro as bishop. The church financially supported the Staggs and the other missionaries who joined it. Stagg and his former members formed the Cosmopolitan Church, which became the leading congregation of the new denomination. The independent GCMCPI elected Navarro as acting General Superintendent. In 1948 the Philippine Methodist Church was a constituent part of the formation of the United Church of Christ in the Philippines.\n\nThe Evangelical Church of the Philippines was formed in 1943 under the direction of the Japanese Imperial Forces. It brought together the United Evangelical Church; the Christian Churches and Churches of Christ (Disciples of Christ); the Iglesia Evangelica Unida de Cristo; the Iglesia Evangelica Metodista en las Islas Filipinas (IEMELIF) founded by Bishop Nicholas Zamora; the Iglesia Evangelica Nacional; the Philippine Methodist Church; some Seventh-day Adventists and other churches. It was the first union of churches under full Filipino leadership.\n\nAfter World War II, former Presbyterians and Congregationalists reconstituted the United Evangelical Church. On the other hand, the former United Brethren in Christ, together with the Church of Christ (Disciples of Christ) and the independent congregations remained as the Evangelical Church of the Philippines. Because the Seventh-day Adventists was forced by the war to join the merger, they immediately left the Evangelical Church of the Philippines after the war.\n\nIn May 1948, the United Evangelical Church, the Philippine Methodist Church, the Evangelical Church of the Philippines, some congregations of the Iglesia Evangelica Unida de Cristo, the Convention of the Churches of Christ (Disciples of Christ) of Northern Luzon, the Iglesia Evangelica Nacional and some congregations of the Iglesia Evangelica Metodista En Las Islas Filipinas (IEMELIF) joined together to form the United Church of Christ in the Philippines. Enrique Sobrepena of the United Evangelical Church served both as Bishop for Luzon and as Presiding Bishop.\n\nThis was the real culmination of the efforts of the Evangelical Union established by missionaries on April 26, 1901 to seek the evangelization of the Philippines through a common effort. In spite of the refusal of the United Methodist, Baptist and other independent evangelical churches, the UCCP was known to be the most visible sign of interdenominational and church unity in the Philippines.\n\nIn 1962, the conservative Tagalog Convention of the Churches of Christ (Disciples of Christ) decided to join the union of the United Church of Christ in the Philippines. It was proclaimed in an appropriate ceremonies at the General Assembly held in Cebu City. In 1998, Nelinda Primavera-Briones was the first woman elected as bishop of the United Church of Christ in the Philippines.\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the Philippines is trinitarian and believes in the deity, humanity, and atonement of Jesus. It believes that the Bible, in both the Old and New Testaments, is the inspired Word of God and that salvation is by grace through faith, repentance and following after Christ. The United Church of Christ in the Philippines view the Christian life as one of personal faith and of serious dedication to living according to the highest Christian precepts. Each person is thus to be born again, converted into a new life, and gathered into the church community. For them, the church is essentially the result of conversion and of grace, a gathered community of committed believers. It is not the mother of Christian experience or the source (rather than the effect) of grace, as in the Roman Catholic tradition. The church is, therefore, holy only because the faith and life of its people are holy.\n\nThe UCCP traces its roots in the Protestant Reformation, when Martin Luther, John Calvin and others led the movement to reform the Christianity. This is often expressed in the \"Five Solas\"—God's grace alone as the only way to be reconciled to God, faith alone as the only means of receiving God's grace, Christ alone as the ground of God's saving grace, Scripture alone as the only infallible authority for belief, and God's glory alone as the ultimate purpose for the lives of men and women.\n\nThe following distinguish the UCCP from other communions:\n\nThe church believes that there are two sacraments only: baptism and The Lord's Supper. The church takes a neutral position on the observance of feet washing, taking into consideration the various traditions brought in by the uniting churches. The 1948: Article III Historic Faith and Message states, \" We do preserve all the heritage of faith brought into the union by each of the constituent churches and hereby declare as our common faith and message: 'Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, our Lord and Saviour.'\"\n\nThe UCCP defines baptism as a sacrament of initiation into the church. They believe that baptism is not a means of salvation but a first step of obedience for the new believer. The church permit believer's baptism, and infant baptism alike. Infant baptism is administered only to infant children of church members as a sign of God's covenant of mercy. In recent times infant baptism has given way to more frequent infant \"dedication\" ceremonies or \"Paghahandog\" (in Filipino), thus reserving baptism until after the time when the child makes a conscious decision to follow Christ. The church also recognize and accept the baptism of other Christian churches.\n\nDisciples' understood that baptism is a confessional expression of faith and repentance, rather than a \"work\" that earns salvation. Thus they insisted that believer's baptism is necessary part of conversion and necessary for its validity. Local churches in the Tagalog and Ilocano regions established by their missionaries practice only baptism by immersion by its adult members.\n\nThe church believes in the symbolic presence of Jesus in the Lord's Supper (\"Santa Cena o Banal na Hapunan in Filipino\"). They believe that it was given by Jesus Christ to his church as a way of remembering and proclaiming the sacrifice He made on the cross. It is a sacrament that contains an element of remembering and proclaiming Christ's death while at the same time looking forward to the time when they will enjoy communion with Christ in heaven. It involves solemn and serious self-examination. This includes confession of sin and repentance. Communion for them should not be received in a flippant or careless manner.It is the joyful feast of the Lord, hence, it is a celebration.\n\nEvery UCCP church is required to celebrate the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper once a month. In most local churches, communion is served in the first Sunday of the month. The observance of the Rite of the Last Supper of our Lord with His disciples is done during Maundy Thursday or Holy Thursday. Since the Disciples of Christ custom is to have the Lord's Supper central to every worship service, the sacrament is administered every Lord's Day.\n\nThe church believes that every man or woman should be accepted and treated with dignity, grace, and holy love, whatever their sexual orientation (biological sex of person attracted to). In 2014, the denomination voted to adopt a policy that \"means that LGBTs should not be discriminated but should be unconditionally accepted...[and] Bishop Marigza confirms the openness to ordain openly gay and lesbian church workers.\" In 2016, a congregation of the denomination hosted the first LGBT-themed worship service.\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the Philippines has allowed ordination of women with full rights of clergy based on biblical principle. \"There is no longer Jew or Greek, there is no longer slave or free, there is no longer male and female; for all of you are one in Christ Jesus.\" The UCCP, along with some other Evangelical Churches, holds that when the historical contexts involved are understood, a coherent Biblical argument can be made in favor of women's ordination.\n\nUCCP local churches typically have worship services three times a week: Sunday morning, Sunday evening, and Wednesday evening. The local congregation has a great deal of freedom in the style and ordering of worship and therefore worship varies from congregation to congregation. The order may be very traditional and highly liturgical, or it may be very simple and informal. Music plays a large role in most UCCP worship services and ranges from chant to traditional Protestant hymns, to classical sacred music, to more modern music, depending on the preference of the local church. Scripture is read and usually preached upon. An offering is usually taken. Services are often focused toward a time of prayer and commitment at the end of the sermon. Over the last ten years, an increasing number of UCCP churches have utilized contemporary worship services as their worship style. This may involve the use of a projector to display song, drums and electronic piano, clapping of hands, tambourine dance and raising of hands. More traditional UCCP churches use hymnals and may have a song leader or music director who directs congregational singing from the pulpit.\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the Philippines has, historically, been a leading Protestant denomination in mission work. A vital part of the world mission emphasis of the denomination is building and maintaining relationships with Evangelical, Protestant and other churches around the world. Connection between evangelism and social concern was maintained by the UCCP. In 1952, the UCCP established the UCCP National Federation of Credit Unions to aid farmers. They also issued a Resolution Condemning Gambling and Liquor. Sobrepena approved, a relationship between the UCCP and the Orient Crusades (OC) International - Philippine Crusades. OC entered the Philippines agreeing to work in cooperation with UCCP leaders, to prepare converts for membership in the UCCP, and to avoid controversial doctrinal issues. They focused on mass evangelism and witness to students, and used film showings such as \"King of Kings\" to make contacts. Interested seekers availed of Bible correspondence courses. Sobrepena held mass evangelistic campaigns—notably in Laoag in November 1955, with the OC cooperation.\n\nIn 1973 to 1986, local churches allowed American missionaries from the Youth With A Mission to reorganize Sunday Schools and set up Sunday school programs. This international, interdenominational Christian missionary organization also promoted Christian movies in secular theaters throughout the archipelago. Many Filipinos from this time are in full-time Christian service today or are productive Christians. In addition, a number of indigenous churches were established among squatter communities in Metro Manila, in Baguio and villages in the Cordilleras. Then the Philippine Campus Crusade for Christ, also an international interdenominational movement came in and started the evangelistic movement in the church that started the increase in church attendance and membership.\n\nSome local churches, joined international fellowship such as the Covenant Global Church. Other churches involved themselves into the Evangelism Explosion, a ministry that trains people how to share their faith in Christ.\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the Philippines in Baguio City is an active member of the Philippine Council of Evangelical Churches (PCEC) . PCEC is the largest network of denominations, churches, mission groups and para-church organizations in the Philippines being involve in evangelism and defending the fundamental evangelical Christian faith.\n\nThe denomination maintains affiliations with seminaries in the Philippines. These are:\n\n\n\n\nThe UCCP is a member of the National Council of Churches in the Philippines. Currently, the UCCP has covenant relations with the Iglesia Filipina Independiente and the Iglesia Unida Ekyumenikal.\n\nAside from this, the UCCP is a member and have partnership relation with international religious organizations.\n\n\nSister-church relationships are held with the following churches abroad which hold to similar doctrine and practice.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11971750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11971750", "title": "Vraja Parikrama", "text": "Vraja Parikrama\n\nVraja Mandal Parikrama is the circumambulation of 84 Kosh Vraja Region - taking 1-2 months depending on the route and speed.\n\nThe origin of the Vraj Mandal Parikrama is variously ascribed to Sri Nagaji of the Nimbarka Sampradaya and Sri Narayana Bhatta of Unchagaon, Varsana of the 16th century - who wrote complete guidebooks of the Yatras.\n\nThe Largest groups(5,000-20,000 people) at present which conduct the Braj Mandal Parikrama Yatra include - the Radharani Braj Yatra of Ramesh Baba, Varsana, Kathia Baba Ashram Yatra, Vallabh Sampradaya Yatra and others.\n\nThere are twelve \"vanas\" in the Vraja Mandal. Madhuvan, Talavan, Kumudvan, Bahulavan, Kamavan, Khadiravan, Vrindavan, Bhadravan, Bhandiravan, Belvan, Lohavan.\n\nThere are twelve Mahavanas in Vraja Mandala.There are twelve \"Upavanas\" in Vraja Mandala. Namely,Gokul,Govardhan, Barsana, Nandagram, Sanket, Paramadra, Aring, Sessai, Mat, Uchagram, Kelvan, Sri Kund, Gandharvavan, Parsoli, Bilchhu, Bacchavan, Adibadri, Karahla, Ajnokh, Pisaya, Kokilavan, Dadhigram, Kotvan, and Raval.\n\nThere are twelve \"kundas\" in Vraja Mandala; namely, Govinda Kunda, Lalita Kunda, Radha Kunda, Shyam Kunda, Davanal Kunda, Shantanu Kunda, Bilol Kunda.\n\nThere are twelve \"sarovaras\" in Vraja Mandala namely Kusum Sarobar, Prem Sarobar\n\nIn the Nimbarka \"Paramapara\" Sri Nagaji Maharaj, who was born in Paingaon, Mathura district - introduced Vraja Parikrama(circumambulation of 84 Krosha Vraja Dham, the eternal playground of Lord Sri Krishna with His cowherds and Gopis) continuing since the last 530 years. \n\nA branch of the Nimbarka Sampradaya, the Kathia Baba ka Sthaan, Vrindaban, Gurukul Marg conducts one of the biggest Yatras of only Sadhu Sants The yatra continues for 42 days and does not charge a penny for fooding and lodging from the Sadhus.\n"}
{"id": "45625733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45625733", "title": "William Bannerman (minister)", "text": "William Bannerman (minister)\n\nWilliam Bannerman (8 September 1822 – 24 December 1902) was a pioneering Presbyterian minister in Otago, New Zealand.\n\nBannerman was born in Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland in 1822, and received his tertiary education at the University of Edinburgh followed by the Free Church Theological College. He emigrated to New Zealand and arrived in Port Chalmers on the \"Stately\" on 5 February 1854. Bannerman settled at Puerua, and he was responsible for the sparsely populated area between Waihola and Riverton. Bannerman set up much of the administrative framework for the Presbyterian church in New Zealand. He received the honorary degree Doctor of Divinity (DD) from the University of Edinburgh in March 1900. Bannerman died on 24 December 1902 in Dunedin.\n\nBannerman married Jane Burns on 21 May 1856 at Dunedin.\n"}
{"id": "1936524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936524", "title": "William Breeze", "text": "William Breeze\n\nWilliam Breeze (born August 12, 1955) is an American author and publisher on magick and philosophy. He is the current international leader of Ordo Templi Orientis. Under the name Hymenaeus Beta he is a leading editor of the occult works of English author Aleister Crowley, the founder of the philosophy and religion of Thelema.\n\nBreeze came from a military family. Son of a US Army serviceman, he was born in Paris, France, where his father, colonel Breeze, was on a tour of duty at the time of his birth. Breeze spent his childhood accompanying his father, who had a very distinguished military career, on many tours of duty across the United States, staying with him at various US military bases, including Nellis Air Force Base located in close proximity to Groom Dry Lake Air Force Base in Nevada which is a highly classified remote detachment 83 miles (134 km) north-northwest of Las Vegas closely linked to UFO phenomena, as well as Fort Bragg and Fort Meade, Maryland where Remote viewing program took place, and Montauk Air Force Station at the eastern tip of Long Island, which was later associated with supposed time travel experiments as part of the Montauk Project. Breeze was later educated at Harvard University in Boston where he studied music.\n\nIn 1970s Breeze became a student of Marcelo Ramos Motta, a Thelemic writer from Brazil, himself a former Military Academy student, as well as a student of Aleister Crowley and member of A∴A∴. In 1974 Breeze helped to publish Aleister Crowley's \"Magical and Philosophical Commentaries on The Book of the Law\". Eedited by John Symonds and Kenneth Grant, it was published by 93 Publishing, a company which was partially owned by Breeze. In 1979, when Breeze was 24 years old, he met Grady McMurtry. A veteran of the Normandy Invasion and the conquest of Nazi-occupied Europe, Major McMurtry served in both World War Two and the Korean Conflict, and having trained and been initiated directly by Aleister Crowley who appointed him his \"Caliph\", McMurtry was serving as the head of Ordo Templi Orientis, an international fraternal organization founded in the early part of the 20th century. McMurtry granted Breeze a charter to form an OTO lodge of which Breeze later became a master. In 1985, Breeze succeeded McMurtry as Outer Head of OTO. After McMurtry's death, under Breeze's leadership, OTO began to grow internationally for the first time. Over the next decade, Breeze spent his time establishing International Headquarters and chartering new Lodges. By the end of the Twentieth Century, the organization has grown to several thousand members over time.\n\nSince 21 September 1985, Breeze served as the Head of Ordo Templi Orientis.\n\nFollowing the death of Grady McMurtry who was heading the Order at the time, Breeze was elected as Frater Superior of Ordo Templi Orientis in a special election by all the active IX° members of OTO. He assumed the name \"Hymenaeus Beta\", and later in that capacity became widely acknowledged as an expert on the life and works of Aleister Crowley.\n\nDevoting much of his time in administering the Order, Breeze also devoted a lot of time to development of the corpus of Thelemic literature and preservation of OTO's archival heritage. \n\nBreeze, furthermore, made available his own researches, undertaken for the definitive edition of Crowley’s Confessions that were published in 1990, becoming the biography’s co-editor.\n\nIn his capacity of a Head of OTO, Breeze helped many worthy investigators such as Lawrence Sutin (author of \"DO WHAT THOU WILT: A Life of Aleister Crowley\" published in 2000, ), Richard Kaczynski (author of \"Perdurabo: Life of Aleister Crowley\" published in 2010 by North Atlantic Books, ), Tobias Churton (author of \"Aleister Crowley: The Biography\" published by Watkins Books in 2012, ), and Adam Clayton (author of \"Netherwood: Last Resort of Aleister Crowley.\" published by Weiser Antiquarian Books in 2012, ), to study OTO, Thelema, Aleister Crowley and related topics using the materials OTO is the guardian of.\n\nStarting in 2005, Breeze begun chartering new international Grand Lodges, including those of Australia and United Kingdom which covers England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, plus British Crown Dependencies.\n\nOn October 10, 2014, Breeze was unanimously elected de jure Outer Head of the Order by a council of Grand Masters, and on May 16, 2015, his organisation celebrated 30 years of his governing of OTO.\n\nIn his capacity of Frater Superior of OTO, Breeze advised several American museums and exhibitions on esoteric art. On February 10, 2015, he chaired a panel discussion dedicated to Los Angeles artist and occultist Marjorie Cameron and her work, which was held at Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art.\n\nIn February 2016, Breeze co-chaired “Occult and Art” panel discussion which took place at 80WSE Gallery in New York with Professor Susan L. Aberth and artist Jesse Bransford co-chairing the panel. The panel discussed various artists and occultists, including Aleister Crowley, whose paintings were exhibited amongst other modern and contemporary artists who have each expressed their own engagement in magical practice.\n\nUnder his pseudonym, Hymenaeus Beta, Breeze has written extensively on magic and Thelemic initiation in various occult periodicals, including \"The Magical Link\" and texts entitled \"Culture Versus Cult\" contained within \"The Equinox Vol 3 No. 10\", published in 1990. His editorial forewords include \nprolegomenon to \"Liber Aleph Vel CXI: The Book of Wisdom or Folly\", preface to \"Initiation in the Aeon of the Child: The Inward Journey\" (Nuit - the host of mankind, Had - a single person and a star, Ra Hoor Khut - a child, result of that union) written by J. Daniel Gunther (published in 2014, ), as well as editorial introduction to \"Magick: Liber ABA, Book Four\" () and introduction to Aleister Crowley's edition of \"The Goetia\", which explores the relationship between Crowley and Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers, and the importance of the Lesser Key of Solomon in the grimoire tradition.\n\nBreeze is known as the editor of several of the works of Aleister Crowley. Some of the works he edited include:\n\nAs a musician, Breeze came to prominence in the late 1990s when in the early years of his musical career he worked with poet-percussionist and Velvet Underground cofounder Angus MacLise. Breeze played electric viola, mandolin, guitar, bass and electronics. Footage of Breeze performing alongside Maclise was shown at the exhibition \"Dreamweapon: The Art and Life of Angus MacLise (1938 – 1979)\" from May 10–29, 2011 curated by Johan Kugelberg and Will Swofford Cameron.\n\nBreeze has played with Psychic TV and appears on the recordings \"Thee Fractured Garden\" (1995), \"Cold Blue Torch\" (1995), \"Trip Reset\" (1996) and \"Spatial Memory\" (1996) and is mostly credited as playing viola and viola synthesizer.\n\nBreeze has been a member of Coil as an electric viola player from 1994 through 2004. Coil was a British avant garde music band founded by John Balance and Peter Christopherson whose main studio was based in Bristol. Starting in 1994, Breeze played electric viola on many Coil’s albums, including The Angelic Conversation and Time Machines released in 1998, and accompanied the band on various live tours, including Barcelona tour in 2000.\n\nAfter Coil’s dissolution in 2004, Breeze became a member of Current 93, an experimental music group founded by David Tibet.\n\n"}
