{"id": "23133851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23133851", "title": "2009 flu pandemic in Oceania", "text": "2009 flu pandemic in Oceania\n\nThe 2009 flu pandemic in Oceania, part of an epidemic in 2009 of a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1 causing what has been commonly called swine flu, has (as of 27 June 2009) afflicted at over 22,000 people in Oceania, with 56 confirmed deaths. Almost all of the cases in Oceania have been in Australia, where the majority of cases have resulted from internal community spread of the virus. In addition, the government of New Zealand, where most of the remainder of cases in Oceania have occurred, is on high alert for any people travelling into the country with flu-like symptoms.\n\nAs of July 9, 7,290 cases confirmed in Australia with 20 confirmed deaths. The alert level has been lifted from \"delay\" to \"contain\", giving authorities in all states the option to close schools if students are at risk.\n\nAustralia has a stockpile of 8.7 million doses of Tamiflu and Relenza. Airlines have been required to report passengers from the Americas with influenza symptoms, and nurses have been deployed at international airports.\n\nOn May 9, the first confirmed case in Australia was reported.\n\nOn May 20, four additional cases were reported, one in New South Wales and three in Victoria.\n\nOn May 21, an additional case was reported in Victoria. Victorian health authorities close Clifton Hill Primary School for two days (initially) after three brothers return to the school from a trip to Disneyland and are confirmed to have H1N1.\n\nOn May 22, cases were reported in South Australia and Victoria, including the first reported cases where the virus was contracted in Australia.\n\nOn May 25, the first confirmed case in Western Australia was reported.\n\nOn May 26, 3 additional cases were reported in Sydney. The newly confirmed cases involved two children who arrived in Sydney on the cruise ship named Pacific Dawn and another child who had recently returned from a trip to the United States. NSW Health issued a directive to the 2000 passengers who arrived in Sydney on the Pacific Dawn requiring that they stay at home for 7 days.\n\nOn 19 June the first confirmed death from swine flu in Australia was a 26-year-old Aboriginal man from Kiwirrkurra Community in the Western Desert of Western Australia who died in Royal Adelaide Hospital.\nFiji on Wednesday moved to high alert against the swine flu virus, with the authorities admitting the Pacific island nation was not immune to the rapidly spreading global threat.\n\nOn Thursday April 30, 2009, a traveller suspected of being infected by the swine flu virus is under close surveillance at Lautoka Hospital, said the Health Ministry. Hours later, the Health Ministry said there were two suspected cases. 2 cases of H1N1 confirmed in Fiji.\n\nAs of June 30, 2009 there are 10 confirmed cases of swine Flu in Fiji. \n\nOn 10 July 2009, a total of 52 cases of swine flu were confirmed in the nation. \nFrench Polynesia has reported no cases of swine flu so far. Officials installed a thermal imaging camera on April 27, 2009, at Faa'a International Airport in Tahiti to screen all arriving international passengers. French Polynesia has 48,000 Tamiflu anti-viral treatments available in case of an outbreak, and more can be flown into Tahiti within twenty-four hours.\nOn June 10, 2009, French Polynesia reported its first confirmed case in the islands.\n\nAs of July 20, there were 4 confirmed cases in the Marshall Islands.\nOn June 2, 2009 the authorities in New Caledonia refused to allow the cruise-ship from Australia, the \"Dawn Princess\" to dock because five patients on board had flu-like symptoms.\n\nThe impact in New Zealand has been unprecedented, with school closures across the country. There have been only isolated instances of community transmission.\n\nOn Saturday 25 April 2009 ten students from Rangitoto College, a secondary school in North Shore City, Auckland, exhibited influenza symptoms on returning from a three-week language trip to Mexico. All 22 students and three accompanying teachers from the trip and those in close contact with them were placed in voluntary home isolation and treated with oseltamivir. The ten students tested positive for an influenza A virus, with three of them later testing positive for swine flu. The symptoms were reportedly mild and all affected individuals have since recovered.\n\nNew Zealand has had a well-developed Influenza Pandemic action plan since 2006. Following this plan New Zealand immediately upgraded its influenza pandemic alert status to code yellow. The national stockpile of 1.4 million doses of oseltamivir was released to regional health authorities. The initial response as specified in the Pandemic Action Plan is a policy of border control and cluster control via voluntary quarantine and treatment of contacts with oseltamivir. As of May 24, this policy appears to have been successful in preventing the Mexican Flu from spreading within New Zealand.\n\nNew Zealand had about 48,000 influenza cases in the 2008 flu season – 42% of which were type A – and approximately 100 deaths a year directly attributed to influenza viruses.\n\nAs of July 21, there were 2,255 confirmed cases and 10 deaths. The Ministry Of Health changed plan from 'Containment' to 'Care in the Community'.\nPalau has issued a health alert for swine flu.\n\nHealth Minister Dr. Stevenson Kuartei told reporters that although there is no reported case in Palau, a Task Force has been convened to increase screening of passengers entering the country.\n\nOn July 5, Palau confirmed its first case.\n\nOn June 15, a young Port Moresby adult has contracted the Disease.\n\nDr Mathias Sapuri said they are doing all they can to try to limit the spread of the virus.\n\nThe process of the step up of clinical surveillance in the country has been picked up by most health facilities throughout the country now. We are taking swab tests and are making clinical judgments on swine flu, to get on to the Tamiflu treatment.\n\nMathias Sapuri said health staff are also visiting the provinces to bring medication and test kits to them, and to help with their preparedness.\n\nAs of July 2, 2009, only one case is confirmed in the country\nOn June 15, Health Authorities confirmed the first case of flu. An Australian young student tested positive.\nA multi-sectoral task force has been activated by the Solomon Islands Ministry of Health to deal with the swine influenza virus.\n\nPermanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Medical Service Lester Ross said a task force is managing the Solomon Island Ministry of health's response to recent threat of swine flu epidemic.\n\nOn June 15, Health Authorities confirmed the first case of flu.\nMost supplies and food shipments to Tokelau are sent by ferry from the neighboring country of Samoa. The Samoa Health Ministry had cancelled all travel to Tokelau until further notice as a precaution against the introduction of swine flu to the Tokelauan population. The Operations Manager for the Tokelau Office in Apia, Samoa, Makalio Ioane, confirmed that some ferry travel would still be allowed to Tokelau, but the ship's crew would not be allowed to leave the boat or dock in Tokelau. The boat will be off loaded without any physical contact with the Tokelauan population. No cases of swine flu have been reported on either Tokelau or Samoa, so the cessation of travel to Tokelau is considered a precaution.\nTonga has set up an Emergency Taskforce and is performing screen checks at its International Airport for passengers experiencing influenza symptoms, most importantly from flights originating from Los Angeles. In Early July Tonga confirmed its first case of Swine flu and on July 21 its first death.\nOne suspected case of swine flu has been identified in Nauru. Travelers entering Nauru are now screened for influenza symptoms, most importantly from flights originating from North America.\nTravelers entering the country via Santo-Pekoa International Airport and Bauerfield International Airport are now being screened using body heat detection before being allowed to exit the airport's gates. 1st case confirm in Vanuatu.\n"}
{"id": "51696326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51696326", "title": "99Rise", "text": "99Rise\n\n99Rise is a progressive social movement organization founded in 2012, that aims to \"reclaim our democracy from the domination of big money.\" According to their website, 99rise's 10 principles are: nonviolence, strategic unity, common message, decentralized structure, democratic cooperation, inclusion, pluralism, leadership as service, voluntarism, and open affiliation. Structure wise, 99rise is a decentralized organization with distributed leadership stretching across the United States. 99Rise puts activists and organizers through 2-day detailed DNA trainings, Online Basic Trainings, and monthly Online Orientations in order to equip each member with the tools needed to continue to spread their organization's message. Since the formation of the movement, 99rise members have garnered media attention by protesting during Supreme Court hearings and by interrupting Donald Trump at the 2016 GOP debate.\n\n99Rise plans on achieving their goal to reclaim democracy from the domination of big money through a five phase approach:\n\nKai Newkirk is the co-founder and most visible member of 99Rise. While Newkirk understands the difficulties of 99rise's mission, he stresses that there are important smaller victories that can be achieved to restore some integrity back into the political process. Newkirk wants to push for the adoption of disclosure laws to address the problem of dark money and wants to create a democracy voucher system which would give a tax credit to voters to let every voter direct $50 or $100 to a candidate of their choosing. He believes that these two victories would be a step in the right direction towards achieving their ultimate goal of reclaiming democracy from the power of big money.\n\nA group of seven 99rise activists protested during a Supreme Court Hearing. They chose this day to disrupt the court because they were condemning the ruling in the Citizens United case which happened five years ago from this day. In a report following the incident, 99Rise members also noted that a Princeton study concluded the average American had \"near-zero, statistically non-significant impact upon public policy.\" They rationalized that there disturbance of the court was one way they could make an impact, or draw attention towards public policy that they find unjust. Immediately following the disruption, the activists were escorted out of the courtroom and were charged with making a harangue or oration. The individuals charged were Andrew Batcher, Irandira Gonzales, Margaret Johnson, Alexandra Flores-Quilty, Katherine Philipson, Curt Ries, and Mary Zeiser. The 8th member in the courtroom, Ryan Clayton, allegedly used a concealed camera to film the incident. It is still unclear as to what penalty Clayton will receive.\n\nA group of five 99rise activists protested during another Supreme Court hearing. The 99rise members stood up and said, \"We rise to demand democracy. One person, one vote\". Immediately after, they were tackled and arrested. They now face two charges: picketing with the intent of interfering with or obstructing the administration of justice and making a harangue or oration. The date that they protested, April 1, 2015, is also of significance because it is the one year anniversary of the McCutcheon vs FEC Supreme Court ruling. The ruling \"struck down the aggregate limits on the amount an individual may contribute during a two-year period to all federal candidates, parties and political action committees combine.\" 99rise contends that this ruling gave the 1% even more power to control our democracy through political donations by getting rid of the previously held restriction of $123,400 that one may contribute to a candidate, PACs, or parties.\n\nDuring the 2016 GOP debate, Kai Newkirk, one of the cofounders of 99rise, stood up and interrupted Donald Trump. While there are conflicting reports as to what Newkirk said, sources claim he spoke out for fair elections rather than billionaire controlled ones. He was immediately removed from the venue following the disruption.\n\nOn May 17, 2014, members of 99rise began their 480-mile journey from LA City Hall to the State Capital in Sacramento, California. The march called for three tangible changes to legislation: \n\n \n"}
{"id": "330842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330842", "title": "Achang people", "text": "Achang people\n\nThe Achang (), also known as the Ngac'ang (their own name) or Maingtha () are an ethnic group. They form one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the People's Republic of China. They also live in Burma.\n\nThe Achang number 27,700, of whom 27,600 are from Yunnan province, especially Dehong Autonomous Prefecture. The Achang speak a Burmish (Burmese-related) language called Achang, but there is no indigenous writing system to accompany it. Chinese characters are often used instead. Many Achang also speak the Tai Lü language, mainly to make commercial transactions with Dai people.\n\nSpeaking a distinct dialect, the Husa Achang (戶撒) living in Longchuan County (also in Dehong) consider themselves to be distinct and filed an unsuccessful application in the 1950s as a separate nationality. The Husa were more Sinicized than other Achang. For example, Confucian-styled ancestral memorial tablets are common in Husa homes. Most traditional Husa believe in a mixture of Theravada Buddhism and Taoism.\n\nThe ancestors of the Achang were some of the first inhabitants of the province of Yunnan. Their ancestors lived near the Lancang river and during the 12th century they began to emigrate towards the border the west of the river.\nBy the 13th century, some of them settled down in the area of Longchuan, whereas others settled around Lianghe. During the Ming and Qing dynasties they were governed by local village heads.\n\nA great part of the history and traditions of the Achang has been transmitted from generation to generation through music and songs. Music is one of the mainstays of their culture, and they usually finish all celebrations with songs and dances.\nUnmarried young people usually comb their hair with two braids that gather on their head. The typical clothes of the Achang vary according to village. Married women dress in long skirts, whereas unmarried women wear trousers.\nThe men usually use the colors blue, or black to make their shirts, buttoned to a side. Unmarried men surround their head with a fabric of white color, whereas married men wear blue.\nIn Buddhist funerals of the Achang, a long fabric tape of about 20 meters is tied to the coffin. During the ceremony, the monk in charge of the ritual, walks in front as opposed to holding the tape. By doing this, the monk helps directs the soul of the deceased so that the soul of the deceased arrives at its final destiny. The deceased is buried without any metallic elements, not even jewels, since it is believed that those elements contaminate the soul for future reincarnation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3106851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3106851", "title": "Afro-Dominicans", "text": "Afro-Dominicans\n\nAfro-Dominicans are Dominicans of predominant Black African ancestry. They represent 5.26% of the Dominican Republic's population, according to the 1996 electoral census based on Dominican identity cards data, or 10.9% of the Dominican population, according to the 1960 population census (the last one in which race was queried).\n\nThe majority of Black Dominicans descend from West Africans and Central Africans who arrived from the sixteenth to the early nineteenth century as a result of slavery, while many others descend from black freedman who came from the United States during the 19th century and black immigrants from the Anglo and French Caribbean islands who arrived during the 20th century. Currently there are also many black migrants, particularly from Haiti, who can be included within the Afro-Dominican demographics if they were born in the country or have Dominican naturalization.\n\nBlack Dominicans make up a significant minority of the country's population, but there is a lack of recent official data and it is not possible to quantify their numbers because the National Office of Statistics (ONE) does not release racial data since 1960, though the Central Electoral Board still collected racial data until 2014. According to a 2011 survey by Latinobarómetro, 26% of the Dominicans surveyed identified themselves as black.\n\nBlack (, \"colloq.\" Moreno) has historically been a part of the official racial classification system of the Dominican Republic. However the census bureau decided to not use racial classification in the 1970 census. The Dominican identity card (issued by the \"Junta Central Electoral\") used to categorise people as yellow, white, Indian, and black, in 2011 the Junta planned to replace Indian with mulatto in a new ID card with biometric data that was under development, but in 2014 when it released the new ID card, it decided to just drop racial categorisation, the old ID card expired on 10 January 2015. The Ministry of Public Works and Communications uses racial classification in the driver’s license, being white, mestizo, mulatto, black, and yellow the categories used.\n\nEarly years: transition from Indigenous to African forced labor\n\nIn 1502 (or 1503), the Spanish Crown finally acquiesced to the colonists' demands for enslaved Africans. The Santo Domingo colony, the only European possession yet in America, had already produced a devastating effect on the Taino, Lucayan (Arawaks), and Kalinga (Caribs) populations. A decade of intense exploitation and deadly waves of plagues had reduced the indigenous populations to levels that even the Spaniards considered dangerous. As the Hispaniolan Tainos (and Cigüayos) declined during the first couple of years of colonization, the Christopher Columbus Administration had gone against the wishes of Isabel I of Castile and had begun the first European slave trade on the western side of Atlantic. Raids that cleared out from Santo Domingo under the disguise of pacification and to evangelize nearby islanders had brought in other Amerindians to the colony. They were a large number of enslaved Lucayos from the Bahamas and Kalingas from the eastern islands. Now toiling alongside native Hispaniolans, these war captives became the first enslaved foreign workers on the island of Aytí, one of the indigenous names for the island that Columbus called Hispaniola. By the turn of the century, not even the captured neighbors could supply the labor demands of the mines and plantations. Rudimentary mining techniques and the always backbreaking mass-production of food-stuff required an ever-growing number of coerced workers. Expanding the colonization project to Puerto Rico and requesting the Crown permission to purchase enslaved Africans were the only two solutions colonists seemed capable of conceiving. Ferdinand I of Aragon, widowed and freed from Isabel's more cautious hand, granted both wishes to the embattled colonists in the Indies. It was never a liberal expansion nor an open trade, however. Though unrestrained by religious piety, Ferdinand, who was the ideal Prince in Machiavelli's imagination, was wary in the extreme of potential Conquistador-owned kingdoms (medieval style) in his new possessions, and of slave rebellions in the colonies. So, the first group of enslaved Africans to arrive at the Ozama River were not Piezas de Indias purchased from the Portuguese traders, but a select group of seasoned Black Ladinos. The profit too was meant to stay within his kingdom. Indian resistances, flights, and diseases, however, forced the crown to open the market to thousands of bozales, enslaved Africans directly from the continent.\n\nIn 1522, the first major slave rebellion was led by 20 Senegalese Muslims of Wolof origin, in an ingenio (sugar factory) east of the Santo Domingo colony. Many of the insurgents fled to the mountains and established what would become the first autonomous African Maroon community in America. With the success of this revolt, slave revolts continued and leaders emerged among the African slaves, including people already baptized Christian by the Spanish, as was the case of Juan Vaquero, Diego de Guzmán and Diego del Campo. The rebellions and subsequent escapes led to the establishment of African communities in the southwest, north and east of the island, including the first communities of African ex-slaves in western Hispaniola that was Spanish administered until 1697, when it was sold to France and became Saint-Domingue (modern-day Haiti). This caused some concern among slaveholders and contributed to the Spanish emigration to other places. Even as sugarcane increased profitability in the island, the number of escaped Africans continued to rise, mixing with Taíno people of these regions, and by 1530, Maroon bands were considered dangerous to the Spanish colonists, who traveled in large armed groups outside the plantations and left the mountainous regions to the Maroons (until 1654 with the conquest of Jamaica by the Corsairs of British Admiral William Penn and general Robert Venables).\n\nWith the discovery of precious metals in South America, the Spanish abandoned their migration to the island of Hispaniola to emigrate to South America and Mexico in order to get rich, for they did not find much wealth there. Thus, they also abandoned the slave trade to the island, which led to the collapse of the colony into poverty. Still, during those years, slaves were used to build a cathedral that in time became the most oldest in the Americas. They build the monastery, first hospital and the Alcázar de Colón, and the \"Puerta de las Lamentaciones\" (). In the 1540s, Spanish authorities ordered the African slaves building a wall to defend the city from attacks by pirates who ravaged the islands.\n\nAfter 1700, with the arrival of new Spanish colonists, the African slave trade resumed. However, as industry moved from sugar to livestock, racial and caste divisions became less important, eventually leading to a blend of cultures—Spanish, African, and indigenous—which would form the basis of national identity for Dominicans. It is estimated that the population of the colony in 1777 was 400,000, of which 100,000 were Europeans and Criollos, 60,000 African, 100.000 mestizo, 60,000 zambo and 100,000 mulatto.\n\nAt the end of the eighteenth century, fugitive African slaves from Saint-Domingue, the western French colony of the island fled east to Santo Domingo and formed communities such as San Lorenzo de Los Mina, which is currently part of the \"city\" of Santo Domingo. Fugitives arrived from other parts of the West Indies as well, especially from the Lesser Antilles, dominated by French, English, Dutch, etc.\n\nIn 1801, Haitian revolutionary leader Toussaint Louverture, abolished slavery in the east of Santo Domingo, freeing about 40,000 slaves, and prompting much of the elite of that part of the island to flee to Cuba and Puerto Rico. However, slavery was re-established in 1809 when the Spanish recovered the area. At the same time, the French governor Ferrand imported a second group of Haitian slaves to build the French colonial enclave Puerto Napoleon (Samana).\n\nSlavery was again abolished in 1822 by Haitian president Jean-Pierre Boyer, during the Haitian unification of Hispaniola which began in February of that year.\n\nIn 1824, African American freed people began to arrive under the Haitian administered island, benefiting from the favorable pro-African immigration policy of Boyer since 1822, called the Haitian emigration. Called the Samaná Americans, they mostly settled in Puerto Plata Province and the Samaná Peninsula regions.\n\nIn 1844, one Afro-Dominicans Francisco del Rosario Sánchez freed the country along with Matías Ramón Mella and Juan Pablo Duarte of the Haitian rule.\n\nBetween the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, black laborers from the British West Indies came to work in the sugar plantations on the east of the island. Their descendants are known today by the name of Cocolos.\n\nThe slave trade involved nearly all of Africa's west coast inhabitants to be forcibly taken to the new world. Most slaves tended to come from mostly the Kongo people of West-Central Africa (present-day Angola, Republic of Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo), along with the Igbo (originating from west from Nigeria), Yoruba, Akan and Mandinka tribes.\n\nOthers African ethnic groups arrived to colonial Santo Domingo during the slavery´s period were: Wolof (imported from Senegal), Aja (also called \"Ararás\" in Santo Domingo and imported from Dahomey, current Benin), Ambundu (from the Kingdom of Ndongo, in north Angola), Bran (originating from Brong-Ahafo Region, west from Ghana), Fulbe, Kalabari (originating from slave port from Calabar, in Nigeria), Terranova (slaves bought probably in Porto-Novo, Benin), Zape (originating from Sierra Leone), Bambara and Biafada (this latter was originating from Guinea-Bissau) people.\n\nThe Wolof were imported to Santo Domingo from Senegal in the first half of the sixteenth century, until the import of this ethnic group was prohibited after his rebellion in 1522. Many of the slaves were also Ajas, usually taken in Whydah, Benin. The Ajas arrived in Santo Domingo, were well known for having made religious brotherhoods, integrated exclusively for them, the \"San Cosme\" and \"San Damian\".\n\nThe National Institute of Statistics (INE) does not collect racial data since the Census of 1960. In that census, the ethnic features were obtained by direct observation of the people registered by the enumerator, without any questions asked. About 73% of the population was classified as mestizo (note that in the 1920, 1935, 1950 and 1960 censuses referred to mixed-race people as mestizo, never as mulatto), 16% was classified as white, and 11% was classified as black (1,795,000 of people). According to scholar Silvio Saillant, \"today.' Blacks and mulattos make up nearly 90 percent of the contemporary Dominican population.\" Dominican Republic is one of the few countries in the world where the majority of the population is made up of multiraciales predominately European and African. So based on these figures, people who self-identify as being \"mixed with Afro-ancestry\" are at least 86% of the population, numbering at about 8,518,000 people.\n\nAlthough, most of Black Dominicans are descendants of slaves imported to the country and who speak Spanish, there are also two Afro-communities that have English as their mother tongue: Samaná Americans and Cocolos. Samaná Americans from the Samaná Peninsula, are descendants, of freed slaves from the United States, who entered the country in 1824 when it was under Haitian rule, because of the favorable pro-African immigration policy of Haitian president Jean-Pierre Boyer, constitute the most sizable group of native English speakers in the Dominican Republic. Aware of its distinctive heritage, the community, whose singular culture distinguishes them from the rest of Dominicans, refers to itself as Samaná Americans, and is referred to by fellow Dominicans as \"los americanos de Samaná\". Another Afro-group is the called Cocolo, descendants of those who came to the island from the English-speaking islands in the eastern Caribbean to work in the sugar plantations in the eastern part of the island between the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, they have formed communities in San Pedro de Macorís and La Romana. Its largest population of Afro-people are of Haitian origin, which is also the largest immigrant community in the country and is numbered according to some estimates, to be more than 800,000 people.\n\nThe 1920 Census registered 8,305 West Indians born abroad (they and their descendants are known as \"Cocolos\") and 28,258 Haitians; the 1935 Census registered almost 9,272 West Indians and 52,657 Haitians. The Haitian population decreased to 18,772 in the 1950 Census, as an aftermath of the Parsley Massacre.\n\nThough, African ancestry is common throughout the Dominican Republic, today it is more prevalent in eastern areas such as San Pedro de Macorís, La Romana, and the Samaná Peninsula, as well as along the Haitian border, particularly the southern parts of the border region; it is least prevalent in the Cibao Valley (especially within the \"Sierra de Zamba\" region), and to a lesser extent, in some rural communities in El Seibo and La Altagracia provinces, and the western half of the National District as well. However, in the 19th and early 20th century, African ancestry was higher in the southwestern region than in the eastern region, due to the impact of the Afro-Antillean and Haitian immigration during the 20th century.\nDominicans of Afro-Antillean and African American ancestry lives concentrated in Puerto Plata, Samaná, Hato Mayor, San Pedro de Macorís, La Romana and El Seibo provinces.\n\nDominicans of Haitian ancestry live scattered across the country, however, communities in the border provinces of Elías Piña and Independence where they predominate among the population, highlighting the presence of European football fields, a very popular sport in Haiti.\n\nHaitian immigration is the most important of the immigrations to the Dominican Republic since its independence.\n\nHaiti is more impoverished than the Dominican Republic. So, in 2003, 80% of all Haitians were poor (54% in extreme poverty) and 47.1% were illiterate. The country of nine million people has a fast-growing population, but over two-thirds of the jobs lack the formal workforce. Haiti's GDP per capita was $1,300 in 2008, or less than one-sixth of the Dominican figure. As a result, hundreds of thousands of Haitians have migrated to the Dominican Republic, with some estimates of 800,000 Haitians in the country, while others believe they are more than a million. Usually working in low paid and unskilled in building construction, household cleaning, and in plantations.\n\nChildren of illegal Haitian immigrants are often stateless and they are denied services, as their parents are denied Dominican nationality, and therefore are considered transient residents, due to their illegal status and undocumented, and children often have to choose only Haitian nationality.\n\nA large number of Haitian women, often arriving with several health problems, cross the border to Dominican soil during their last weeks of pregnancy to obtain necessary medical care for childbirth, since Dominican public hospitals cannot deny medical services based on nationality or legal status. Statistics from a hospital in Santo Domingo report that over 22% of births are to Haitian mothers.\n\nHistorically, Haiti was wealthier than the Dominican Republic. However, the lack of free lands in Haiti, as land was held by a small group of landlords, motivated Haitian peasants to settle in the borderland region, within the Dominican Republic. Through the years, especially after 1899, the Haitian government claimed the territory populated by Haitians, and under a treaty in 1929 several towns and cities in Central Hispaniola officially became Haitian, comprising 4,572 km. A Dominican census in 1935 revealed that 3.6% of the population was Haitian. In 1936, the Haitian government claimed more territory and the Dominican Republic ceded another 1,628 km to Haiti; the next year, the Dominican dictatorship ordered the \"Dominicanization of the border\" () and conducted the Parsley Massacre.\n\nIn 1937, Trujillo, in an event known as the \"Masacre del Perejil\" (Parsley Massacre), ordered the Army to kill Haitians living on the border. The Army killed about 10,000 to 15,000 Haitians over six days, from the night of October 2, 1937, to October 8, 1937. To avoid leaving evidence of the Army's involvement, the soldiers used machetes instead of bullets. The soldiers of Trujillo interrogated anyone with dark skin, using the shibboleth \"parsley\" to differentiate Haitians from Afro-Dominicans when necessary, the \"r\" of parsley was difficult pronunciation for Haitians. As a result of the slaughter, the Dominican Republic agreed pay to Haiti the amount of $750,000, later reduced to $525,000. The genocide sought to be justified on the pretext of fearing infiltration, but was actually also a retaliation, commented on both in national currencies, as well as having been informed by the Military Intelligence Service (the dreaded SIM), the government Haitian cooperating with a plan that sought to overthrow Dominican exiles.\n\nIn 2005 Dominican President Leonel Fernández criticized collective expulsions of Haitians were \"improperly and inhumane.\" After a delegation from the United Nations issued a preliminary report stating that it found a profound problem of racism and discrimination against people of Haitian origin, the Dominican Foreign Minister, Carlos Morales Troncoso, gave a formal statement saying \"Our border with Haiti has its problems, this is our reality, and this must be understood. It's important not to confuse national sovereignty with indifference, and not to confuse security with xenophobia.\"\n\nAfter the earthquake that struck Haiti in 2010, the number of Haitians doubled to 2 million, most of them illegally crossed after the border opened for international aid. Human Rights Watch estimated in 70,000 Haitian immigrants legal and 1,930,000 illegal living in Dominican Republic.\n\nAfrican cultural remnants seen in the Dominican Republic in many different aspects, including music, dance, magic-religious beliefs, cuisine, economy, entertainment, motor habits, and language.\n\nPerhaps the greatest influence of African slaves is observed in music and dance. Such influence comes from the dances, that, like the \"calenda\", practiced in the Dominican Republic, as elsewhere in America, from the early years of slavery. We must Father Labat, who toured the West Indies in the eighteenth century, a fairly thorough calenda.\n\nThis dance derives, according to research by the folklorist Fradique Lizardo, several Dominican popular rhythms. One of the most widespread is the Música de palos (Music of sticks), name that designates both the pace and the membranophones used. National Rhythms with obvious African imprint are sarandunga, Música de Gagá (Ganga's music, arrived from Haiti), Baile de Palos (dance of Sticks), Música de Congos (Music of Congos), Cantos de Hacha (Songs of axe), \"los congos\", \"la jaiba\" (the crab), el \"chenche matriculado\" (the chenche enrolled), etc. The \"salve\", which in the words of the U.S. ethnomusicologist Martha Davis, is the most typical of the traditional Dominican genres, has two styles: one distinctly Spanish, amétrico and antiphonal, and another polyrhythmic, strongly hybridized between the Spanish and African styles. Among African instruments are the \"los palos\" (the sticks), \"balsié\", and the \"gallumba\".\n\nIt is important to also mark other musical instruments Dominicans of African origin such as the Palo mayor (mainmast), the canoita, los timbales (present in the bachata, also called bongos), and the tambora (Key instrument in the merengue music, the Dominican national dance).\n\nFor his part, the Bachata is a hybrid of the bolero (especially the bolero rhythm) of the Dominican Republic with other musical influences of African origin and other musical styles like the son, the merengue and the chachachá.\n\nOn the other hand, there are also music genres Dominican widespread across the country, whose origin is uncertain, being considered of Spanish and African origin, depending of musicologists and historians. Such is the case of the merengue music. So, Luis Alberti, one of the musicians considered as fathers of merengue, thinks that the roots of this music genre are purely Spanish. F. Lizardo, Dominican folklorist, by contrast, thinks that this origin is in the Bara tribe of Madagascar, who came to the island in the eighteenth century and brought a dance called \"merengue\" that has spread throughout the Caribbean. A very similar pace, adds Lizardo, arrived today with the Yoruba of Dahomey. In the African polyrhythm was also the merengue. Also often linked to the origin of merengue a dance called URPA or UPA, a native of Havana and arrived in the Dominican Republic between 1838 and 1849. The dance sailed through the Caribbean coming to Puerto Rico where he was well received. One of the movements of this dance is called \"merengue\" which apparently is the way selected to call the dance, and came to the Dominican Republic where he evolved into the genre of merengue. However, the Cuban UPA is also a dance whose origin appears to be in West Africa. In fact, in early ls, despite its rise among the masses, the upper class did not accept the merengue for long, because apparently, their connection with African music. Another cause that weighed on the repudiation and attacks the merengue were literary texts that accompany it, usually risqué.\n\nDominican folk music is intimately tied to religious culture, and interpreted primarily in the \"fiesta de santos\" (party of saints), also known, according to the area of the country, as \"velaciones\" (vigils), \"velas\" (candles) o \"noches de vela\" (sleepless nights). Other popular rhythms are of Spanish origin, such as the \"mangulina\" and the \"carabiné.\" Some of the most popular recording artists of these genres include Enerolisa Nuñez \"The queen of Salve\" and Bembesito. \n\nAlthough most black Dominicans are Roman Catholics, magical-religious beliefs prevails among black Dominicans. Layers reflect African Christian syncretism operated since colonial times. The most characteristic feature is the Dominican Vudú, which relates directly to the magical activity.\n\nFuneral rites contain many features of African descent that are shared with other American countries. A typical example is the \"baquiní\" o velorio del angelito.\n\nIn the economic field include various institutions of mutual aid, existing both in the fields and in the cities. In rural areas, these institutions are in the form of groups of farmers who come together to collaborate on certain agricultural tasks such as planting, clearing of forests, land preparation, etc. Are called \"juntas\" (boards) o \"convites\" and have similar characteristics to Haitian combite closely related to the dokpwe of the Fon people of Dahomey. These tasks are accompanied by songs and musical instruments that serve as encouragement and coordination at work. All board members are required to reciprocate the assistance and collaboration in the work of others. After the day is a festival that is the responsibility of the landowner.\n\nAnother institution of mutual aid, of African origin, is revolving credit system that goes by the name of St. corresponding to esusu and Yoruba. As in Nigeria and other parts of Afroamerica, the San is composed preferably female. It consists, as is well known, in the establishment of a common fund to which each participant's San, contributes with a sum monthly or weekly. Each partner receives, on a rotating basis, the total value of the box, starting with the organized.\n\nSome Dominican cuisine and dishes containing some products of African origin. Among the former are the guandul, the ñame and the funde. Typical African dishes seem to be the mangú, prepared with green plantains and derivatives cocola kitchen, the fungí and the calalú. A common drink among the black slaves was the guarapo, made of sugar cane juice .\n\nAfrican slaves were forced to build a cathedral that in time became the oldest in America. They built their monastery, first hospital and the Alcázar de Colón. In the 1540s, the Spanish authorities ordered the African slaves to build a wall to defend the city from attacks by pirates who ravaged the islands. They also built the \"Puerta de las Lamentaciones\" (Gate of wailing).\n\nThat idea of black inferiority compared to the white was assumed by the whites because of their pro-slavery and, sometimes aggressive behavior with blacks, eventually would also be assumed by them, into believing, also, that their European culture was superior to the cultures from Africa and subjecting them to same (although many Afro-Dominican were able to maintain his cultures). Also, during the rule of Haiti (1822–44), the government of this country developed a black centrism, centrism that Dominicans refused. Moreover, Haitians made Dominicans feel as a distinct people racially, culturally and linguistically, while forbidding them to them use their customs. Dictator Rafael Leónidas Trujillo, who ruled between 1930 and 1961, tenaciously promoted the anti-Haitian sentiment and used racial persecution and nationalistic fervor against Haitians. He is considered and blamed for creating the many racial categories that avoided the use of the word \"black\" and, in 1955, he promotes an emigration from Spain to his country to \"whiten\" the population, increasing the white population over the black population, which he considered inferior.\n\nThe practice continued under President Joaquín Balaguer, who often complained that Haitian immigration in the Dominican Republic was \"blackening\" the country. In 1990, he was blamed for blocking the presidential aspirations of leading black candidate José Francisco Peña Gómez, spreading rumors that he was actually Haitian.\n\nAn envoy of the UN in October 2007 found that there was racism against blacks in general, and particularly against Haitians, which proliferate in every segment of Dominican society. According to a study conducted by the Dominican Studies Institute CUNY, about 80% of the contemporary Dominican population has ancestry from West and Central Africa in different degrees. A variety of terms are used to represent a range of skin tones, such as \"moreno\", \"canelo\", \"Indian\", \"indiesito\", \"blanquito\", and \"rubio\".\n\nRamona Hernández, director of the Dominican Studies Institute at City College of New York asserts that the terms were originally a defense against racism: \"During the Trujillo regime, people who had dark skin were rejected, so they created their own mechanism to fight against the rejection\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30359597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30359597", "title": "Al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad", "text": "Al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad Ahmad Amuli (944 - 1020) was an imam of the Zaydiyyah sect.\n\nAl-Mu'ayyad Ahmad's ancestor in the tenth degree was the Twelver imam Hasan bin Ali. He was a disciple of Abu Abdallah al-Basri and the Qadi Abd al-Jabbar, and a learned expert on the Ahl al-Bayt concept. Al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad was accepted as imam in Gilan and Deylaman in Persia, and had connections with the Zaidi area of Yemen. After 1013, no local imam was appointed for many years in the Yemeni highland. In Zaidi historiography, al-Mu'ayyad Ahmad is sometimes listed as such, although he never visited Yemen. He died in Langa in Deylaman in 1020, being succeeded by his brother Abu Talib Yahya.\n\n"}
{"id": "2887176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2887176", "title": "Amarar tribe", "text": "Amarar tribe\n\nAmarar (or Amarer) is a bedouin tribe of the Beja people inhabiting the mountainous country on the west side of the Red Sea from Suakin northwards towards Al-Qusayr. Between them and the Nile are the Ababda and Bisharin Beja tribes and to their south dwell the Hadendoa (another Beja subgroup). The country of the Amarar is called the Atbai. Their headquarters are in the Ariab district. The tribe is divided into four great families: (1) Weled Gwilei, (2) Weled Aliab, (3) Weled Kurbab Wagadab, and (4) the Amarar proper of the Ariab district. They claim to be of Koreish blood and to be the descendants of an invading Arab army. Possibly some small bands of Koreish Arabs may have made an inroad and converted some of the Amarar to Islam. Further than this there is little to substantiate their claim.\n"}
{"id": "26235675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26235675", "title": "Amir Nasir Khan Talpur", "text": "Amir Nasir Khan Talpur\n\nMir Nasir Khan Talpur was the last Amir of the land that included Sindh and parts of present-day Balochistan and was one of the most active administrators after the decline of the Mughal Empire. He made Hyderabad the capital of his empire and constructed two forts in the city known as the Pakka Qilla (Brick Fort) and the Kacha Qilla (Mud Fort) and he also built the Maula Ali Qadam Gah (The footsteps of Ali(A.S)), a Shia shrine at the center of the city. He was a strong follower of the Sufi tradition. He donated a lot of his personal wealth to the Tomb of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai at Bhit Shah. He and his 30,000 forces were defeated by the forces of the British Empire led by Charles Napier at the Battle of Miani.\n\nMir Nasir Khan Talpur's defeat was an ill omen for the last Mughal Emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar.\n"}
{"id": "44237439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237439", "title": "Arameans in Israel", "text": "Arameans in Israel\n\nArameans in Israel (, ; \"\") are persons residing in Israel who identify as Arameans (or Aramaeans), a Northwest Semitic people who originated in what is now western, southern and central Syria region (Biblical Aram) during the Late Bronze Age and the Iron Age.\n\nSome Syriac Christians in the Middle East (particularly in Syria and Israel) still espouse an Aramean ethnic identity to this day and a minority still speak Western Aramaic dialects or languages, although the Eastern Aramaic of the ethnic Assyrians is far more widely spoken. Most of the self-identified Aramaeans in Israel are of Maronite community. The Maronite residents of Jish, a subset of Maronites in Israel, relate to themselves as Aramean Christian Maronite peoples. Until 2014, self-identified Arameans in Israel used to be registered as ethnic Arabs or without ethnic identity. However, since September 2014, Christian families or clans who can speak Aramaic and/or have an Aramaic family tradition are eligible to register as ethnic Arameans in Israel. In July 2016, it was published by Ha'aretz that the number of Israeli Christians, eligible to register as Arameans is 13,000. Yaakov Halul from Jish in the Galilee was formally defined as the first Aramean on his Israeli identification in 2014.\n\nAramaean people originated in what is present-day western, southern and central Syria (Biblical Aram) during the Late Bronze Age and the Iron Age.\n\nIn the early 13th century BC (according to a literal chronology of the Bible), much of the Land of Israel came under Aramean rule for eight years, as written in the Book of Judges, until Othniel defeated the forces led by Chushan-Rishathaim, the King of Aram-Naharaim. Other entities mentioned in the Hebrew Bible include Aram Damascus and Aram Rehob.\n\nLarge groups of Arameans migrated to Babylonia in southern Mesopotamia during the 11th and 10th centuries BC, where they established small semi-independent Aramaic kingdoms before being absorbed into the native population. In the Levant and in Mesopotamia conquered Aramean populations were forcibly deported throughout the Neo-Assyrian Empire and Babylonian Empire e.g. under the rule of the 8th-century Assyrian king Tiglath-Pileser III.\n\nSome Syriac Christians in the Middle East (particularly in Syria and Israel) still espouse an Aramean ethnic identity to this day and a minority still speak Western Aramaic dialects or languages, although the Eastern Aramaic of the ethnic Assyrians is far more widely spoken.\n\nIn September 2014, Ministry of the Interior Gideon Sa'ar instructed the PIBA to recognize Arameans as an ethnicity separate from Israeli Arabs. Under the Ministry of the Interior's guidance, people born into Christian families or clans who can speak Aramaic and have Aramaic cultural heritage within their family are eligible to register as Arameans. About 200 Christian families were thought to be eligible prior to this decision. According to an August 9, 2013 Israel Hayom article, at that time an estimated 10,500 persons were eligible to receive Aramean ethnic status according to the new regulations, including 10,000 Maronites (which included 2,000 former SLA members), and 500 Catholics, while 1,500 members of the Syriac Orthodox Church and Assyrian Church of the East are of different ethnicity, and officially registered as \"Assyrians\", the indigenous people of northern Iraq, north east Syria, south east Turkey and the fringes of north west Iran, who are migrants from these regions to Israel.\n\nThe first person to receive the \"Aramean\" ethnic status in Israel was 2 year old Yaakov Halul in Jish on October 20, 2014. In July 2016, it was published by Ha'aretz that the number of Israeli Christians, eligible to register as Arameans is 13,000.\n\nThe recognition of the Aramean ethnicity caused mixed reactions among Israeli minorities, the Christian community, and among the general Arab Israeli population. \n\nWhile some celebrated the success of their long legal struggle to be recognized as a non-Arab ethnic minority, other members of the Arab community in Israel denounced it as an attempt to divide Arab Christians. Representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem officially denounced the move. \n\nMany in Israeli academia advocate the recognition of the Aramean identity and have called on the government of Israel to promote the awareness regarding this issue on the basis of the international principle of ethnic self-determination as espoused by Wilson's 14 points. One of the staunchest supporters of the recognition of the Aramean identity is Father Gabriel Naddaf, who is one of the leaders of the Christians in Israel. He advocated on behalf of his Aramean followers and thanked the Interior Ministry's decision as a \"historic move\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3861253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3861253", "title": "Boomerang Generation", "text": "Boomerang Generation\n\nBoomerang Generation is a term applied in Western culture to young adults graduating high school and college in the 21st century. They are so named for the percentage of whom choose to share a home with their parents after previously living on their own—thus boomeranging back to their parents' residence. This arrangement can take many forms, ranging from situations that mirror the high dependency of pre-adulthood to highly independent, separate-household arrangements.\n\nThe term can be used to indicate only those members of this age-set that actually do return home, not the whole generation. In as much as home-leaving practices differ by economic class, the term is most meaningfully applied to members of the middle class.\n\nThe parental expectation of having an \"empty nest\", traditional in the United States and some other industrialized cultures, has increasingly given way in the 1990s and 2000s to the reality of a \"cluttered nest\" or \"crowded nest\". The latter term was popularized by Kathleen Shaputis's 2004 book \"The Crowded Nest Syndrome: Surviving the Return of Adult Children\", which takes a critical view of the trend.\n\nUniversity of Western Ontario professor Roderic Beaujot discusses the phenomenon of delayed home-leaving at length. He cites Canadian census statistics showing that, in 1981, 27.5% of Canadians aged 20–29 lived with their parents; in 2001, the figure had grown to 41%. In the United States the proportion of adults ages 20 to 34 living with their parents has increased from 9% in 1960 to almost 17% in 2000. However, US census data also suggest that the rate at which adult children have been living with parents has been steady since 1981. The U.S. Census Bureau reported a 5 percent point increase in the number of young men (ages 24–34) living with their parents for the period between 2005 (14%) and 2011 (19%). For the same period, the number of young women living with their parents increased from 8% in 2005 to 10% in 2011.\n\nThe coming of age of this generation coincide with the economic downturn starting with the collapse of the stock market bubble in 2000. This led to rising unemployment until 2004, the same time this generation was entering the workforce after high school or college graduation. Additionally, in the new economy, where globalisation-induced phenomena like outsourcing have eliminated many jobs, real wages have fallen over the last twenty years, and a college degree no longer ensures job stability. Additionally, with the recent economic crisis hitting much of the world, many young people were either laid off or could no longer afford to live on their own. Moving back home allows them the option of unpaid internships and additional schooling without the burden of paying rent at market rates (or paying rent at all).\n\nAn increase in divorce rates as well as a delay in initial marriage are other contributing factors in young adults returning to reside with their parents.\n\nThis generation differs from previous ones in that many members expect to remain with their parents for some years while maintaining their own social and professional lives. Home-leaving remains a priority for most in the Boomerang Generation, though financial burden (and the comforts of financial stability in their parents' homes) often delays the fruition of that goal.\n\nThe phenomenon of boomeranging/delayed home-leaving has generated considerable inquiry and debate, including academic studies at reputable universities; full-length books, such as \"The Hands-On Guide to Surviving Adult Children Living at Home\" by Christina Newberry; articles in national newspapers; documentaries, such as \"Generation Boomerang\"; and major motion pictures, such as \"Failure to Launch\" (2006) starring Matthew McConaughey.\n\nEconomic instability is the primary justification for this phenomenon, as articulated in Kimberly Palmer's 2007 \"U.S. News & World Report\" article \"The New Parent Trap: More Boomers Help Adult Kids out Financially\". In particular, the term Boomeranger has been used to draw reference to those Gen-Xers and Gen-Yers of the Boomerang Generation who have either returned to an earlier, more modest lifestyle or have simply moved back home with parents and other loved ones, in response to the Great Recession. Where the young person and his/her parents can tolerate the arrangement, it provides tremendous financial relief to the young person. Such co-residence can be a valuable form of insurance, particularly for youths from poorer families. It may also provide non-negligible income to the parents, though in many cultures, the boomeranger retains all or nearly all of their disposable income for discretionary income purchases.\n\nThough inter-generational cohabitation is \"terra incognita\" for many in modern industrialized Western societies and therefore challenging, those who attempt it can benefit from the experience. The arrangement tends to force all involved to communicate and negotiate in ways they did not when the children were pre-adults. In the best case, this can lead to healthy adult relationships between parents and children.\n\nThis can benefit parents when they reach old age. In societies where it is common for children to live with their parents into adulthood, such as Asian and Hispanic cultures, children more frequently take care of aging parents rather than devolving the responsibility on a third party, such as a nursing home. Whether the Boomerang Generation will follow suit remains to be seen, as the older Baby Boom generation ages. And let's not forget that the recession has affected the Baby Boomers as well, perhaps even more so than their children, as many lost significant investments and savings intended for retirement. In this case, we can only hope the cohabitation of parents and their adult children can be mutually beneficial in terms of easing the financial burden. While the boomerangers may live rent free, it is common for them to take on other financial responsibilities in return, such as groceries or utilities.\n\nIn 2014, 20% of adults in their 20s and early 30s were residing with their parents, which is twice the amount of the previous generation. Though there are many reasons cited for the need for parental support, one of the greatest contributing factors is said to be student loan debt. 45% of 25-year-old college graduates currently owe $20,000 or more. For some families, the financial instability of the mid 2000s caused a decrease in funds allocated for higher education, therefore decreasing parental financial contributions and causing the need for more loans to cover educational costs. And while student loans are more frequently taken out in the student’s name, some parents who took out loans are facing substantial debt and are now relying on their adult children to provide financial assistance while they pay them off.\n\nCritics of the practice of boomeranging, such as Shaputis, worry about the negative effect this trend has on the financial and social independence of the children.\n\nThose who return home from the unrestrictive nature of college dorm life may have difficulty readjusting to their parents' domestic expectations. Where living space is shared, gatherings with friends can be limited in frequency or scope. Dating is similarly constrained and can be impaired by the stigma of the young adult's perceived inability to function independently of his parents.\n"}
{"id": "33231966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33231966", "title": "Bori language", "text": "Bori language\n\nBori is a Tani language of India. Bori is spoken in Payum Circle, West Siang District, Arunachal Pradesh (Megu 1988).\n\nBori is spoken by the Bori people, an indigenous tribe of India.\n"}
{"id": "35398534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35398534", "title": "Bulgarians in Lebanon", "text": "Bulgarians in Lebanon\n\nBulgarians in Lebanon are between 400 - 1000 people. Most of them are Bulgarian women like Maya married to Lebanese men and their children, almost all of which live in Beirut.\n\nAssociations\n\nBulgarian associations are: Association of nurses in Lebanon (2003) and Association of graduates in Bulgaria Lebanese civilians.\n\nSchools\n\n\nFolk groups\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34652295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34652295", "title": "Bunda people", "text": "Bunda people\n\nThe Bunda people or (also \"Ambuun\", \"Mbuun\") in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are an ethnic group that mostly live in Idiofa Territory, Kwilu District of Bandundu Province. They speak the Mpuono language, spoken by an estimated 165,000 people as of 1972.\n\nThe Belgian colonial administration originally gave Idiofa Territory the name of \"Babunda Territory\" after the Bunda people, who formed the majority of the population.\nThey are still the most important group in the center of Idiofa territory.\nThe Bunda are the majority of the population of the administrative center of Idiofa.\nThere are also Bunda populations in Bulungu Territory and Gungu Territory.\n\nThe Bundu territory has a tropical climate with alternating dry and rainy seasons.\nThe region has abundant water resources, the most important rivers being the Lubwe, Loange, Kamtsha and the Piopio.\nPrecipitation in the rainy season is so intense that it is a major obstacle to farming and a time when food may be scarce.\nHunting and fishing are individual activities during this period.\nFood is abundant in the dry season, the main season for communal hunting and fishing.\n\n"}
{"id": "19350150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19350150", "title": "Cadmean victory", "text": "Cadmean victory\n\nA Cadmean victory () is a reference to a victory involving one's own ruin, from Cadmus (Greek: \"Kadmos\"), the legendary founder of Thebes in Boeotia and the mythic bringer of script to Greece. On seeking to establish the city, Cadmus required water from a spring guarded by a water-dragon similar to the Lernaean Hydra. He sent his companions to slay the dragon, but they all perished. Although Cadmus eventually proved victorious, the victory cost the lives of those who were to benefit from the new settlement.\n\nThe phrase \"Cadmean victory\" has been largely displaced in popular use by the similar expression Pyrrhic victory.\n\n"}
{"id": "321487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321487", "title": "Call girl", "text": "Call girl\n\nA call girl or female escort is a sex worker who (unlike a street walker) does not display her profession to the general public; nor does she usually work in an institution like a brothel, although she may be employed by an escort agency. The client must make an appointment, usually by calling a telephone number.\nCall girls often advertise their services in small ads in magazines and via the Internet, although an intermediary advertiser, such as an escort agency, may be involved in promoting escorts, while, less often, some may be handled by a pimp.\nCall girls may work either incall, where the client comes to them, or outcall, where they go to the client. Some porn stars are known to escort as well.\n\nMany call girl agencies and independent call girls have their own websites. The internet has become the main medium through which customers find their desired escort. Generally, a picture of the woman is provided, and sometimes, the type of sexual services she is willing to offer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46311344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46311344", "title": "City of Strangers (book)", "text": "City of Strangers (book)\n\nCity of Strangers: Gulf Migration and the Indian Community in Bahrain is an English-language book written by Andrew M. Gardner. This book was first published in 2010 by Cornell University Press.\n\nIn this book Gardner has captured the lives and everyday experiences of Indian workers living in Bahrain. These people are mainly migrant workers and constitute about half of the country. Gardener has also told these workers' personal stories and how the \"sponsorship system\" in this country binds a worker to a particular sponsor.\n\nIn a book-analysis published by the \"University of Puget Sounds\", it was written—\nArmed with his interviews and research, Gardner goes beyond merely describing the system and boldly suggests changes that could improve the lot of the workers, without stemming the labor flow that is key to such cities’ wealth. Gardner explains that for the Middle Eastern states, the exploitative practices are a means to build industries and cities that will ensure the region’s international success, even as the oil runs out.\n"}
{"id": "19111904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19111904", "title": "Crime in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Crime in Saudi Arabia\n\nAccording to the US State Department Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) as of 2014, \"U.S. citizens and Westerners continue to report incidents of crime, including robberies and attempted robberies.\" Cases of sexual assault are believed to be underreported \"because victims are customarily blamed\". (For example, in 2009, a 23-year-old woman was sentenced to a year in prison and 100 lashes for adultery after being raped by five men. In 2007, a 19-year-old victim of rape by seven men receiving a sentence of six-months in jail and 200 lashes.)\n\nForeign affairs ministries of other countries have stated that there is a low rate of crime in Saudi Arabia.\n\nWhile as late as the 1980s the kingdom could and did boast of being \"practically crime-free,\" the crime rate among jobless youth grew by 320% from 1990 to 1996. \nConvictions for drug possession rose from 4,279 in 1986 to 17,199 in 2001. Credited with rising crime are a \"population boom, rapid social change, and massive unemployment\" leading to \"a breakdown in traditional forms of social control and constraint.\n\nPetty theft is a problem especially in crowded areas. The nation has strict laws prohibiting drug trafficking; drug trafficking is a capital crime. Despite strict laws, however, illicit trafficking takes place in considerable amounts through underground channels especially marijuana, cocaine and homegrown psychedelic drugs. Saudi Arabia is a signatory to all three international conventions on drug control. To curb money laundering, improved anti-money laundering laws have been enacted. The country has implemented all the forty recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) for combating money laundering and all eight recommendations of the FATF regarding terror financing. A Financial Intelligence Unit exists for the purpose of monitoring flows of funds.\n\nThe most common crime in 2002 was theft, which accounted for 47% of total reported crime. Saudi Arabia is a destination point for workers from South and Southeast Asia who are subjected to conditions which include involuntary servitude, non-payment of wages, confinement and withholding of passports as a restriction on their movement. Domestic workers are particularly vulnerable because some are confined to the house in which they work and are unable to seek help. Saudi Arabia is also a destination country for children trafficked from other Middle Eastern countries like Yemen, African countries like Nigeria, Mali, Somalia, South Sudan, and Sudan and Asian nations like Singapore, India, Bangladesh , Pakistan and Afghanistan for the purpose of forced begging and involuntary servitude as street vendors. Some Nigerian women were reportedly trafficked into Saudi Arabia for commercial sexual exploitation.\n\nThreat of Islamic terrorism is a matter of concern. \nFrom 2000 to 2004, when a number of expatriate workers were killed in car bombings, questions arose over the seriousness and sincerity of Saudi efforts to prevent or investigate attacks. Before May 2003, the only public statements of any investigation or prosecution of attacks were Saudi accusations against the (mainly British) western expatriates themselves. Saudis arrested and detained several, claiming they were 'alcohol traders' fighting a turf war over the illegal distribution of alcohol. According to author Thomas Hegghammer, \"today, few outside Saudi Arabia believe that alcohol traders carried out the bombings\", as the suspects were well-paid professionals with no prior record of violent crime, no forensic evidence was provided against them, and attacks of a very similar nature on western nationals continued despite the arrests of the alleged perpetrators.\n\nAfter 26 foreigners were killed in a May 2004 attack by three car bombs on foreign residential compounds in Riyadh, American intelligence sources quoted by the \"Daily Telegraph\", stated the operation \"depended on a significant level of `insider` knowledge of the compounds,\" and this and other evidence indicates that al-Qaeda has infiltrated even the elite National Guard, which was involved in compound security. Bombers wore uniforms of security forces, in both the May 2003 compound bombing and another in November.\n\nIn May 2004, militants took dozens of hostages attacking three buildings in the oil-industry town of Khobar over a 25-hour period killing 22 and injuring 25 —mainly foreign workers — killing one victim by tying him to the back of a vehicle and dragged through the street. Despite being surrounded by Saudi security, three of the four gunmen escaped.\nWhile attacks by militants have decreased dramatically since late 2004, there are continued reports of terrorist planning. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) of the Government of Australia claimed they received reports that terrorists are masterminding attacks against assets belonging to the Government of Saudi Arabia, oil infrastructure, aviation infrastructure, embassies, hotels, shopping malls and many Western interests such as residential housing complexes, gatherings of foreign tourists for recreational or cultural activities etc. The United States Department of State reported \"There is an on-going security threat due to the continued presence of terrorist groups, some affiliated with al Qaida, who may target Western interests, housing compounds, and other facilities where Westerners congregate\". Terrorist attacks in the country targeted both native people and foreigners. DFAT further stated \"Terrorist attacks could occur at any time, anywhere in Saudi Arabia, including in Riyadh, Khobar, and other major cities\".\n\nThe kingdom has taken successful efforts to rehabilitate terrorists. Saudi Arabia has the best terrorist rehabilitation program in the world. Their terrorist recidivism rate is about 3 to 4%. In order to have such a low terrorist recidivism rate, the Saudi Arabian’s well-designed strategies to counter the effects new terrorist recruits endure during indoctrination to a terrorist organization. The effects that Saudi Arabia terrorist rehabilitation program targets are as follows: authorization, isolation, training, and dehumanization. By knowing these steps, the rehabilitation programs reverse the effects of the terrorist authorization, isolation, dehumanization, and training to become successful in criminal rehabilitation. The rehabilitation programs help violent offenders positively reintegrate in the free society by supporting the creation of positive peer and familial relationships. These programs help to reconnect family with the offender or aid in the creation of a family.\n\nIn 1988, the \"reported\" murder rate in Saudi Arabia was .011 per 100,000 population, sexual offenses were .059 per 100,000 population, and thefts were .005 per 100,000. In 2002, a total of 599 crimes were reported in Saudi Arabia, or .06 crimes for every 100,000 people. By 2006 those numbers had gone down with murder at .010 per 100,000 population, sexual offenses at .046 per 100,000, and thefts offenses at .04 per 100,000.\n\nIn 2015, the UN office of drugs and crime reported the murder rate in Saudi Arabia to be 1.5 per 100,000, with 472 recorded offences.\n\nThe Saudi legal system is based on Sharia or Islamic law and thus often prohibits many activities that are not crimes in other nations, such as alcohol or pork consumption, public displays of non-Islamic religious symbols or text, affection between opposite sex outside of marriage, \"indecent\" artwork or media images, sorcery, homosexuality, cross-dressing, and fornication or adultery. One of the main organizations enforcing traditional Islamic morality in the kingdom is the \"Religious Police\" or Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice. It is difficult to know, with any certainty, how many people have been charged or punished for violating these laws.\n\nHowever, some Western countries or human rights defenders criticized Saudi corrections system for punishing offenders. In fact, many of those punishments came originally from Islam and it should be applied for anyone who commits crime. The article \"Islamic Law Across Cultural Borders: The Involvement of Western Nationals in Saudi Murder Trials\" by Esmaeili & Gans (2000), discussed several important points regarding the three-major types of punishments that should be under the Shariaa's law. These three are \"Hudud\" (limit or boundary), \"Qisas\" \"retaliation\", and \"Tazirat\" \"discretionary punishments\" (Esmaeili & Gans, 2000, p.153).They proved that these punishments \"are fixed by the Quran and Sunnah and cannot be altered by any judicial authority\" (Esmaeili & Gans, 2000, p.153). \n\nThe first punishment called Hudud (limit or boundary) and that includes; life imprisonment, lashing, stoning to death for those who have illegal sexual intercourse, and hand amputation for thefts but it depends on the situation (Esmaeili & Gans, 2000). Those punishments and other that Hudud must be occur is not for all crimes but in fact it attaches only for a limited crime, under several steps and the presence of witnesses. \n\nThe second punishment called Qisas (retaliation) and that includes; murder and assault. Esmaeili and Gans (2000) stated that \"the courts have no initial sentencing role\" because Qisas followed eye for an eye method or the law of retaliation, which means \"the offender is punished in the same way, and by the same means, as the crime that she or he committed\" (p. 153). So, the death penalty punishment is for murder crimes.\n\nThe third punishment called Tazirat (discretionary punishments) and it depends on the balance of the crime (Esmaeili & Gans, 2000). In this category the King’s approve is not required as the previous categories. So, if a person commits any sin that considered under Islamic law, the judge can punish him or her. Practicing Tazirat punishment such as \"lashing, prison, or banishment, is specified in written form\" (Esmaeili & Gans, 2000, p.153).\n\n"}
{"id": "55516713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55516713", "title": "David Marks (architect)", "text": "David Marks (architect)\n\nDavid Joseph Marks (15 December 1952 - 6 October 2017), was a British architect, and the designer of the London Eye, the British Airways i360 observation tower in Brighton, and the Treetop Walkway at Kew Gardens, London.\n\nDavid Marks was born on 15 December 1952 in Stockholm, Sweden, the son of Gunilla (née Lovén) and Melville Marks, a journalist and film producer. Marks, a Jew, grew up in Geneva, where he attended the International School of Geneva. He moved to London in 1972, at first to study at the Kingston Polytechnic before moving to Architectural Association School of Architecture.\n\nMarks was married to fellow architect Julia Barfield and they formed the architecture firm Marks Barfield.\n\nHe was appointed MBE in the 2000 New Year Honours.\n"}
{"id": "66468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66468", "title": "Demographics of Afghanistan", "text": "Demographics of Afghanistan\n\nThe population of Afghanistan is around 33 million as of 2016, which includes the roughly 3 million Afghan citizens living as refugees in both Pakistan and Iran. The nation is composed of a multi-ethnic and multilingual society, reflecting its location astride historic trade and invasion routes between Central Asia, Southern Asia, and Western Asia. Its largest ethnic group is the Pashtun, followed by Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek, Aimak, Turkmen, Baloch and a few others.\n\nApproximately 46% of the population is under 15 years of age, and 74% of all Afghans live in rural areas. The average woman gives birth to five children during her entire life and 6.8% of all babies die in child-birth or infancy. Life expectancy was reported in 2015 at 60.5 years and only 0.04% of the population has HIV.\n\nPashto and Dari are both the official languages of the country. \nDari, which is known as the Afghan Persian, functions as the lingua franca. Pashto is widely used in the region south of the Hindu Kush mountains and the Indus River in neighboring Pakistan. Uzbek and Turkmen are smaller languages spoken in parts of the north. Multilingualism is common throughout the country, especially in the major cities.\n\nIslam is the religion of more than 99% of Afghanistan's citizens. Roughly 90% of the population practice Sunni Islam and belong to the Hanafi Islamic law school, while 7–15% are followers of Shia Islam; the majority of whom belong to the Twelver branch, with smaller numbers of Ismailis. The remaining 1% or less practice other religions such as Sikhism and Hinduism. Excluding urban populations in the principal cities, most People are organized into tribal and other kinship-based groups, who follow their own traditional customs, for instance Pashtuns Pashtunwali. The majority of the country's population lives in rural areas and is involved in agricultural activities.\n\nAs of 2016, the total population of Afghanistan is around 33,332,025, which includes the 3 million Afghan nationals living in both Pakistan and Iran. Afghanistan's Central Statistics Organization (CSO) stated in 2011 that the total number of Afghans living inside Afghanistan was about 26 million and by 2017 it reached 29.2 million. Of this, 15 million are males and 14.2 million are females. About 22% of the population is urbanite and the remaining 78% live in rural areas.\n\nThe population was reported in 1979 at about 15.5 million. From 1979 until the end of 1983, some 5 million people left the country to take shelter in neighboring northwestern Pakistan and eastern Iran. This exodus was largely unchecked by any government. The Afghan government in 1983 reported a population of 15.96 million, which presumably included the exodus. \n\nIt is assumed that roughly 600,000 to as high as 2 million Afghans may have been killed during the various 1979–2001 wars. These figures are highly questionable and no attempt has ever been made to verify them. The country's population is expected to reach 82 million by 2050.\n\nUrban areas have experienced rapid population growth in the last decade, which is due to the return of over 5 million expats. The only city in Afghanistan with over a million residents is its capital, Kabul. The other largest cities in the country are shown in the chart below.\n\n\"0–14 years:\" 42.3% (male 6,464,070/female 6,149,468)\n\"15–64 years:\" 55.3% (male 8,460,486/female 8,031,968)\n\"65 years and over:\" 2.4% (male 349,349/female 380,051) (2011 est.)\n\nIn 1979, the population was reported to be about 15.5 million.\n2.32% (2015)\ncountry comparison to the world: 39\n\n\"urbanization population:\" 24% of the total population (2008)\n\"rate of urbanization:\" 5.4% annual rate of change (2005–10)\n\n\"at birth:\" 1.05 male(s)/female\n\"under 15 years:\" 1.05 male(s)/female\n\"15–64 years:\" 1.05 male(s)/female\n\"65 years and over:\" 0.93 male(s)/female\n\"total population:\" 1.05 male(s)/female (2009)\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nStructure of the population (2012.01.07) (Data refer to the settled population based on the 1979 Population Census and the latest household prelisting. The refugees of Afghanistan in Iran, Pakistan,\nand an estimated 1.5 million nomads, are not included):\n\n\"total population:\"\n60.5 years (2015)country comparison to the world: 214\n\"male:\" 59.3 years (2013)\n\"female:\" 61.9 years (2013)\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\n\"total:\" 11 years\n\"male:\" 13 years\n\"female:\" 8 years (2014)\n\n0.04% (2015)\n\nUp to 6,900 (2015 estimate)\n\nIn 2008, health officials in Afghanistan reported 504 cases of people living with HIV but by the end of 2012 the numbers reached 1,327. The nation's healthy ministry stated that most of the HIV patients were among intravenous drug users and that 70% of them were men, 25% women, and the remaining 5% children. They belonged to Kabul, Kandahar and Herat, the provinces from where people make the most trips to neighboring and foreign countries. Regarding Kandahar, 22 cases were reported in 2012. \"AIDS Prevention department head Dr Hamayoun Rehman said 1,320 blood samples were examined and 21 were positive. Among the 21 patients, 18 were males and three were females who contracted the deadly virus from their husbands. He said four people had reached a critical stage while three had died. The main source of the disease was the use of syringes used by drug addicts.\" There are approximately 23,000 addicts in the country who inject drugs into their bodies using syringescountry comparison to the world: 168\n\nUp to 300 (2015 estimate)\n\nDegree of risk: high\n\nNote: WH5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk as of 2009.\n\nIn August 2017, a nationwide distribution of e-ID cards (e-Tazkiras) is scheduled to begin. The ethnicity of each citizen is to be provided in the application. This process is expected to reveal the exact figures about the size and composition of the country's ethnic groups.\n\nArticle Four of the Afghan Constitution mentions a total of 14 ethnic groups. An approximate distribution of the ethnolinguistic groups is shown in the map to the right and listed in the chart below:\n\nThe recent estimate in the above chart is some what supported by the below national opinion polls, which were aimed at knowing how a group of about 804 to 8,706 local residents in Afghanistan felt about the current war, political situation, as well as the economic and social issues affecting their daily lives. Ten surveys were conducted between 2004 and 2015 by the Asia Foundation (a sample is shown in the table below; the survey in 2015 did not contain information on the ethnicity of the participants) and one between 2004 and 2009 by a combined effort of the broadcasting companies NBC News, BBC, and ARD.\n\nPashto and Dari are both the official languages of Afghanistan. Dari, which is recognized as the Afghan Persian, serves as the lingua franca in Kabul, Herat, Balkh, Badakhshan and other provinces in northern and north-western Afghanistan. It is the language resorted to when people of different ethnic groups need to conduct business or otherwise communicate. Pashto is widely used in southern and eastern areas of the country where ethnic Pashtuns are the majority, including by majority of the Afghans in Pakistan. The Afghan National Anthem is recited in Pashto.\n\nUzbeki and Turkmeni are spoken in certain parts of the northern provinces, mainly among the Uzbek and Turkmen tribes. Smaller number of Afghans are also fluent in Urdu, Balochi, Arabic and other languagees. English is taught in schools and is gradually becoming popular among the younger generation.\n\nAn approximate distribution of languages spoken in the country is shown in the line chart below:\n\nBased on information from the latest national opinion polls, up to 51% stated that they can speak or understand Pashto and up to 79% stated that they can speak or understand Dari. Uzbeki was spoken or understood by up to 11% and Turkmen by up to 7%. Other languages that can be spoken are Arabic (4%) and Balochi (2%).\n\nAlmost the entire Afghan population is Muslim, with less than 1% being non-Muslim. Despite attempts to secularize Afghan society, Islamic practices pervade all aspects of life. Likewise, Islamic religious tradition and codes, together with traditional practices, provide the principal means of controlling personal conduct and settling legal disputes. Islam was used as the main basis for expressing opposition to the modernization of Afghanistan by King Amanullah in the 1920s. It was also used by the mujahideen during the 1980s Soviet–Afghan War and by the Taliban today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276458", "title": "Didinga people", "text": "Didinga people\n\nThe Didinga (diDinga) occupy the Didinga Mountains region in Budi County, Eastern Equatoria State in South Sudan. They live in the valleys, on the plateaus and slopes, and on the adjacent plains of the region. Their neighbors include the Toposa, the Boya, Ketebo, Logir, Teuth and Dongotona peoples - groups with whom the Didinga have had frequent conflicts due to economic pressures.\n\nThe Didinga, Boya, Tennet, Murle and Mursi of Southwest Ethiopia share a language that distinguishes them from all other groups in the Sudan. Their language, often called the Murle-Didinga language, is also spoken by a group living in southwest Ethiopia. The Didinga claim to have lived in southwest Ethiopia two hundred years ago. During their migration to the Didinga Hills, the Didinga, Murle, Tennet and Boya were one group. They lived in harmony in Sudan until a hunting-party dispute caused the Murle to leave. Later, a famine caused the Boya to withdraw. Today, though the groups have separated, their language remains the same. Their most urban town is Chukudum, a historic town that hosted the first Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) National Convention in 1994.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983–2005) tensions with the Dinka people built up after the Dinka-dominated SPLA forces moved into the area in 1985.\nThey came to a head in 1999 when the Didinga officer Peter Lorot was passed over for promotion in favor of a Dinka, assassinated his rival and took to the woods with his supporters.\nThe fighting with Lorot's forces displaced about 16,800 people from Chukudum to nearby villages in the highlands. The \"Chukudom Crisis\" was resolved in August 2002 during a Peace Conference organized by the New Sudan Council of Churches.\nAn attempt by the SPLA in June 2006 to disarm Lorot's militia was ignored, with the group threatening to start fighting again.\n\nFor many years, the Didinga enjoyed a quiet, rural life. They took great pride in raising cattle and owned large herds that were supervised by the young single Didinga men. However, in 1963, a political disturbance which lasted until 1973 caused many Didinga to leave their cattle behind and to migrate to Uganda. While in Uganda, for the first time in their lives, Didinga were exposed to large-scale farming. Also, their children were introduced to education. These experiences created in the people the desires to make money and to gain knowledge, things which had been unimportant in the Hills.\n\nWhen they returned to Sudan in 1973, the people were filled with a new vision for a more advanced life. They hoped to incorporate into their own culture many of the ideas and concepts they had learned in Uganda. They were met, however, with a drastic decrease in the numbers in their herds: clansmen who had remained in the Hills had failed to restock the cattle during the disturbance. Today, many Didinga are still working to enlarge their herds. They purchase cattle either through the exchange of grain or beer, or with money.\n\nAt present, farming and the desire for an education are as important to the Didinga as the herding of cattle is. The traditional values associated with raising cattle remain embedded in all Didinga. Many still take great pleasure in owning large herds. Their new-found hope for change that was brought back from their temporary migration also remains instilled in their daily lives.\nThe Didinga use their cattle not only as a means of wealth, but also for their milk that is consumed daily and made into butter. Didinga also consume fresh blood drawn from the necks of cattle with miniature arrows. The Didinga do not fish at all, because the eating of fish is taboo in their culture.\n\nThe Didinga live in scattered homesteads, with each clan grouped together. Homes are round with cone-shaped roofs. During certain seasons and during grazing periods, the Didinga also live in rustic camps.\nAn important aspect of Didinga society is the organization of 'Nyekerehet' (age-grades) for boys. Every three to five years, boys who are around eight years old are placed together to form a new \"age-grade.\" These boys work and play together until they are married.\n\nTheir traditional beliefs and religious practices include having a tribal rainmaker who is entrusted with performing certain rituals to bring rain. Didinga also worship and sacrifice to spirits and gods and place great importance upon the worship of dead ancestors.\n"}
{"id": "23196002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23196002", "title": "Dor Rajputs", "text": "Dor Rajputs\n\nDor Rajput (also known as Doda) are a Rajput clan of India.\n"}
{"id": "21982099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21982099", "title": "Eastern Grassfields languages", "text": "Eastern Grassfields languages\n\nThe Eastern Grassfields languages, spoken in the Bamenda grassfields of Cameroon, are a branch of the Grassfields languages including Bamun, Yamba and Bamileke.\n\nThere are four or five branches to the family: \n\nNurse (2003) reports that Bamileke might be two branches.\n"}
{"id": "10329476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10329476", "title": "Germans in Bulgaria", "text": "Germans in Bulgaria\n\nGermans (, \"nemtsi\" or германци, \"germantsi\") are a minority ethnic group in Bulgaria (). Although according to the 2001 census they numbered 436, the settlement of Germans in Bulgaria has a long and eventful history and comprises several waves, the earliest in the Middle Ages.\n\nMany Germans passed through Bulgaria during the eastern Crusades, as Bulgaria lies on the direct land route from Western and Central Europe to the Levant and the Holy Land. They were usually met with hostility as they were negatively disposed to the Orthodox population of the Byzantine Empire (which ruled Bulgaria at the time of the First and Second Crusades) and the Second Bulgarian Empire. Crusaders led by the Frankish noble Renier of Trit established the short-lived Duchy of Philippopolis around what is today Plovdiv, but in 1205 the Latins were routed by Kaloyan of Bulgaria in the Battle of Adrianople, their emperor Baldwin IX of Flanders was captured by the Bulgarians and died in Tarnovo. Kaloyan's daughter Maria was betrothed to the second Latin Emperor, Henry of Flanders, who she is thought to have poisoned.\n\nGroups of Saxon ore miners (called саси, \"sasi\" in Bulgarian) are known to have settled in the ore-rich regions of Southeastern Europe. In the 13th-14th century, Germans from the Upper Harz and Westphalia settled in and around Chiprovtsi in modern northwestern Bulgaria (then part of the Second Bulgarian Empire) to extract ore in the western Balkan Mountains, receiving royal privileges from Bulgarian tsar Ivan Shishman. According to some theories, these miners established Roman Catholicism in this part of the Balkans before most of them left following the Ottoman conquest, the rest being completely Bulgarianized (by marrying Bulgarian women) and merging with the local population by the mid-15th century. Along with spreading Roman Catholicism, the Saxons also enriched the local vocabulary with Germanic words and introduced a number of mining techniques and metal-working instruments to Bulgaria. However, Saxon was the most spoken language during the Hanseatic League, the medieval Saxons from northern Germany spoke a German language (Old Saxon, Middle Saxon, Low Saxon language) in the Ingvaeonic family together with Old English and Frisian, from which the rest of the German dialects Middle German and Upper German do not descend. \n\nGermans are also thought to have mined ore in the Osogovo and Belasica mountains (between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia), as well as around Samokov in Rila and various parts of the Rhodope Mountains and around Etropole, but were assimilated without establishing Catholicism there. \n\nAfter their expulsions from Hungary (1376) and Bavaria (1470), Germanic-speaking Ashkenazi Jews settled in the Bulgarian lands. For their history, see History of the Jews in Bulgaria.\n\nFollowing the Liberation of Bulgaria in 1878 and its restoration as a sovereign monarchy, all four Bulgarian monarchs were of German descent: Prince Alexander I of Battenberg, as well as Ferdinand, Boris III and Simeon II, all three of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. German intellectuals, such as architects Friedrich Grünanger and Viktor Rumpelmayer, arrived in Bulgaria to foster its cultural development.\n\nUntil World War II, there also existed a small but notable rural German population in several villages scattered in northern Bulgaria. Banat Swabians (part of the larger group of the Danube Swabians) from Austria-Hungary began to settle in the village of Bardarski Geran, Vratsa Province, beginning with seven families in 1893, with their total number later exceeding 90 families. In 1936, they numbered 282. In Bardarski Geran, the Germans built a separate Neo-Gothic Roman Catholic church around 1930 due to conflicts with the local Banat Bulgarians, who had founded the village in 1887. In 1932, a German school was established in Bardarski Geran. In its peak year, 1935, it had a total of 82 students, of whom 50 Germans and 32 Bulgarians.\n\nOther Danube Swabian colonists from the Banat settled in another Banat Bulgarian village, Gostilya, Pleven Province, as well as in Voyvodovo, Vratsa Province, which they shared with Evangelist Czechs, Slovaks and Banat Bulgarians. Another notable German colony was Tsarev Brod (old name Endzhe), Shumen Province, founded before 1899, where the Germans lived with many other nationalities and had a private German school. In the beginning of the 20th century, it was inhabited by around 70 German families, and consisted of Dobrujan Germans, Bessarabia Germans and Banat Swabians. On the eve of World War II, Germans in Tsarev Brod constituted the bulk of the village's 420 Catholic parishioners.\n\nA German community was also present in Southern Dobruja, a region before 1913 and since 1940 part of Bulgaria, and particularly in the village of Ali Anife (Kalfa), today Dobrevo, Dobrich Province, which was inhabited by Dobrujan Germans since 1903 and in 1943 still had 150 Catholics. It was briefly named Germantsi (“Germans”) in the 1940s. German sources list its population in 1939 as 285, of whom 129 Germans. Those colonists came from Kherson and Crimea \"(see Crimea Germans)\" in modern Ukraine. They built a church described as a \"magnificent Catholic place of worship unmatched in the district\"; the church was inaugurated on 23 October 1911.\n\nBesides rural populations, Germans also settled in Bulgaria's larger cities as part of the group of the so-called \"Lower Danubian Levantines\", the Western and Central Europeans in the vibrant port and merchant cities of northern Bulgaria, such as Ruse, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Svishtov and Vidin. In the 1860s and 70s, the Austrian citizens in Ruse numbered 200–300. The first Bulgarian census in 1883 counted 476 Germans in Ruse alone, making them the fifth-largest ethnic group in that city.\n\nThe bulk of the German population in Bulgaria was resettled within the borders of the Third Reich according to Hitler's \"Heim ins Reich\" policy. As a result, 2,150 ethnic German Bulgarian citizens were deported from the country in 1943, including 164 from Bardarski Geran and 33 from Gostilya. Only a handful of Bulgaria's rural German population remained: for example, in 2003 there were only two elderly German women remaining in Bardarski Geran, Maria Dauerbach and Franziska Welsch; they had not been deported because they had married local Bulgarians.In 2015 a group of 20 Germans settles permanently in a village in the Haskovo region near the Greek border.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898675", "title": "Groom Porter", "text": "Groom Porter\n\nThe Groom Porter was an office at the royal court of the monarch of Britain, who had \"the Inspection of the King's Lodgings, and takes care that they are provided with Tables, Chairs, Firing, &c. As also to provide Cards, Dice, &c. when there is playing at Court: To decide Disputes which arise in Gaming\". He was also responsible for 'oversight of common Billiards Tables, common Bowling Grounds, Dicing Houses, Gaming Houses and Common tennis Courts and power of Licensing the same within the Citys of London and Westminster or Borough of Southwark.\n\nThe title may originally have referred to the keeper of the king's furnishings in his bedchamber. It was a position in the royal household, and therefore had certain privileges associated with it. In 1702 the remuneration was raised to £680 per year, which it remained until it was abolished with other sinecure offices at court in 1782. Eventually, the term became used for the owner, or operator of a gaming hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30468131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30468131", "title": "Hero thrill show", "text": "Hero thrill show\n\nThe Hero thrill show fundraising event helps ensure that the children of Philadelphia Police Officers and Firefighters that are killed or severely disabled in the line of duty can receive financial assistance in order to complete their education. \n\nCreated in 1954 because of an explosion that took the lives of ten firefighters, the Police and Firefighter Thrill Show has assisted over 800 students graduate from various colleges and universities. With the help of these scholarships, there are currently 50 students attending colleges throughout the United States.\n\nThe main source of funding is through the sale of tickets and proceeds coming from the annual Hero Thrill Show, which is held in the Wachovia Spectrum Complex. Throughout the year, the Hero Thrill Show, which is typically held the second weekend in September has included major contributions from local celebrities, sport figures, and police and firefighters. \n\nOn January 20, 2006 the President of the Hero Scholarship Fund announced that \"After carefully comparing revenues over the past several years, including decreases as well as the expense and difficulty in putting on the show, it has been decided to discontinue the show...\" * In April, 2006, James J. Binns, a Philadelphia Lawyer, founded the Hero Thrill Show Inc., which assumed production of the Hero Thrill Show and the administration of funds generated by the Hero Thrill Show. The Board of Directors is chaired by Mr. Binns and is composed of the Police Commissioner, Fire Commissioner, President of the Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge Number 5, President of the International Association of Firefighters, Local 22 and a number of Philadelphia Business Leaders.\n\nThe first show which featured a 15-hour rodeo, raised $78,000 with western movie stars Gene Autry, Roy Rogers, Dale Evans, and Tex Ritter attending. For decades the Thrill Show was performed at JFK Stadium (originally Municipal Stadium). When this Philadelphia landmark was torn down, the show moved first to the Civic Center, and then to the Convention Center. It has returned to its old home and is now performed on the grounds of the stadium complex on Broad Street in South Philadelphia. The past few years has shown a dramatic growth with the event blooming into a vast family affair with tens of thousand of fans enjoying a carnival, car show, concert, and fire works show. In 2006, the event raised $360,000 in scholarship money.\n\n2011, is the 6th anniversary of the Hero Thrill Show under the leadership of the Hero Thrill Show, Inc. The performers and exhibitors are all active Police Officers and Firefighters who continue the tradition that was started in 1954 by risking their lives performing daredevil demonstrations utilizing equipment that is standard issue in the departments.\n\nIn 2006, under the leadership of the Hero Thrill Show, Inc., attendance jumped to over 13,000 spectators. Attendance has steadily increased over the past 5 years. 2010 was another banner year with crowds in excess of 50,000 in attendance. Funds generated are being used to defray the cost of college education for the children of police and firefighters that have been killed while on duty.\n\nThe 2012 Grand Marshal was A. Thomas Schomberg, the world-renowned sculptor of the \"ROCKY\" statue that is situated at the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Philadelphia's own Bob Pantano, who hosts the first and longest running radio dance party in the nation on 98.1 WOGL, entertained the crowd with music for the five-hour fundraiser.\n\nThe families of police officers Brian Lorenzo, Bradley Fox and Moses Walker and firefighters Daniel Sweeney and Robert Neary will benefit from the 2012 fundraiser.\n\nThe 2011 Grand Marshal was Gerald Tommaso DeLouise better known by his stage name Burt Young. An American actor, painter and author, he is best known for his Academy Award-nominated role as Sylvester Stallone's brother-in-law and best friend Paulie in the \"Rocky\" film series. Philadelphia's own Bob Pantano, who hosts the first and longest running radio dance party in the nation on 98.1, entertained the crowd with music for the five-hour fundraiser.\n\nThe 2011 Hero thrill show brought back the Highway Patrol Motorcycle Drill Team, the elite K-9 Unit, the Strike Force Bicycle Stunt Team and the Philadelphia Police & Fire Pipes and Drums. Philly’s famous sports team mascots The Phillie Phanatic, Swoop and Hip Hop as well as the Sixers Dancers and Eagles Cheerleaders made special appearances. Guests were to be able to participate or watch the action-packed Sonny Hill basketball shootout competition as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "2703755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703755", "title": "Huambisa", "text": "Huambisa\n\nThe Huambisa are an indigenous people of Peru, living on the upper Marañón and Santiago rivers. In 1841 they drove all the civilized Indians from the neighboring mission, and in 1843 they killed all the inhabitants of the village of Santa Teresa, between the mouths of the Santiago and Morona. They are fair-skinned and bearded, sharing with the Jeveros a descent from the Spanish women captured by their Indian ancestors at the sack of Sevilla del Oro in 1599.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405440", "title": "Italian National Institute of Statistics", "text": "Italian National Institute of Statistics\n\nThe Italian National Institute of Statistics (Italian: Istituto Nazionale di Statistica; Istat) is the main producer of official statistics in Italy. Its activities include the census of population, economic censuses and a number of social, economic and environmental surveys and analyses. Istat is by far the largest producer of statistical information in Italy, and is an active member of the European Statistical System, coordinated by Eurostat.\n\nIts publications are released under creative commons \"Attribution\" (CC BY) license.\n\nIstat was created in 1926 as \"Central Institute of Statistics\" (Istituto Centrale di Statistica), to collect and organize essential data about the nation. It took its current denomination with the reform of 1989. This also gave Istat statutory responsibility for the coordination and standardization of official statistics collected or published under the aegis of the national statistical system SISTAN, whose membership includes the statistical offices of ministries, national agencies, regions, provinces, communes, chambers of commerce, and similar bodies.\nSince 4 August 2009, Enrico Giovannini, former Chief statistician of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), has been the President of the institute.\n\"Istituto Centrale di Statistica\":\n\"Istituto Nazionale di Statistica\":\n\nIstat has 18 regional offices which host public access points named \"Centri di informazione statistica\", in English Statistical information centers. The center in Rome also offers data from Eurostat.\n\nThe library, established in 1926, is open to the public and contains Istat publications, national and international works on statistical and socioeconomics subjects, journals from other national statistical institutes and international organizations (Food and Agriculture Organization, International Monetary Fund, OECD, United Nations, etc.). The library collection includes 400,000 volumes and receives about 2800 periodical journals. There are also 1500 volumes printed prior to 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "53550341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53550341", "title": "Joseph Forer", "text": "Joseph Forer\n\nJoseph Forer (1910–1986) was a 20th-Century American attorney who, with partner David Rein, supported Progressive causes including discriminated communists and African-Americans. They were members of the National Lawyers Guild and its DC chapter. Forer was an expert in the \"Lost Laws\" of Washington, DC, enacted in 1872–1873, that outlawed segregation at business places.\n\nForer received his BA from Rutgers University and law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn the 1930s, like his friend David Rein, Forer worked for the National Labor Relations Board and the Office of Price Administration during the New Deal.\n\nIn 1946, David Rein joined Joseph Forer as private practice law partners in Washington, DC. Together, they \"represented more than 100 persons who had been termed 'unfriendly' witnesses by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee of the Senate subcommittee headed by the late senator Joseph McCarthy.\"\n\nAs historian Joan Quigley describes: \n\nIn the late 1940s, while Congress and the executive branch trawled for evidence of disloyalty and subversion, Rein and Forer immersed themselves in difficult and disfavored causes: opposing the Mundt-Nixon Bill; defending labor unions and alleged Communists; upholding the Bill of Rights. Rein ... represented Gerhard Eisler ... As progressives and New Deal veterans, Forer and Rein also nurtured ties to the National Lawyers Guild, which HUAC had branded a Communist front in 1944.\n\nForer was chairman of the District Affairs Committee of the DC chapter of the National Lawyers Guild.\n\nHistorian Maarten Zwiers wrote: \n\nJoe Forer ... was senior partner in Forer and Rein, the Communist Party's leading law firm in the capital. He had defended people accused of communist sympathies before Eastland's Internal Security Subcommittee on several occasions ...\n\nHe also refers to him as \"the Communist Party's lawyer.\"\n\nHistorian Marvin Caplan wrote: \n\nWhen a staff attorney at a HUAC hearing asked Joe Forer how many times he had appeared before the committee, Forer couldn't remember. Too many times, he said, to be able to give an exact figure.\n\nAttorney Victor Rabinowitz recalled in his memoir that Forer's circle of communist-supportive lawyers stretched to New York City (headquarters of the National Lawyers Guild). They included Harry Sacher, Abe Unger, David Freeman, David Rein, and Rabinowitz himself, \"all lawyers active in the representation of witnesses before congressional committees.\" He explained:\n\nUnger and Freeman were attorneys for the (Communist) Party; Sacher had been lead defense in the prosecution of Communist party leaders under the Smith Act; I was a member of the Party and the others were close to it if not members. We certainly weren't making Party policy, but our views would have some influence on the Party and its members.\n\nIn 1948, Lee Pressman joined Forer in representing Gerhard Eisler and four others (Irving Potash, vice president of the Fur and Leather Workers Union; Ferdinand C. Smith, secretary of the National Maritime Union; Charles A. Doyle of the Gas, Coke and Chemical Workers Union, and John Williamson, labor secretary of the CPUSA). On May 5, 1946, Pressman and Forer received a preliminary injunction so their defendants might have hearings with examiners unconnected with the investigations and prosecutions by examiners of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1953, Forer, with John Abt and Vito Marcantonio, represented the CPUSA in the matter of \"Herbert Brownell, Jr., Attorney General of the United States, Petitioner v. the Communist Party of the United States of America, Respondent\".\n\nOn April 8, 1953, Forer represented Howard Selsam of the Jefferson School of Social Science.\n\nOn April 24, 1953, Forer represented William Frauenglass, an English teacher at the James Madison High School in Brooklyn, New York, before the United States Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security. Reading of the testimony, world-famous scientist Albert Einstein wrote Frauenglass a letter, which reached the \"New York Times\" (Einstein had added a postscript stating the letter \"need not remain confidential\"), advising \"every intellectual called before a Congressional investigating committee should refuse to testify, and 'must be prepared for jail and economic ruin, in short, for the sacrifice of his personal welfare in the interest of the cultural welfare of his country'.\" Frauenglass did refuse to testify further – and he did lose his job. (See \"Political views of Albert Einstein\")\n\nIn 1958, Forer represented Clara Hutcherson Saba before HUAC.\n\nIn May 1949, Dr. Mary Church Terrell decided to take on the issue of desegregation head-on. She consulted Forer. Forer led the National Lawyer Guild's DC chapter in submitting an opinion in their favor. With such advice, Dr. Terrell and colleagues Clark F. King, Essie Thompson, and Arthur F. Elmer entered the segregated Thompson's Restaurant, next door to the offices of Forer and Rein's office on 14th Street, NW, in Washington, DC, between H Street and New York Avenue and across the street from the Trans-Lux Theatre. When refused service, Terrell & Co. sued.\n\nAttorney Ringgold Hart, representing Thompson, argued on April 1, 1950, that District laws were unconstitutional.\n\nRegardless, Forer's research found that the U.S. Congress had jurisdiction over DC and so could overrule segregation; Charles H. Houston, dean of Howard University Law School concurred.\n\nThe case \"District of Columbia v. John R. Thompson Co.\" reached the U.S. Supreme Court. Forer and Rein argued the case. On June 8, 1953, the court ruled that segregated eating places in Washington, DC, were unconstitutional.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" recounted in 1985, \"Four days after the Supreme Court ruled, Mary Terrell and the three other original complainants went back to Thompson's. Joe Forer followed them in. As he recalls the moment, the manager, himself, came over and personally, even obsequiously, carried Mary Terrell's tray to the table.\"\n\nForer and Rein served the rights of striking workers, foreign-born aliens (with leftist leanings, e.g., Gerhard Eisler), and servicemen. They won for the National Council for American-Soviet Friendship the right to contest in court its designation by the attorney general as a \"subversive organization.\" They also represented members of the press on strike against the \"Washington Post\" in 1975.\n\nIn 1960–1961, Forer and John Abt represented the CPUSA in \"Communist Party of the United States vs. Subversive Activities Control Board, 367 U.S. 1 (1961).\"\n\nIn 1977, a release of internal memos of the FBI revealed, according to the \"Washington Post\", that:\n\nAn Oct. 4, 1951 memo to Hoover said that a search of trash at the Washington offices of guild lawyers Joseph Forer and David Rein had uncovered a draft resolution urging President Truman to authorize a citizens' investigation of the FBI because of its alleged excesses in loyalty checks.\n\nForer retired from practice with Rein in July 1978.\n\nForer's daughter, Jane F. Gentleman, is a notable statistician.\nHe was the uncle of author Richard Forer.\n\nForer, Rein, and many friends and associates lived at Trenton Terrace, 950 Mississippi Avenue SE, Washington DC 20032.\n\nAs a child, Carl Bernstein knew Joseph Forer and David Rein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35226408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35226408", "title": "Lifestyle trends and media", "text": "Lifestyle trends and media\n\nLifestyle changes have been increasing slowly since the introduction of media. Media – films, television shows, magazines, and more recently, the Internet (i.e. self-written blogs and popular websites) are the main sources of lifestyle influence around the world. Lifestyle changes include how people eat, dress, and communicate. Celebrity endorsements are prevalent. Lifestyle trends have always been influenced by the wealthy and famous, whether they are spotted at leisure or in a paid advertisement. At the dawn of the media age, the newspaper, popular magazines like \"Life\", and TV allowed the general public glimpse lifestyles that before were only available to the imagination. After its creation, the Internet became arguably the most powerful medium for spotting and influencing trends, not just by celebrities but by the average person. The computer era has changed the way people obtain their news, perspectives and communication. Magazines are still popular, but advertisers now often supply a web address where consumers can visit for more information than a print ad can provide. The average American household has two personal computers, making the Internet easily accessible. The rise of user-generated content is exemplified by the fact that anyone with Internet access can create a blog or an online journal, whether personal or commercial, which might detail someone's experience in a new restaurant, a purchased item of clothing or knickknack, or a review to a film. With the advent of the Android phone and its relative ease of uploading photos to social media sites such as Facebook, one can get an idea of how quickly an idea, pub review, or coveted object can be shared. Advertisers have always been privy to the strength of word-of-mouth and have tapped into social media, including Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr to make their wares known. Douglas Kellner writes, \"Radio, television, film, and the other products of media culture provide materials out of which we forge our very identities; our sense of selfhood; our notion of what it means to be male or female; our sense of class, of ethnicity and race, of nationality, of sexuality; and of \"us\" and \"them.\"\"\n\nMedia affects how people diet. Commercials advertise special pills, juice fasts, raw diets, and all-soy diets. Celebrities endorse food products and diets that promise dramatic results in little time. Audiences are impressionable depending on their age range. Salma Hayek, who has been using juice cleanses for 15 years promises health with her own line, Cooler Cleanse. Jennifer Aniston is famous for her yoga-body and has revealed her secret, which the public has taken as a big health influence. So Feminine provides health and lifestyle advice taken from celebrities and their personal assistants/trainers. Reality star Kim Kardashian endorsed QuickTrim, a weight-loss product designed to get rid of unwanted weight. Recent news articles claim that the product is unhealthy, and Kardashian is facing a lawsuit for her endorsement. Along with cleanses are celebrity beauty products. Salma Hayek has a CVS-exclusive line of hair care and cosmetic products, called Nuance. Admirers of Hayek who covet her beauty have hope that her products will make them look appealing. Websites such as \"Cosmopolitan\" and Celebrity Beauty Buzz list favorite skincare and makeup products of celebrities so readers can purchase the same products in hopes of achieving similar results. Health articles note that the meticulous science process is often forgotten in favor of the newer-is-better trend taking over mass media. Harvard School of Public Health states, \"With [media reports'] emphasis on short, \"newsworthy\" pieces, the media often only report the results of single studies, and many stories are chosen simply because the results run contrary to current health recommendations.\" Popular magazines and websites often focus on what's new in the world of celebrity health and beauty routines and forgo substantial research in order to bring to the masses what the public are truly interested in; quick, easy-way-out health fixes such as these juice cleanses and detox diets.\n\nCelebrity endorsements are effective due to their high profile presence in the media. Their physical attractiveness is central to their ability to sell products to an impressionable audience. Celebrities are also effective because they are what many people aspire to be or look like. Celebrities act as symbols of personal desire. \"In an attempt to communicate the merits of their product or brand,\" says Michael A. Kamins, Ph.D., New York University, \"advertisers have often chosen to use endorsement as a promotional strategy.\" Additionally, \"the use of celebrity spokespeople has always been a favorite strategy among agencies.\" Kamins informs that advertisers are well aware of how easily celebrities influence consumer habits; it is the combination of their physical appeal and their high status that draws in the public. He explains, \"Indeed, a considerable amount of research exists both in the social sciences and in marketing supporting a strategy by showing that a physically attractive source facilitates attitude change toward issues, products, and ad-based evaluations.\"\n\nResearch suggests that there is a link between the product itself and the image of the celebrity. The celebrity, in this case, indeed acts as a symbol of the product. The physical attractiveness of the celebrity endorser improves the appearance of the product, or rather, the advertisement. In simpler terms, it makes a bigger impact on the audience if \"the characteristics of the product 'match-up' with the image conveyed by the celebrity,\" as suggested by Kamins' research. He continues, \"This 'match-up' hypothesis suggests that the visual imagery contained in the ad conveys information over and above that contained in explicit verbal arguments.\" A journal notes that the match up hypothesis \"specifies that perceivers distinguish multiple types of good looks, and that in advertising, certain beauty ideals are more appropriately paired with specific products than with others.\" Another journal further explains, \"In the match-up hypothesis, the message conveyed by the image of the celebrity and the message about the product ought to converge in effective advertisements.\"\n\nHowever, research also notes that physical attractiveness is the key detail when analyzing consumer behavior. If a celebrity is less than attractive according to society's standards, the advertising campaign may potentially be less effective. Still, advertisements starring celebrities are generally effective due to their popularity and presence in media.\n\nThere are times when physical attractiveness of the celebrity is not relevant, and that is when the product showcased in the advertisement does not claim to enhance the consumer's appearance. Under this circumstance, the \"match-up\" hypothesis does not apply because the product is not particularly attractive. Attractive products include luxurious sports cars, designer clothing, anti-aging products, beauty products (i.e. foundation that smooths fine lines, blemishes, pigmentation, and promises a flawless canvas onto which the rest of a woman's makeup may be applied), hair care (i.e. shampoos, conditioners, and shine-enhancing serums that boast rare ingredients and professional results), modern-day technology products such as everything Apple produces (iPhone, Mac computers) and the brands that strive to mimic these products' sleek appearances, etc. \"Unattractive\" products include toilet paper, household cleaning items, groceries and food, personal hygiene products, music, movies, etc. Though, it can be debated that music and movies do not depend on the attractiveness of its performers; attractiveness vs. talent in the respected fields depends on many factors regarding the consumers, such as age and gender.\n\nB. Zafer Erdogan says, \"Because of their fame, celebrities serve not only to create and maintain attention, but also to achieve high recall rates for marcoms messages (marketing communication) in today's highly cluttered environments.\" This serves as proof that advertising agencies use celebrities to cut through the clutter that is mass media. Having celebrities in their advertising campaigns helps them promote their products in the sense that notable figures are what gets the attention of the public, rather than the product itself.\n\nAmong the many beauty and health products advertised and media showcasing celebrity beauty as the most desired beauty, is the frustration that comes with consumers using these products and not achieving the results they want. In a psychological study which aimed to examine the correlation of the acceptance of cosmetic surgery and prevalence of celebrity influence, researchers found that there was an extremely significant association between the two. \"Celebrity worship\" is when a person has formed a strong adoration towards a celebrity and sees him or her as a role model. The study shows that this worship is considered a normal aspect of self-identity as it is usually formed as the identity is being developed. Worship of the celebrity may give people a sense of satisfaction or fulfillment. The study mentions that \"'entertainment-social' celebrity worship reflects the social aspects of parasocial attachment, and is driven by an attraction to a favourite celebrity because of their perceived ability to entertain. For some individuals, a compromised identity structure may lead to psychological absorption (intensive and compulsive feelings) with a celebrity, or what has been termed 'Intense-personal' attitudes. In extreme cases, this absorption may become addictive, leading to 'Borderline-pathological' attitudes and behaviours that serve to maintain an individual's satisfaction with the parasocial attachment.\"\n\nAdditionally, this concept of celebrity worship may be used as symbols exemplary of the person's physical ideal. That is, they believe that their physical attractiveness will bring them thinks equal to or similar to the celebrity's level of popularity and exterior happiness. To them, physical attractiveness will bring that happiness, and cosmetic surgery can help them attain this. The study explains that \"celebrities may represent prominent and unique social comparison targets, whose physical attractiveness and condition provide information about socially-idealised standards of beauty.\"\n\nNotably, celebrity worship makes people more prone to mental health problems such as high levels of neuroticism, anxiety, depression, and an overall strong sense of worry. Being fixated on how a celebrity looks can increase anxiety because it causes the person to constantly compare themselves to them, thus creating unnecessary worry and high maintenance of their appearance, and eventually depression due to the fact that they cannot look like or be their role model. These people are likely to seek procedures such as plastic surgery in order to become exaggerated versions of themselves in hopes of becoming as physically appealing as their celebrity role model, and hopefully happier as a result. They consider plastic surgery a cure, or a fix, for their unhappiness. Therefore, they see it as acceptable.\n\nStyle blogs showcase slender young women posing in the latest fashions. Young girls see these and want to emulate their style. The Thin Ideal comes into play. Gwyneth Paltrow's popular lifestyle blog/website Goop is geared towards parents, specifically women. She provides spirituality articles, family meal recipes, glimpses into her Hollywood life, and child-raising tips. Women and mothers read her blog and are consumed by the glamorous appeal. Paltrow advises wardrobe changes every season and provides essential-clothing suggestions that are far out of reach for the average women. Nylon Magazine is a colorful fashion magazine for pre-teens and teenagers who aim to live fashionably. The magazine dispenses beauty advice for how you can look like your favorite television star and promotes expression of style. Its influence is prevalent in the blogosphere. Young women with blogs take photos of themselves in their daily outfits. They often cite Nylon, among other sources, as one of their influences. Kellner states, \"Media images help shape our view of the world and our deepest values: what we consider good or bad, positive or negative, moral or evil. Media stories provide the symbols, myths, and resources through which we constitute a common culture and through the appropriation of which we insert ourselves into this culture.\" Fashion and beauty blogs focus on the values of looking a certain way, or what society deems as \"stylish.\" These websites bring together people with the same goals – i.e. looking good – and cultivate a culture in which the beauty myth is prevalent.\n\nIn addition to blogs, social networking cites such as Facebook play a role in media influence. Many celebrities and clothing stores have Facebook profiles in which fans subscribe to receive a constant stream of news from these pages on their Facebook news feeds. Celebrities promote their latest films, television appearance, favorite charities, self-endorsed items, and those who are subscribed to them remain in-the-know and are kept up to date of their glamorous, high-profile words. Clothing stores update their pages with photos of their seasonal collections, showcasing attractive young models dressed in their fashions, thus creating images of desire in their impressionable audiences.\n"}
{"id": "56252400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56252400", "title": "List of 2018 United States cannabis reform proposals", "text": "List of 2018 United States cannabis reform proposals\n\nIn 2018, U.S. states proposed or are expected to propose cannabis reform legislation for medical marijuana and non-medical adult use. State-level legalization remains at odds with cannabis' status as a Schedule I narcotic under the Controlled Substances Act at the Federal level, and the Cannabis policy of the Donald Trump administration appeared to become more hostile than that of the previous administration, with the early January rescission of the Cole Memorandum.\n\nStates expected to be most likely to propose legislation to fully legalize include Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. Other possible full legalization states include Connecticut, Delaware, and Ohio; medical marijuana proposals were under way or expected in Oklahoma, Kentucky, South Dakota, and Utah.\n\nIn the House of Representatives, Democratic Representatives Barbara Lee of California and Representative Ro Khanna, of the same state, introduced the Marijuana Justice Act, the counterpart of a Senate Bill 1689 which was introduced in 2017 by Senator Cory Booker.\n\nA bipartisan bill, the Sensible Enforcement Of Cannabis Act, was introduced in February.\n\nIn late March, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced he would introduce the Hemp Farming Act of 2018. It would expand the experimental hemp production allowed under the 2014 farm bill, removing hemp from Schedule I controlled substances and making it an ordinary agricultural commodity. He introduced the bill on the Senate floor on April 12.\n\nOn April 11, President Donald Trump told Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado that he would \"support congressional efforts to protect states that have legalized marijuana\". A bill to resolve the state-Federal conflict was still \"a work in progress\" but seemed to a Colorado cannabis industry group be implicit in Gardner's comments afterwards. California Senator Diane Feinstein made a surprising reversal of her prior stance against state or federal legalization in May and said she was \"open to supporting\" the Gardner bill. Gardner and Senator Elizabeth Warren introduced the STATES Act in June to apply Federal prohibition only in states that did not have state-level legalization.\n\nIn summary, Vermont passed legislation legalizing cannabis statewide in January, the first time legalization occurred via legislature, not initiative. Utah legalized medical cannabis without THC restrictions for some patients in March. Industrial hemp laws were passed in Alaska, Kansas and Oklahoma in April, and a New Mexico Supreme Court decision ordered the promulgation of a 2017 hemp bill. Oklahoma legalized medical cannabis in June.\n\nSenate Bill 6, allowing industrial hemp farming, was passed unanimously by both chambers of the state legislature, with passage in the House occurring on February 19, 2018. It was signed into law by the governor on April 13.\n\nAn initiative to legalize hemp, defined as cannabis with less than 0.4% THC, was listed by the Secretary of State as a potential November, 2018 ballot measure.\n\nHouse Bill 1295 passed both houses of the state legislature, unanimously in the Senate, by April. It would \"regulate hemp like any other food ingredient\". A provision of the bill prohibits pharmaceutical companies from \"interfering\" with distribution or sale of naturally occurring (CBD-containing) hemp products.\n\nIn April, HB 5394, a bill to \"require multiple state agencies to coordinate and develop a plan to legalize and regulate cannabis sales by October 1\" was referred from the Appropriations Committee to the state General Assembly.\nThis was the first time a legalization bill made it out of committee in the Connecticut legislature.\n\nState senator Curt Thompson introduced SB 344, legislation to legalize cannabis, in January. Atlanta had decriminalized the substance in 2017.\n\nVoters in Cook County answered 68% \"yes\" on a March referendum on statewide cannabis legalization. Earlier in March, the state senate had voted 73-13 to approve a bill sponsored by Bill Cunningham, presenting a statewide referendum on legalization in November. \n\nSB316 and HB2353, which would create a regulated legalized adult-use system in Illinois, were introduced in 2017 and were still under consideration by the legislature in 2018.\n\nA hemp bill, SB 2298, passed the state Senate unanimously on April 24. It would remove industrial hemp from the state's legal definition of a drug, and put it under regulation by the state Department of Agriculture. The bill passed the state House of Representatives 106-3 on May 25.\n\nThe Iowa state Senate passed File 2398, the \"Iowa Industrial Hemp Act\", 49-0 on April 4.\n\nIn March, Kansas Senate Bill 263, legalizing a hemp research and production pilot under the state's Department of Agriculture in accordance with the Federal 2014 Farm Bill, cleared the state House of Representatives 123 to 1 and the state Senate 36 to 3. The bill was signed into law by the governor on April 20.\n\nAlthough Massachusetts legalization of cannabis for recreational use was passed in the 2016 ballot, the purchase of recreation cannabis still is not legal in the state. The Massachusetts state legislature who opposed the ballot question have delayed any openings of recreational dispensaries through additional regulatory means.\n\nAs of January, 2018 a group had submitted over 300,000 signatures for the 2018 Michigan Marijuana Legalization Initiative pending certification by the state for the 2018 general election ballot. The state certified the initiative on April 26. Proposal 1 was approved by voters on November 6, and the Secretary of State certified the election returns as of November 26, and as such, the proposal must become law in Michigan by no later than December 6.\n\nSB 547 and HB 2034 were introduced to legalize hemp farming. The senate bill passed on March 15.\n\nSeveral versions of \"Missouri Cannabis and Cannabis Hemp Legalization Initiative\" were proposed to amend the Missouri state constitution. Initiative 2018-134 would allow prescription of cannabis by veterinarians.\n\nOn May 1, the state House passed a bill to allow medical cannabis for conditions including cancer and PTSD.\n\nOn May 3, New Approach Missouri and Find the Cure submitted two initiatives to the state for the November ballot. Each would amend the state constitution to allow medical cannabis. Both groups claimed to have conducted independent verification of over 300,000 signatures against the required 160,000.\n\nThe New Hampshire state House of Representatives voted to legalize recreational marijuana on January 9. The bill, legalizing possession but not sale, was sent to the Ways and Means committee to hold hearings and study implementation.\n\nOn the legislature's opening day, January 9, Senate Bill 830 was introduced by Sen. Nicholas Scutari. It which would create a legal framework for cannabis sales in the state under a Division of Marijuana Enforcement, and allow personal possession of up to one ounce. Assembly Bill 1348, an identical bill, went to the house.\n\nIn February, a bill decriminalizing possession of 10 grams of cannabis was introduced by a bipartisan group of legislators.\n\nIn March, governor Phil Murphy said he wanted a tax-and-regulate bill passed by the legislature by year's end, and projecting such a measure would pass, included $60 million from cannabis tax revenues in the next year's state budget proposal.\n\nIn April, the Albuquerque City Council voted to decriminalize possession of one ounce of cannabis.\n\nIn April, the state Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional an earlier governor's veto of two hemp bills that had passed the legislature. It was reported that SB6, which passed 58-8 and 37-2 in the House and Senate respectively, would probably become the basis for state law. The state Department of Agriculture commenced rulemaking for a hemp research program at the end of April as authorized by SB6.\n\nRepresentative Kelly Alexander introduced House Bill 944 in May, which would raise the threshold for class one misdemeanor possession of cannabis (carrying jail time penalty) to four ounces, and allow expunging records of those previously convicted of that amount.\n\nHouse Bill 2913, a bill legalizing hemp production under the \"Oklahoma Industrial Hemp Agricultural Pilot Program\", passed the state senate unanimously and with one \"nay\" vote in the state house on April 17. It was signed into law by the governor on April 25.\n\nState Question 788, a statutory initiative creating a legal medical cannabis program, was passed by voters during the June 26, 2018 primary.\nIn April, two other initiatives, SQ 796 and SQ 797, qualified for signature gathering in advance of the general election. The latter would legalize adult-use (recreational) cannabis in Oklahoma. Both are proposed constitutional amendments and could not be changed by the state legislature.\n\nOn March 21, the Tennessee House of Representatives Criminal Justice Committee voted 9-2 to approve the Medical Cannabis Only Act of 2018. The state senate killed the bill before the legislature adjourned. An issue of concern was there was no taxation or regulatory system in place under the house proposal.\n\nIn June two Republican state senators introduced Tennessee Responsible Use of Medicinal Plants (TRUMP) Act to legalize medical cannabis in Tennessee.\n\nA group called Utah Patients Coalition filed the initiative in June, 2018. By the beginning of the year, the group had gathered more than half of the 113,000 signatures required to get an initiative for medical cannabis on the November ballot. The initiative allows for topicals, cannabis oil, cannabis edibles and vaping, but not smoking. Polls in the second half of 2017 showed up to 78% support for the initiative. \n\nIn February, the state house passed HB 197 as an alternative to the initiative. Under HB 197, the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food would grow and supply cannabis to patients. A matching bill, HB 195, is a right-to-try law for terminally ill patients. On March 7, the bills were passed \"easily\" by the state senate, and on the 15th and 16th the bills were sent to the governor to be signed into law. On March 21, the governor signed HB 195 but not 197.\n\nOn March 26, the Lieutenant Governor's office validated 117,000 signatures on the Utah Medical Cannabis Act initiative, enough for it to get on the November ballot.\n\nVermont legalized cannabis possession by an act of the state legislature, and signed by the governor, on January 22, 2018.\n\nThe CNMI Cannabis Act of 2018 was introduced to the Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth Legislature in 2017, and was passed by the Senate in May, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12426050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12426050", "title": "Lusaka Declaration", "text": "Lusaka Declaration\n\nThe Lusaka Declaration on the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice (short: the Lusaka Declaration) was a declaration of the Commonwealth of Nations on the issues of racism and egalitarianism within and between Commonwealth member states. It was agreed and issued on 7 August 1979 in Lusaka, Zambia, at the conclusion of the fifth Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM).\n\nThe declaration followed the 1971 Singapore Declaration, which laid out the first political, social, and economic membership criteria. In that document, three paragraphs were dedicated to egalitarianism of all forms, of which, one was concentrated entirely upon racism. The impending collapse of the breakaway government of Rhodesia (then styled as 'Zimbabwe Rhodesia' under the Internal Settlement) was seen as demanding a restatement of the Commonwealth's principles of racial equality, and so the Lusaka Declaration was made to further expound and clarify the Heads of Governments' position.\n\nThe first article of the declaration demanded legal equality 'without any distinction or exclusion based on race, colour, sex, descent, or national or ethnic origin'. It later stated that no degree of respect for separate cultures could justify racial discrimination, and that the 'infamous policy' of Apartheid was an 'affront to humanity', and that it was the duty of the Commonwealth to effect its 'total eradication'. To compensate for the effects of past colonialism and racism, it was agreed that special provisions may be made to achieve social and economic redress, paving the way for land reform in Zimbabwe. In addition to demanding respect and equality for indigenous peoples, the Lusaka Declaration also demanded equal respect for immigrant communities.\n\nThe declaration was accompanied by the CHOGM's general communiqué, which explicitly iterated these principles with regards to Zimbabwe, and which led to the invitation of Abel Muzorewa to take part in the Lancaster House Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "29245393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29245393", "title": "Maale people", "text": "Maale people\n\nThe Maale people, (also spelled Male and pronounced Maa-lee), are a small ethnic group of approximately 95,000 located in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region at the border between north and south Omo of Ethiopia.\n\nThe Maale people are maintaining their language vigorously, despite exposure to outside pressures and languages.\n\nMany of the practices related to the women of the Maale have been documented by Thubauville (2010), including the differences between traditional and contemporary practices.\n\nThey have a gender role called \"ashtime\". There are opposing scholarly interpretations of the role and significance of this. Epprecht believes that they are male assigned at birth individuals who behave as women and also have sex with men. But he admits that the description by Donham (who had actually lived and worked among the Maale), is quite different, that the duty of an \"ashtime\" was to allow the king to have sex \"protected from even the merest whiff of female sexuality at key moments in the ritual life of the nation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "153218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153218", "title": "Manchu language", "text": "Manchu language\n\nManchu (Manchu: \"manju gisun\") is a critically endangered Tungusic language spoken in Manchuria; it was the native language of the Manchus and one of the official languages of the Qing dynasty (1636–1911) of China. Most Manchus now speak Mandarin Chinese. According to data from UNESCO, there are 10 native speakers of Manchu out of a total of nearly 10 million ethnic Manchus. However, recently, many Manchu have started to learn the language. Now, several thousand can speak Manchu as a second language through governmental primary education or free classes for adults in classrooms or online.\n\nThe Manchu language enjoys high historical value for historians of China, especially for the Qing dynasty. Manchu-language texts supply information that is unavailable in Chinese, and when both Manchu and Chinese versions of a given text exist they provide controls for understanding the Chinese.\n\nLike most Siberian languages, Manchu is an agglutinative language that demonstrates limited vowel harmony. It has been demonstrated that it is derived mainly from the Jurchen language though there are many loan words from Mongolian and Chinese. Its script is vertically written and taken from the Mongolian alphabet (which in turn derives from Aramaic via Uyghur and Sogdian). Although Manchu does not have the kind of grammatical gender that many Indo-European languages do, some gendered words in Manchu are distinguished by different stem vowels, as in \"ama\" \"father\" vs. \"eme\" \"mother\".\n\nThe Manchu language uses the Manchu script, which was derived from the traditional Mongol script, which in turn was based on the vertically written pre-Islamic Uyghur script. Manchu is usually romanized according to the system devised by Paul Georg von Möllendorff in his Manchu grammar. Its ancestor, Jurchen, used the Jurchen script, which is derived from the Khitan script, which in turn was derived from Chinese characters. There is no relation between the Jurchen script and the Manchu script.\n\nChinese Characters can also be used to transliterate Manchu. All the Manchu vowels and the syllables commencing with a consonant are represented by single Chinese characters as are also the syllables terminating in \"i, n, ng\", and \"o\"; but those ending in \"r, k, s, t, p, I, m\" are expressed by the union of the sounds of two characters, there being no Mandarin syllables terminating with these consonants. Thus the Manchu syllable \"am\" is expressed by the Chinese characters \"a-muh\" (8084, 7800) ( \"a mù\"), and the word \"Manchu\" is, in the imperial Manchu dictionary, spelled in the following manner: \"Ma\" (7467) \"-a\" (8084) \"gan\" (2834) ( \"mǎ ā ān\") —Man; \"—choo\" (1303) \"a\" (11767) ( \"zhū wū\") \"chu\"; —Manchu.\n\nMongols learned their script as a syllabary, dividing the syllables into twelve different classes, based on the final phonemes of the syllables, all of which ended in vowels. The Manchus followed the same syllabic method when learning Manchu script, also with syllables divided into twelve different classes based on the finals phonemes of the syllables. Today, the opinion on whether it is alphabet or syllabic in nature is still split between different experts. In China, it is considered syllabic and Manchu is still taught in this manner. The alphabetic approach is used mainly by foreigners who want to learn the language. Studying Manchu script as a syllabary takes a longer time.\n\nDespite the alphabetic nature of its script, Manchu was not taught phoneme by phoneme per letter like western languages are; Manchu children were taught to memorize all the syllables in the Manchu language separately as they learned to write, like Chinese characters. Manchus when learning, instead of saying I, a---la; I, o---lo; &c., were taught at once to say la, lo, &c. Many more syllables than are contained in their syllabary might have been formed with their letters, but they were not accustomed to arrange them otherwise. They made, for instance, no such use of the consonants I, m, n, and r, as westerners do; hence if the Manchu letters s, m, a, r, t, are joined in that order a Manchu would not able to pronounce them as English speaking people pronounce the word smart.\n\nThe Qing dynasty referred to the Manchu language in various Chinese titles such as \"Qingwen\" 清文, or \"Qingyu\" 清語 (\"Qing language\") and Guoyu 國語 (\"national language\"), which was used by previous non-Han dynasties to refer to their languages. The \"national\" was also applied to the Manchu writing as in Guowen 國文 in addition to Guoyu 國語. In the Manchu language version of the Treaty of Nerchinsk, the term \"Chinese language\" (Dulimbai gurun i bithe) referred to all three Chinese, Manchu, and Mongol languages, not just one language. Guoyu now refers to Standard Chinese.\n\nWhile Northern Tungus languages like Evenki retain traditional structure, the Chinese language is a source of major influence upon Manchu, which is southern Tungusic, altering its form and vocabulary.\n\nIn 1635 Hong Taiji renamed the Jurchen people and Jurchen language as \"Manchu\".\n\nManchu began as a primary language of the Qing dynasty Imperial court, but as Manchu officials became increasingly sinicized, many started losing the language. Trying to preserve the Manchu identity, the imperial government instituted Manchu language classes and examinations for the bannermen, offering rewards to those who excelled in the language. Chinese classics and fiction were translated into Manchu, and a body of Manchu literature accumulated. As the Yongzheng Emperor (reigned 1722–1735) explained, \"If some special encouragement … is not offered, the ancestral language will not be passed on and learned.\" Still, the use of the language among the bannermen was in decline throughout the 1700s. Historical records report that as early as 1776, the Qianlong Emperor was shocked to see a high Manchu official, Guo'ermin, not understand what the emperor was telling him in Manchu, despite coming from the Manchu stronghold of Shengjing (now Shenyang).\nBy the 19th century even the imperial court had lost fluency in the language. The Jiaqing Emperor (reigned 1796 to 1820) complained about his officials being good neither at understanding nor writing Manchu.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century the language was so moribund that even at the office of the Shengjing (Shenyang) general, the only documents written in Manchu (rather than Chinese) would be the memorials wishing the emperor long life; at the same time period, the archives of the Hulan banner detachment in Heilongjiang show that only 1% of the bannermen could read Manchu, and no more than 0.2% could speak it. Nonetheless, as late as 1906–1907 Qing education and military officials insisted that schools teach Manchu language, and that the officials testing soldiers' marksmanship continue to conduct an oral examination in Manchu.\n\nThe use of the language for the official documents declined throughout the Qing history as well.\nEspecially at the beginning of the dynasty, some documents on sensitive political and military issues were submitted in Manchu but not in Chinese. Later on, some Imperial records in Manchu continued to be produced until the last years of the dynasty, which was overthrown in 1912.\nA large number of Manchu documents remain in the archives, important for the study of Qing-era China. Today, written Manchu can still be seen on architecture inside the Forbidden City, whose historical signs are written in both Chinese and Manchu.\n\nAnother limited use of the language was for voice commands in the Qing army, attested as late as 1878.\n\nA Jiangsu Han Chinese called Shen Qiliang wrote books on Manchu grammar like 清書指南 (Manju bithe jy nan) and 大清全書 (Daicing gurun-i yooni bithe). He was born to a father who was a naval officer for the Qing and his grandfather was an official of the Ming dynasty, before rebels murdered him. Shen Qiliang himself fought against the Three Feudatories as part of the Qing army. He then started learning Manchu and writing books on Manchu grammar from Bordered Yellow Manchu Bannermen in 1677 after relocating to Beijing. He translated the Hundred Family Names and Thousand Character Classic into Manchu and spent 25 years on the Manchu language. Shen wrote: \"I am a Han. But all my life I have made a hobby of Manchu.\" Shen never had to learn Manchu as part of his job because he was never an official so he seems to have studied it of his own will. Most Han people were not interested in learning non-Han languages so it is not known why Shen was doing it.\n\nA Hangzhou Han Chinese, Cheng Mingyuan, helped edit the book 清文啟蒙 Cing wen ki meng bithe which was co-written by a Manchu named Uge. Uge gave homeschooled Manchu language classes which were attended by his friend Cheng. Cheng arranged for its printing.\n\nHan Chinese at the Hanlin Academy studied the Manchu language in the Qing. The Han Chinese Hanlin graduate Qi Yunshi knew the Manchu language and wrote a book in Chinese on the frontier regions of China by translating and using the Grand Secretariat's archives Manchu language sources. Hanlin Academy in 1740 expelled the Han Chinese Yuan Mei for not succeeding in his Manchus studies. Injišan, and Ortai, both Manchus, funded his work. The Han Chinese Yan Changming had the ability to read Tibetan, Oirat, and Mongolian. Han Chinese officials learned languages on the frontier regions and Manchu in order to be able to write and compile their writings on the region.\n\nA Manchu language course over three years was required for the highest ranking Han degree holders from Hanlin but not all Han literati were required to study Manchu. Towards the end of the Qing it was pointed out that a lot of Bannermen themselves did not know Manchu anymore and that Manchu was not able to be forced upon the people and minister of the country at the beginning of the Qing dynasty.\n\nBilingual Chinese-Manchu inscriptions appeared on many things.\n\nHuang Taiji had Chinese books translated into Manchu. Han Chinese and Manchus helped Jesuits write and translate books into Manchu and Chinese. Bannermen wrote fiction in Chinese language. Beijing dialect replaced Manchu.\n\nThe Qianlong Emperor commissioned projects such as new Manchu dictionaries, both monolingual and multilingual like the Pentaglot. Among his directives were to eliminate directly borrowed loanwords from Chinese and replace them with calque translations which were put into new Manchu dictionaries. This showed in the titles of Manchu translations of Chinese works during his reign which were direct translations contrasted with Manchu books translated during the Kangxi Emperor's reign which were Manchu transliterations of the Chinese characters.\n\nThe Pentaglot was based on the \"Yuzhi Siti Qing Wenjian\" 御製四體清文鑑 (\"Imperially-Published Four-Script Textual Mirror of Qing\"), with Uyghur added as fifth language. The four language version of the dictionary with Tibetan was in turn based on an earlier three language version with Manchu, Mongolian, and Chinese called the 御製滿珠蒙古漢字三合切音清文鑑 (\"Imperially-Published Manchu Mongol Chinese Three pronunciation explanation mirror of Qing\"), which was in turn based on the 御製增訂清文鑑 (\"Imperially-Published Revised and Enlarged mirror of Qing\") in Manchu and Chinese, which used both Manchu script to transcribe Chinese words and Chinese characters to transcribe Manchu words with fanqie.\n\nBy the final years of the Qing, most Manchus could not speak their language. Chinese fiction books were translated into Manchu. Beijing was where Manchu books were published.\n\nA number of European scholars in the 18th century, frustrated by the difficulties in reading Chinese, with its complicated writing system and the classical writing style, considered Manchu translations, or parallel Manchu versions, of many Chinese documents and literary works as a great help to understanding them. Among them was de Moyriac de Mailla (1669–1748), who benefited from the existence of the parallel Manchu text when translating the historical compendium \"Tongjian Gangmu\" (\"Tung-chien Kang-mu\"; ); Amiot (1718–1793) consulted Manchu translations of Chinese works as well, and wrote that the Manchu language \"would open an easy entrance to penetrate … into the labyrinth of Chinese literature of all ages.\"\nStudy of the Manchu language by Russian sinologists started in the early 18th century, soon after founding of the Russian Orthodox Mission in Beijing, to which most of early Russian sinologists were connected. Illarion Kalinovich Rossokhin (Razsokhin) (died 1761) translated a number of Manchu works, such as \"The history of Kangxi's conquest of the Khalkha and Oirat nomads of the Great Tartary, in five parts\" (История о завоевании китайским ханом Канхием калкаского и элетского народа, кочующего в Великой Татарии, состоящая в пяти частях), as well as some legal treatises and a Manchu–Chinese dictionary. In the late 1830s, Georgy M. Rozov translated from the Manchu the \"History of the Jin (Jurchen) Dynasty\". A school to train Manchu language translators was started in Irkutsk in the 18th century, and existed for a fairly long period.\n\nA European author remarked in 1844 that the transcription of Chinese words in Manchu alphabet, available in the contemporary Chinese–Manchu dictionaries, was more useful for learning the pronunciation of Chinese words than the inconsistent romanizations used at the time by the writers transcribing Chinese words in English or French books.\n\nIn 1930, the German sinologist Eric Hauer argued forcibly that knowing Manchu allows the scholar to render Manchu personal and place names that have been \"horribly mutilated\" by their Chinese transliterations and to know the meanings of the names. He goes on that the Manchu translations of Chinese classics and fiction were done by experts familiar with their original meaning and with how best to express it in Manchu, such as in the Manchu translation of the \"Peiwen yunfu\". Because Manchu is not difficult to learn, it \"enables the student of Sinology to use the Manchu versions of the classics […] in order to verify the meaning of the Chinese text\".\n\nCurrently, very few native Manchu speakers remain; in what used to be Manchuria virtually no one speaks the language, the entire area having been completely sinicized. As of 2007, the last native speakers of the language were thought to be 18 octogenarian residents of the village of Sanjiazi (), in Fuyu County, in Qiqihar, Heilongjiang Province. A few speakers also remain in Dawujia village in Aihui District of Heihe Prefecture.\n\nThe Xibe (or Sibe) are often considered to be the modern custodians of the written Manchu language. The Xibe live in Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County near the Ili valley in Xinjiang, having been moved there by the Qianlong Emperor in 1764. Modern written Xibe is very close to Manchu, although there are slight differences in the writing system which reflect distinctive Xibe pronunciation. More significant differences exist in morphological and syntactic structure of the spoken Xibe language. For one example among many, there is a \"converb\" ending, -\"mak\", that is very common in modern spoken Xibe but unknown in Manchu.\n\nRecently, there have been increased efforts to revive the Manchu language. Revival movements are linked to the reconstruction of ethnic Manchu identity in the Han-dominated country. The Manchus mainly lead the revival efforts, with support from the state, NGOs and international efforts.\n\nRevivalism began in the post-Mao era when non-Han ethnic expression was allowed. By the 1980s, Manchus had become the second largest minority group in China. People began to reveal their ethnic identities that had been hidden due to 20th century unrests and the fall of the Qing Empire.\n\nLanguage revival was one method the growing numbers of Manchus used in order to reconstruct their lost ethnic identity. Language represented them and set them apart from other minority groups in the “plurality of ethnic cultures within one united culture”. Another reason for revivalism lay in the archives of the Qing Empire – a way to translate and resolve historical conflicts between the Manchus and the state. Lastly, the people wanted to regain their language for the rituals and communication to their ancestors – many shamans performing do not understand the words they use.\n\nThe Manchus conducted most revival efforts. Manchu associations can be found across the country, as well as in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Consisting of mostly Manchus and Mongols, they act as the link between the people, their ethnic leaders and the state.\n\nNon-governmental organizations (NGOs) provide large support through “Manchu classes”. Manchu is now taught in certain primary schools as well as in universities. It was reported that Heilongjiang University Manchu language research center in no.74, Xuefu Road, Harbin, listed Manchu as an academic major. It is taught there as a tool for reading Qing Dynasty archival documents. \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported in 2009 that the language is offered (as elective) in one university, one public middle school, and a few private schools. There are also other Manchu volunteers in many places of China who freely teach Manchu in the desire to rescue the language. Thousands of non-Manchu speakers have learned the language through these measures. Despite the efforts of NGOs, they tend to lack support from high-level government and politics.\n\nThe state also runs programs to revive minority cultures and languages – Deng Xiaoping promoted bilingual education. However, many programs are not suited to the ethnic culture or to passing knowledge to the younger generations. The locals often look at programs run by the government with distrust.\n\nOther support can be found internationally and through the use of the Internet. Post-Cultural Revolution reform allowed for international studies to be done in China. The dying language and ethnic culture of Manchus gained attention, providing local support for reviving the Manchu language. Websites facilitate communication of language classes or articles. Younger generations also take to the Internet to spread and promote their unique identity through popular media.\n\nDespite the increased efforts to revive the Manchu language, there are many obstacles standing in the way. Even with increased awareness of ethnic identities, many Manchus choose to give up their language – some opting to learn Mongol instead. Manchu language is still thought of as a foreign language in a Han- dominated Chinese speaking country. Obstacles are also found when gaining recognition from the State. Resistance through censorship prevented the performing of Baijin festivals, a festival in recognition of a new reconstructed Manchu identity, in Beijing.\n\nCurrently, several thousand people can speak Manchu as a second language through primary education or free classes for adults.\n\nDialects of Manchu include a variety of its historical and remaining spoken forms throughout Manchuria, and the city of Peking (the capital of the former Qing dynasty, when Manchu was referred to as the \"national language\"). Notable historical Manchu dialects include Peking, Ningguta, Alcuka and Mukden dialects.\n\nThe Chinese Northern Mandarin dialect spoken in Peking had a major impact on the phonology of the dialect of Manchu spoken in that city, and because Manchu phonology was transcribed into Chinese and European sources based on the sinicized pronunciation of Manchus from Peking, the original authentic Manchu pronunciation is unknown to scholars.\n\nThe Manchus of Peking (Beijing) were influenced by the Chinese dialect spoken in the area to the point where pronouncing Manchu sounds was hard for them, and they pronounced Manchu according to Chinese phonetics, whereas the Manchus of Aigun (in Heilongjiang) could both pronounce Manchu sounds properly and mimic the sinicized pronunciation of Manchus in Peking (Beijing), because they learned the Pekinese (Beijing) pronunciation from either studying in Peking or from officials sent to Aigun from Beijing, and they could tell them apart, using the Chinese influenced Pekinese pronunciation when demonstrating that they were better educated or their superior stature in society.\n\nPhonetically, there are some characteristics that differentiate the Peking accent from the standard spelling form of Manchu. \n\nManchu phrases are all head-final. This means that the head-word of a phrase (e.g. the noun of a noun phrase, or the verb of a verb phrase) always falls at the end of the phrase. Thus, adjectives and adjectival phrases always precede the noun they modify, and the arguments to the verb always precede the verb. As a result, Manchu sentence structure is subject–object–verb (SOV).\n\nManchu uses a small number of case-marking particles that are similar to those found in Korean, but also has a separate class of true postpositions. Case-markers and postpositions can be used together, as in the following sentence:\n\nIn this example, the postposition , \"with\", requires its nominal argument to have the genitive case, and so we have the genitive case-marker between the noun and the postposition.\n\nManchu also makes extensive use of converb structures, and has an inventory of converbial suffixes that indicate the relationship between the subordinate verb and the finite verb that follows it. For example, given the following two sentences (which have finite verbs):\n\nThese two sentences can be combined into a single sentence using converbs, which will relate the first action to the second. For example,\n\nManchu has five cases. The cases are marked by particles. that can be written either with the noun to which they apply or separately. The particles do not obey the rule of vowel harmony, yet they are also not truly postpositions.\n\nnominative – one of the principal syntactic cases; used for the subject of a sentence, no overt marking\n\naccusative (\"be\") – one of the principal syntactic cases; indicate participants/direct object of a sentence. Direct objects can sometimes also take the nominative. It is commonly felt that the marked accusative has a definite sense, like using a definite article in English. Written separate from the word it follows. Accusative can be used in the following ways:\n\"i boo be weile-mbi\"\n\nhe house ACC build-IMPF\n\n“He builds a house”\n\"fe kooli be dahame yabu-mbi\"\n\nold regulations ACC according.to act-IMPF\n\n“(Someone) acts according to old regulations”\ngenitive (\"i\" or \"ni\") – one of the principal syntactic cases; used to indicate possession or means by which something is accomplished.\n\nIts primary function is to indicate the possessive one.\n\ne.g. possessor of an object\n\n\"boo i ejen\"\n\nhouse GEN master\n\n“the master of the house”\n\ne.g. persons relationships\n\n\"han i jui\"\n\nkhan GEN child\n\n“the khan’s child”\n\nOther functions of genitive are:\ndative-locative (\"de\") – used to indicate location, time, place, or indirect object.\n\nThe primary function is to indicate semantic role of recipient:\n\n\"ere niyalma de bu-mbi\"\n\nthis man DAT give-IMPF\n\n“(Someone) gives to this man”\n\nOther functions:\n\nablative (\"ci\") – used to indicate the origin of an action or the basis for a comparison.\n\ne.g. starting point in space or time\n\n\"boo-ci tuci-ke\"\n\nhouse-ABL go.away-PART\n\n“(Someone) went away from the house”\n\ne.g. comparison of objects\n\n\"ere erin ci oyonggo ningge akū\"\n\nthis time ABL important SBSTR COP.NEG (there.is.not)\n\n“There is no time more important than the present”\n\n\"deri\"-form - used in Classical Manchu; different scholars have specified different meanings:\n\"encu hehe-ši (ma. hehe-si) deri fulu tua-mbi (ma. tuwa-mbi)\"\n\nother woman-PL from better consider-IMPF\n\n“(He) began to consider her better than other women”\n\nLess used cases:\n\nIn addition, there were some suffixes, such as the primarily adjective-forming suffix \"-ngga\"/\"-ngge\"/\"-nggo\", that appear to have originally been case markers (in the case of \"-ngga\", a genitive case marker), but which had already lost their productivity and become fossilized in certain lexemes by the time of the earliest written records of the Manchu language: e.g. \"agangga\" \"pertaining to rain\" as in \"agangga sara\" (an umbrella), derived from Manchu \"aga\" (rain).\n\nWritten Manchu was close to being called an \"open syllable\" language because the only consonant that came regularly at the end of native words was , similar to the situation in Beijing Mandarin, Northeastern Mandarin, Jilu Mandarin and Japanese. This resulted in almost all native words ending in a vowel. In some words, there were vowels that were separated by consonant clusters, as in the words \"ilha\" ('flower') and \"abka\" ('heaven'); however, in most words, the vowels were separated from one another by only single consonants. This open syllable structure might not have been found in all varieties of spoken Manchu, but it was certainly found in the southern dialect that became the basis for the written language. It is also apparent that the open-syllable tendency of the Manchu language had been growing ever stronger for the several hundred years since written records of Manchu were first produced: consonant clusters that had appeared in older forms, such as \"abka\" and \"abtara-mbi\" ('to yell'), were gradually simplified, and the words began to be written as \"aga\" or \"aha\" (in this form meaning 'rain') and \"atara-mbi\" ('to cause a commotion').\n\nManchu has twenty consonants, shown in the table using each phoneme's representation in the IPA, followed by its romanization in italics. was rare and found mostly in loanwords and onomatopoeiae, such as \"pak pik\" ('pow pow'). Historically, appears to have been common, but changed over time to . was also found mostly in loanwords and onomatopoeiae and there was no single letter in the Manchu alphabet to represent it, but rather a digraph of the letters for and . is usually transcribed with a digraph \"ni\", and has thus often been considered a sequence of phonemes rather than a phoneme of its own, though work in Tungusic historical linguistics suggests that the Manchu palatal nasal has a very long history as a single segment, and so it is shown here as phonemic.\n\nEarly Western descriptions of Manchu phonology labeled Manchu \"b\" as \"soft p\", Manchu \"d\" as \"soft t\", and Manchu \"g\" as \"soft k\", whereas Manchu \"p\" was \"hard p\", \"t\" was \"hard t\", and \"k\" was \"hard k\". This suggests that the phonological contrast between the so-called voiced series (\"b, d, j, g\") and the voiceless series (\"p, t, c, k\") in Manchu as it was spoken during the early modern era was actually one of aspiration (as shown here) or tenseness, as in Mandarin.\n\nUnusually, was affricated to in some or all contexts. , , and were palatalized before /i/ or /y/ to , , and , respectively. and were backed before /a/, /ɔ/, or /ʊ/ to and , respectively. Some scholars analyse these uvular realizations as belonging to phonemes separate from and , and they were distinguished in the Manchu alphabet, but are not distinguished in the romanization.\n\nIn this vowel system, the \"neutral\" vowels (\"i\" and \"u\") were free to occur in a word with any other vowel or vowels. The lone front vowel (\"e\", but generally pronounced like Mandarin [ɤ] ) never occurred in a word with either of the regular back vowels (\"o\" and \"a\"). The relatively rare vowel transcribed \"ū\" (possibly pronounced ) was usually found as a back vowel; however, in some cases, it was found occurring along with the front vowel \"e\". Much disputation exists over the exact pronunciation of \"ū\". Erich Hauer, a German sinologist and Manchurist, proposes that it was pronounced as a front rounded vowel initially, but a back unrounded vowel medially. William Austin suggests that it was a mid-central rounded vowel. The modern Shibe (Xibe) pronounce it identically to \"u\".\n\nRemarkably Manchu was able to absorb a large number of nonnative sounds into the language from Chinese. There were special symbols used to represent the vowels of Chinese loanwords. These sounds are believed to have been pronounced as such, as they never occurred in native words. Among these, was the symbol for the high unrounded vowel (customarily romanized with a \"y\") found in words such as \"sy\" (Buddhist temple) and \"Sycuwan\" (Sichuan). Chinese affricates were also represented with consonant symbols that were only used with loanwords such as in the case of \"dzengse\" (orange) (Chinese: \"chéngzi\") and \"tsun\" (inch) (Chinese: \"cùn\"). In addition to the vocabulary that was borrowed from Chinese, the Manchu language also had a large amount of loanwords from other languages such as Mongolian, for example the words \"morin\" (horse) and \"temen\" (camel).\n\nThe vowel harmony found in the Manchu language was traditionally described in terms of the philosophy of the \"I Ching\". Syllables with front vowels were described as being as \"yin\" syllables whereas syllables with back vowels were called \"yang\" syllables. The reasoning behind this was that the language had a kind of sound symbolism where front vowels represented feminine objects or ideas and the back vowels represented masculine objects or ideas. As a result, there were a number of word pairs in the language in which changing the vowels also changed the gender of the word. For example, the difference between the words \"hehe\" (woman) and \"haha\" (man) or \"eme\" (mother) and \"ama\" (father) was essentially a contrast between the front vowel, [e], of the feminine and the back vowel, [a], of the masculine counterpart.\n\nThe Manchu language was spoken in the Korean film \"War of the Arrows\". Ryu Seung-ryong, cast in the role of Jyushinta, and Moon Chae-won, who played Choi Ja-in, speak Manchu often in the film. It was also spoken in the film \"Flying Swords of Dragon Gate\", in which it was called Tartar.\n\nLearning texts of historical interest\nFor readers of Chinese\nLiterature\n\n"}
{"id": "56935971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56935971", "title": "Murder of Sherry Ann Duncan", "text": "Murder of Sherry Ann Duncan\n\nThe murder of Sherry Ann Duncan was a sensational crime that occurred in 1986 in Thailand. It is best known for the false incrimination of four suspects, some of whom died in prison during their nine years of incarceration, before being acquitted in 1995.\n\nDuncan, a sixteen-year-old Thai-American student, was abducted after leaving her school in Bangkok on 22 July 1986; her body was found a few days later in wetlands in Samut Prakan Province. Four men were arrested, eventually convicted of murder, and sentenced to death in 1990. Later re-investigations by the Crime Suppression Division found evidence of false testimony by a key witness, and that the men had made forced confessions under duress. The convictions were overturned by the Supreme Court in 1995, but by then one of the wrongly accused men had died in prison, one had sustained permanent spinal injuries, and another died from tuberculosis shortly after release.\n\nTwo men were arrested and convicted for the murder. They implicated Suwiboon Patpongpanit for hiring them; she was convicted by the Court of First Instance but later acquitted by the Supreme Court in 1999 due to insufficient evidence. The police officer who led the original investigation, Police Colonel Mongkol Sripho, was retroactively dishonourably discharged for fabricating evidence, but he had already retired and emigrated to the United States, and was not brought to face criminal charges.\n\nIn 2003, the Civil Court awarded the scapegoats and/or their descendants 26 million baht in damages. The case is often raised as an example of police corruption and the problems facing Thailand's justice system. It was adapted into a film (titled \"Sherry Ann\" and directed by Charoon Wattanasin) by Five Star Production in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "28777235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28777235", "title": "Nepalis in Russia", "text": "Nepalis in Russia\n\nNepalis in Russia comprises residents from Nepal in Russia, including temporary expatriates and permanent residents, as well as their locally born descendants.\n\nNepalese students moved to then-Soviet Russia and other countries that were formally under the Soviet Union. The USSR trained thousands of students from developing countries in a variety of fields. Over 6,000 Nepalis have graduated from Russian and former Soviet universities as lawyers, journalists, doctors and engineers.\n\nMany of the students have married and settled there. After the fall of the Soviet Union, Nepalese entrepreneurs who settled down in Russia took the lead in investing in private hydropower projects and many other ventures in their home country.\n\n"}
{"id": "13861440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13861440", "title": "Nimat Allah al-Harawi", "text": "Nimat Allah al-Harawi\n\nNi'mat Allah al-Harawi (also known as Niamatullah; ) was a chronicler at the court of the Mughal Emperor Jahangir where he compiled a Persian history of the Afghans, the \"Makhzan-i-Afghani\". Its translated copies appear as \"The History of the Afghans\".\n\nThe original material for the book was provided by Haibat Khan of Samana, under whose patronage Nimatullah made the compilation c. 1612. The original material was later published separately as \"Tarikh-i-Khan Jahani Makhzan-i-Afghani\". The first part of both books are the same, but the later part contains an additional history of Khan Jehan Lodhi.\n\nThe material is part fictional, part historical. The book is a major source of tradition relating to the origins of the Pashtun. It also covers Pashtun rulers in Bengal, contemporary events, and Pashtun hagiography. It plays a large part in various theories which have been offered about the possibility that the Pashtun people might be descended from the Israelites, through the Ten Lost Tribes.\n\nThe Bani-Israelite theory about the origin of the Pashtuns is based on Pashtun oral traditions; the tradition itself was documented in the \"Makhzan-i-Afghani\", which is the only written source addressing Pashtun origins. The \"Makhzan\" traces the Pashtuns' origins from the Patriarch Abraham down to a king named King Talut (Saul). \"Makhza\"n to this point agrees with testimony provided by Muslim sources or Hebrew Scriptures, showing King Saul around B.C. 1092 in Palestine. It is beyond this point that the description comes under serious doubt.\n\nAccording to Nimat Allah, Qais was the ancestor of most of the existing Pashtun tribes. He met Muhammad and embraced Islam, receiving the Muslim name of Abdur Rashid. He had three sons, Ghourghusht, Sarban and Bitan (Baitan). Karlan, the fourth legendary ancestor, is wrongly attributed as Qais's fourth son. In fact he was his grandson of Ghourghusht and the son of burhan\n\nA translation appeared in 1836 by Bernhard Dorn which had two parts. There is another partial translation from 1958, Nirodbhusan Roy titled, \"Niamatullah's History of the Afghans\". A translation in two volumes by S. M. Imamuddin appeared in Dhaka, 1960–62.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11800723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11800723", "title": "Nkutu language", "text": "Nkutu language\n\nNkutu (Nkuchu, Kitkutshu) is a Bantu language of northern Kasai-Oriental Province, Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is a member of the Tetela group of Bantu languages.\n"}
{"id": "57574697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57574697", "title": "Office of the Special Prosecutor", "text": "Office of the Special Prosecutor\n\nThe Office of the Special Prosecutor of Ghana was established after an act of the Parliament of Ghana passed the Office of Special Prosecutor Bill in 2017.\n\nThe office serves as an independent investigating and prosecution body to make inquiries into corruption, bribery, or other criminal cases at the national level whether they be in public or private sector. \n\nThe NPP Government intended to lessen the burden on existing anti-corruption agencies and remove the institutional roadblocks that exist as hindrances to the fight against corruption. With the end result being to make anti-corruption agencies in the country more effective at discharging their duties. \n\nIn addition, government experts have expressed the ineffectiveness of the Attorney-General as an effective prosecution and law enforcement tool in the fight against corruption because the appointment and dismissal of the Attorney-General is determined by the president.\n\nTherefore, the Office of the special prosecutor serves as the autonomous body to handle sensitive cases which the Attorney General will otherwise be ineffective at handling. \n\nMartin Amidu is the first to hold the position of special prosecutor. \n"}
{"id": "5098423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5098423", "title": "Prayer meeting", "text": "Prayer meeting\n\nA prayer meeting is a meeting of lay people for the purpose of prayer as a group. Prayer meetings are normally conducted outside regular services by one or more members of the clergy or other forms of church leadership, but they may also be initiated by decision of non-leadership members as well.\n\nPrayer meetings may be held in public places, private homes, or small or large agreed-upon meeting places. Public prayer meetings may sometimes represent more than one religious faith, especially where the purpose for the prayer meeting involves a city or larger social unit.\n\nThe choice of venue depends on the intended participants, the purpose of the prayer meeting, and the size of the prayer meeting. Prayer meetings can consist of fewer than a dozen people. At the other end of the scale, the largest prayer meetings may involve several thousand people.\n\nPrayer meetings are most commonly held at churches or mosques on days other than the normal day of worship. This is most common where only regular church or mosque members are expected to attend, although the public is usually welcome to attend a prayer meeting.\n\nThe smallest prayer meetings can be held at any agreed-upon place which is accessible to the group for religious purposes. Very large prayer meetings may be held in convention centers or arenas.\n\nA prayer meeting may be held on any day of the week. Many churches and mosques schedule weekly prayer meetings. Wednesday evenings are particularly popular for Christian prayer meetings, as a time convenient to most church members and the date farthest away from Saturday or Sunday services. All of these prayer meetings are usually scheduled well in advance.\n\nPrayer meetings may also be scheduled to coincide with breakfast or a related special event.\n\nSpecial prayer meetings may be called on short notice during times of common crisis or concern. For example, a prayer meeting may be called if a church member is involved in a serious accident. A special prayer meeting on a larger scale is often called after a major disaster has hit the local community. In times of national mourning, small prayer meetings may be called all over the country during the following days, with one or more larger prayer meetings, possibly televised, near the location of the tragedy.\n\nPrayer meetings provide social support to those who attend. The prayers during the prayer meeting sometimes ask their deity for a positive outcome in times of uncertainty. The prayer meeting, in a Christian's perspective, is the driving force of the church. It is where the church comes together to find comfort, learn how to be devoted, and seek answers.\n\nSome prayer meetings are targeted at repentance, either of those attending or of another person or organization which is not in attendance. The latter type of prayer meetings is also a form of protest against the sinful behavior of the targeted person or organization.\n\nIn the years before widespread news media, prayer meetings were also a primary source of news and information (including firsthand accounts) about the events leading to the meeting being called. At the same time as the news was received, the prayer meeting offered ways to deal with changing circumstances. This still continues in modern times. However, the impact of such a prayer meeting is now much stronger among the worshipers than among the general public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47193639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47193639", "title": "Salburun", "text": "Salburun\n\nSalburun (Kyrgyz : Салбуурун) is a traditional kind of hunt in Kyrghyzstan and Central Asia, involving falconry, archery and sometimes mounted archery, as well as hunting with Taigan.\n\nAt the end of Salburun contests, the winners of the different disciplines receive an award; the main disciplines are:\n\nSalburun comes from the nomadic tradition of hunting and protecting herds from predators such as wolves. Festivals have been organised in Central Asia since 1997. After the festival of 2006 in Tong district, Kyrgyzstan, international reactions to the violence of the event led the Salburun Federation to rethink the rules and take measures for animal defense. In 2015, a petition has been launched to end wolf baiting.\n\nSalburun is one of the Worldwide Nomad Games' disciplines.\n"}
{"id": "26727065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26727065", "title": "Sandhai Muslims", "text": "Sandhai Muslims\n\nThe Sandhi (or Sindhi) Muslims are a community found in the state of Gujarat in India. They are one of a number of communities of pastoral nomads found in the Banni region of Kutch.\n\nThe Sandhi are said to have emigrated about 300 years ago, from Sindh to Kutch and Saurashtra. In Saurashtra, they are found mainly in Junagadh district. They speak Kutchi, with many Sindhi loanwords.\n\nThe Sandhi are an endogamous community, and are divided into 82 clans. They do not practice clan exogamy, except the Hala and Shetha clans. Their major clans include the Sandh, Sameja,Jiruka,Jokhiya,Jakhra, Samma, Sumra,Jadeja, Nareja, Juneja, Daudani, Dal, Gothi, Solanki, Virsa, Theba, Nayi, Bughiya, Bafars, Hala, Shetha, Vindhani, Pariya (Visar) and Khokhar. Some of these clans such as the Jadeja, Nareja and Solanki claim Rajput ancestry.\n\nThe Sandhi of Kutch are a community of Maldhari cattle breeders. They take their cattle to the bazaars of Bhuj. They also raise goats and buffaloes. Like other Kutchi communities, many of them have migrated to other parts of India in search of employment. They are Sunni Muslims and most follow the Hanfi mazhab and Barelvi maslak. In Saurashtra, the Sandhi are mainly farmers, living in their own settlements. They have a statewide association, the Akhil Saurashtra Sindhi Muslim Vikas Jamat, which deals with community issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1255252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255252", "title": "Shira people", "text": "Shira people\n\nThe Shira or Sira people, the \"Eshira\", are a Bantu ethnic group of Gabon primarily living in the forests and grasslands south of the Ogooué River and west of its tributary the N'Gounié.\n\nThe Eshira migrated into the area sometime in the 18th century, after wars with the Kele and other groups. During the 19th century they traded slaves with the Nkomi, and were highly regarded for their tobacco and raphia cloth. Their numbers were greatly reduced by smallpox epidemics in 1865 and 1898.\n\nPaul du Chaillu travelled through Eshira areas in 1858 and 1864, and recorded that each clan controlled its own affairs. Mulenda of the Kamba clan was the most important of the chiefs; he owned 300–400 slaves, and died of smallpox in 1885. The Holy Ghost Fathers established a mission in 1895.\n\nSubgroups of the Eshira include the Punu.\n\n"}
{"id": "3118518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118518", "title": "Simon LeVay", "text": "Simon LeVay\n\nSimon LeVay (born 28 August 1943) is a British-American neuroscientist. He is renowned for his studies about brain structures and sexual orientation.\n\nLeVay was born on 28 August 1943 in Oxford, England. He is openly gay.\n\n\nLeVay held positions in neurobiology at the Harvard Medical School from 1974 to 1984. He then worked at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies from 1984 to 1993 while holding an Associate Professorship in Biology at the University of California, San Diego. Much of his early work focused on visual cortex in animals, especially cats. In 2003 he was a lecturer and the Director of Human Sexuality Studies at Stanford University.\n\nIn 1991, LeVay published \"A difference in hypothalamic structure between heterosexual and homosexual men\" in \"Science\". This article reported a difference in average size between the third Interstitial Nucleus of the Anterior Hypothalamus (INAH3) in the brains of heterosexual men and homosexual men: INAH3 was more than twice as large in heterosexual men as in homosexual men. The INAH3 size of homosexual men was the same as that of women. LeVay wrote that \"This finding indicates that INAH is dimorphic with sexual orientation, at least in men, and suggests that sexual orientation has a biological substrate.\" LeVay added, \"The existence of 'exceptions' in the present sample (that is, presumed heterosexual men with small INAH 3 nuclei, and homosexual men with large ones), hints at the possibility that sexual orientation, although an important variable, may not be the sole determinant of INAH 3 size. It is also possible, however, that these exceptions are due to technical shortcomings or to misassignment of subjects to their subject groups.\"\n\nLeVay's finding was widely reported in the media. LeVay openly related his research to his own homosexuality and to his mourning over his lover's death from AIDS. LeVay cautioned against misinterpreting his findings in a 1994 interview: \"It’s important to stress what I didn’t find. I did not prove that homosexuality is genetic, or find a genetic cause for being gay. I didn't show that gay men are born that way, the most common mistake people make in interpreting my work. Nor did I locate a gay center in the brain. The INAH3 is less likely to be the sole gay nucleus of the brain than a part of a chain of nuclei engaged in men and women's sexual behavior.\" Some critics of LeVay questioned the accuracy and appropriateness of his measurements, observing that the structures are difficult to see in tissue slices and that he measured in volume rather than cell count. Nancy Ordover writes that LeVay has been criticized for \"his small sample size and for compiling inadequate sexual histories.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41032631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41032631", "title": "Spanish immigration to Hawaii", "text": "Spanish immigration to Hawaii\n\nSpanish immigration to Hawaii began in 1907 when the Hawaiian government and the Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association (HSPA) decided to supplement their ongoing importation of Portuguese workers to Hawaii with workers recruited from Spain. Importation of Spanish laborers, along with their families, continued until 1913, at which time more than 9,000 Spanish immigrants had been brought in, most recruited to work primarily on the Hawaiian sugarcane plantations.\n\nPerhaps the first Spanish immigrant to take up residence in Hawaii was Francisco de Paula Marín (1774-1837), a self-promoting adventurer who knew several languages, and served King Kamehameha I as an interpreter and military advisor. Later Marin may have advised Kamehameha's son Kauikeaouli (Kamehameha III) on Hawaii's fledgling cattle industry, as Marin had spent time in Spanish California, and Kauikeaouli visited there in 1832 to observe the California cattle industry first-hand. Kauikeaouli was greatly impressed with the horsemanship and cattle handling skills of the Spanish vaqueros of California, and he invited several of them to Hawaii to teach those skills to his own people. The native Hawaiians these vaqueros trained became the \"Paniolo\", or \"Hawaiian cowboys\", who carry on a tradition of horsemanship and cattle ranching to the present day. There were no doubt other Spanish adventurers who arrived throughout the mid-19th century on whaling ships, but their numbers would have been few. Spanish immigrants to Hawaii in fact were so few prior to 1900 that they were counted only as \"Other Foreigners\" in the Hawaiian census returns.\n\nThe rise in the late 1800s of the sugar industry in the Hawaiian Islands created a huge demand for laborers to work on the sugarcane plantations. The Hawaiian government, with the support of the plantation owners, initially brought in contract laborers from China to fill this need, but public sentiment gradually turned against continued importation of the Chinese, and Portuguese workers were recruited to take their place. However, the high cost associated with shipping Portuguese laborers and their families to Hawaii, and the reality that many Portuguese remained on the plantations only long enough to fulfill their contractual obligations, led the Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association (HSPA) to encourage the government to consider alternate sources of labor. Spain in particular was felt to be a viable source of contract workers, who were culturally more acceptable than many of the other ethnic groups that had already been brought in.\n\nThe importation of Spanish laborers to Hawaii began in 1907, when the British steamship SS \"Heliopolis\" arrived in Honolulu Harbor with 2,246 immigrants from the Málaga province of Spain. However, rumored poor accommodations and food on the voyage created political complications that delayed the next Spanish importation until 1911, when the SS \"Orteric\" arrived with a mixed contingent of 960 Spanish and 565 Portuguese immigrants, the Spanish having boarded at Gibraltar, and the Portuguese at Oporto and Lisbon. However, the two groups argued and fought with each other during the long voyage, \"so much so that they had to be separated. The women . . . went as far as hair pulling.\" Although Portuguese immigration to Hawaii effectively ended after the arrival of the \"Orteric\", the importation of Spanish laborers and their families continued until 1913, ultimately bringing to Hawaii a total of 9,262 Spanish immigrants.\n\nDespite hopes that the Spanish immigrants who came to Hawaii would stay and continue to work on the sugarcane plantations, most emigrated to the mainland United States, generally California, as soon as they could in search of greater opportunity. So much so that the U.S. census for 1930 listed only 1,219 residents (0.3% of the population) of Spanish ancestry still remaining in Hawaii. Although the Spanish tended to move on, they were quickly supplanted by Spanish-speaking immigrants from the Philippines and Puerto Rico, who by 1930 made up, respectively, 17.1% and 1.8% of the population. By comparison, residents of Portuguese ancestry in 1930 made up 7.5% of the population.\n\nSix ships between 1907 and 1913 brought over 9,000 Spanish immigrants from the Spanish mainland to Hawaii. Although many of the Portuguese immigrants who preceded them to Hawaii arrived on small wooden sailing ships of less than a thousand gross tonnage capacity, all of the ships involved in the Spanish immigration were large, steel-hulled, passenger steamships.\n\nShips that brought Spanish immigrants to Hawaii from 1907-1913\nBecause 491 of the immigrants on the SS \"Orteric\" were Portuguese, there was a net importation of 9,262 Spanish immigrants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52361653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52361653", "title": "Statsföretag", "text": "Statsföretag\n\nStatsföretag was a Swedish government holding company and national wealth fund for more than 20 years. The company was created by the Swedish Parliament to centralize and consolidate state ownership of public commercial assets especially within heavy industries such as shipyard, steel and forestry. During the economic crisis of the 1970s in Sweden, several other assets were nationalized and the activities of the company became organized along multiple industrial segments.\n\nAfter severe losses, the company was restructured in 1983 and renamed Procordia, with a number of industrial assets such as , LKAB and SSAB transferred and held directly by the Ministry of Industry\n\nIn 1987, the company was partially privatized and the state participation reduced to 81%. The company shares were listed on October 15, 1987 on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. In 1990 Procordia was merged with the pharmaceutical company Pharmacia and the food company Provendor owned by Volvo. Consequently, the main owners became Volvo and the Swedish government. The government shares were held through the wholly owned national wealth fund Fortia and subsequently Stattum\n\nIn 1992, with the acquisition of Swedish Match the company was divided into two separate sub-holdings, being the pharmaceutical segment in Pharmacia and the food segment in Branded Consumer Products. Volvo became the main owner in Branded Consumer Products and ultimately the sole owner in 1994, changing the name to Procordia Food. In 1995 Procordia Food was acquired by the Norwegian food company Orkla and Pharmacia merged with the US pharmaceutical company Upjohn and became Pharmacia & Upjohn.\n\nIn January 1999, Stattum, the Swedish National Wealth Fund sold the Swedish government's remaining 7% in the pharmaceuticals group Pharmacia & Upjohn in a EUR 1.8bn share offering.\n"}
{"id": "903526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903526", "title": "Tausūg people", "text": "Tausūg people\n\nThe Tausūg or Suluk people are an ethnic group of the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. The Tausūg are part of the wider political identity of Muslims of Mindanao, Sulu and Palawan. Most of the Tausugs have converted into the religion of Islam whose members are now more known as the Moro group, who constitute the third largest ethnic group of Mindanao, Sulu and Palawan. The Muslim Tausugs originally had an independent state known as the Sulu Sultanate, which once exercised sovereignty over the present day provinces of Basilan, Palawan, Sulu, Tawi-Tawi, the eastern part of the Malaysian state of Sabah (formerly North Borneo) and North Kalimantan in Indonesia.\n\n\"Tausug\" means \"the people of the current\", from the word \"tau\" which means \"man\" or \"people\" and \"sūg\" (alternatively spelled \"sulug\" or \"suluk\") which means \"[sea] currents\". The term \"Tausūg\" was derived from two words \"tau\" and \"sūg\" (or \"suluk\" in Malay) meaning \"people of the current\", referring to their homelands in the Sulu Archipelago. \"Sūg\" and \"suluk\" both mean the same thing, with the former being the phonetic evolution in Sulu of the latter (the L being dropped and thus the two short U's merging into one long U). The Tausūg in Sabah refer to themselves as Tausūg but refers to their ethnic group as \"Suluk\" as documented in official documents such as birth certificates in Sabah, which are written Malay.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the sultanate, the Tausug lived in communities called a \"banwa\". Each banwa is headed by a leader known as a \"panglima\" along with a healer called a \"mangungubat\". The panglima is usually a man with a strong political and physical leadership among the community folks. The healer may either be a man or a woman, and they are specialized in contacting the spiritual realm. The healers are also exempted from practicing traditional marriage as they can have sensual relationships with the same sex, a common trait in numerous tribes throughout the Philippines archipelago and northern Borneo in pre-Islamic and pre-Christian times. Each banwa is considered as an independent state, the same with the city-states of other regions in Asia. The Tausug during the era had trade relations with other neighboring Tausug banwas, the Yakan of Basilan, and the nomadic Sama Bajau.\n\nThe history of Sulu begins with Karim-ul Makhdum, a Muslim missionary, who arrived in Sulu in 1380. He introduced the Islamic faith and settled in Tubig Indangan, Simunul, until his death. The Mosque's pillars at Tubig-Indangan, which he built, still stand. In 1390, Rajah Baguinda Ali landed at Buansa, and extended the missionary work of Makhdum. The Johore-born Arab adventurer Sayyid Abubakar Abirin arrived in 1450, married Baguinda's daughter, Dayang-dayang Paramisuli. After Rajah Baguinda's death, Sayyid Abubakar became Sultan, thereby introducing the sultanate as a political system (the Sultanate of Sulu). Political districts were created in Parang, Pansul, Lati, Gitung, and Luuk, each headed by a \"panglima\" or district leader. After Sayyid Abubakar's death, the sultanate system had already become well established in Sulu. Before the coming of the Spaniards, the ethnic groups in Sulu — the Tausug, Samal, Yakan, and Bajau - were in varying degrees united under the Sulu sultanate, considered the most centralised political system in the Philippines. Called the \"Spanish–Moro conflict\", these battles were waged intermittently from 1578 till 1898, between the Spanish colonial government and the Bangsamoro people of Mindanao and Sulu.\nIn 1578, an expedition sent by Gov Francisco de Sande and headed by Capt. Rodriguez de Figueroa began the 300-year warfare between the Moro Tausūg and the Spanish authorities. In 1579, the Spanish government gave de Figueroa the sole right to colonise Mindanao. In retaliation, the Moro raided Visayan towns in Panay, Negros, and Cebu for they know the Spanish will get foot soldiers in this areas. These were repulsed by Spanish and Visayan forces. In the early 17th century, the largest alliance composed of the Maranao, Maguindanao, Tausūg, and other Moro and Lumad groups, was formed by Sultan Kudarat or Cachil Corralat of Maguindanao, whose domain extended from the Davao Gulf to Dapitan on the Zamboanga peninsula. Several expeditions sent by the Spanish authorities suffered defeat. In 1635, Capt Juan de Chaves occupied Zamboanga and erected a fort. In 1637, Gov Gen Hurtado de Corcuera personally led an expedition against Kudarat, and temporarily triumphed over his forces at Lamitan and Iliana Bay. On 1 January 1638, de Corcuera, with 80 vessels and 2000 soldiers, defeated the Moro Tausūg and occupied Jolo mainly staying inside captured Cottas. A peace treaty was forged. The victory did not establish Spanish sovereignty over Sulu, as the Tausūg abrogated the treaty as soon as the Spaniards left in 1646. But later Sultanate of Sulu totally gave up its rule over south Palawan to Spain in 1705 and over Basilan in 1762. In the last quarter of the 19th century Moros in the Sultanate of Sulu formally recognised Spanish sovereignty, but these areas remained partially controlled by the Spanish as their sovereignty was limited to military stations and garrisons and pockets of civilian settlements in Zamboanga and Cotabato (the latter is under Sultanate of Maguindanao), until they had to abandon the region as a consequence of their defeat in the Spanish–American War.\n\nIn 1737, Sultan Alimud Din I for personal interest, entered into a \"permanent\" peace treaty with Gov Gen F. Valdes y Tamon; and in 1746, befriended the Jesuits sent to Jolo by King Philip. The \"permission\" of Sultan Azimuddin-I (*the first heir-apparent) allowed the Catholic Jesuits to enter Jolo, but was argued against by his young brother, Raja Muda Maharajah Adinda Datu Bantilan (*the second heir-apparent). Datu Bantilan did not want the Catholic Jesuits to disturb or dishonor the Moro faith in the Sulu Sultanate kingdom. The brothers then fought, causing Sultan Azimuddin-I to leave Jolo and head to Zamboanga, then to Manila in 1748. Then, Raja Muda Maharajah Adinda Datu Bantilan was proclaimed as Sultan, taking the name as Sultan Bantilan Muizzuddin. He was a \"saviour\" to the Sulu Sultanate kingdom in 1748. If he had not fought against his brother for permitting the Catholic Jesuits to enter Jolo and spread their \"Catholic Doctrine\" throughout Sulu, it might have become a Catholic area today.\nIn 1893, amid succession controversies, Amir ul Kiram became Sultan Jamalul Kiram II, the title being officially recognised by the Spanish authorities. In 1899, after the defeat of Spain in the Spanish–American War, Col. Luis Huerta, the last governor of Sulu, relinquished his garrison to the Americans. (Orosa 1970:25-30). Prior to modern times, the Tausūg were under the Sultanate of Sulu. The system is a patrilineal system, consisting of the title of Sultan as the sole sovereign of the Sultanate (in Tausūg language: \"Lupah Sug\", literally: \"Land of the Current\"), followed by various Maharajah and Rajah-titled subdivisional princes. Further down the line are the numerous \"Panglima\" or local chiefs, similar in function to the modern Philippine political post of the Baranggay \"Kapitan\" in the Baranggay system. Of significance are the Sarip (Sharif) and their wives, Sharifah, who are Hashemite descendants of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad. They are respected as religious leaders, though some may take up administrative posts.\nIn the northern area of Borneo in Sabah, most of the recognised citizens have lived in the area since the rule of the Sultanate of Sulu. During the British administration of North Borneo, a recognised Bajau-Suluk warrior in the Malaysian history help to fight off the British in a battle known as Mat Salleh Rebellion and gained many supports from other natives. During the Second World War when the Japanese occupied the northern Borneo area, the native Suluks once again involved in a struggle to fight off the Japanese where many of them including women and kids been massacred after their revolt with the Chinese been foiled by the Japanese.\n\nA \"policy of attraction\" was introduced, ushering in reforms to encourage Muslim integration into Philippine society. \"Proxy colonialism\" was legalised by the Public Land Act of 1919, invalidating Tausūg \"pusaka\" (inherited property) laws based on the Islamic Shariah. The act also granted the state the right to confer land ownership. It was thought that the Muslims would \"learn\" from the \"more advanced\" Christian Filipinos, and would integrate more easily into mainstream Philippine society. In February 1920, the Philippine Senate and House of Representatives passed Act No 2878, which abolished the Department of Mindanao and Sulu, and transferred its responsibilities to the Bureau of Non-Christian Tribes under the Department of the Interior. Muslim dissatisfaction grew as power shifted to the Christian Filipinos. Petitions were sent by Muslim leaders between 1921 and 1924, requesting that Mindanao and Sulu be administered directly by the United States. These petitions were not granted. Realising the futility of armed resistance, some Muslims sought to make the best of the situation. In 1934, Arolas Tulawi of Sulu, Datu Manandang Piang and Datu Blah Sinsuat of Cotabato, and Sultan Alaoya Alonto of Lanao were elected to the 1935 Constitutional Convention. In 1935, two Muslims were elected to the National Assembly.\n\nThe Tausūg in Sulu fought against the Japanese occupation of Mindanao and Sulu during World War II and eventually drove them out. The Commonwealth sought to end the privileges the Muslims had been enjoying under the earlier American administration. Muslim exemptions from some national laws, as expressed in the administrative code for Mindanao, and the Muslim right to use their traditional Islamic courts, as expressed in the Moro Board, were ended. It was unlikely that the Muslims, who have had a longer cultural history as Muslims than the Filipinos as Christians, would surrender their identity. This incident contributed to the rise of various separatist movements - the Muslim Independence Movement (MIM), Ansar El-Islam, and Union of Islamic Forces and Organizations (Che Man 1990:74-75). In 1969, the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) was founded on the concept of a Bangsa Moro Republic by a group of educated young Muslims. In 1976, negotiations between the Philippine government and the MNLF in Tripoli resulted in the Tripoli Agreement, which provided for an autonomous region in Mindanao. Nur Misuari was invited to chair the provisional government, but he refused. The referendum was boycotted by the Muslims themselves. The talks collapsed, and fighting continued. On 1 August 1989, Republic Act 673 or the Organic Act for Mindanao, created the Autonomous Region of Mindanao, which encompasses Maguindanao, Lanao del Sur, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi.\n\nMost of the Tausūgs in Malaysia had lived since the rule of the Sultanate of Sulu on parts of Sabah with some of them were actually descendant of a Sulu princess (\"Dayang Dayang\") who had escaped from the Sulu Sultan in the 1850s when the Sultan tried to make the princess as a wife although the Sultan already have many concubine. To differentiate themselves from the newly arrived Tausūg immigrants from the Philippines, most of them preferred to be called as \"Suluk\".\n\nThe Tausūg currently number about 953,000 in the Philippines. They populate the Filipino province of Sulu as a majority, and the provinces of Zamboanga del Sur, Basilan, Tawi-Tawi, Palawan, Cebu and Manila as minorities. Much of these Filipino-Tausūgs have work in neighbouring Sabah, Malaysia as construction labourers in search for better lives. However, many of them have violate the law by overstaying illegally and involved in criminal activities. The Filipino-Tausūgs are not recognised as a native to Sabah.\n\nThe native Tausūgs who had lived since the Sulu Sultanate era in Sabah had settled in much of the eastern parts, from Kudat town in the north, to Tawau in the south east. They number around 300,000 with many of them had intermarried with other ethnic groups in Sabah, especially the Bajaus. Most prefer to use the Malay-language ethnonym \"Suluk\" in their birth certificates rather than the native Tausūg to distinguish themselves from their newly arrived Filipino relatives in Sabah. Migration fuelled mainly from Sabah also created a substantial Suluk community in Greater Kuala Lumpur. While in Indonesia, most of the communities mainly settled in the northern area of North Kalimantan like Nunukan and Tarakan, which lies close to their traditional realm. There are around 12,000 Tausūg in Indonesia.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of Tausūgs follow Islam, as Islam has been a defining aspect of native Sulu culture ever since Islam spread to the southern Philippines. They follow the traditional Sunni Shafi'i section of Islam, however they retain pre-Islamic religious practices and often practice a mix of Islam and Animism in their adat. A Christian minority exists. During the Spanish occupation, the presence of Jesuit missionaries in the Sulu Archipelago allowed for the conversion of entire families and even tribes and clans of Tausūgs, and other Sulu natives to Roman Catholicism. For example, Azim ud-Din I of Sulu, the 19th sultan of Sulu was converted to Roman Catholicism and baptised as Don Fernando de Alimuddin, however he reverted to Islam in his later life near death.\n\nMost assimilated Filipino celebrities and politicians of Tausūg descent also tend to follow the Christian religion of the majority instead of the religion of their ancestors. For example, Maria Lourdes Sereno, the 24th Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines is of patrilineal Tausūg descent is a born-again Christian. Singer Sitti is of Tausūg and Samal descent (she claims to be of Mapun heritage, also native to Sulu), is also a Christian.\n\nThe political structure of the Tausug is affected by the two economic divisions in the ethnic group, mainly \"parianon\" (people of the landing) and guimbahanon (hill people). Before the establishment of the Sultanate of Sulu, the indigenous pre-Islamic Tausug were organized into various independent communities or community-states called \"banwa\". When Islam arrived and the sultanate was established, the banwa was divided into districts administered by a \"panglima\" (mayor). The panglima are under the sultan (king). The people who held the stability of the community along with the sultan and the panglimas are the \"ruma bichura\" (state council advisers), \"datu raja muda\" (crown price), \"datu maharaja adensuk\" (palace commander), \"datu ladladja laut\" (admiral), \"datu maharaja layla\" (commissioner of customes), \"datu amir bahar\" (speaker of the ruma bichara), \"datu tumagong\" (executive secretary), \"datu juhan\" (secretary of information), \"datu muluk bandarasa\" (secretary of commerce), \"datu sawajaan\" (secretary of interior), \"datu bandahala\" (secretary of finance), \"mamaneho\" (inspector general), \"datu sakandal\" (sultan's personal envoy), \"datu nay\" (ordinance or weapon commander), \"wazil\" (prime minister). A \"mangungubat\" (curer) also has special status in the community as they are believed to have direct contact with the spiritual realm.\n\nThe community's people is divided into three classes, which are the nobility (the sultan's family and court), commoners (the free people), and the slaves (war captives, sold into slavery, or children of slaves).\n\nThe Tausug language is called \"Sinug\" with \"Bahasa\" to mean Language. The Tausug language is related to Bicolano, Tagalog and Visayan languages, being especially closely related to the Surigaonon language of the provinces Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur and Agusan del Sur and the Butuanon language of northeastern Mindanao specially the root Tausug words without the influence of the Arabic language, sharing many common words. The Tausūg, however, do not consider themselves as Visayan, using the term only to refer to Christian Bisaya-language speakers, given that the vast majority of Tausūgs are Muslims in contrast to its very closely related Surigaonon brothers which are predominantly Roman Catholics. Tausug is also related to the Waray-Waray language. Tausug also speak Zamboangueño \"Chavacano\", other Visayan languages (especially Cebuano language because of the mass influx of Cebuano migrants to Mindanao), and Tagalog in the Philippines; Malay in the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia; and English in both Malaysia and Philippines as second languages.\n\nMalaysian Tausūg, descendants of residents when the Sulu Sultanate ruled the eastern part of Sabah, speak or understand the Sabahan dialect of Suluk, Malaysian language, and some English or Simunul. Those who come in regular contact with the Bajau also speak Bajau dialects. By the year 2000, most of the Tausūg children in Sabah, especially in towns of the west side of Sabah, were no longer speaking Tausūg; instead they speak the Sabahan dialect of Malay and English.\n\nTausūgs are superb warriors and craftsmen. They are known for the \"Pangalay\" dance (also known as \"Daling-Daling\" in Sabah), in which female dancers wear artificial elongated fingernails made from brass or silver known as \"janggay\", and perform motions based on the Vidhyadhari (Bahasa Sūg: \"Bidadali\") of pre-Islamic Buddhist legend. The Tausug are also well known for their \"pis syabit\", a multi-colored woven cloth traditionally worn as a headress or accessory by men. Nowadays, the \"pis syabit\" is also worn by women and students. In 2011, the \"pis syabit\" was cited by the National Commission for Culture and the Arts as one of the intangible cultural heritage of the Philippines under the traditional craftsmanship category that the government may nominate in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "777630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=777630", "title": "Tent city", "text": "Tent city\n\nA tent city is a temporary housing facility made using tents or other temporary structures. Informal tent cities may be set up without authorization by homeless people or protesters. As well, state governments or military organizations set up tent cities to house refugees, evacuees, or soldiers. Tent cities set up by homeless people may be similar to shanty towns, which are informal settlements in which the buildings are made from scrap building materials.\n\nIn the military, the term \"tent city\" usually refers to temporary living quarters erected on deployed military bases, such as those found in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Iraq. Depending on the branch of service and the length of time the tent city has been in place, the living space may be equipped with most modern amenities. For sanitary reasons, military tent cities place toilet, shower, and laundry facilities at least from living quarters. Also, tents are typically divided into clusters of 8-10 to prevent the rapid spread of fire, which is of utmost concern because of the tent and bedding materials.\n\nSince Hurricane Katrina made landfall in August 2005, the term has been used to describe temporary housing sites set up for Gulf Coast residents who were left homeless by the storm. Some of the tents that were built by Seabees and funded by the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are wooden structures covered by tents. With the exception of indoor plumbing, most of the tents have heat, air, and lights. The tent city can hold as many as 250 occupants. Displaced residents are only expected to stay for three to six months.\n\nCamp Hope is an alternative transitional living project, for the homeless, in the form of camping. It is located on the Mesilla Valley Community of Hope (MVCH) campus and is an alliance of agencies that address homelessness in Las Cruces, New Mexico. The tent city can house 50 people that would otherwise be on the streets, providing them a safe place to seek direct services, healthcare, and find jobs and housing. Camp Hope has provided the homeless with the opportunity to be right next to all the Direct Services the agencies on the MVCH campus provide.\n\nThe camp was founded in November 2011 with temporary permission from the city of Las Cruces. The camp was supposed to disband in March 2012, but there was no funding available to build another shelter and the City Council stated that the tent city benefited the city.\n\nIn 2013, with help from engineering students from New Mexico State University, the site was rezoned as a planned unit development (PUD) that sanctioned a permanent campground along with a number of other uses on the non-profit's campus.\n\nDignity Village is a city-recognized encampment of homeless people in Portland, Oregon, United States. Dignity Village is incorporated in Oregon as a 501(c)(3) membership-based non-profit organization, and is governed by bylaws and a board of directors with an elected chairman and other corporate officers. Membership is by application review. Dignity Village states that membership is not limited \"based on religion, race, sex, sexual orientation, handicap, age, lifestyle choice, previous (criminal) record or economic status.\" Continued membership is dependent upon following the community's rules of behavior, contained in their membership agreement:\nMembership size varies and is limited by the physical size of the available space at the city yard site.\n\nThe BBC did a news story, which talked about how the causes of the crisis in the U.S. economy has forced many people, who used to own their own homes, to now live in tents.\n\nAlterNet published a story in 2009 about the mainstream media finally \"discovering\" the homeless situation in Sacramento.\n\nIn late December 2006, homeless people formed an impromptu tent city on the St. Vincent de Paul property in the 1400 block of Fourth Avenue N. of St. Petersburg in Saint Petersburg, Florida when dozens of homeless moved off of public land across the street from the society. In early January 2007, city officials noted city codes that prohibit living in tents and gave the society one week to evict the occupants of the tent city.\n\nCamp Quixote, a homeless encampment began as a protest movement of homeless people and homeless advocates against criminalizing \"anti-social\" legislation that was passed by the city in January 2007 - specifically referring to the ordinance restricting people from sitting on sidewalks. City officials ordered the camp to disband. The Olympia Unitarian Universalist Congregation offered the encampment sanctuary on its property, being familiar with the Seattle faith-based network of homeless encampments. What began as a protest surrounding homelessness quickly became a faith community protest. The church community protested the city's insistence of dismantling the community on the grounds that churches maintain a specific land use right that allows t hem to offer sanctuary to the poor (Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, or RLUIPA). Eventually, the adversarial protest turned to negotiation with local municipalities, with new ordinances condoning Camp Quixote with specific regulations and a ninety-day limit; option to move to other faith communities' property. Because of the ardent support of a volunteer team PANZA, the tent city is soon to be transformed into permanent supportive housing, Quixote Village - winter 2013.\n\nHomeless people have long resorted to seeking shelter in tents, but these communities are one of the first known to be organized by a sponsoring organization (a partnership between the Seattle Housing and Resource Effort and Women's Housing Equality and Enhancement League (SHARE/WHEEL)), and are one of the first in a major U.S. city to be largely accepted by local governments. Contrary to some stereotypes regarding the homeless, many residents of Tent City are employed, mostly in temporary or day labor jobs, but have insufficient income to obtain more permanent housing.\n\nThe original Tent City and Tent City 2, both created in the late 1990s, were created illegally and opposed by the City of Seattle. After being tolerated for some time, they were eventually forced to shut down. In March 2002, as a result of a legal battle, city attorney Tom Carr and SHARE/WHEEL attorney Ted Hunter signed a court ordered consent decree with SHARE, allowing Tent City only on private land (by invitation) and setting standards for its operation.\n\nBased on the consent decree Tent City 3 was created and rotates around the Metro Seattle Core. Tent City 4 was created in May 2004 as an attempt to expand beyond the consent decree and use public land and resources, something the consent decree does not allow. This attempt was unsuccessful and Tent City 4 has since been relocated to eastern King County where it is church sponsored. Tent City rules do not allow drug or alcohol use, and evicts anyone caught stealing or committing other crimes within the camp. Tent City 3 stayed an average of three weeks at each encampment before 2004, while Tent City 4 has stayed in place for as long as 100 days. Tent City 3's stays have since then averaged between 60 and 90 days, with 90 days or so being a common length of stay. Cities have been adopting code amendments that limit stays to 60–90 days.\n\nAnother homeless encampment, unaffiliated with Tent City 3 and 4, lived in donated, mainly fuchsia, tents at the University Congregational United Church of Christ in Seattle's University District for several months ending March 5, 2009, at which time it moved to the suburb of Bryn Mawr south of Seattle. According to homeless advocates, residents criticized Seattle Mayor Greg Nickels for continuously clearing out homeless encampments, and named their encampment \"Nickelsville\". The church itself, out of respect for recent efforts by Mayor Nickels, did not use the \"Nickelsville\" name in referring to the encampment.\n\nWhile on the road in Seattle, Washington on March 30, 2009, Democracy Now! covered a story about Seattle's Nickelsville. They also covered a story about the police raid on Nickelsville the previous day, March 29, where 24 people were arrested.\n\nTent City 4 (TC4) is a homeless encampment of up to 100 people created in May 2004 in eastern King County outside of Seattle. Residents are adult men and women, although there is a provision for quartering minor dependents in emergency situations. Residents may have their own tents or single men or women may stay in gender specific community tents. Dumpsters and portable toilets are provided by SHARE and there is a portable shower. The community currently relocates every three to four months on the property of Eastern King County churches upon invitation. Proponents state that the average length of residency per inhabitant is six weeks, with fewer long-term than short-term members.\n\nOpponents challenge this claim citing SHARE'S testimony to King County and City of Seattle elected officials that they do not keep any data on residents in order to protect their privacy. While the percentage varies based on the occupants, many of the residents work part or full-time for area businesses as day laborers or permanent employees. Tent City 9 governance consists of an Advisor similar to an executive, and a rotating Executive Committee elected by the community in a one-person, one vote structure.\n\nTent City 4 has differentiated itself from other temporary encampments since 2004 due to its standard of requiring a signed \"Code of Conduct\" and performing warrant checks and sex offender checks on all potential residents. By signing the \"Code of Conduct\" the residents agree to abstain from drugs and alcohol while at the camp and share responsibility for site security and maintenance.\n\nTent City 4 advocates cite statements from local police and newspapers that there have been no increases in crime in the areas that Tent City 4 has been located in and that calls to police for a similar tent city in Seattle are about the same as an apartment complex with 100 residents. Opponents of Tent City 4 note that increases in law enforcement costs associated with TC4 are an impact to public safety that the rural areas TC4 visits are unprepared to handle. They also express concerns that analysis of actual police reports and raw data associated with occupancies actually show increases in crime rates conflicts with the official statements that are being made.\n\nTC4 left Northshore United Church of Christ (NUCC) in Woodinville on August 12, 2006 ending their unpermitted 90-day stay at the church. In July 2007 the Washington Court of Appeals upheld the King County Superior Court ruling against SHARE and NUCC allowing the city to collect the fines levied. Tent City 4 had hoped to relocate to the First Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bothell and received permits to do so on August 11, but rejected the permit due to the number of conditions on the permit and instead moved to a backup site at Woodinville Unitarian Universalist Church (WUUC) after receiving a permit from King County.\n\nA community of 50 to 150 people had taken up residence in Camden, New Jersey, nestled on the right side of the ramp of I676 West exit 5A. Although attempts have been made to find housing for the population, no one in the community has been placed. Transition Park’s Mayor and City Council continued to protect their community and seek medical attention for those in need. In May 2010, residents were forced out of the city and into local missions.\n\nUnder the leadership of Amir Khan, the pastor of Solid Rock Worship Center in Clementon, NJ, and founder of the Nehemiah Group, a faith-based nonprofit organization that Khan and his son Micah run, 54 residents of Tent City were moved to the Wingate by Wyndham Hotel in Mount Laurel in May 2010 with the help of volunteers. Pastor Khan asked his congregation and local business members for help and was able to raise $250,000 to provide some homeless people of Camden's Tent City with housing and human services for at least one year.\n\nAlthough these homeless men and women were initially moved to a hotel and received a spa treatment upon arrival, months later drugs and alcohol are taking a toll on their adjustment to life in their new environments. On a positive side, Lorenzo Banks, the ex-self-appointed Mayor of Tent City and James Boggs, another Tent City leader got jobs providing homeless outreach for Volunteers of America-Delaware Valley in Collingswood, NJ. Although several people also enrolled in community college, mental illness, addiction issues and a lack of affordable housing illustrate the road blocks to a healthy life for Tent City residents over the long-term.\n\nBy September 13, 2010, 19 of the original 54 were removed from the \"hotel program\" and many former Tent City residents continue to move from one street corner or overpass to another, continuing the homelessness issue in Camden.\n\nSince ca. 2003 there exists a tent city at \"Potomac mills\" in Woodbridge, VA, adjacent to the Potomac Mills mall. It is tolerated by the private landlord. In 2018, part of the residents were directed to leave.\n\nTent cities are also found in the following cities:\nAnn Arbor, Michigan;\nChattanooga, Tennessee;\nColumbus, Ohio;\nAthens, Georgia; \nReno, Nevada;\nSierra Vista, Arizona;\nProvidence, Rhode Island: \nSacramento, California;\nSan Diego, California;\nLakewood, New Jersey; \nLowell, Massachusetts;\nHuntsville, Alabama;\nNashville, Tennessee;\nSt. Louis, Missouri; \nFt. Worth, Texas; and\nBuffalo, New York; Umoja Village, built by Take Back the Land, was a shantytown in Miami created to protest gentrification and a lack of low-income housing in Miami.\n\nToronto, Ontario, Canada's largest city, was also home to its own \"Tent City\" until September 2002, when the residents of Tent City were evicted by the owner of the property, Home Depot. It was situated in the downtown core of Toronto, near the waterfront, and was home to hundreds of people who were homeless.\n\nTent City was mainly self-governed, as police would not usually enter it unless a major crime was committed. One of the oldest residents of Tent City became the appointed \"Mayor Karl Schmidt\" and oversaw the operation of the city and helped deal with the crime that did occur. In one instance a resident who was leaving Tent City sold his shelter twice to two separate individuals, making a profit for himself and leaving the buyers to resolve the dispute. There were also citizens who turned to theft in order to make money. Despite these conditions, there were some residents who felt more secure in Tent City than they did in the government shelters and chose to live in a self-regulated area where they could defend themselves.\n\nWhen Tent City was closed, Home Depot evicted the residents with private security guards and the support of the Toronto Police Service. A formal property claim system was instituted where individuals were allowed to briefly return to the site to retrieve personal property before being permanently removed from the area. This action was criticized by activist groups as an attempt by Home Depot to clear land to develop a downtown big box outlet, however, the Ontario Municipal Board had previously ruled that a store could not be built on the site. After the eviction, the City of Toronto made shelter spaces available for each of the roughly 110 people removed. Three years later, at the end of 2005, the land remained undeveloped, and Home Depot has since opened a downtown outlet at Gerrard Square, a mall that sits on the corner of Pape and Gerrard.\n\nToronto introduced rent supplement programs in the following year (2002–2004) by which 115 residents were given access to mainstream apartment units.\n\nJournalist Shaughnessy Bishop-Stall voluntarily abandoned his middle class lifestyle to live in Tent City for a year. He received very little outside assistance and begged for money to sustain himself. He detailed his experiences in a book, \"Down to This: Squalor and Splendour in a Big-city Shantytown\".\n\nThe Saudi Arabian government's Ministry of Hajj has set up a permanent tent city to house Muslim pilgrims in Mina, where the ritual Stoning of the Devil takes place as part of the overall Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca. A tent city is also set up at Mount Arafat, another essential stop during the Hajj. Because up to four million pilgrims may be performing the Hajj annually, the tent cities are densely inhabited with 20-40 people per tent. As such, fire and disease outbreaks were constant concerns. Since the late 1990s, Saudi authorities have started using fireproof tents to reduce the risks of a major fire.\n\nDuring the Klondike Gold Rush in Alaska and Canada 1896–1899 several tent camps were built along the routes to the gold fields especially on the popular Dyea/Skagway route where it met Lake Bennett and Lake Lindeman the head of Yukon River. At the Nome Gold Rush, between 1899 and 1909, a tent city sprung up that was 30 miles long, on the beaches and on the treeless coast of Nome, Alaska between Cape Rodney and Cape Nome.\n\nFor the festivities of the 2,500 year celebration of Iran's monarchy the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, built a luxurious tent city in the desert next to the ruins of Persepolis to accommodate his international guests. The event took place October 12–16, 1971. The tent city was inspired by the tent city of the Field of the Cloth of Gold meeting between Francis I of France and Henry VIII of England that took place in 1520.\n\nTent City in Fayette County, Tennessee, was an encampment for displaced blacks who were removed from their homes and blacklisted from buying amenities as retaliation for registering to vote in the early days of the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nThroughout the week of October 26 to November 1, 2014, hundreds of West Virginia University students camped out in \"Tent City\" prior to ESPN's College GameDay.\n\nOn May 12, 1977, a tent city was erected and maintained for a period of more than 60 days by a group of several dozen protesters on the campus of Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, United States. The protesters, led by the May 4 Coalition but also including community members and local clergy, were attempting to prevent the university from erecting a gymnasium annex on part of the site where the Kent State shootings occurred in May 1970, which they believed would alter and obscure that historical event. Law enforcement finally brought the tent city to an end on July 12, 1977, after the forced removal and arrest of 193 people. The event gained national press coverage and the issue was taken to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nChicago band Patience Gloria's second album \"Consequences David\" has a song titled \"Tent City Nation\" that addresses the subject.\n\n\nThe area at music festivals for attendees to set up their tents for overnight stays is often called \"Tent City\".\n\n\nPrior to the election of Sheriff Joe Arpaio in 1993, the prisoner population in Maricopa County Jail, Arizona, the fourth largest jail system in the world, exceeded the maximum number of inmates allowed in its facilities. Prisoners were routinely released from custody prior to completing their sentence due to the overcrowding. In a study conducted in 1993 it was estimated that construction of a new facility would cost approximately $70,000,000. Sheriff Arpaio, concerned about the cost of a new facility and reasoning that military tents were good enough for the men and women of the U.S. armed forces who fought in the Gulf War, ordered that tent jails be constructed using inmate labor. It consisted of Korean War-era tents donated by the United States armed forces, and a 50 ft (15.4 m) observation tower with a vacancy sign mounted on the front. The final cost of the project was approximately $100,000 and it is capable of housing over 2,400 inmates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6464285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6464285", "title": "Ugric peoples", "text": "Ugric peoples\n\nThe Ugric peoples () are ethnic groups that speak a Ugric language. They include Hungarians, Khanty, and Mansi.\n\nThe largest of the Ugric people by far are the Hungarians, numbering 13–14 million. They live in the Carpathian Basin, mainly in their nation state Hungary. The Khanty (21,000) and Mansi (12,000) peoples live in the Ob river area of Russia, mostly in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug. There is also a significant Khanty population in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug. The Khanty and Mansi together are called Ob-Ugrians.\n\n"}
{"id": "18824448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18824448", "title": "United States offshore drilling debate", "text": "United States offshore drilling debate\n\nThe U.S. offshore drilling debate is an ongoing debate in the United States on whether or not, the extent to which, in which areas, and under what conditions, further offshore drilling should be allowed in U.S.-administered waters. \n\nThe issue saw increased coverage when President George W. Bush in July 2008 lifted a 1990 executive order by George H. W. Bush banning offshore drilling, while at the same time calling for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe issue of offshore drilling became central in the 2008 presidential election, not least because of the oil price increases since 2003. It is also being debated in terms of both environmental issues and U.S. energy independence. As of September 2008, President Barack Obama is for limited offshore drilling as part of an extensive energy independence overhaul.\n\nBush's energy policy was named \"drill and veto\" by U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands (DRILL) Act (H.R. 6515) is one of the bills discussed in the Congress about drilling. In Florida, many counties, cities, chambers of commerce, and other local agencies have passed resolutions against oil drilling in Florida waters.\n\nOn March 31, 2010, President Obama announced that he was opening new areas in U.S. coastal waters to offshore drilling for gas and oil. This was in stark contrast to his reaction only a few weeks later to the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico that has become the largest offshore oil spill in United States history. In November 2010, the Obama administration rescinded the decision to open new areas.\n\nAs interpreted by the federal courts, the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution gives the federal government certain regulatory power over \"navigable waters\" of the United States. The Submerged Lands Act of 1953 and Continental Shelf Lands Act of 1953, along with the 1960 Supreme Court decision in \"United States v. States of Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida\", divided ownership of the tidelands of the United States between state and federal governments. States own the sea and seabed out to , except Texas and Florida which own out to . The federal government owns the remainder of the territorial waters.\n\nThe 28 January 1969 blowout at a Unocal rig, which spilled of petroleum off the coast of Santa Barbara, California, resulted in drilling bans in offshore California and Florida.\n\nOffshore drilling has continued in offshore Texas and Louisiana. In 2006, an area in the Gulf of Mexico known as lease 181 was opened for exploration. The existing moratorium on leasing on the Outer Continental Shelf expired in 2012, and the debate is on whether or not to extend it.\n\nIn 2018, a new federal initiative to expand offshore drilling suddenly excluded Florida, but although this would be favored by Floridians, concerns remain about the basis for that apparently arbitrary exception being merely politically motivated and tentative. No scientific, military, or economic basis for the decision was given, provoking continuing public concern in Florida.\n\nA common argument in favor of offshore drilling is it reduces United States dependency on imported oil. Geopolitically, the U.S. would be less vulnerable to sanctions by oil-producing countries hostile to the United States. It would also make the United States less vulnerable to a stop in a country's oil exports, due to, for example, a civil war or an invasion of that country. The debate often makes references to the 1973 oil crisis and 1979 energy crisis.\n\nOne motivation of increased offshore drilling is to reduce the current fuel prices. In 2007, the Energy Information Administration at the U.S. Dep. of Energy analyzed the effect of lifting the ban on oil and gas leasing on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and the eastern Gulf of Mexico. With leasing beginning in 2012, the agency projected that production of oil would not be expected to start before 2017, and that as a result US oil production by 2030 would be 7% higher than it would be otherwise. The effect on fuel prices, however, would be \"insignificant.\"\n\nThe Natural Resources Defense Council estimated that with increased offshore leasing and drilling, the price of oil would only drop about 3–4 cents in 15 to 20 years.\n\nOil produced from offshore drilling reduces oil imports, and thus lessens the U.S. trade deficit. From mid-2017 to early 2018, crude oil imports increased from $45 per barrel to $62 per barrel. Given that the trade deficit was already massive before its increase due to increasing oil prices, it is important to consider all options to lower the deficit including expanded national oil production.\n\nIn 2005, U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld stated that offshore drilling would disrupt military training and weapons testing, if done in an area of the Gulf of Mexico along the coast of Florida.\n\nAlthough offshore drilling has long been banned in federal waters off the state of Florida, Cuba has been drilling its own offshore area near Florida. The subject became an issue in the 2008 presidential race, with assertions and denials of the reality of Cuban offshore drilling. On 31 October 2008, Brazilian and Cuban presidents Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Raul Castro attended a ceremony at which the Brazilian oil company Petrobras agreed to drill for oil in Cuban offshore waters near Florida. By May 2011 Petrobas had withdrawn from the agreement due to poor prospects.\n\nMore recently, Russia has begun drilling in the black sea with a Chinese-made oil rig, Scarabeo 9. Since the rig wasn't built in the U.S. and was agreed to before the imposition of additional sanctions by the E.U. in 2014, Russia has been able to avoid sanctions and operate the rig.\n\nOffshore facilities pose an environmental risk of oil spills. On April 20, 2010, an underwater blowout and subsequent explosion and fire destroyed the \"Deepwater Horizon\" rig owned by Transocean Ltd. and operating in the Gulf of Mexico under lease to energy giant BP, resulting in the largest oil spill in United States history. 5 million barrels of oil were spilled into the Gulf of Mexico, leading to $21.5 billion (or $4300 per barrel) of clean-up costs paid by BP.\nTo the right are the costs of the BP oil spill broken down by category. \nThe image doesn't include the $15+ million in tax breaks that BP was able to save. Also, BP has continued to pay out settlements since the graphic was created in 2011 so the orange section in the graph should be larger than it is.\n\nOil spills create numerous negative externalities that hurt the local and national economy of the place where the oil spill occurred. \n\nThis picture shows how the market can correct for a negative production externality. Once the externality is taken into account, it shifts the producer curve up in the graph, making it more expensive to produce the same amount of the good. The socially optimal quantity is lower than the market quantity, and socially optimal price is higher. By shifting the demand curve up and reaching this new equilibrium, the deadweight loss (the shaded triangle in the graph) can be avoided.\n\nThere are some positive externalities that oil spills create, but these are outweighed by the negative externalities.\n\nThe federal Minerals Management Service gave permission to BP and dozens of other oil companies to drill in the Gulf of Mexico without first getting required permits that assesses threats to endangered species.\n\nIn the aftermath of the BP Oil spill, BP was sued by the Defenders of Wildlife and the Southern Environmental Law Center for imperiling 32 threatened or endangered species. These included the sperm whale, gulf sturgeon, manatee and five kinds of sea turtles, in addition to the surrounding water and habitats that were damaged.\nWith every oil spill, endangered species in the area get closer to extinction.\n\nPolls by independent national polling concerns in the US generally show majorities in favor of offshore drilling.\n\nThe Pew Research Center, which had documented a large and sharp drop in support for allowing more offshore drilling following the \"Deepwater Horizon\" spill in 2010 (down to 44% in favor versus 52% against), found that by March 2012, support for increased offshore drilling had returned to its pre-Deepwater Horizon level, with 65% in favor versus 31% against.\n\nA series of CNN polls 2008-2011 showed that support for increased offshore drilling dropped from 75% before the \"Deepwater Horizon\" spill to 57% shortly after. By April 2011, support had increased to 69%, versus 31% opposed.\n\nThe Gallup organization found 50% support for increased offshore drilling in May 2010, a month after the \"Deepwater Horizon\" explosion. By March 2011, that support had increased to 60% in favor versus 37% opposed.\n\nA more recent study conducted in 2018 by the Pew Research Center found that 51% of Americans now oppose expanded offshore oil rigs versus 42% favoring expanded offshore oil rigs. This represents a 10% decline in those favoring offshore oil rigs since 2014. Generally, people who live within 25 miles of the coastline oppose offshore oil drilling more so than those who live farther from the coast. Also, Democrats oppose additional rig development at a rate of 71%, while only 22% of Democrats favor more offshore oil rigs. On the other hand, 70% of Republicans favor increased offshore drilling in comparison to 25% opposition. Lastly, younger people (aged 18–49) oppose increased offshore drilling at a rate of 58%, compared to only 42% opposition for people aged older than 49. \n"}
{"id": "1660318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660318", "title": "Youth voice", "text": "Youth voice\n\nYouth voice refers to the distinct ideas, opinions, attitudes, knowledge, and actions of young people as a collective body. The term youth voice often groups together a diversity of perspectives and experiences, regardless of backgrounds, identities, and cultural differences. It is frequently associated with the successful application of a variety of youth development activities, including service learning, youth research, and leadership training. Additional research has shown that engaging youth voice is an essential element of effective organizational development among community and youth-serving organizations.\n\nMany youth organizations and community activities cite youth voice as an important factor to their successful operations. The field of Positive Youth Development also promotes youth voice by striving to inspire confidence and social engagement for young people. Examples of School-oriented youth voice efforts include the VicSRC, an Australian student voice organization.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nA broad international movement exists to promote youth voice, born from earlier youth service and youth rights movements. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child was the first international mechanism to stipulate the systemic engagement of youth voice. Specific aims are stated in Articles 5 and 12 that clearly acknowledge the youth have a voice, that youth voice is constantly changing, and that all areas of our society are morally responsible for engaging youth voice. Annual events which center on youth voice include Global Youth Service Day and the National Service Learning Conference.\n\nEphebiphobia and adultism have been identified as the factors preventing widespread recognition of youth voice throughout communities. Additionally, it is commonly acknowledged that \"little quantitative research has been conducted regarding the issue of youth voice\", while the qualitative research on youth voice is often seen as minimally effective, as well, due to a limited scope focused on youth participation in decision-making and opinion-sharing.\n\nYouth voice also faces criticism from the youth rights movement that it does not go far enough, or that it is using youth. Critics claim that youth voice advocates only advance a shallow analysis of ageism and propose solutions that do not go far enough to give youth any substantive power in society. Coupled with youth service this can lead to young people being pressured to help fix adult problems without ever addressing the problems youth face.\n\n"}
