{"id": "585173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585173", "title": "Acoustic phonetics", "text": "Acoustic phonetics\n\nAcoustic phonetics is a subfield of phonetics, which deals with acoustic aspects of speech sounds. Acoustic phonetics investigates time domain features such as the mean squared amplitude of a waveform, its duration, its fundamental frequency, or frequency domain features such as the frequency spectrum, or even combined spectrotemporal features and the relationship of these properties to other branches of phonetics (e.g. articulatory or auditory phonetics), and to abstract linguistic concepts such as phonemes, phrases, or utterances.\n\nThe study of acoustic phonetics was greatly enhanced in the late 19th century by the invention of the Edison phonograph. The phonograph allowed the speech signal to be recorded and then later processed and analyzed. By replaying the same speech signal from the phonograph several times, filtering it each time with a different band-pass filter, a spectrogram of the speech utterance could be built up. A series of papers by Ludimar Hermann published in Pflügers Archiv in the last two decades of the 19th century investigated the spectral properties of vowels and consonants using the Edison phonograph, and it was in these papers that the term \"formant\" was first introduced. Hermann also played back vowel recordings made with the Edison phonograph at different speeds to distinguish between Willis' and Wheatstone's theories of vowel production.\n\nFurther advances in acoustic phonetics were made possible by the development of the telephone industry. (Incidentally, Alexander Graham Bell's father, Alexander Melville Bell, was a phonetician.) During World War II, work at the Bell Telephone Laboratories (which invented the spectrograph) greatly facilitated the systematic study of the spectral properties of periodic and aperiodic speech sounds, vocal tract resonances and vowel formants, voice quality, prosody, etc.\n\nIntegrated linear prediction residuals (ILPR) was an effective feature proposed by T V Ananthapadmanabha in 1995, which closely approximates the voice source signal. This proved to be very effective in accurate estimation of the epochs or the glottal closure instant. A G Ramakrishnan et al. showed in 2015 that the discrete cosine transform coefficients of the ILPR contains speaker information that supplements the mel frequency cepstral coefficients. Plosion index is another scalar, time-domain feature that was introduced by T V Ananthapadmanabha et al. for characterizing the closure-burst transition of stop consonants.\n\nOn a theoretical level, speech acoustics can be modeled in a way analogous to electrical circuits. Lord Rayleigh was among the first to recognize that the new electric theory could be used in acoustics, but it was not until 1941 that the circuit model was effectively used, in a book by Chiba and Kajiyama called \"The Vowel: Its Nature and Structure\". (This book by Japanese authors working in Japan was published in English at the height of World War II.) In 1952, Roman Jakobson, Gunnar Fant, and Morris Halle wrote \"Preliminaries to Speech Analysis\", a seminal work tying acoustic phonetics and phonological theory together. This little book was followed in 1960 by Fant \"Acoustic Theory of Speech Production\", which has remained the major theoretical foundation for speech acoustic research in both the academy and industry. (Fant was himself very involved in the telephone industry.) Other important framers of the field include Kenneth N. Stevens who wrote \"Acoustic Phonetics\", Osamu Fujimura, and Peter Ladefoged.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51548822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51548822", "title": "Adolphe Noël des Vergers", "text": "Adolphe Noël des Vergers\n\nJoseph-Marin-\"Adolphe\" Noël des Vergers (2 June 1805 – 2 January 1867) was a 19th-century French archaeologist, historian, etruscologist, orientalist and epigrapher.\n\nHe was the son of Marin Noël des Vergers, député of the Yonne department.\n\nVery young he is passionate about science and became university assistant of the chemist Baron Louis Jacques Thénard. Also passionate about traveling he went to Italy, Greece, the Near East, where he learned Arabic and translated the book \"Une Vie de Mohamed\" by Abou'Iféda. At the request of Louis-Philippe's government, He went to Sicily to trace the history of Islamic occupation. Between 1850 and 1856, he began excavations on the coast of the Tyrrhenian Sea with the help of an Italian archaeologist Alessandro François, enabling him to discover the port of Populonia. In 1857, they discovered 19 untouched burial chambers near Vulci, known since under the name \"François Tomb\" whose frescoes evoke the warlike scenes taken from the Iliad by Homer which for the first time told the life of the Etruscans.\n\nLittle known in France despite a prize at his name created by the Institut de France, his \"History of the Etruscans\" is still very well known in Italy.\n\nHe is buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery (67th division).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276118", "title": "Alabama language", "text": "Alabama language\n\nAlabama (also known as Alibamu) is a Native American language, spoken by the Alabama-Coushatta tribe of Texas. It was once spoken by the Alabama-Quassarte Tribal Town of Oklahoma, but there are no more Alabama speakers in Oklahoma. It is a Muskogean language, and is believed to have been related to the Muklasa and Tuskegee languages, which are no longer extant. Alabama is closely related to Koasati and Apalachee, and more distantly to other Muskogean languages like Hitchiti, Chickasaw and Choctaw.\n\nThe Alabama first encountered Europeans when Hernando de Soto arrived in 1540. (See here for other de Soto contactees) In the 18th century, the French arrived on the Gulf Coast and built a fort at what became Mobile, Alabama.\n\nThe \"Alibamu\" and \"Koasati\" tribes were part of the Creek Confederacy. They had less contact with British settlers than other Creek tribes did. They were the first to leave when British settlers swarmed into the area by the middle of the 18th century, after the land was ceded by the French following the British victory in the French and Indian War. Under pressure as well by Native American enemies, the Alabama and Coushatta tribes wanted to avoid the powerful Choctaw in present-day Mississippi. They moved into territories of future states, first into Louisiana and then into Texas.\n\nIn 1795, the Coushatta arrived in the Big Thicket area of East Texas. In 1805, nearly 1,000 Alabama came to Tyler County's Peach Tree Village in East Texas. The two tribes developed a strong friendship as they roamed and hunted their new land together. In the early 19th century, the Texas Congress granted each tribe two strips of land along the Trinity River. Their land was soon taken over by European-American settlers, leaving them homeless. Sam Houston, the governor of Texas, recommended that the state purchase for the Alabamas. Although money was appropriated to buy for the Coushatta, the land was never bought. Either through marriage or special permission, many Coushatta went to live on the land given to the Alabama. Other Coushatta had stayed in an area in southern Louisiana near the Red River. Many of their descendants are enrolled members of the federally recognized Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana.\n\nAlabama and Coushatta towns were divided into \"red\" and \"white\" towns. The \"white\" towns were responsible for keeping the peace and for providing refuge, while the \"red\" towns were responsible for conducting military campaigns. Though they had \"red\" and \"white\" towns, the Alabama-Coushatta thought of themselves as a peace-loving people.\n\nBy 1820, there were three main Alabama towns and three large Coushatta towns in east Texas, in the region known as the Big Thicket. In 1854, the Alabama were given 1,280 acres (5 km) in Polk County. The following year, 640 acres (2.6 km), also in Polk County, were given to the Coushattas. The Coushatta claim was disputed by white settlers in 1859. When the Coushatta lost the land claim, the Alabama invited them to live on their land claim.\n\nThe federal government approved a large grant in 1928 to purchase additional land near the reservation; it was granted to the \"Alabama and Coushatta tribes.\" Since that time, the reservation has officially been known as “Alabama-Coushatta\".\n\nOrigin myths focus on the interconnectedness of the tribes. One myth states that the two tribes sprouted from either side of a cypress tree. Another legend was recorded in 1857 from \"Se-ko-pe-chi\", one of the oldest Creeks in Indian Territory. He said that the tribes “sprang out of the ground between the Cohawba and Alabama Rivers.” The symbol of the Alabama-Coushatta tribe comes from pre-contact Mississippian culture: two intertwined woodpeckers, now symbolic of the connection between the two tribes.\n\nThere are fourteen consonant phonemes in Alabama:\n\nThere are three vowel qualities, . Vowel length is distinctive. Vowels can be nasalized in certain morphological contexts.\n\nIn Alabama, the final syllable generally carries the primary stress, except in the case of certain grammatical operations which move the stress. There is also a pitch accent system with two contrastive tones: high-level and high-falling. The two phonemic tones have several different allophonic realizations depending on vowel length and neighboring consonants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54179060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54179060", "title": "Biodiplomacy", "text": "Biodiplomacy\n\nBio-diplomacy is part of the biopolitics theory of professor Agni Vlavianos Arvanitis. According to her, bio-diplomacy is a framework, a political path of the diplomatic world, in organizing and discussing plans and actions for peace and international understanding considering the threats to bios and the environment, between nations worldwide. Bio-diplomacy is involved in enhancing international cooperation in environmental issues and actively supports efforts to maintain biological and cultural diversity. Bio-diplomacy seeks to improve human relations and attain the goal of world peace by replacing the current diplomatic attitudes with a complete international and intercultural perspective. Bio-diplomacy is the diplomacy that adopts the principle of defense for bios as the primary national and international priority. Professor Vlavianos Arvanitis highlights that the pursuit of bio-diplomacy in a coordinated fashion at the international, national, regional, and local levels, will provide for increased cooperation among people across the globe and can encourage international cooperation in environmental protection in issues such as the mitigation of climate change, management of pollution, management of water resources, forests and oceans.Bio-diplomacy recognizes that cultural differentiation constitutes the wealth of the body of humanity, which is part of the body of bios, where DNA, the genetic code for every living organism is the link connecting all forms of life.\n"}
{"id": "33255958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33255958", "title": "Black Bond", "text": "Black Bond\n\nIn 1772, three Stirling burgh councillors signed a secret agreement to run the affairs of the town to their own advantage. This private pact to advance their own power and finance came to be known as the Black Bond.\n\nThe discovery of the agreement led to the burgh being put under the supervision of a central government commission in 1775. The town was also disenfranchised, and barred from voting for an MP.\n\nThe governance of the town was passed back to the burgh council in 1781, with the election of the provost and officers conducted along proper lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "355981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355981", "title": "Call and response", "text": "Call and response\n\nCall and response is a form of interaction between a speaker and an audience in which the speaker's statements (\"calls\") are punctuated by responses from the listeners. This form is also used in music, in which it falls in the general category of antiphony.\n\nIn African cultures, call-and-response is a widespread pattern of democratic participation—in public gatherings, in the discussion of civic affairs, in religious rituals, as well as in vocal and instrumental musical expression (see call and response in music). African bondsmen and bondswomen in the Americas continued this practice over the centuries in various forms of expression—in religious observance; public gatherings; even in children's rhymes; and, most notably, in music in its multiple forms: blues, gospel, rhythm and blues, jazz, hip-hop and go-go. Many work songs sung on plantations by enslaved men and women also incorporate the call and response format. African-American Women Work Songs incorporate the call and response format, a format that fosters dialogue. In contemporary African-American worship services, where call and response is pervasive, a pastor will call out to his congregants to engage an enthusiastic response. For example \"Can I get an Amen?\" or \"Raise your hands and give Him praise!\"\n\nCall and response is derived from the historical African roots that served as the foundation for African American cultural traditions. The call and response format became a diasporic tradition, and it was part of Africans and African Americans creating a new, unique tradition in the United States. \n\nWhile slave masters encouraged conversion of slaves to Christianity, African slaves still practiced their own form of religious celebration, which was called Slave Christianity. But antiphony, a kind of call and response in Anglican worship, was also part of formal services in the South for centuries. African Americans put that tradition to their own use, as well as picking themes from Christianity that meant the most to them. \n\nSeveral analysts have assessed the ecstatic spirituality expressed in worship of African-American slaves. They noted two major elements: call and response, and the ring shout. The latter is considered a metamorphosis of exuberant song and dance at the height of tribal or religious celebration. Participants move in a counterclockwise circle (the direction the sun moves south of the equator, from where the majority of sub-Saharan slaves had been taken).\n\n"}
{"id": "26821268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26821268", "title": "Casco de Leiro", "text": "Casco de Leiro\n\nThe gold Casco de Leiro (\"Helmet of Leiro\") is a ritual hemispherical cap probably dating to the end of the Late Bronze Age (\"circa\" 1,000 to 800 BC) in the town of Leiro (municipality of Rianxo, Galicia, Spain). The circumstances of its discovery show that technically it constitutes a hoard.\n\nThe cap, hammered from a single casting of gold, is entirely covered with registers of repeated repoussé decoration, hammered over bronze molds, of repeated bosses alternating with bands of repeated concentric circles. The central point is applied with a flat-sided point in the form of a truncated cone. Its maximum diameter is 19.5 cm with a height of 15 cm to the base of the point, it weighs 270 grams.\n\nIts registers of hammered decoration present parallels with the decors of late Bronze Age conical golden hats of the Schifferstadt type and the gold bowls found at Axtroki, Guipúzcoa, or the so-called Treasure of Villena, Alicante. There is a possibility that its uses were twofold: as a ritual basin, though it is decoratively pierced with an awl, and inverted as an emblem of authority.\n\nThe casque was a chance discovery made by a fisherman, José Vicente Somoza, on 7 April 1976 at a small rocky point called Curruncho dos Porcos, by the beach at Leiro (Rianxo) in Galicia, Spain. The site, on the large estuary called the Ría de Arousa, is part of the estuary system of the Ulla, which offers \"optimum conditions for navigation\" and has served since time immemorial as an easy passage into the heart of Galicia. Removing some earth to flatten a space for a shed in which to beach his boat, he struck a coarsely made earthenware crock that broke as he struck it. He immediately saw that it contained a gold object, and he reported the find to the Guardia Civil of Rianxo and the Department of Archaeology at the Instituto Padre Sarmiento. The find was transferred to the Museo Arqueolóxico e Histórico of A Coruña, where it is conserved.\n"}
{"id": "19919977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19919977", "title": "Charon's obol", "text": "Charon's obol\n\nCharon's obol is an allusive term for the coin placed in or on the mouth of a dead person before burial. Greek and Latin literary sources specify the coin as an obol, and explain it as a payment or bribe for Charon, the ferryman who conveyed souls across the river that divided the world of the living from the world of the dead. Archaeological examples of these coins, of various denominations in practice, have been called \"the most famous grave goods from antiquity.\"\n\nThe custom is primarily associated with the ancient Greeks and Romans, though it is also found in the ancient Near East. In Western Europe, a similar usage of coins in burials occurs in regions inhabited by Celts of the Gallo-Roman, Hispano-Roman and Romano-British cultures, and among the Germanic peoples of late antiquity and the early Christian era, with sporadic examples into the early 20th century.\n\nAlthough archaeology shows that the myth reflects an actual custom, the placement of coins with the dead was neither pervasive nor confined to a single coin in the deceased's mouth. In many burials, inscribed metal-leaf tablets or Exonumia take the place of the coin, or gold-foil crosses during the early Christian period. The presence of coins or a coin-hoard in Germanic ship-burials suggests an analogous concept.\n\nThe phrase \"Charon’s obol\" as used by archaeologists sometimes can be understood as referring to a particular religious rite, but often serves as a kind of shorthand for coinage as grave goods presumed to further the deceased's passage into the afterlife. In Latin, Charon's obol sometimes is called a \"viaticum\", or \"sustenance for the journey\"; the placement of the coin on the mouth has been explained also as a seal to protect the deceased's soul or to prevent it from returning.\n\nThe coin for Charon is conventionally referred to in Greek literature as an \"obolos\" (Greek ὀβολός), one of the basic denominations of ancient Greek coinage, worth one-sixth of a drachma. Among the Greeks, coins in actual burials are sometimes also a danakē (δανάκη) or other relatively small-denomination gold, silver, bronze or copper coin in local use. In Roman literary sources the coin is usually bronze or copper. From the 6th to the 4th centuries BC in the Black Sea region, low-value coins depicting arrowheads or dolphins were in use mainly for the purpose of \"local exchange and to serve as ‘Charon’s obol.‘\" The payment is sometimes specified with a term for \"boat fare\" (in Greek \"naulon\", ναῦλον, Latin \"naulum\"); \"fee for ferrying\" (\"porthmeion\", πορθμήϊον or πορθμεῖον); or \"waterway toll\" (Latin \"portorium\").\n\nThe word \"naulon\" (ναῦλον) is defined by the Christian-era lexicographer Hesychius of Alexandria as the coin put into the mouth of the dead; one of the meanings of \"danakē\" (δανάκη) is given as \"the obol for the dead\". The Suda defines \"danakē\" as a coin traditionally buried with the dead for paying the ferryman to cross the river Acheron, and explicates the definition of \"porthmēïon\" (πορθμήϊον) as a ferryman’s fee with a quotation from the poet Callimachus, who notes the custom of carrying the \"porthmēïon\" in the \"parched mouths of the dead.\"\n\nIn Latin, Charon’s obol is sometimes called a \"viaticum,\" which in everyday usage means \"provision for a journey\" (from \"via\", \"way, road, journey\"), encompassing food, money and other supplies. The same word can refer to the living allowance granted to those stripped of their property and condemned to exile, and by metaphorical extension to preparing for death at the end of life’s journey. Cicero, in his philosophical dialogue \"On Old Age\" (44 BC), has the interlocutor Cato the Elder combine two metaphors — nearing the end of a journey, and ripening fruit — in speaking of the approach to death:\n\nDrawing on this metaphorical sense of \"provision for the journey into death,\" ecclesiastical Latin borrowed the term \"viaticum\" for the form of Eucharist that is placed in the mouth of a person who is dying as provision for the soul’s passage to eternal life. The earliest literary evidence of this Christian usage for \"viaticum\" appears in Paulinus’s account of the death of Saint Ambrose in 397 AD. The 7th-century \"Synodus Hibernensis\" offers an etymological explanation: \"This word ‘viaticum’ is the name of communion, that is to say, ‘the guardianship of the way,’ for it guards the soul until it shall stand before the judgment-seat of Christ.\" Thomas Aquinas explained the term as \"a prefiguration of the fruit of God, which will be in the Promised Land. And because of this it is called the \"viaticum\", since it provides us with the way of getting there\"; the idea of Christians as \"travelers in search of salvation\" finds early expression in the \"Confessions\" of St. Augustine.\n\nAn equivalent word in Greek is \"ephodion\" (ἐφόδιον); like \"viaticum\", the word is used in antiquity to mean \"provision for a journey\" (literally, \"something for the road,\" from the prefix ἐπ-, \"on\" + ὁδός, \"road, way\") and later in Greek patristic literature for the Eucharist administered on the point of death.\n\nGreek and Roman literary sources from the 5th century BC through the 2nd century AD are consistent in attributing four characteristics to Charon’s obol:\n\nGreek epigrams that were literary versions of epitaphs refer to \"the obol that pays the passage of the departed,\" with some epigrams referring to the belief by mocking or debunking it. The satirist Lucian has Charon himself, in a dialogue of the same name, declare that he collects \"an obol from everyone who makes the downward journey.\" In an elegy of consolation spoken in the person of the dead woman, the Augustan poet Propertius expresses the finality of death by her payment of the bronze coin to the infernal toll collector (\"portitor\"). Several other authors mention the fee. Often, an author uses the low value of the coin to emphasize that death makes no distinction between rich and poor; all must pay the same because all must die, and a rich person can take no greater amount into death:\n\nThe incongruity of paying what is, in effect, admission to Hell encouraged a comic or satiric treatment, and Charon as a ferryman who must be persuaded, threatened, or bribed to do his job appears to be a literary construct that is not reflected in early classical art. Christiane Sourvinou-Inwood has shown that in 5th-century BC depictions of Charon, as on the funerary vases called lekythoi, he is a non-threatening, even reassuring presence who guides women, adolescents, and children to the afterlife. Humor, as in Aristophanes's comic catabasis \"The Frogs\", \"makes the journey to Hades less frightening by articulating it explicitly and trivializing it.\" Aristophanes makes jokes about the fee, and a character complains that Theseus must have introduced it, characterizing the Athenian hero in his role of city organizer as a bureaucrat.\n\nLucian satirizes the obol in his essay \"On Funerals\":\n\nIn another satirical work of Lucian, the \"Dialogs of the dead\", a character called Menippus has just died and Charon is asking for an obol in order to convey him across the river to the underworld, Menippus refuses to pay the obol, and consequently to enter the world of the dead claiming that:\n\nLiterally, \"You can't get [any obols] from one who doesn't have any.\"\n\nThe use of coins as grave goods shows a variety of practice that casts doubt on the accuracy of the term \"Charon’s obol\" as an interpretational category. The phrase continues to be used, however, to suggest the ritual or religious significance of coinage in a funerary context.\n\nCoins are found in Greek burials by the 5th century BC, as soon as Greece was monetized, and appear throughout the Roman Empire into the 5th century AD, with examples conforming to the Charon’s obol type as far west as the Iberian Peninsula, north into Britain, and east to the Vistula river in Poland. The jawbones of skulls found in certain burials in Roman Britain are stained greenish from contact with a copper coin; Roman coins are found later in Anglo-Saxon graves, but often pierced for wearing as a necklace or amulet. Among the ancient Greeks, only about 5 to 10 percent of known burials contain any coins at all; in some Roman cremation cemeteries, however, as many as half the graves yield coins. Many if not most of these occurrences conform to the myth of Charon’s obol in neither the number of coins nor their positioning. Variety of placement and number, including but not limited to a single coin in the mouth, is characteristic of all periods and places.\n\nSome of the oldest coins from Mediterranean tombs have been found on Cyprus. In 2001 Destrooper-Georgiades, a specialist in Achaemenid numismatics, said that investigations of 33 tombs had yielded 77 coins. Although denomination varies, as does the number in any given burial, small coins predominate. Coins started to be placed in tombs almost as soon as they came into circulation on the island in the 6th century, and some predate both the first issue of the obol and any literary reference to Charon’s fee.\n\nAlthough only a small percentage of Greek burials contain coins, among these there are widespread examples of a single coin positioned in the mouth of a skull or with cremation remains. In cremation urns, the coin sometimes adheres to the jawbone of the skull. At Olynthus, 136 coins (mostly bronze, but some silver), were found with burials; in 1932, archaeologists reported that 20 graves had each contained four bronze coins, which they believed were intended for placement in the mouth. A few tombs at Olynthus have contained two coins, but more often a single bronze coin was positioned in the mouth or within the head of the skeleton. In Hellenistic-era tombs at one cemetery in Athens, coins, usually bronze, were found most often in the dead person’s mouth, though sometimes in the hand, loose in the grave, or in a vessel. At Chania, an originally Minoan settlement on Crete, a tomb dating from the second half of the 3rd century BC held a rich variety of grave goods, including fine gold jewelry, a gold tray with the image of a bird, a clay vessel, a bronze mirror, a bronze strigil, and a bronze \"Charon coin\" depicting Zeus. In excavations of 91 tombs at a cemetery in Amphipolis during the mid- to late 1990s, a majority of the dead were found to have a coin in the mouth. The burials dated from the 4th to the late 2nd century BC.\n\nA notable use of a danake occurred in the burial of a woman in 4th-century BC Thessaly, a likely initiate into the Orphic or Dionysiac mysteries. Her religious paraphernalia included gold tablets inscribed with instructions for the afterlife and a terracotta figure of a Bacchic worshipper. Upon her lips was placed a gold danake stamped with the Gorgon’s head. Coins begin to appear with greater frequency in graves during the 3rd century BC, along with gold wreaths and plain unguentaria (small bottles for oil) in place of the earlier lekythoi. Black-figure lekythoi had often depicted Dionysiac scenes; the later white-ground vessels often show Charon, usually with his pole, but rarely (or dubiously) accepting the coin.\n\nThe Black Sea region has also produced examples of Charon’s obol. At Apollonia Pontica, the custom had been practiced from the mid-4th century BC; in one cemetery, for instance, 17 percent of graves contained small bronze local coins in the mouth or hand of the deceased. During 1998 excavations of Pichvnari, on the coast of present-day Georgia, a single coin was found in seven burials, and a pair of coins in two. The coins, silver triobols of the local Colchian currency, were located near the mouth, with the exception of one that was near the hand. It is unclear whether the dead were Colchians or Greeks. The investigating archaeologists did not regard the practice as typical of the region, but speculate that the local geography lent itself to adapting the Greek myth, as bodies of the dead in actuality had to be ferried across a river from the town to the cemetery.\n\nCharon's obol is usually regarded as Hellenic, and a single coin in burials is often taken as a mark of Hellenization, but the practice may be independent of Greek influence in some regions. The placing of a coin in the mouth of the deceased is found also during Parthian and Sasanian times in what is now Iran. Curiously, the coin was not the danake of Persian origin, as it was sometimes among the Greeks, but usually a Greek drachma. In the Yazdi region, objects consecrated in graves may include a coin or piece of silver; the custom is thought to be perhaps as old as the Seleucid era and may be a form of Charon’s obol.\n\nDiscoveries of a single coin near the skull in tombs of the Levant suggest a similar practice among Phoenicians in the Persian period. Jewish ossuaries sometimes contain a single coin; for example, in an ossuary bearing the inscriptional name \"Miriam, daughter of Simeon,\" a coin minted during the reign of Herod Agrippa I, dated 42/43 AD, was found in the skull’s mouth. Although the placement of a coin within the skull is uncommon in Jewish antiquity and was potentially an act of idolatry, rabbinic literature preserves an allusion to Charon in a lament for the dead \"tumbling aboard the ferry and having to borrow his fare.\" Boats are sometimes depicted on ossuaries or the walls of Jewish crypts, and one of the coins found within a skull may have been chosen because it depicted a ship.\n\nCemeteries in the Western Roman Empire vary widely: in a 1st-century BC community in Cisalpine Gaul, coins were included in more than 40 percent of graves, but none was placed in the mouth of the deceased; the figure is only 10 percent for cremations at Empúries in Spain and York in Britain. On the Iberian Peninsula, evidence interpreted as Charon's obol has been found at Tarragona. In Belgic Gaul, varying deposits of coins are found with the dead for the 1st through 3rd centuries, but are most frequent in the late 4th and early 5th centuries. Thirty Gallo-Roman burials near the Pont de Pasly, Soissons, each contained a coin for Charon. Germanic burials show a preference for gold coins, but even within a single cemetery and a narrow time period, their disposition varies.\n\nIn one Merovingian cemetery of Frénouville, Normandy, which was in use for four centuries after Christ, coins are found in a minority of the graves. At one time, the cemetery was regarded as exhibiting two distinct phases: an earlier Gallo-Roman period when the dead were buried with vessels, notably of glass, and Charon's obol; and later, when they were given funerary dress and goods according to Frankish custom. This neat division, however, has been shown to be misleading. In the 3rd- to 4th-century area of the cemetery, coins were placed near the skulls or hands, sometimes protected by a pouch or vessel, or were found in the grave-fill as if tossed in. Bronze coins usually numbered one or two per grave, as would be expected from the custom of Charon’s obol, but one burial contained 23 bronze coins, and another held a gold solidus and a \"semissis\". The latter examples indicate that coins might have represented relative social status. In the newer part of the cemetery, which remained in use through the 6th century, the deposition patterns for coinage were similar, but the coins themselves were not contemporaneous with the burials, and some were pierced for wearing. The use of older coins may reflect a shortage of new currency, or may indicate that the old coins held a traditional symbolic meaning apart from their denominational value. \"The varied placement of coins of different values … demonstrates at least partial if not complete loss of understanding of the original religious function of Charon’s obol,\" remarks Bonnie Effros, a specialist in Merovingian burial customs. \"These factors make it difficult to determine the rite’s significance.\"\n\nAlthough the rite of Charon’s obol was practiced no more uniformly in Northern Europe than in Greece, there are examples of individual burials or small groups conforming to the pattern. At Broadstairs in Kent, a young man had been buried with a Merovingian gold tremissis (\"ca.\" 575) in his mouth. A gold-plated coin was found in the mouth of a young man buried on the Isle of Wight in the mid-6th century; his other grave goods included vessels, a drinking horn, a knife, and gaming-counters of ivory with one cobalt-blue glass piece.\n\nScandinavian and Germanic gold bracteates found in burials of the 5th and 6th centuries, particularly those in Britain, have also been interpreted in light of Charon’s obol. These gold disks, similar to coins though generally single-sided, were influenced by late Roman imperial coins and medallions but feature iconography from Norse myth and runic inscriptions. The stamping process created an extended rim that forms a frame with a loop for threading; the bracteates often appear in burials as a woman’s necklace. A function comparable to that of Charon’s obol is suggested by examples such as a man’s burial at Monkton in Kent and a group of several male graves on Gotland, Sweden, for which the bracteate was deposited in a pouch beside the body. In the Gotland burials, the bracteates lack rim and loop, and show no traces of wear, suggesting that they had not been intended for everyday use.\n\nAccording to one interpretation, the purse-hoard in the Sutton Hoo ship burial (Suffolk, East Anglia), which contained a variety of Merovingian gold coins, unites the traditional Germanic voyage to the afterlife with \"an unusually splendid form of Charon's obol.\" The burial yielded 37 gold tremisses dating from the late 6th and early 7th century, three unstruck coin blanks, and two small gold ingots. It has been conjectured that the coins were to pay the oarsmen who would row the ship into the next world, while the ingots were meant for the steersmen. Although Charon is usually a lone figure in depictions from both antiquity and the modern era, there is some slight evidence that his ship might be furnished with oarsmen. A fragment of 6th century BC pottery has been interpreted as Charon sitting in the stern as steersman of a boat fitted with ten pairs of oars and rowed by \"eidola\" (εἴδωλα), shades of the dead. A reference in Lucian seems also to imply that the shades might row the boat.\n\nIn Scandinavia, scattered examples of Charon’s obol have been documented from the Roman Iron Age and the Migration Period; in the Viking age eastern Sweden produces the best evidence, Denmark rarely, and Norway and Finland inconclusively. In the 13th and 14th centuries, Charon's obol appears in graves in Sweden, Scania, and Norway. Swedish folklore documents the custom from the 18th into the 20th century.\n\nThe custom of Charon’s obol not only continued into the Christian era, but was adopted by Christians, as a single coin was sometimes placed in the mouth for Christian burials. At Arcy-Sainte-Restitue in Picardy, a Merovingian grave yielded a coin of Constantine I, the first Christian emperor, used as Charon’s obol. In Britain, the practice was just as frequent, if not more so, among Christians and persisted even to the end of the 19th century. A folklorist writing in 1914 was able to document a witness in Britain who had seen a penny placed in the mouth of an old man as he lay in his coffin. In 1878, Pope Pius IX was entombed with a coin. The practice was widely documented around the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries in Greece, where the coin was sometimes accompanied by a key.\n\nSo-called \"ghost coins\" also appear with the dead. These are impressions of an actual coin or numismatic icon struck into a small piece of gold foil. In a 5th- or 4th-century BC grave at Syracuse, Sicily, a small rectangular gold leaf stamped with a dual-faced figure, possibly Demeter/Kore, was found in the skeleton’s mouth. In a marble cremation box from the mid-2nd century BC, the \"Charon's piece\" took the form of a bit of gold foil stamped with an owl; in addition to the charred bone fragments, the box also contained gold leaves from a wreath of the type sometimes associated with the mystery religions. Within an Athenian family burial plot of the 2nd century BC, a thin gold disk similarly stamped with the owl of Athens had been placed in the mouth of each male.\n\nThese examples of the \"Charon's piece\" resemble in material and size the tiny inscribed tablet or funerary amulet called a \"lamella\" (Latin for a metal-foil sheet) or a \"Totenpass\", a \"passport for the dead\" with instructions on navigating the afterlife, conventionally regarded as a form of Orphic or Dionysiac devotional. Several of these prayer sheets have been found in positions that indicate placement in or on the deceased's mouth. A functional equivalence with the Charon's piece is further suggested by the evidence of flattened coins used as mouth coverings (\"epistomia\") from graves in Crete. A gold phylactery with a damaged inscription invoking the syncretic god Sarapis was found within the skull in a burial from the late 1st century AD in southern Rome. The gold tablet may have served both as a protective amulet during the deceased’s lifetime and then, with its insertion into the mouth, possibly on the model of Charon’s obol, as a \"Totenpass\".\nIn a late Roman-era burial in Douris, near Baalbek, Lebanon, the forehead, nose, and mouth of the deceased — a woman, in so far as skeletal remains can indicate — were covered with sheets of gold-leaf. She wore a wreath made from gold oak leaves, and her clothing had been sewn with gold-leaf ovals decorated with female faces. Several glass vessels were arranged at her feet, and her discoverers interpreted the bronze coin close to her head as an example of Charon’s obol.\n\nTextual evidence also exists for covering portions of the deceased’s body with gold foil. One of the accusations of heresy against the Phrygian Christian movement known as the Montanists was that they sealed the mouths of their dead with plates of gold like initiates into the mysteries; factual or not, the charge indicates an anxiety that Christian practice be distinguished from that of other religions, and again suggests that Charon’s obol and the \"Orphic\" gold tablets could fulfill a similar purpose. The early Christian poet Prudentius seems to be referring either to these inscribed gold-leaf tablets or to the larger gold-foil coverings in one of his condemnations of the mystery religions. Prudentius says that \"auri lammina\" (\"sheets of gold\") were placed on the bodies of initiates as part of funeral rites. This practice may or may not be distinct from the funerary use of gold leaf inscribed with figures and placed on the eyes, mouths, and chests of warriors in Macedonian burials during the late Archaic period (580–460 BC); in September 2008, archaeologists working near Pella in northern Greece publicized the discovery of twenty warrior graves in which the deceased wore bronze helmets and were supplied with iron swords and knives along with these gold-leaf coverings.\n\nIn Gaul and in Alemannic territory, Christian graves of the Merovingian period reveal an analogous Christianized practice in the form of gold or gold-alloy leaf shaped like a cross, imprinted with designs, and deposited possibly as votives or amulets for the deceased. These paper-thin, fragile gold crosses are sometimes referred to by scholars with the German term \"Goldblattkreuze\". They appear to have been sown onto the deceased’s garment just before burial, not worn during life, and in this practice are comparable to the pierced Roman coins found in Anglo-Saxon graves that were attached to clothing instead of or in addition to being threaded onto a necklace.\n\nThe crosses are characteristic of Lombardic Italy (Cisalpine Gaul of the Roman imperial era), where they were fastened to veils and placed over the deceased's mouth in a continuation of Byzantine practice. Throughout the Lombardic realm and north into Germanic territory, the crosses gradually replaced bracteates during the 7th century. The transition is signalled by Scandinavian bracteates found in Kent that are stamped with cross motifs resembling the Lombardic crosses. Two plain gold-foil crosses of Latin form, found in the burial of a 7th-century East Saxon king, are the first known examples from England, announced in 2004. The king’s other grave goods included glass vessels made in England and two different Merovingian gold coins, each of which had a cross on the reverse. Coins of the period were adapted with Christian iconography in part to facilitate their use as an alternative to amulets of traditional religions.\n\nScandinavia also produced small and fragile gold-foil pieces, called \"gullgubber\", that were worked in repoussé with human figures. These begin to appear in the late Iron Age and continue into the Viking Age. In form they resemble the gold-foil pieces such as those found at Douris, but the \"gullgubber\" were not fashioned with a fastening element and are not associated with burials. They occur in the archaeological record sometimes singly, but most often in large numbers. Some scholars have speculated that they are a form of \"temple money\" or votive offering, but Sharon Ratke has suggested that they might represent good wishes for travelers, perhaps as a metaphor for the dead on their journey to the otherworld, especially those depicting \"wraiths.\"\n\nShips often appear in Greek and Roman funerary art representing a voyage to the Isles of the Blessed, and a 2nd-century sarcophagus found in Velletri, near Rome, included Charon’s boat among its subject matter. In modern-era Greek folkloric survivals of Charon (as Charos the death demon), sea voyage and river crossing are conflated, and in one later tale, the soul is held hostage by pirates, perhaps representing the oarsmen, who require a ransom for release. The mytheme of the passage to the afterlife as a voyage or crossing is not unique to Greco-Roman belief nor to Indo-European culture as a whole, as it occurs also in ancient Egyptian religion and other belief systems that are culturally unrelated. The boatman of the dead himself appears in diverse cultures with no special relation to Greece or to each other. A Sumerian model for Charon has been proposed, and the figure has possible antecedents among the Egyptians; scholars are divided as to whether these influenced the tradition of Charon, but the 1st-century BC historian Diodorus Siculus thought so and mentions the fee. It might go without saying that only when coinage comes into common use is the idea of payment introduced, but coins were placed in graves before the appearance of the Charon myth in literature.\n\nBecause of the diversity of religious beliefs in the Greco-Roman world, and because the mystery religions that were most concerned with the afterlife and soteriology placed a high value on secrecy and arcane knowledge, no single theology has been reconstructed that would account for Charon’s obol. Franz Cumont regarded the numerous examples found in Roman tombs as \"evidence of no more than a traditional rite which men performed without attaching a definite meaning to it.\" The use of a coin for the rite seems to depend not just on the myth of Charon, but also on other religious and mythic traditions associating wealth and the underworld.\n\nIn cultures that practiced the rite of Charon’s obol, the infernal ferryman who requires payment is one of a number of underworld deities associated with wealth. For the Greeks, Pluto (\"Ploutōn\", Πλούτων), the ruler of the dead and the consort of Persephone, became conflated with Plutus (\"Ploutos\", Πλοῦτος), wealth personified; Plato points out the meaningful ambiguity of this etymological play in his dialogue \"Cratylus\". Hermes is a god of boundaries, travel, and liminality, and thus conveys souls across the border that separates the living from the dead, acting as a psychopomp, but he was also a god of exchange, commerce, and profit. The name of his Roman counterpart Mercury was thought in antiquity to share its derivation with the Latin word \"merces\", \"goods, merchandise.\"\n\nThe numerous chthonic deities among the Romans were also frequently associated with wealth. In his treatise \"On the Nature of the Gods\", Cicero identifies the Roman god Dis Pater with the Greek Pluton, explaining that riches are hidden in and arise from the earth. Dis Pater is sometimes regarded as a chthonic Saturn, ruler of the , whose consort Ops was a goddess of abundance. The obscure goddess Angerona, whose iconography depicted silence and secrecy, and whose festival followed that of Ops, seems to have regulated communications between the realm of the living and the underworld; she may have been a guardian of both arcane knowledge and stored, secret wealth. When a Roman died, the treasury at the Temple of Venus in the sacred grove of the funeral goddess Libitina collected a coin as a \"death tax\".\n\nThe Republican poet Ennius locates the \"treasuries of Death\" across the Acheron. Romans threw an annual offering of coins into the Lacus Curtius, a pit or chasm in the middle of the Roman Forum that was regarded as a \"mundus\" or \"port of communication\" with the underworld.\nChthonic wealth is sometimes attributed to the Celtic horned god of the Cernunnos type, one of the deities proposed as the divine progenitor of the Gauls that Julius Caesar identified with Dis Pater. On a relief from the Gallic \"civitas\" of the Remi, the god holds in his lap a sack or purse, the contents of which — identified by scholars variably as coins or food (grain, small fruits, or nuts) — may be intentionally ambiguous in expressing desired abundance. The antler-horned god appears on coins from Gaul and Britain, in explicit association with wealth. In his best-known representation, on the problematic Gundestrup Cauldron, he is surrounded by animals with mythico-religious significance; taken in the context of an accompanying scene of initiation, the horned god can be interpreted as presiding over the process of metempsychosis, the cycle of death and rebirth, regarded by ancient literary sources as one of the most important tenets of Celtic religion and characteristic also of Pythagoreanism and the Orphic or Dionysiac mysteries.\n\nFrom its 7th-century BC beginnings in western Anatolia, ancient coinage was viewed not as distinctly secular, but as a form of communal trust bound up in the ties expressed by religion. The earliest known coin-hoard from antiquity was found buried in a pot within the foundations of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, dating to the mid-6th century BC. The iconography of gods and various divine beings appeared regularly on coins issued by Greek cities and later by Rome. The effect of monetization on religious practice is indicated by notations in Greek calendars of sacrifices pertaining to fees for priests and prices for offerings and victims. One fragmentary text seems to refer to a single obol to be paid by each initiate of the Eleusinian Mysteries to the priestess of Demeter, the symbolic value of which is perhaps to be interpreted in light of Charon’s obol as the initiate’s gaining access to knowledge required for successful passage to the afterlife.\n\nErwin Rohde argued, on the basis of later folk customs, that the obol was originally a payment to the dead person himself, as a way of compensating him for the loss of property that passed to the living, or as a token substitute for the more ancient practice of consigning his property to the grave with him. In Rohde's view, the obol was later attached to the myth of the ferryman as an \"ex post facto\" explanation.\n\nIn the view of Richard Seaford, the introduction of coinage to Greece and the theorizing about value it provoked was concomitant with and even contributed to the creation of Greek metaphysics. Plato criticizes common currency as \"polluting\", but also says that the guardians of his ideal republic should have divine gold and silver money from the gods always present in their souls. This Platonic \"money in the soul\" holds the promise of \"divinity, homogeneity, unchanging permanence, self-sufficiency, invisibility.\"\n\nAttempts to explain the symbolism of the rite also must negotiate the illogical placement of the coin in the mouth. The Latin term \"viaticum\" makes sense of Charon’s obol as \"sustenance for the journey,\" and it has been suggested that coins replaced offerings of food for the dead in Roman tradition.\n\nThis dichotomy of food for the living and gold for the dead is a theme in the myth of King Midas, versions of which draw on elements of the Dionysian mysteries. The Phrygian king's famous \"golden touch\" was a divine gift from Dionysus, but its acceptance separated him from the human world of nourishment and reproduction: both his food and his daughter were transformed by contact with him into immutable, unreciprocal gold. In some versions of the myth, Midas's hard-won insight into the meaning of life and the limitations of earthly wealth is accompanied by conversion to the cult of Dionysus. Having learned his lessons as an initiate into the mysteries, and after ritual immersion in the river Pactolus, Midas forsakes the \"bogus eternity\" of gold for spiritual rebirth.\n\nJohn Cuthbert Lawson, an early 20th-century folklorist whose approach was influenced by the Cambridge Ritualists, argued that both the food metaphor and the coin as payment for the ferryman were later rationalizations of the original ritual. Although single coins from inhumations appear most often inside or in the vicinity of the skull, they are also found in the hand or a pouch, a more logical place to carry a payment. Lawson viewed the coin as originally a seal, used as potsherds sometimes were on the lips of the dead to block the return of the soul, believed to pass from the body with the last breath. One of the first steps in preparing a corpse was to seal the lips, sometimes with linen or gold bands, to prevent the soul’s return. The stopping of the mouth by Charon's obol has been used to illuminate burial practices intended, for instance, to prevent vampires or other revenants from returning.\nThe placement of the coin on the mouth can be compared to practices pertaining to the disposition of the dead in the Near East. An Egyptian custom is indicated by a burial at Abydos, dating from the 22nd Dynasty (945–720 BC) or later, for which the deceased woman's mouth was covered with a faience \"uadjet\", or protective eye amulet. Oval mouth coverings, perforated for fastening, are found in burials throughout the Near East from the 1st century BC through the 1st century AD, providing evidence of an analogous practice for sealing the mouths of the dead in regions not under Roman Imperial control. Bahraini excavations at the necropolis of Al-Hajjar produced examples of these coverings in gold leaf, one of which retained labial imprints.\n\nA coin may make a superior seal because of its iconography; in the Thessalian burial of an initiate described above, for instance, the coin on the lips depicted the apotropaic device of the Gorgon’s head. The seal may also serve to regulate the speech of the dead, which was sometimes sought through rituals for its prophetic powers, but also highly regulated as dangerous; mystery religions that offered arcane knowledge of the afterlife prescribed ritual silence. A golden key \"(chrusea klês)\" was laid on the tongue of initiates as a symbol of the revelation they were obligated to keep secret. \"Charon's obol\" is often found in burials with objects or inscriptions indicative of mystery cult, and the coin figures in a Latin prose narrative that alludes to initiation ritual, the \"Cupid and Psyche\" story from the \"Metamorphoses\" of Apuleius.\n\nIn the 2nd-century \"Cupid and Psyche\" narrative by Apuleius, Psyche, whose name is a Greek word for \"soul,\" is sent on an underworld quest to retrieve the box containing Proserpina’s secret beauty, in order to restore the love of Cupid. The tale lends itself to multiple interpretational approaches, and it has frequently been analyzed as an allegory of Platonism as well as of religious initiation, iterating on a smaller scale the plot of the \"Metamorphoses\" as a whole, which concerns the protagonist Lucius’s journey towards salvation through the cult of Isis. Ritual elements were associated with the story even before Apuleius’s version, as indicated in visual representations; for instance, a 1st-century BC sardonyx cameo depicting the wedding of Cupid and Psyche shows an attendant elevating a \"liknon\" (basket) used in Dionysiac initiation. C. Moreschini saw the \"Metamorphoses\" as moving away from the Platonism of Apuleius’s earlier \"Apology\" toward a vision of mystic salvation.\nBefore embarking on her descent, Psyche receives instructions for navigating the underworld:\n\nThe two coins serve the plot by providing Psyche with fare for the return; allegorically, this return trip suggests the soul’s rebirth, perhaps a Platonic reincarnation or the divine form implied by the so-called Orphic gold tablets. The myth of Charon has rarely been interpreted in light of mystery religions, despite the association in Apuleius and archaeological evidence of burials that incorporate both Charon’s obol and cultic paraphernalia. And yet \"the image of the ferry,\" Helen King notes, \"hints that death is not final, but can be reversed, because the ferryman could carry his passengers either way.\" A funeral rite is itself a kind of initiation, or the transition of the soul into another stage of \"life.\"\n\nContrary to popular etiology there is little evidence to connect the myth of Charon to the custom of placing a pair of coins on the eyes of the deceased, though the larger gold-foil coverings discussed above might include pieces shaped for the eyes. Pairs of coins are sometimes found in burials, including cremation urns; among the collections of the British Museum is an urn from Athens, \"ca.\" 300 BC, that contained cremated remains, two obols, and a terracotta figure of a mourning siren. Ancient Greek and Latin literary sources, however, mention a pair of coins only when a return trip is anticipated, as in the case of Psyche’s catabasis, and never in regard to sealing the eyes.\n\nOnly rarely does the placement of a pair of coins suggest they might have covered the eyes. In Judea, a pair of silver denarii were found in the eye sockets of a skull; the burial dated to the 2nd century A.D. occurs within a Jewish community, but the religious affiliation of the deceased is unclear. Jewish ritual in antiquity did not require that the eye be sealed by an object, and it is debatable whether the custom of placing coins on the eyes of the dead was practiced among Jews prior to the modern era. During the 1980s, the issue became embroiled with the controversies regarding the Shroud of Turin when it was argued that the eye area revealed the outlines of coins; since the placement of coins on the eyes for burial is not securely attested in antiquity, apart from the one example from Judea cited above, this interpretation of evidence obtained through digital image processing cannot be claimed as firm support for the shroud's authenticity.\n\nCoins are found also at the deceased’s feet, although the purpose of this positioning is uncertain. John Chrysostom mentions and disparages the use of coins depicting Alexander the Great as amulets attached by the living to the head or feet, and offers the Christian cross as a more powerful alternative for both salvation and healing:\n\nWith instructions that recall those received by Psyche for her heroic descent, or the inscribed \"Totenpass\" for initiates, the Christian protagonist of a 14th-century French pilgrimage narrative is advised:\n\nAnglo-Saxon and early–medieval Irish missionaries took the idea of a viaticum literally, carrying the Eucharistic bread and oil with them everywhere.\n\nThe need for a viaticum figures in a myth-tinged account of the death of King William II of England, told by the Anglo-Norman chronicler Geoffrey Gaimar: dying from a battle wound and delirious, the desperate king kept calling out for the \"corpus domini\" (Lord’s body) until a huntsman acted as priest and gave him flowering herbs as his viaticum. In the dominant tradition of William's death, he is killed while hunting on the second day of red stag season, which began August 1, the date of both Lughnasadh and the Feast of St. Peter's Chains.\n\nThe hunt is also associated with the administering of a herbal viaticum in the medieval \"chansons de geste\", in which traditional heroic culture and Christian values interpenetrate. The \"chansons\" offer multiple examples of grass or foliage substituted as a viaticum when a warrior or knight meets his violent end outside the Christian community. Sarah Kay views this substitute rite as communion with the Girardian \"primitive sacred,\" speculating that \"pagan\" beliefs lurk beneath a Christian veneer. In the \"Raoul de Cambrai\", the dying Bernier receives three blades of grass in place of the \"corpus Domini.\" Two other \"chansons\" place this desire for communion within the mytheme of the sacrificial boar hunt. In \"Daurel et Beton\", Bove is murdered next to the boar he just killed; he asks his own killer to grant him communion \"with a leaf,\" and when he is denied, he then asks that his enemy eat his heart instead. This request is granted; the killer partakes of the victim’s body as an alternative sacrament. In \"Garin le Loheren\", Begon is similarly assassinated next to the corpse of a boar, and takes communion with three blades of grass.\n\nKay’s conjecture that a pre-Christian tradition accounts for the use of leaves as the viaticum is supported by evidence from Hellenistic magico-religious practice, the continuance of which is documented in Gaul and among Germanic peoples. Spells from the Greek Magical Papyri often require the insertion of a leaf — an actual leaf, a papyrus scrap, the representation of a leaf in metal foil, or an inscribed rectangular \"lamella\" (as described above) — into the mouth of a corpse or skull, as a means of conveying messages to and from the realms of the living and the dead. In one spell attributed to Pitys the Thessalian, the practitioner is instructed to inscribe a flax leaf with magic words and to insert it into the mouth of a dead person.\n\nThe insertion of herbs into the mouth of the dead, with a promise of resurrection, occurs also in the Irish tale \"The Kern in the Narrow Stripes,\" the earliest written version of which dates to the 1800s but is thought to preserve an oral tradition of early Irish myth. The kern of the title is an otherworldly trickster figure who performs a series of miracles; after inducing twenty armed men to kill each other, he produces herbs from his bag and instructs his host's gatekeeper to place them within the jaws of each dead man to bring him back to life. At the end of the tale, the mysterious visitor is revealed as Manannán mac Lir, the Irish god known in other stories for his herd of pigs that offer eternal feasting from their self-renewing flesh.\n\nScholars have frequently suggested that the use of a viaticum in the Christian rite for the dying reflected preexisting religious practice, with Charon’s obol replaced by a more acceptably Christian sacrament. In one miraculous story, recounted by Pope Innocent III in a letter dated 1213, the coins in a moneybox were said literally to have been transformed into communion wafers. Because of the viaticum’s presumed pre-Christian origin, an anti-Catholic historian of religion at the turn of the 18th–19th centuries propagandized the practice, stating that \"it was from the heathens [that] the papists borrowed it.\" Contemporary scholars are more likely to explain the borrowing in light of the deep-seated conservatism of burial practices or as a form of religious syncretism motivated by a psychological need for continuity.\nAmong Christians, the practice of burying a corpse with a coin in its mouth was never widespread enough to warrant condemnation from the Church, but the substitute rite came under official scrutiny; the viaticum should not be, but often was, placed in the mouth after death, apparently out of a superstitious desire for its magical protection. By the time Augustine wrote his \"Confessions\", \"African bishops had forbidden the celebration of the eucharist in the presence of the corpse. This was necessary to stop the occasional practice of placing the eucharistic bread in the mouth of the dead, a viaticum which replaced the coin needed to pay Charon’s fare.\" Pope Gregory I, in his biography of Benedict of Nursia, tells the story of a monk whose body was twice ejected from his tomb; Benedict advised the family to restore the dead man to his resting place with the viaticum placed on his chest. The placement suggests a functional equivalence with the \"Goldblattkreuze\" and the Orphic gold tablets; its purpose — to assure the deceased’s successful passage to the afterlife — is analogous to that of Charon’s obol and the \"Totenpässe\" of mystery initiates, and in this case it acts also as a seal to block the dead from returning to the world of the living.\n\nIdeally, the journey into death would begin immediately after taking the sacrament. Eusebius offers an example of an elderly Christian who managed to hold off death until his grandson placed a portion of the Eucharist in his mouth. In a general audience October 24, 2007, Pope Benedict XVI quoted Paulinus's account of the death of St. Ambrose, who received and swallowed the \"corpus Domini\" and immediately \"gave up his spirit, taking the good Viaticum with him. His soul, thus refreshed by the virtue of that food, now enjoys the company of Angels.\" A perhaps apocryphal story from a Cistercian chronicle \"circa\" 1200 indicates that the viaticum was regarded as an apotropaic seal against demons (\"ad avertendos daemonas\"), who nevertheless induced a woman to attempt to snatch the Host (\"viaticum\") from the mouth of Pope Urban III's corpse. Like Charon's obol, the viaticum can serve as both sustenance for the journey and seal.\n\nIn the 19th century, the German scholar Georg Heinrici proposed that Greek and Roman practices pertaining to the care of the dead, specifically including Charon’s obol, shed light on vicarious baptism, or baptism for the dead, to which St. Paul refers in a letter to the Corinthians. A century after Heinrici, James Downey examined the funerary practices of Christian Corinthians in historical context and argued that they intended vicarious baptism to protect the deceased’s soul against interference on the journey to the afterlife. Both vicarious baptism and the placement of a viaticum in the mouth of a person already dead reflect Christian responses to, rather than outright rejection of, ancient religious traditions pertaining to the cult of the dead.\n\nAlthough Charon has been a popular subject of art, particularly in the 19th century, the act of payment is less often depicted. An exception is the \"Charon and Psyche\" of John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, exhibited \"ca.\" 1883. The story of Cupid and Psyche found several expressions among the Pre-Raphaelite artists and their literary peers, and Stanhope, while mourning the death of his only child, produced a number of works dealing with the afterlife. His Psyche paintings were most likely based on the narrative poem of William Morris that was a retelling of the version by Apuleius. In Stanhope’s vision, the ferryman is a calm and patriarchal figure more in keeping with the Charon of the archaic Greek lekythoi than the fearsome antagonist often found in Christian-era art and literature.\n\nThe contemporary artist Bradley Platz extends the theme of Charon’s obol as a viatical food in his oil-on-canvas work \"Charon and the Shades\" (2007). In this depiction, Charon is a hooded, faceless figure of Death; the transported soul regurgitates a stream of gold coins while the penniless struggle and beg on the shores. The painting was created for a show in which artists were to bring together a mythological figure and a pop-culture icon, chosen randomly. The \"soul\" in Platz’s reinterpretation is the \"celebutante\" Nicole Richie \"as a general symbol for the modern celebrity and wealth,\" notes the artist: \"She is represented dry and emaciated, having little physical beauty left but a wealth of gold\" which she purges from her mouth.\n\nPoets of the modern era have continued to make use of Charon's obol as a living allusion. In \"Don Juan aux enfers\" (\"Don Juan in Hell\"), the French Symboliste poet Charles Baudelaire marks the eponymous hero's entry to the underworld with his payment of the obol to Charon. Irish Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney makes a less direct allusion with a simile — \"words imposing on my tongue like obols\" — in the \"Fosterage\" section of his long poem \"Singing School\":\n\n"}
{"id": "6216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6216", "title": "Chinese room", "text": "Chinese room\n\nThe Chinese room argument holds that a program cannot give a computer a \"mind\", \"understanding\" or \"consciousness\", regardless of how intelligently or human-like the program may make the computer behave. The argument was first presented by philosopher John Searle in his paper, \"Minds, Brains, and Programs\", published in \"Behavioral and Brain Sciences\" in 1980. It has been widely discussed in the years since. The centerpiece of the argument is a thought experiment known as the Chinese room.\n\nThe argument is directed against the philosophical positions of functionalism and computationalism, which hold that the mind may be viewed as an information-processing system operating on formal symbols. Specifically, the argument is intended to refute a position Searle calls Strong AI:\nThe appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds.\n\nAlthough it was originally presented in reaction to the statements of artificial intelligence (AI) researchers, it is not an argument against the goals of AI research, because it does not limit the amount of intelligence a machine can display. The argument applies only to digital computers running programs and does not apply to machines in general.\n\nSearle's thought experiment begins with this hypothetical premise: suppose that artificial intelligence research has succeeded in constructing a computer that behaves as if it understands Chinese. It takes Chinese characters as input and, by following the instructions of a computer program, produces other Chinese characters, which it presents as output. Suppose, says Searle, that this computer performs its task so convincingly that it comfortably passes the Turing test: it convinces a human Chinese speaker that the program is itself a live Chinese speaker. To all of the questions that the person asks, it makes appropriate responses, such that any Chinese speaker would be convinced that they are talking to another Chinese-speaking human being.\n\nThe question Searle wants to answer is this: does the machine \"literally\" \"understand\" Chinese? Or is it merely \"simulating\" the ability to understand Chinese? Searle calls the first position \"strong AI\" and the latter \"weak AI\".\n\nSearle then supposes that he is in a closed room and has a book with an English version of the computer program, along with sufficient papers, pencils, erasers, and filing cabinets. Searle could receive Chinese characters through a slot in the door, process them according to the program's instructions, and produce Chinese characters as output. If the computer had passed the Turing test this way, it follows, says Searle, that he would do so as well, simply by running the program manually.\n\nSearle asserts that there is no essential difference between the roles of the computer and himself in the experiment. Each simply follows a program, step-by-step, producing a behavior which is then interpreted by the user as demonstrating intelligent conversation. However, Searle himself would not be able to understand the conversation. (\"I don't speak a word of Chinese,\" he points out.) Therefore, he argues, it follows that the computer would not be able to understand the conversation either.\n\nSearle argues that, without \"understanding\" (or \"intentionality\"), we cannot describe what the machine is doing as \"thinking\" and, since it does not think, it does not have a \"mind\" in anything like the normal sense of the word. Therefore, he concludes that \"strong AI\" is false.\n\nGottfried Leibniz made a similar argument in 1714 against mechanism (the position that the mind is a machine and nothing more). Leibniz used the thought experiment of expanding the brain until it was the size of a mill. Leibniz found it difficult to imagine that a \"mind\" capable of \"perception\" could be constructed using only mechanical processes. In 1974, Lawrence Davis imagined duplicating the brain using telephone lines and offices staffed by people, and in 1978 Ned Block envisioned the entire population of China involved in such a brain simulation. This thought experiment is called the China brain, also the \"Chinese Nation\" or the \"Chinese Gym\".\n\nThe Chinese Room Argument was introduced in Searle's 1980 paper \"Minds, Brains, and Programs\", published in \"Behavioral and Brain Sciences\". It eventually became the journal's \"most influential target article\", generating an enormous number of commentaries and responses in the ensuing decades, and Searle has continued to defend and refine the argument in many papers, popular articles and books. David Cole writes that \"the Chinese Room argument has probably been the most widely discussed philosophical argument in cognitive science to appear in the past 25 years\".\n\nMost of the discussion consists of attempts to refute it. \"The overwhelming majority\", notes \"BBS\" editor Stevan Harnad, \"still think that the Chinese Room Argument is dead wrong\". The sheer volume of the literature that has grown up around it inspired Pat Hayes to comment that the field of cognitive science ought to be redefined as \"the ongoing research program of showing Searle's Chinese Room Argument to be false\".\n\nSearle's argument has become \"something of a classic in cognitive science\", according to Harnad. Varol Akman agrees, and has described the original paper as \"an exemplar of philosophical clarity and purity\".\n\nAlthough the Chinese Room argument was originally presented in reaction to the statements of AI researchers, philosophers have come to view it as an important part of the philosophy of mind. It is a challenge to functionalism and the computational theory of mind, and is related to such questions as the mind–body problem, the problem of other minds, the symbol-grounding problem, and the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nSearle identified a philosophical position he calls \"strong AI\":\nThe appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds.\nThe definition hinges on the distinction between \"simulating\" a mind and \"actually having\" a mind. Searle writes that \"according to Strong AI, the correct simulation really is a mind. According to Weak AI, the correct simulation is a model of the mind.\"\n\nThe position is implicit in some of the statements of early AI researchers and analysts. For example, in 1955, AI founder Herbert A. Simon declared that \"there are now in the world machines that think, that learn and create\" and claimed that they had \"solved the venerable mind–body problem, explaining how a system composed of matter can have the properties of mind.\" John Haugeland wrote that \"AI wants only the genuine article: \"machines with minds\", in the full and literal sense. This is not science fiction, but real science, based on a theoretical conception as deep as it is daring: namely, we are, at root, \"computers ourselves\".\"\n\nSearle also ascribes the following positions to advocates of strong AI:\n\nIn more recent presentations of the Chinese room argument, Searle has identified \"strong AI\" as \"computer functionalism\" (a term he attributes to Daniel Dennett). Functionalism is a position in modern philosophy of mind that holds that we can define mental phenomena (such as beliefs, desires, and perceptions) by describing their functions in relation to each other and to the outside world. Because a computer program can accurately represent functional relationships as relationships between symbols, a computer can have mental phenomena if it runs the right program, according to functionalism.\n\nStevan Harnad argues that Searle's depictions of strong AI can be reformulated as \"recognizable tenets of \"computationalism\", a position (unlike \"strong AI\") that is actually held by many thinkers, and hence one worth refuting.\" Computationalism is the position in the philosophy of mind which argues that the mind can be accurately described as an information-processing system.\n\nEach of the following, according to Harnad, is a \"tenet\" of computationalism:\n\nSearle holds a philosophical position he calls \"biological naturalism\": that consciousness and understanding require specific biological machinery that are found in brains. He writes \"brains cause minds\" and that \"actual human mental phenomena [are] dependent on actual physical–chemical properties of actual human brains\". Searle argues that this machinery (known to neuroscience as the \"neural correlates of consciousness\") must have some (unspecified) \"causal powers\" that permit the human experience of consciousness. Searle's faith in the existence of these powers has been criticized.\n\nSearle does not disagree with the notion that machines can have consciousness and understanding, because, as he writes, \"we are precisely such machines\". Searle holds that the brain is, in fact, a machine, but that the brain gives rise to consciousness and understanding using machinery that is non-computational. If neuroscience is able to isolate the mechanical process that gives rise to consciousness, then Searle grants that it may be possible to create machines that have consciousness and understanding. However, without the specific machinery required, Searle does not believe that consciousness can occur.\n\nBiological naturalism implies that one cannot determine if the experience of consciousness is occurring merely by examining how a system functions, because the specific machinery of the brain is essential. Thus, biological naturalism is directly opposed to both behaviorism and functionalism (including \"computer functionalism\" or \"strong AI\"). Biological naturalism is similar to identity theory (the position that mental states are \"identical to\" or \"composed of\" neurological events); however, Searle has specific technical objections to identity theory. Searle's biological naturalism and strong AI are both opposed to Cartesian dualism, the classical idea that the brain and mind are made of different \"substances\". Indeed, Searle accuses strong AI of dualism, writing that \"strong AI only makes sense given the dualistic assumption that, where the mind is concerned, the brain doesn't matter.\"\n\nSearle's original presentation emphasized \"understanding\"—that is, mental states with what philosophers call \"intentionality\"—and did not directly address other closely related ideas such as \"consciousness\". However, in more recent presentations Searle has included consciousness as the real target of the argument.\n\nDavid Chalmers writes \"it is fairly clear that consciousness is at the root of the matter\" of the Chinese room.\n\nColin McGinn argues that the Chinese room provides strong evidence that the hard problem of consciousness is fundamentally insoluble. The argument, to be clear, is not about whether a machine can be conscious, but about whether it (or anything else for that matter) can be shown to be conscious. It is plain that any other method of probing the occupant of a Chinese room has the same difficulties in principle as exchanging questions and answers in Chinese. It is simply not possible to divine whether a conscious agency or some clever simulation inhabits the room.\n\nSearle argues that this is only true for an observer \"outside\" of the room. The whole point of the thought experiment is to put someone \"inside\" the room, where they can directly observe the operations of consciousness. Searle claims that from his vantage point within the room there is nothing he can see that could imaginably give rise to consciousness, other than himself, and clearly he does not have a mind that can speak Chinese.\n\nPatrick Hew used the Chinese Room argument to deduce requirements from military command and control systems if they are to preserve a commander's moral agency. He drew an analogy between a commander in their command center and the person in the Chinese Room, and analyzed it under a reading of Aristotle’s notions of \"compulsory\" and \"ignorance\". Information could be \"down converted\" from meaning to symbols, and manipulated symbolically, but moral agency could be undermined if there was inadequate 'up conversion' into meaning. Hew cited examples from the USS \"Vincennes\" incident.\n\nThe Chinese room argument is primarily an argument in the philosophy of mind, and both major computer scientists and artificial intelligence researchers consider it irrelevant to their fields. However, several concepts developed by computer scientists are essential to understanding the argument, including symbol processing, Turing machines, Turing completeness, and the Turing test.\n\nSearle's arguments are not usually considered an issue for AI research. Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig observe that most AI researchers \"don't care about the strong AI hypothesis—as long as the program works, they don't care whether you call it a simulation of intelligence or real intelligence.\" The primary mission of artificial intelligence research is only to create useful systems that \"act\" intelligently, and it does not matter if the intelligence is \"merely\" a simulation.\n\nSearle does not disagree that AI research can create machines that are capable of highly intelligent behavior. The Chinese room argument leaves open the possibility that a digital machine could be built that \"acts\" more intelligently than a person, but does not have a mind or intentionality in the same way that brains do. The Chinese room argument is not a \"reductio ad absurdum\", rather it is an example that requires explanation. \n\nSearle's \"strong AI\" should not be confused with \"strong AI\" as defined by Ray Kurzweil and other futurists, who use the term to describe machine intelligence that rivals or exceeds human intelligence. Kurzweil is concerned primarily with the \"amount\" of intelligence displayed by the machine, whereas Searle's argument sets no limit on this. Searle argues that even a super-intelligent machine would not necessarily have a mind and consciousness.\n\nThe Chinese room implements a version of the Turing test. Alan Turing introduced the test in 1950 to help answer the question \"can machines think?\" In the standard version, a human judge engages in a natural language conversation with a human and a machine designed to generate performance indistinguishable from that of a human being. All participants are separated from one another. If the judge cannot reliably tell the machine from the human, the machine is said to have passed the test.\n\nTuring then considered each possible objection to the proposal \"machines can think\", and found that there are simple, obvious answers if the question is de-mystified in this way. He did not, however, intend for the test to measure for the presence of \"consciousness\" or \"understanding\". He did not believe this was relevant to the issues that he was addressing. He wrote:\nTo Searle, as a philosopher investigating in the nature of mind and consciousness, these are the relevant mysteries. The Chinese room is designed to show that the Turing test is insufficient to detect the presence of consciousness, even if the room can behave or function as a conscious mind would.\n\nThe Chinese room (and all modern computers) manipulate physical objects in order to carry out calculations and do simulations. AI researchers Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon called this kind of machine a physical symbol system. It is also equivalent to the formal systems used in the field of mathematical logic.\n\nSearle emphasizes the fact that this kind of symbol manipulation is syntactic (borrowing a term from the study of grammar). The computer manipulates the symbols using a form of syntax rules, without any knowledge of the symbol's semantics (that is, their meaning).\n\nNewell and Simon had conjectured that a physical symbol system (such as a digital computer) had all the necessary machinery for \"general intelligent action\", or, as it is known today, artificial general intelligence. They framed this as a philosophical position, the physical symbol system hypothesis: \"A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means for general intelligent action.\" The Chinese room argument does not refute this, because it is framed in terms of \"intelligent action\", i.e. the external behavior of the machine, rather than the presence or absence of understanding, consciousness and mind.\n\nThe Chinese room has a design analogous to that of a modern computer. It has a Von Neumann architecture, which consists of a program (the book of instructions), some memory (the papers and file cabinets), a CPU which follows the instructions (the man), and a means to write symbols in memory (the pencil and eraser). A machine with this design is known in theoretical computer science as \"Turing complete\", because it has the necessary machinery to carry out any computation that a Turing machine can do, and therefore it is capable of doing a step-by-step simulation of any other digital machine, given enough memory and time. Alan Turing writes, \"all digital computers are in a sense equivalent.\" The widely accepted Church–Turing thesis holds that any function computable by an effective procedure is computable by a Turing machine.\n\nThe Turing completeness of the Chinese room implies that it can do whatever any other digital computer can do (albeit much, much more slowly). Thus, if the Chinese room does not or can not contain a Chinese-speaking mind, then no other digital computer can contain a mind. Some replies to Searle begin by arguing that the room, as described, cannot have a Chinese-speaking mind. Arguments of this form, according to Stevan Harnad, are \"no refutation (but rather an affirmation)\" of the Chinese room argument, because these arguments actually imply that \"no\" digital computers can have a mind.\n\nThere are some critics, such as Hanoch Ben-Yami, who argue that the Chinese room cannot simulate all the abilities of a digital computer, such as being able to determine the current time.\n\nSearle has produced a more formal version of the argument of which the Chinese Room forms a part. He presented the first version in 1984. The version given below is from 1990. The only part of the argument which should be controversial is A3 and it is this point which the Chinese room thought experiment is intended to prove.\n\nHe begins with three axioms:\n\nSearle posits that these lead directly to this conclusion:\n\nThis much of the argument is intended to show that artificial intelligence can never produce a machine with a mind by writing programs that manipulate symbols. The remainder of the argument addresses a different issue. Is the human brain running a program? In other words, is the computational theory of mind correct? He begins with an axiom that is intended to express the basic modern scientific consensus about brains and minds:\n\nSearle claims that we can derive \"immediately\" and \"trivially\" that:\n\nAnd from this he derives the further conclusions:\n\nReplies to Searle's argument may be classified according to what they claim to show:\n\nSome of the arguments (robot and brain simulation, for example) fall into multiple categories.\n\nThese replies attempt to answer the question: since the man in the room doesn't speak Chinese, \"where\" is the \"mind\" that does? These replies address the key ontological issues of mind vs. body and simulation vs. reality. All of the replies that identify the mind in the room are versions of \"the system reply\".\n\n\nSearle notes that (in this simple version of the reply) the \"system\" is nothing more than a collection of ordinary physical objects; it grants the power of understanding and consciousness to \"the conjunction of that person and bits of paper\" without making any effort to explain how this pile of objects has become a conscious, thinking being. Searle argues that no reasonable person should be satisfied with the reply, unless they are \"under the grip of an ideology;\" In order for this reply to be remotely plausible, one must take it for granted that consciousness can be the product of an information processing \"system\", and does not require anything resembling the actual biology of the brain.\n\nSearle then responds by simplifying this list of physical objects: he asks what happens if the man memorizes the rules and keeps track of everything in his head? Then the whole system consists of just one object: the man himself. Searle argues that if the man doesn't understand Chinese then the system doesn't understand Chinese either because now \"the system\" and \"the man\" both describe exactly the same object. \n\nCritics of Searle's response argue that the program has allowed the man to have two minds in one head. If we assume a \"mind\" is a form of information processing, then the theory of computation can account for two computations occurring at once, namely (1) the computation for universal programmability (which is the function instantiated by the person and note-taking materials \"independently\" from any particular program contents) and (2) the computation of the Turing machine that is described by the program (which is instantiated by everything \"including\" the specific program). The theory of computation thus formally explains the open possibility that the second computation in the Chinese Room could entail a human-equivalent semantic understanding of the Chinese inputs. The focus belongs on the program's Turing machine rather than on the person's. However, from Searle's perspective, this argument is circular. The question at issue is whether consciousness is a form of information processing, and this reply requires that we make that assumption.\n\nMore sophisticated versions of the systems reply try to identify more precisely what \"the system\" is and they differ in exactly how they describe it. According to these replies, the \"mind that speaks Chinese\" could be such things as: the \"software\", a \"program\", a \"running program\", a simulation of the \"neural correlates of consciousness\", the \"functional system\", a \"simulated mind\", an \"emergent property\", or \"a virtual mind\" (Marvin Minsky's version of the systems reply, described below).\n\n\nSearle responds that such a mind is, at best, a simulation, and writes: \"No one supposes that computer simulations of a five-alarm fire will burn the neighborhood down or that a computer simulation of a rainstorm will leave us all drenched.\" Nicholas Fearn responds that, for some things, simulation is as good as the real thing. \"When we call up the pocket calculator function on a desktop computer, the image of a pocket calculator appears on the screen. We don't complain that 'it isn't \"really\" a calculator', because the physical attributes of the device do not matter.\" The question is, is the human mind like the pocket calculator, essentially composed of information? Or is the mind like the rainstorm, something other than a computer, and not realizable in full by a computer simulation? (The issue of simulation is also discussed in the article synthetic intelligence.)\n\nThese replies provide an explanation of exactly who it is that understands Chinese. If there is something \"besides\" the man in the room that can understand Chinese, Searle can't argue that (1) the man doesn't understand Chinese, therefore (2) nothing in the room understands Chinese. This, according to those who make this reply, shows that Searle's argument fails to prove that \"strong AI\" is false.\n\nHowever, the thought experiment is not intended to be a reduction ad absurdum, but rather an example that requires explanation. Searle is not asserting that the situation is impossible, but rather that it is difficult or impossible to explain how this system can have subjection conscious experience. The system reply succeeds in showing that it is \"not impossible\" but fails to show how the system would have consciousness; the replies, by themselves, provide no evidence that the system (or the virtual mind) understands Chinese, other than the hypothetical premise that it passes the Turing Test. As Searle writes \"the systems reply simply begs the question by insisting that the system must understand Chinese.\"\n\nAs far as the person in the room is concerned, the symbols are just meaningless \"squiggles.\" But if the Chinese room really \"understands\" what it is saying, then the symbols must get their meaning from somewhere. These arguments attempt to connect the symbols to the things they symbolize. These replies address Searle's concerns about intentionality, symbol grounding and syntax vs. semantics.\n\n\n\n\nTo each of these suggestions, Searle's response is the same: no matter how much knowledge is written into the program and no matter how the program is connected to the world, he is still in the room manipulating symbols according to rules. His actions are syntactic and this can never explain to him what the symbols stand for. Searle writes \"syntax is insufficient for semantics.\"\n\nHowever, for those who accept that Searle's actions simulate a mind, separate from his own, the important question is not what the symbols mean \"to Searle\", what is important is what they mean \"to the virtual mind.\" While Searle is trapped in the room, the virtual mind is not: it is connected to the outside world through the Chinese speakers it speaks to, through the programmers who gave it world knowledge, and through the cameras and other sensors that roboticists can supply.\n\nThese arguments are all versions of the systems reply that identify a particular \"kind\" of system as being important; they identify some special technology that would create conscious understanding in a machine. (Note that the \"robot\" and \"commonsense knowledge\" replies above also specify a certain kind of system as being important.)\n\n\n[I]magine that instead of a monolingual man in a room shuffling symbols we have the man operate an elaborate set of water pipes with valves connecting them. When the man receives the Chinese symbols, he looks up in the program, written in English, which valves he has to turn on and off. Each water connection corresponds to a synapse in the Chinese brain, and the whole system is rigged up so that after doing all the right firings, that is after turning on all the right faucets, the Chinese answers pop out at the output end of the series of pipes.\n\nNow where is the understanding in this system? It takes Chinese as input, it simulates the formal structure of the synapses of the Chinese brain, and it gives Chinese as output. But the man certainly doesn't understand Chinese, and neither do the water pipes, and if we are tempted to adopt what I think is the absurd view that somehow the conjunction of man and water pipes understands, remember that in principle the man can internalize the formal structure of the water pipes and do all the \"neuron firings\" in his imagination.\n\n\n\n\nThese arguments (and the robot or commonsense knowledge replies) identify some special technology that would help create conscious understanding in a machine. They may be interpreted in two ways: either they claim (1) this technology is required for consciousness, the Chinese room does not or cannot implement this technology, and therefore the Chinese room cannot pass the Turing test or (even if it did) it would not have conscious understanding. Or they may be claiming that (2) it is easier to see that the Chinese room has a mind if we visualize this technology as being used to create it.\n\nIn the first case, where features like a robot body or a connectionist architecture are required, Searle claims that strong AI (as he understands it) has been abandoned. The Chinese room has all the elements of a Turing complete machine, and thus is capable of simulating any digital computation whatsoever. If Searle's room can't pass the Turing test then there is no other digital technology that could pass the Turing test. If Searle's room \"could\" pass the Turing test, but still does not have a mind, then the Turing test is not sufficient to determine if the room has a \"mind\". Either way, it denies one or the other of the positions Searle thinks of as \"strong AI\", proving his argument.\n\nThe brain arguments in particular deny strong AI if they assume that there is no simpler way to describe the mind than to create a program that is just as mysterious as the brain was. He writes \"I thought the whole idea of strong AI was that we don't need to know how the brain works to know how the mind works.\" If computation does not provide an \"explanation\" of the human mind, then strong AI has failed, according to Searle.\n\nOther critics hold that the room as Searle described it does, in fact, have a mind, however they argue that it is difficult to see—Searle's description is correct, but \"misleading.\" By redesigning the room more realistically they hope to make this more obvious. In this case, these arguments are being used as appeals to intuition (see next section).\n\nIn fact, the room can just as easily be redesigned to \"weaken\" our intuitions. Ned Block's Blockhead argument suggests that the program could, in theory, be rewritten into a simple lookup table of rules of the form \"if the user writes \"S\", reply with \"P\" and goto X\". At least in principle, any program can be rewritten (or \"refactored\") into this form, even a brain simulation. In the blockhead scenario, the entire mental state is hidden in the letter X, which represents a memory address—a number associated with the next rule. It is hard to visualize that an instant of one's conscious experience can be captured in a single large number, yet this is exactly what \"strong AI\" claims. On the other hand, such a lookup table would be ridiculously large (to the point of being physically impossible), and the states could therefore be \"extremely\" specific.\n\nSearle argues that however the program is written or however the machine is connected to the world, the mind is being \"simulated\" by a simple step by step digital machine (or machines). These machines are always just like the man in the room: they understand nothing and don't speak Chinese. They are merely manipulating symbols without knowing what they mean. Searle writes: \"I can have any formal program you like, but I still understand nothing.\"\n\nThe following arguments (and the intuitive interpretations of the arguments above) do not directly explain how a Chinese speaking mind could exist in Searle's room, or how the symbols he manipulates could become meaningful. However, by raising doubts about Searle's intuitions they support other positions, such as the system and robot replies. These arguments, if accepted, prevent Searle from claiming that his conclusion is obvious by undermining the intuitions that his certainty requires.\n\nSeveral critics believe that Searle's argument relies entirely on intuitions. Ned Block writes \"Searle's argument depends for its force on intuitions that certain entities do not think.\" Daniel Dennett describes the Chinese room argument as a misleading \"intuition pump\" and writes \"Searle's thought experiment depends, illicitly, on your imagining too simple a case, an irrelevant case, and drawing the 'obvious' conclusion from it.\"\n\nSome of the arguments above also function as appeals to intuition, especially those that are intended to make it seem more plausible that the Chinese room contains a mind, which can include the robot, commonsense knowledge, brain simulation and connectionist replies. Several of the replies above also address the specific issue of complexity. The connectionist reply emphasizes that a working artificial intelligence system would have to be as complex and as interconnected as the human brain. The commonsense knowledge reply emphasizes that any program that passed a Turing test would have to be \"an extraordinarily supple, sophisticated, and multilayered system, brimming with 'world knowledge' and meta-knowledge and meta-meta-knowledge\", as Daniel Dennett explains.\n\n\nAn especially vivid version of the speed and complexity reply is from Paul and Patricia Churchland. They propose this analogous thought experiment:\n\n\nStevan Harnad is critical of speed and complexity replies when they stray beyond addressing our intuitions. He writes \"Some have made a cult of speed and timing, holding that, when accelerated to the right speed, the computational may make a phase transition into the mental. It should be clear that is not a counterargument but merely an \"ad hoc\" speculation (as is the view that it is all just a matter of ratcheting up to the right degree of 'complexity.')\"\n\nSearle argues that his critics are also relying on intuitions, however his opponents' intuitions have no empirical basis. He writes that, in order to consider the \"system reply\" as remotely plausible, a person must be \"under the grip of an ideology\". The system reply only makes sense (to Searle) if one assumes that any \"system\" can have consciousness, just by virtue of being a system with the right behavior and functional parts. This assumption, he argues, is not tenable given our experience of consciousness.\n\nSeveral replies argue that Searle's argument is irrelevant because his assumptions about the mind and consciousness are faulty. Searle believes that human beings directly experience their consciousness, intentionality and the nature of the mind every day, and that this experience of consciousness is not open to question. He writes that we must \"presuppose the reality and knowability of the mental.\" These replies question whether Searle is justified in using his own experience of consciousness to determine that it is more than mechanical symbol processing. In particular, the other minds reply argues that we cannot use our experience of consciousness to answer questions about other minds (even the mind of a computer), and the epiphenomena reply argues that Searle's consciousness does not \"exist\" in the sense that Searle thinks it does.\n\n\nNils Nilsson writes \"If a program behaves \"as if\" it were multiplying, most of us would say that it is, in fact, multiplying. For all I know, Searle may only be behaving \"as if\" he were thinking deeply about these matters. But, even though I disagree with him, his simulation is pretty good, so I'm willing to credit him with real thought.\"\n\nAlan Turing anticipated Searle's line of argument (which he called \"The Argument from Consciousness\") in 1950 and makes the other minds reply. He noted that people never consider the problem of other minds when dealing with each other. He writes that \"instead of arguing continually over this point it is usual to have the polite convention that everyone thinks.\" The Turing test simply extends this \"polite convention\" to machines. He doesn't intend to solve the problem of other minds (for machines or people) and he doesn't think we need to.\n\n\nDaniel Dennett provides this extension to the \"epiphenomena\" argument.\n\nSearle disagrees with this analysis and argues that \"the study of the mind starts with such facts as that humans have beliefs, while thermostats, telephones, and adding machines don't ... what we wanted to know is what distinguishes the mind from thermostats and livers.\" He takes it as obvious that we can detect the presence of consciousness and dismisses these replies as being off the point.\n\n\nThe Chinese room argument is a central concept in Peter Watts's novels \"Blindsight\" and (to a lesser extent) \"Echopraxia\". It is also a central theme in the video game \"Virtue's Last Reward\", and ties into the game's narrative. In Season 4 of the American crime drama \"Numb3rs\" there is a brief reference to the Chinese room.\n\nThe Chinese Room is also the name of a British independent video game development studio best known for working on experimental first-person games, such as \"Everybody's Gone to the Rapture\", or \"Dear Esther\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48819", "title": "Clash of Civilizations", "text": "Clash of Civilizations\n\nThe Clash of Civilizations is a hypothesis that people's cultural and religious identities will be the primary source of conflict in the post-Cold War world. The American political scientist Samuel P. Huntington argued that future wars would be fought not between countries, but between cultures, and that Islamic extremism would become the biggest threat to world peace. It was proposed in a 1992 lecture at the American Enterprise Institute, which was then developed in a 1993 \"Foreign Affairs\" article titled \"The Clash of Civilizations?\", in response to his former student Francis Fukuyama's 1992 book, \"The End of History and the Last Man\". Huntington later expanded his thesis in a 1996 book \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\".\n\nThe phrase itself was earlier used by Albert Camus in 1946, by Girilal Jain in his analysis of the Ayodhya dispute in 1988, by Bernard Lewis in an article in the September 1990 issue of \"The Atlantic Monthly\" titled \"The Roots of Muslim Rage\" and by Mahdi El Mandjra in his book \"La première guerre civilisationnelle\" published in 1992. Even earlier, the phrase appears in a 1926 book regarding the Middle East by Basil Mathews: \"Young Islam on Trek: A Study in the Clash of Civilizations\" (p. 196). This expression derives from \"clash of cultures\", already used during the colonial period and the Belle Époque.\n\nHuntington began his thinking by surveying the diverse theories about the nature of global politics in the post-Cold War period. Some theorists and writers argued that human rights, liberal democracy, and the capitalist free market economy had become the only remaining ideological alternative for nations in the post-Cold War world. Specifically, Francis Fukuyama argued that the world had reached the 'end of history' in a Hegelian sense.\n\nHuntington believed that while the age of ideology had ended, the world had only reverted to a normal state of affairs characterized by cultural conflict. In his thesis, he argued that the primary axis of conflict in the future will be along cultural lines. As an extension, he posits that the concept of different civilizations, as the highest rank of cultural identity, will become increasingly useful in analyzing the potential for conflict. At the end of his 1993 \"Foreign Affairs\" article, \"The Clash of Civilizations?\", Huntington writes, \"This is not to advocate the desirability of conflicts between civilizations. It is to set forth descriptive hypothesis as to what the future may be like.\"\n\nIn addition, the clash of civilizations, for Huntington, represents a development of history. In the past, world history was mainly about the struggles between monarchs, nations and ideologies, such as seen within Western civilization. But after the end of the Cold War, world politics moved into a new phase, in which non-Western civilizations are no longer the exploited recipients of Western civilization but have become additional important actors joining the West to shape and move world history.\n\nHuntington divided the world into the \"major civilizations\" in his thesis as such:\n\nHuntington argues that the trends of global conflict after the end of the Cold War are increasingly appearing at these civilizational divisions. Wars such as those following the break up of Yugoslavia, in Chechnya, and between India and Pakistan were cited as evidence of inter-civilizational conflict. He also argues that the widespread Western belief in the universality of the West's values and political systems is naïve and that continued insistence on democratization and such \"universal\" norms will only further antagonize other civilizations. Huntington sees the West as reluctant to accept this because it built the international system, wrote its laws, and gave it substance in the form of the United Nations.\n\nHuntington identifies a major shift of economic, military, and political power from the West to the other civilizations of the world, most significantly to what he identifies as the two \"challenger civilizations\", Sinic and Islam.\n\nIn Huntington's view, East Asian Sinic civilization is culturally asserting itself and its values relative to the West due to its rapid economic growth. Specifically, he believes that China's goals are to reassert itself as the regional hegemon, and that other countries in the region will 'bandwagon' with China due to the history of hierarchical command structures implicit in the Confucian Sinic civilization, as opposed to the individualism and pluralism valued in the West. Regional powers such as the two Koreas and Vietnam will acquiesce to Chinese demands and become more supportive of China rather than attempting to oppose it. Huntington therefore believes that the rise of China poses one of the most significant problems and the most powerful long-term threat to the West, as Chinese cultural assertion clashes with the American desire for the lack of a regional hegemony in East Asia.\n\nHuntington argues that the Islamic civilization has experienced a massive population explosion which is fueling instability both on the borders of Islam and in its interior, where fundamentalist movements are becoming increasingly popular. Manifestations of what he terms the \"Islamic Resurgence\" include the 1979 Iranian revolution and the first Gulf War. Perhaps the most controversial statement Huntington made in the \"Foreign Affairs\" article was that \"Islam has bloody borders\". Huntington believes this to be a real consequence of several factors, including the previously mentioned Muslim youth bulge and population growth and Islamic proximity to many civilizations including Sinic, Orthodox, Western, and African.\n\nHuntington sees Islamic civilization as a potential ally to China, both having more revisionist goals and sharing common conflicts with other civilizations, especially the West. Specifically, he identifies common Chinese and Islamic interests in the areas of weapons proliferation, human rights, and democracy that conflict with those of the West, and feels that these are areas in which the two civilizations will cooperate.\n\nRussia, Japan, and India are what Huntington terms 'swing civilizations' and may favor either side. Russia, for example, clashes with the many Muslim ethnic groups on its southern border (such as Chechnya) but—according to Huntington—cooperates with Iran to avoid further Muslim-Orthodox violence in Southern Russia, and to help continue the flow of oil. Huntington argues that a \"Sino-Islamic connection\" is emerging in which China will cooperate more closely with Iran, Pakistan, and other states to augment its international position.\n\nHuntington also argues that civilizational conflicts are \"particularly prevalent between Muslims and non-Muslims\", identifying the \"bloody borders\" between Islamic and non-Islamic civilizations. This conflict dates back as far as the initial thrust of Islam into Europe, its eventual expulsion in the Iberian reconquest, the attacks of the Ottoman Turks on Eastern Europe and Vienna, and the European imperial division of the Islamic nations in the 1800s and 1900s.\n\nHuntington also believes that some of the factors contributing to this conflict are that both Christianity (upon which Western civilization is based) and Islam are:\n\nMore recent factors contributing to a Western–Islamic clash, Huntington wrote, are the Islamic Resurgence and demographic explosion in Islam, coupled with the values of Western universalism—that is, the view that all civilizations should adopt Western values—that infuriate Islamic fundamentalists. All these historical and modern factors combined, Huntington wrote briefly in his \"Foreign Affairs\" article and in much more detail in his 1996 book, would lead to a bloody clash between the Islamic and Western civilizations.\n\nHuntington offers six explanations for why civilizations will clash:\n\nHuntington suggests that in the future the central axis of world politics tends to be the conflict between Western and non-Western civilizations, in [Stuart Hall]'s phrase, the conflict between \"the West and the Rest\". He offers three forms of general actions that non-Western civilization can take in response to Western countries.\n\nIn Huntington's view, intercivilizational conflict manifests itself in two forms: fault line conflicts and core state conflicts.\n\n\"Fault line conflicts\" are on a local level and occur between adjacent states belonging to different civilizations or within states that are home to populations from different civilizations.\n\n\"Core state conflicts\" are on a global level between the major states of different civilizations. Core state conflicts can arise out of fault line conflicts when core states become involved.\n\nThese conflicts may result from a number of causes, such as: relative influence or power (military or economic), discrimination against people from a different civilization, intervention to protect kinsmen in a different civilization, or different values and culture, particularly when one civilization attempts to impose its values on people of a different civilization.\n\nCritics of Huntington's ideas often extend their criticisms to traditional cultures and internal reformers who wish to modernize without adopting the values and attitudes of Western culture. These critics sometimes claim that to modernize it is necessary to become Westernized to a very large extent, so that sources of tension with the West will be reduced.\n\nJapan, China and the Four Asian Tigers have modernized in many respects while maintaining traditional or authoritarian societies which distinguish them from the West. Some of these countries have clashed with the West and some have not.\n\nPerhaps the ultimate example of non-Western modernization is Russia, the core state of the Orthodox civilization. Huntington argues that Russia is primarily a non-Western state although he seems to agree that it shares a considerable amount of cultural ancestry with the modern West. According to Huntington, the West is distinguished from Orthodox Christian countries by its experience of the Renaissance, Reformation, the Enlightenment; by overseas colonialism rather than contiguous expansion and colonialism; and by the infusion of Classical culture through ancient Greece rather than through the continuous trajectory of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nHuntington refers to countries that are seeking to affiliate with another civilization as \"torn countries\". Turkey, whose political leadership has systematically tried to Westernize the country since the 1920s, is his chief example. Turkey's history, culture, and traditions are derived from Islamic civilization, but Turkey's elite, beginning with Mustafa Kemal Atatürk who took power as first President in 1923, imposed Western institutions and dress, embraced the Latin alphabet, joined NATO, and has sought to join the European Union.\n\nMexico and Russia are also considered to be torn by Huntington. He also gives the example of Australia as a country torn between its Western civilizational heritage and its growing economic engagement with Asia.\n\nAccording to Huntington, a torn country must meet three requirements to redefine its civilizational identity. Its political and economic elite must support the move. Second, the public must be willing to accept the redefinition. Third, the elites of the civilization that the torn country is trying to join must accept the country.\n\nThe book claims that to date no torn country has successfully redefined its civilizational identity, this mostly due to the elites of the 'host' civilization refusing to accept the torn country, though if Turkey gained membership in the European Union, it has been noted that many of its people would support Westernization, as in the following quote by EU Minister Egemen Bağış: \"This is what Europe needs to do: they need to say that when Turkey fulfills all requirements, Turkey will become a member of the EU on date X. Then, we will regain the Turkish public opinion support in one day.\" If this were to happen, it would, according to Huntington, be the first to redefine its civilizational identity.\n\nHuntington has fallen under the stern critique of various left-leaning academic writers, who have either empirically, historically, logically, or ideologically challenged his claims (Fox, 2005; Mungiu Pippidi & Mindruta, 2002; Henderson & Tucker, 2001; Russett, Oneal, & Cox, 2000; Harvey, 2000).\n\nIn an article explicitly referring to Huntington, scholar Amartya Sen (1999) argues:diversity is a feature of most cultures in the world. Western civilization is no exception. The practice of democracy that has won out in the modern West is largely a result of a consensus that has emerged since the Enlightenment and the Industrial Revolution, and particularly in the last century or so. To read in this a historical commitment of the West—over the millennia—to democracy, and then to contrast it with non-Western traditions (treating each as monolithic) would be a great mistake.In his 2003 book \"Terror and Liberalism\", Paul Berman argues that distinct cultural boundaries do not exist in the present day. He argues there is no \"Islamic civilization\" nor a \"Western civilization\", and that the evidence for a civilization clash is not convincing, especially when considering relationships such as that between the United States and Saudi Arabia. In addition, he cites the fact that many Islamic extremists spent a significant amount of time living or studying in the Western world. According to Berman, conflict arises because of philosophical beliefs various groups share (or do not share), regardless of cultural or religious identity.\n\nTimothy Garton Ash objects to the ‘extreme cultural determinism… crude to the point of parody’ of Huntington’s idea that Catholic and Protestant Europe is headed for democracy but that Orthodox Christian and Islamic Europe must accept dictatorship. \n\nEdward Said issued a response to Huntington's thesis in his 2001 article, \"The Clash of Ignorance\". Said argues that Huntington's categorization of the world's fixed \"civilizations\" omits the dynamic interdependency and interaction of culture. A longtime critic of the Huntingtonian paradigm, and an outspoken proponent of Arab issues, Edward Said (2004) also argues that the clash of civilizations thesis is an example of \"the purest invidious racism, a sort of parody of Hitlerian science directed today against Arabs and Muslims\" (p. 293).\n\nNoam Chomsky has criticized the concept of the clash of civilizations as just being a new justification for the United States \"for any atrocities that they wanted to carry out\", which was required after the Cold War as the Soviet Union was no longer a viable threat.\n\nHuntington's geopolitical model, especially the structures for North Africa and Eurasia, is largely derived from the \"Intermediate Region\" geopolitical model first formulated by Dimitri Kitsikis and published in 1978. The Intermediate Region, which spans the Adriatic Sea and the Indus River, is neither Western nor Eastern (at least, with respect to the Far East) but is considered distinct.Concerning this region, Huntington departs from Kitsikis contending that a civilizational fault line exists between the two dominant yet differing religions (Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam), hence a dynamic of external conflict. However, Kitsikis establishes an integrated civilization comprising these two peoples along with those belonging to the less dominant religions of Shia Islam, Alevism, and Judaism. They have a set of mutual cultural, social, economic and political views and norms which radically differ from those in the West and the Far East.In the Intermediate Region, therefore, one cannot speak of a civilizational clash or external conflict, but rather an internal conflict, not for cultural domination, but for political succession. This has been successfully demonstrated by documenting the rise of Christianity from the Hellenized Roman Empire, the rise of the Islamic caliphates from the Christianized Roman Empire and the rise of Ottoman rule from the Islamic caliphates and the Christianized Roman Empire.\n\nIn recent years, the theory of Dialogue Among Civilizations, a response to Huntington's Clash of Civilizations, has become the center of some international attention. The concept was originally coined by Austrian philosopher Hans Köchler in an essay on cultural identity (1972). In a letter to UNESCO, Köchler had earlier proposed that the cultural organization of the United Nations should take up the issue of a \"dialogue between different civilizations\" (\"dialogue entre les différentes civilisations\"). In 2001, Iranian president Mohammad Khatami introduced the concept at the global level. At his initiative, the United Nations proclaimed the year 2001 as the \"United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations\".\n\nThe Alliance of Civilizations (AOC) initiative was proposed at the 59th General Assembly of the United Nations in 2005 by the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and co-sponsored by the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. The initiative is intended to galvanize collective action across diverse societies to combat extremism, to overcome cultural and social barriers between mainly the Western and predominantly Muslim worlds, and to reduce the tensions and polarization between societies which differ in religious and cultural values.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "73536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73536", "title": "Cliffhanger", "text": "Cliffhanger\n\nA cliffhanger, or cliffhanger ending, is a plot device in fiction which features a main character in a precarious or difficult dilemma, or confronted with a shocking revelation at the end of an episode of serialized fiction. A cliffhanger is hoped to ensure the audience will return to see how the characters resolve the dilemma.\n\nSome serials end with the caveat \"To Be Continued…\" or \"The End?\" In movie serials and television series, the following episode sometimes begins with a recap sequence.\n\nThe cliffhanger plot device dates back to the famous medieval Arabic literary work, the \"One Thousand and One Nights\". The framing device has Scheherazade narrating a series of stories to King Shahryār for 1,001 nights, with each night ending on a cliffhanger, in order to save herself from execution.\n\nCliffhangers later appeared as an element of the Victorian serial novel that emerged in the 1840s, with many associating the form with Charles Dickens, a pioneer of the serial publication of narrative fiction. By the 1860s it had become a staple part of the sensation serials, while the term itself originated with Thomas Hardy in 1873 when a protagonist from one of his serials, Henry Knight, was left hanging off a cliff.\n\nCliffhangers became prominent with the serial publication of narrative fiction, pioneered by Charles Dickens. Printed episodically in magazines, Dickens’s cliffhangers triggered desperation in his readers. Writing in the \"New Yorker\", Emily Nussbaum captured the anticipation of those waiting for the next installment of Dickens' \"The Old Curiosity Shop\";\n\nThe impact of Dickens' serial publications saw the cliffhanger become a staple part of the sensation serials by the 1860s. The term \"cliffhanger\" is considered to have originated with the serialised version of Thomas Hardy's \"A Pair of Blue Eyes\" (which was published in \"Tinsley's Magazine\" between September 1872 and July 1873) in which Henry Knight, one of the protagonists, is left hanging off a cliff.\n\nCliffhangers were especially popular in 1920s and 1930s serials when movie theaters filled the cultural niche later primarily occupied by television. Cliffhangers are often used in television series, especially soap operas that end each episode on a cliffhanger. Prior to the early 1980s, season-ending cliffhangers were rare on U.S. television. The first such season-ender on U.S. TV was in the comedy send-up of soap operas \"Soap\" in 1978. Several Australian soap operas, which went off air over summer, such as \"Number 96\", \"The Restless Years\", and \"Prisoner\", ended each year with major and much publicized catastrophe, such as a character being shot in the final seconds of the year's closing episode.\n\nCliffhangers are commonly used in Japanese manga and anime. In contrast to American superhero comics, Japanese manga are much more frequently written with cliffhangers, often with each volume or issue. This is particularly the case with shōnen manga, especially those published by \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\", such as \"Dragon Ball\", \"Shaman King\", and \"One Piece\".\n\nDuring its original run, Doctor Who was written in a serialised format that usually ended each episode within a serial on a cliffhanger. In the first few years of the show, the final episodes of each serial would have a cliffhanger that would lead into the next serial. Dragonfire Part One is notable for having a cliffhanger that involved The Doctor literally hanging from a cliff. This has been frequently criticised by fans for being a pointless cliffhanger, but script editor Andrew Cartmel gave an explanation for the reasoning of it in an interview.\n\nCliffhangers were rare on American television before 1980, as television networks preferred the flexibility of airing episodes in any order. The phenomenal success of the 1980 \"Who shot J.R.?\" third season-ending cliffhanger of \"Dallas\", and the \"Who Done It\" fourth-season episode that finally solved the mystery, contributed to the cliffhanger becoming a common storytelling device on television. Another notable cliffhanger was the \"Moldavian Massacre\" on \"Dynasty\" in 1985, which fueled speculation throughout the summer months regarding who lived or died when almost all the characters attended a wedding in the country of Moldavia, only to have revolutionaries topple the government and machine-gun the entire wedding party.\n\nThe two main ways for cliffhangers to keep readers/viewers coming back is to either involve characters in a suspenseful, possibly life-threatening situation, or to feature a sudden shocking revelation. Cliffhangers are also used to leave open the possibility of a character being killed off due to the actor not continuing to play the role.\n\nCliffhangers are also sometimes deliberately inserted by writers who are uncertain whether a new series or season will be commissioned, in the hope that viewers will demand to know how the situation is resolved. Such was the case with the second season of \"Twin Peaks\", which ended in a cliffhanger similar to the first season with a high degree of uncertainty about the fate of the protagonist, but the cliffhanger could not save the show from being canceled, resulting in the unresolved ending.\n\nThe cliffhanger has become a genre staple (especially in comics, due to the multi-part storylines becoming the norm instead of self-contained stories). To such a degree, in fact, that series writers no longer feel they have to be immediately resolved, or even referenced, when the next episode is shown, variously because the writer didn't feel it was \"a strong enough opener,\" or simply \"couldn't be bothered.\" The heavily serialized television drama \"True Blood\" has become notorious for cliffhangers. Not only do the seasons conclude with cliffhangers, but almost every episode finishes at a cliffhanger directly after or during a highly dramatic moment.\n\nCommercial breaks can be a nuisance to script writers because some sort of incompleteness or minor cliffhanger should be provided before each to stop the viewer from changing channels during the commercial break. Sometimes a series ends with an unintended cliffhanger caused by a very abrupt ending without a satisfactory dénouement, but merely assuming that the viewer will assume that everything sorted itself out.\n\nSometimes a movie, book, or season of a television show will end with the defeat of the main villain before a second, evidently more powerful villain makes a brief appearance (becoming the villain of the next film). Occasionally an element other than a villain is also used to tease at a sequel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1645052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1645052", "title": "Colon (rhetoric)", "text": "Colon (rhetoric)\n\nA colon (from Greek: , \"pl.\" , \"cola\") is a rhetorical figure consisting of a clause which is grammatically, but not logically, complete. In Latin, it is called a \"membrum\" or \"membrum orationis\".\n\nSentences consisting of two cola are called \"dicola\"; those with three are \"tricola\". The corresponding adjectives are \"dicolic\" and \"tricolic\"; \"colic\" is not used in this sense. In writing, these cola are often separated by colons.\n\nAn isocolon is a sentence composed of cola of equal syllabic length.\n\nThe Septuagint used this system in the poetic books such as the Psalms. \nWhen Jerome translated the books of the Prophets, he arranged the text colometrically.\n\nThe colometric system was used in bilingual codices of New Testament, such as Codex Bezae and Codex Claromontanus. Some Greek and Latin manuscripts also used this system, including Codex Coislinianus and Codex Amiatinus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15149909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15149909", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1971", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1971\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1971 was the first Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations (formerly named the British Commonwealth). It was held in Singapore, between 14 January 1971 and 22 January 1971, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Lee Kuan Yew.\n\nBritish prime minister Edward Heath advised Queen Elizabeth II not to attend the conference due to a row within the Commonwealth over Britain selling arms to South Africa. It would be the only CHOGM the Queen would miss until 2013.\n\nUgandan president Milton Obote was overthrown by Idi Amin in a military coup, whilst he was attending the meeting.\n\nAt the meeting the Singapore Declaration of Commonwealth Principles was agreed setting out the core political values that would form the main part of the Commonwealth's membership criteria.\n"}
{"id": "6852029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6852029", "title": "Counter-majoritarian difficulty", "text": "Counter-majoritarian difficulty\n\nThe counter-majoritarian difficulty (sometimes counter-majoritarian dilemma) is a perceived problem with judicial review of legislative (or popularly created) laws. As the term suggests, some oppose or see a problem with the judicial branch's ability to invalidate, overrule or countermand laws that reflect the will of the majority.\n\nThe counter-majoritarian difficulty is often raised in discussions of United States constitutional law; particularly in discussing the powers of the three branches of the Federal government of the United States.\n\nAlexander Bickel, a law professor at Yale Law School, coined the term \"counter-majoritarian difficulty\" in his 1962 book, \"The Least Dangerous Branch\". He used the term to describe the argument that judicial review is illegitimate because it allows unelected judges to overrule the lawmaking of elected representatives, thus undermining the will of the majority. The problem stems from the understanding that a democracy's legitimacy arises from the fact that it implements the will of the majority (majoritarianism).\n\nMajoritarianism is based on the view that a democracy can be defined by only its procedural aspects. However, the definition of democracy is contentious. The argument is often made that substantive rights must be protected in a democracy to truly have a democracy, even when those undermine the majoritarian nature of the democracy. Under this view, when judges enforce such substantive rights, such as those agreed upon in a constitution, the judges are actually engaged in furthering democracy. \n\nPolitical theorists have also argued that in some cases, elected representatives pass laws that do not reflect the will of the people, and in those cases, judicial review is a valid means by which to correct the democratic process.\n\nOn the other hand, in 2008, Judge John E. Jones III, a Republican serving on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, stated that Article Three of the United States Constitution \"is counter-majoritarian,\" adding: \"The judicial branch protects against the tyranny of the majority. We are a bulwark against public opinion. And that was very much done with a purpose, and I think that it really has withstood the test of time. The judiciary is a check against the unconstitutional abuse and extension of power by the other branches of government.\" Judge Jones is the author of the landmark decision Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, which found intelligent design to be a form of creationism that may not be taught in public school science classes under the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and separation of church and state established by the Founding Fathers of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4438979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4438979", "title": "David Dumville", "text": "David Dumville\n\nDavid Norman Dumville (born 5 May 1949) is a British medievalist and Celtic scholar. He was educated at Emmanuel College and the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, University of Cambridge; Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München; and received his PhD at the University of Edinburgh in 1976. \nHe is currently professor of history and palaeography at the University of Aberdeen and editor of the journal \"Anglo-Saxon\". He has previously taught or held posts at Swansea University (Fellow, 1975–1977), the University of Pennsylvania (assistant professor of English, 1977–1978), the University of Cambridge, (lecturer in Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, 1977–1991; reader in early Mediaeval history and culture of British Isles, 1991–1995; professor of palaeography and cultural history, 1995–2005). Among other academic appointments, he was visiting professor at the University of California, Los Angeles (1995).\n\nDumville has produced numerous scholarly articles and books. In 2007, he established a scholarly journal for Anglo-Saxon studies, entitled \"Anglo-Saxon\", which he edits with R. D. Fulk and Andrew Reynolds. It is published by the University of Aberdeen. He was a founding member of the Medieval Chronicle Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "53576122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53576122", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Brunei", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Brunei\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Brunei () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Brunei. The Palestinian ambassador in Malaysia consider same Palestinian ambassador in Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "41109043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41109043", "title": "Etruscan Arch", "text": "Etruscan Arch\n\nThe Etruscan Arch or Arch of Augustus or Augustus Gate is one of eight gates in the Etruscan wall of Perusia, known today as Perugia. It is one of the only two surviving gates along with the Porta Marzia to the south. It was constructed in the second half of the 3rd century BC and was restored by Augustus in 40 BC after his victory in the Perusine War. Representing the best surviving and most monumental of the Etruscan city gates it opens on to the \"cardo maximus\" of the city, corresponding to the modern Ulisse Rocchi Road.\n\nThe arch is part of a massive set of walls which are 30 feet tall and 9,500 feet long made of travertine and set without mortar. It covers approximately a quarter of a square mile over three hills.\n\nThe arch consists of an attractive facade with a single archway and two trapezoidal towers. The archway forms a semicircular \"barrell vault\" passageway over 30 feet high. Two rows of \"voussoirs\" form the shape of the arch and are held in place by a keystone at the top. Above the arch (in two concentric rows) there is an ornate Doric-inspired frieze of metopes with round shields and triglyphs in six vertical bands. Above this is another smaller voussoir arch between two pilasters making the height of the Etruscan Arch more than 60 feet. \n\nOn the internal face it is possible to read the inscription \"Augusta Perusia,\" which was the name of the city after the reconstruction of 40 BC; on the external face the inscription \"Colonia Vibia\" is inscribed, testimony to the \"ius coloniae\" received from Emperor Trebonianus Gallus (251-253).\n\nThe loggia on the left tower is an addition from the 16th century, while the fountain at the bottom of the same tower was completed in 1621.\n\nIn front of the arch is Palazzo Gallenga Stuart, seat of the University for Foreigners Perugia.\n"}
{"id": "20122898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122898", "title": "Euromuse", "text": "Euromuse\n\neuromuse.net is an exhibition web portal, that, being a project of certain European museums, informs about the exhibitions of that museums, that mostly are based on cultural history and the history of arts of Europe.\n\nThe portal collects information about exhibitions, institution and collections of European museums on its website. In February 2014 information about 540 museums from 28 countries were collected. These museums are, for example the Louvre (Paris), the Uffizi (Florence), the Berlin State Museums (Berlin) and the Jewish Museum in Prague. All information about exhibitions and museums can be read in English and the national language of the museum.\n\nThe portal was developed by the National Gallery (London), the Musée du Louvre (Paris), the , Paris, the Museum of Art History (Vienna), the Rijksmuseum (Amsterdam), the Statens Museum for Kunst (Kopenhagen) and the Berlin State Museums.\n\nIn an online database, there is the possibility to research current exhibitions and over 2.970 past exhibitions. Also it includes information related to the educational and online offerings of the participating institutions.\n\nThe editing of \"euromuse.net\" takes place at the Institute for Museum Research in Berlin. Each member manages their own data to be published in \"euromuse.net\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14683355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14683355", "title": "Galileo (TV series)", "text": "Galileo (TV series)\n\nA second series began airing on Fuji TV on April 15, 2013 and ended with an adaption of the novel Salvation of a Saint. The second movie, titled , premiered in both Japan and Hong Kong on June 29, 2013.\n\nKaoru Utsumi, a rookie detective who has just been reassigned to the criminal division, finds the investigation of her first murder case stalled by seemingly-supernatural phenomena surrounding the event. She seeks help from Shunpei Kusanagi, a senior detective at the police headquarter famous as a \"Mystery Hunter\". Kusanagi, however, reveals to Utsumi that he was only able to solve the cases thanks to his college friend, Teito University professor Manabu Yukawa. Yukawa is a tall, handsome, brilliant but eccentric scientist who is interested in nothing but physics, while Utsumi is a hot-blooded detective with a strong sense of justice. Together, the odd pair solves many difficult and seemingly impossible events with their individual talents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11280937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11280937", "title": "Harvard Theological Review", "text": "Harvard Theological Review\n\nThe Harvard Theological Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1908 and published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of the Harvard Divinity School. It covers a wide spectrum of fields in theological and religious studies; its range is not limited to any one religious tradition or set of traditions. The editors-in-chief are Jon D. Levenson and Kevin Madigan (Harvard Divinity School).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "19310677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19310677", "title": "Horseshoe theory", "text": "Horseshoe theory\n\nIn political science and also popular discourse, the horseshoe theory asserts that the far-left and the far-right, rather than being at opposite and opposing ends of a linear political continuum, closely resemble one another, much like the ends of a horseshoe. The theory is attributed to French philosopher and writer Jean-Pierre Faye. Proponents of the theory point to a number of similarities between the far-left and the far-right, including their supposed propensity to gravitate to authoritarianism or totalitarianism. Horseshoe theory has been much criticised and is not currently supported within academic circles.\n\nThe horse shoe metaphor was used as early as during the Weimar Republic to describe the ideology of the Black Front.\n\nIn a 2006 book, political scientist Jeff Taylor wrote: \"It may be more useful to think of the Left and the Right as two components of populism, with elitism residing in the Center. The political spectrum may be linear, but it is not a straight line. It is shaped like a horseshoe\". \n\nIn 2006, the term was used when discussing an alleged resurgent hostility towards Jews and new antisemitism from both the far-left and the far-right.\n\nIn a 2008 essay, Josef Joffe (a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution, a conservative think tank) wrote: \n\nIn 2015, reformist Muslim Maajid Nawaz invoked the horseshoe theory while lamenting a common tendency on the far-left and far-right towards the compiling and publishing of \"lists of political foes\", adding:\nIn a recent article for Eurozine titled \"How Right is the Left?\", Kyrylo Tkachenko wrote about the common cause found recently between the far-left and the far-right in Ukraine:\nThe horseshoe theory has been criticized not just by people on both ends of the political spectrum who oppose being grouped with those they consider to be their polar opposites, but also by those who see horseshoe theory as oversimplifying political ideologies and as ignoring fundamental differences between them.\n\nSimon Choat, a senior lecturer in political theory at Kingston University, criticizes horseshoe theory from a leftist perspective. He argues that far-left and far-right ideologies only share similarities in the vaguest sense in that they both oppose the liberal democratic \"status quo\", but the two sides both have very different reasons and very different aims for doing so. Choat uses the issue of globalization as an example. Both the far-left and the far-right attack neoliberal globalization and its elites, but have conflicting views on who those elites are and conflicting reasons for attacking them: \n\nChoat also argues that although proponents of the horseshoe theory may cite examples of alleged history of collusion between fascists and communists, those on the far-left usually oppose the rise of far-right or fascist regimes in their countries. Instead, he argues that it has been centrists who have supported far-right and fascist regimes that they prefer in power over socialist ones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2485912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2485912", "title": "Invisible thread", "text": "Invisible thread\n\nInvisible thread is very thin monofilament thread used by magicians to make small, lightweight objects seem to levitate and animate. It is usually made from nylon which has been separated into individual strands. A famous illusion is the Floating Bill.\n\nInvisible thread is available in stripped or unstripped form. In an unstripped form the thread is actually a cluster of invisible threads and has to be separated (stripped) to be used in a performance.\n\nInvisible thread may also be constructed from single strands of silk. Edges of silk that are fraying will reveal \"invisible thread\".\n"}
{"id": "1336803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1336803", "title": "John Josias Conybeare", "text": "John Josias Conybeare\n\nJohn Josias Conybeare (1779–1824), the elder brother of William Daniel Conybeare, was a scholar of Anglo-Saxon.\n\nHe was an accomplished scholar, and studied at Christ Church, Oxford. He became vicar of Batheaston, and was Rawlinsonian Professor of Anglo-Saxon (1808–1812), and afterwards Professor of Poetry (1812–1821), at the University of Oxford.\n\nHe published a translation of Beowulf in English and Latin verse (1814), but is particularly noted for his posthumously published 1826 \"Illustrations of Anglo-Saxon Poetry\".\n\nLike his brother, he was a student of geology and communicated papers to the \"Annals of Philosophy\" and the \"Transactions\" of the Geological Society of London (Obituary in \"Ann. Phil.\" vol. viii., Sept. 1824, p. 162.)\n\nHe gave the Bampton Lectures at Oxford in 1824. These were published posthumously (also in 1824) as \"An attempt to trace the History and ascertain the Limits of the Secondary and Spiritual Interpretation of Scripture\".\n"}
{"id": "21056492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056492", "title": "Josep Joan Moreso", "text": "Josep Joan Moreso\n\nJosep Joan Moreso (Tortosa, Spain, 27 March 1959) graduated in Law from the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (1983) where he also completed his PhD (1988), achieving high-class honours in both instances. He has held teaching posts at the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (1988–1995); the Universitat de Girona (1996–2000) and the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (2000–2005). Rector of the Universitat Pompeu Fabra from May 2005 to June 2013. In October 2010, he was invested as doctor honoris causa of the Valparaíso University (Chile).\n\nMoreso’s primary area of investigation is legal theory, specialising in the structure and dynamics of legal systems and the contributions of deontic logic within this field. Presently he is working on the philosophical foundations of the constitution, a vast area where metaethics, the philosophy of language, the theory of legal interpretation and argumentation, political philosophy, and democratic theory all converge.\n\nHe was Visiting Scholar at the Universidad de Buenos Aires (1990), Balliol College, Oxford (1995) and the University of Genoa(2000). He has also been a Visiting Professor at several European universities; supervised numerous doctoral theses and was the chief investigator of an established research group with a long tradition in gaining competitive funding for projects.\n\nAt present, Moreso is a member of the Tampere Club, an international association dedicated to the study of the current problems facing world democracies. He is also editor of the collection Filosofía y Derecho (ed. Marcial Pons) and of the academic journal \"Doxa\" as well as a member of the scientific committee of the academic journals \"Ragion Pratica\" (Italy) and \"Isonomía\" (Mexico).\n\nMoreso has published several books within his field of expertise. His latest work, Constitución. Modelo para armar will be published by Marcial Pons in early 2009.\n\n\nIn addition, he has published numerous articles in professional journals such as \"Ratio Iuris, Erkenntnis, Law and Philosophy, Ragion Practica, Theoria: A Swedish Journal of Philosophy, Associations, Revista Española de Derecho Constitucional, Análisis Filosófico, Crítica\", and \"Doxa\"; as well as contributing several chapters to books within his specialty.\n\n\nHe served as Vice Dean of Academic Planning in the Faculty of Law at the UAB (1990–1992) and later as a representative of the Vice Rector for Academic Organization for the Third cycle in the same university (1993–1994). During his tenure at the Universitat de Girona he was Vice Dean of Academic Planning of Private Law (1998–2000) and he also served as director of the Department of Private Law (1998–2000).\n\nHis introduction to the governing body of the UPF was as Vice Rector of Faculty and of the European Higher Education Area under the leadership of the then Rector Rosa Maria Virós (2001–2005), a position which afforded him a broad knowledge of the new standard European framework as well as the internal mechanics of the University. Rector from 2005 to 2013, in 2009 he was reelected for a second term. During these years, the University has adapted all degrees to EHEA, deepened its research profile and postgraduate training, strengthened its international focus and being awarded with a CEI label (International Excellence Campus) by the Spanish Ministry of Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "27885874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885874", "title": "Journal of Indian Philosophy", "text": "Journal of Indian Philosophy\n\nThe Journal of Indian Philosophy (print: , online: ) is an academic journal on philosophy published by Springer. The editor in chief is Diwakar Acharya.\n\n"}
{"id": "3322860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322860", "title": "List of Muslim comparative religionists", "text": "List of Muslim comparative religionists\n\nMuslim comparative religionist is a Muslim scholar or preacher engaged in Islamic comparative religion studies.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable Muslim comparative religionists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11325347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325347", "title": "List of Robert Benchley collections and film appearances", "text": "List of Robert Benchley collections and film appearances\n\nHumorist Robert Benchley (1889–1945) produced over 600 essays, initially compiled over twelve volumes, during his writing career. He was also featured in a number of films, including 48 short treatments that he mostly wrote or co-wrote, and numerous feature films.\n\nThe following is a list of those compilations and appearances.\n\nBenchley produced twelve compilation books of his work for the various publications he wrote and freelanced for, and numerous posthumous compilations of his work have been produced since his death. Unless otherwise indicated, all volumes featuring illustrations were drawn by Gluyas Williams.\n\n\n\n\nBenchley filmed for Fox Film Corporation, Universal Pictures, RKO Radio Pictures, and then primarily for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Paramount Pictures. Toward the end of his career, he did freelance acting around Hollywood. The films are listed by release date, not by production date.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15079013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15079013", "title": "List of jōyō kanji", "text": "List of jōyō kanji\n\nThe jōyō kanji system of representing written Japanese consists of 2,136 characters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37883474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37883474", "title": "Lorenzo Valla's Dialogue on Free Will", "text": "Lorenzo Valla's Dialogue on Free Will\n\nLorenzo Valla's Dialogue on Free Will (\"De libero arbitrio\") is one in a series of dialogues written by Valla throughout his lifetime. The work discusses his views on the concept of free will as it pertains the Catholic Church's opinion on predestination at the time. The concept of predestination, in the opinion of the Catholic Church, deals with the fact that God has predetermined our lives, and that he knows how we will act. Many philosophers of the time argued that if humans' lives are in fact predetermined by God, than in reality the concept of free will is simply an illusion. Essentially the argument is that if God has created us already knowing the decisions we will make, than those decisions are not actually ours. Valla, through a fictional dialogue amongst the work's characters, defends the idea that the concepts of predetermination and free will can coexist. In the work, Valla states that he is attempting to directly refute the works of the 6th century philosopher Boethius.\n\nLorenzo Valla was an Italian humanist who lived during the 15th century. Valla was born in Rome in 1406. Valla's family had close ties to the papal curia, putting him in close contact with many established Church figures at an early age. Many of these figures were also thinkers who abided by humanist ideologies. One such humanist was Melchior Scrivani, who served as a papal secretary. Scrivani was also Valla's uncle. Lorenzo Valla hoped to one day succeed his uncle, and from early on in his career, he had a desire to leave his impact on the papacy and the Catholic Church. Valla faced criticisms from his peers within Rome which eventually forced him to leave for Pavia in 1431. Valla taught for three years in Pavia, eventually leaving to serves as a member of Alfonso of Aragon's court. Disputes between the Aragones and the papacy, in which Valla played a central role, left Valla with a renewed desire to leave his mark in Rome, even after the Argonese settled their differences with the papacy.\n\nAs a humanist, Valla spent much of his early career writing on the importance of the Latin language to scholarly society. Renaissance humanism concentrates itself around the importance of Latin as the international language of scholars. Most Renaissance humanists, and Valla in particular, recognized and stressed the importance of rhetoric and language. Valla was known for his critiques of classical scholastic thought, and his ideas on the reformation of Aristotelian logic.\n\nAs mentioned, Valla wrote his dialogue on free will (de libero arbitrio) with the intent of proving that the ideas of predetermination and free will could co-exist within the Catholic Church. Lorenzo Valla argued, not only in his dialogue on free will, that free will was essential to the make up of human morality. This is belief is central to his theologies, and is one of the main reasons for his strong attempts to defend the concept.\n\nValla chronicles a fictional dialogue between two protagonists and through their conversation, expresses his own ideas on the issue. The first of the two main characters is Antonio Glarea, an educated man who Valla identifies as being from San Lorenzo. The second is a man named Lorenzo, and it is safe to assume that Lorenzo's comments throughout the dialogue are meant to represent those of Lorenzo Valla. The two engage in an intensely theoretical debate. Eventually, Valla's conclusions become evident to the reader. Many critics argue that although Valla argues his points passionately, many of his conclusions are inconclusive.\n\nAfter a brief introduction by Valla, in which he outlines his reasons for writing the piece, he begins the dialogue with a statement by Antonio. The general point of Antonio's first statement is to express his utter confusion in regards to grasping the concept of free will. Antonio's initial comments are not as forceful as they become later in the dialogue. At this point in the work Antonio is simply expressing his frustrations with his inability to understand free will as the Church defines it.\n\nValla's character Lorenzo addresses Antonio's questions about free will by explaining that the free will of humans' lies in their decision to live good or bad lives morally. He argues that God has given each person certain characteristics, and that we are free to decide how we use those attributes. Lorenzo speaks about how the differences amongst our characteristics are things that God knows, and that we can not know about all of the things we don't have, and that we are best to just do all that we can to make the best of what we know we do have. The heart of Lorenzo's initial argument is that although God does know who we are and what we are going to do, we still have the ability to decide to live within God's grace and make the most of what we have.\n\nAntonio and Lorenzo go on to agree on the terms of the concepts of free will and predestination. It is important to note that both Antonio and Lorenzo consider themselves to be devout Roman Catholics. The two agree that in terms of the Catholic Church's view of predestination, that God does indeed know how we will act. The two also agree that the term free will can be defined as the ability for humans to make decisions about their actions. Antonio's main argument is that if God knows what we are going to do and he has created us, that God can not hold us accountable for our sins.\n\nValla attempts to counter Antonio through numerous historical examples where he argues that God's foreknowledge of our action does not affect the morality of the decision at hand. He uses the example of the betrayal of Jesus by Judas. Initially Antonio claims that Lorenzo is simply bringing him back to his initial confusion on the issue of free will. After further discussion however Antonio admits that Lorenzo's arguments have persuaded him to recognize the compatibility of predestination and free will.\n\nMany critics of Valla argue that although he makes strong arguments, he bases many of them on the inability of humans to grasp God's ability to know everything. Many of Valla's arguments demand the human concession that many aspects of God and faith are never going to be able to be understood. Oftentimes Valla resorts to making that claim that many of the counter arguments he is presented with are in fact heretical.\n"}
{"id": "40477992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40477992", "title": "Merkel-Raute", "text": "Merkel-Raute\n\nThe Merkel-Raute (German for \"Merkel rhombus\") is what has been termed Merkel diamond or Triangle of Power by English-speaking media: a hand gesture made by resting one's hands in front of the stomach so that the fingertips meet, with the thumbs and index fingers forming a rough quadrangular shape. This signature gesture of Angela Merkel, the current German Chancellor, has been described as \"probably one of the most recognisable hand gestures in the world\".\n\nAsked about how the \"Merkel-Raute\" was introduced as her trademark, Merkel stated that \"there was always the question, what to do with your arms, and that's how it came about.\" She chose the gesture without having been assisted by a counsellor because \"it contains a certain symmetry.\"\n\nThe stereotypical gesture was originally used in order to ridicule Angela Merkel and her government. Most notably, it is found with comedians impersonating her, combined with the colorful jackets she is usually seen wearing. In Jan Philipp Gloger's staging of \"The Flying Dutchman\", which premiered during the 2013 Bayreuth Festival, the \"Merkel-Raute\" is used as a criticism of capitalism: During the performance, the gesture is shown as the distinctive mark of a nameless, synchronized elite of bankers and managers.\n\nWhen used by her own party (the conservative Christian Democratic Union), the gesture is intended as a political symbol for Merkel's (presumed) unagitated leadership. On 2 September 2013, near the climax of the campaign for the 2013 federal election, the CDU unveiled a giant banner greeting travellers at Berlin Hauptbahnhof, which was displayed on two sides of a hotel building under construction, taking up a total space of nearly . The photographic mosaic was made up of 2,150 images of the hands of CDU supporters and shows nothing but Merkel's hands forming the \"Raute\", next to the slogan \"(Put) Germany's future in good hands\" (). According to Hermann Gröhe, the manager of the CDU election campaign, the billboard would perfectly “embody our election message.”\n\nPoliticians of the opposition criticised the giant campaigning billboard as an instance of a \"monstrous cult of personality\", calling it \"Cuban-style\". Berlin-based newspaper \"Der Tagesspiegel\" used the childless Merkel's nickname \"Mutti\" (“mommy”) in conjunction with Kurt Tucholsky's poem \"Mutters Hände\" (“Mother's Hands”, which describes the hands of an old, dying woman) to imply that it was unfavorable for politicians to be characterized by just one hand gesture.\n\nIn addition to the billboard, the \"Merkel-Raute\" was also employed in the CDU's other campaigning efforts. The Young Union (\"Junge Union\" or JU in German), the youth wing of the CDU, organised flashmobs in which members gathered in a circle while imitating the gesture in several public places in Germany. It also produced posters featuring a stylised version of the \"Merkel-Raute\" above the words \"'\" (\"Keep calm and vote for the Chancellor\" or \"Be cool and choose the Chancellor\") a play on the British wartime slogan Keep Calm and Carry On; these posters were also made into various articles of clothing, such as T-shirts and hoodies. This stylised version had also been used by teAM Deutschland, the CDU's campaign team, to represent Merkel on its website as early as March 2013. Also, the Association of Christian Democratic Students (\"Ring Christlich-Demokratischer Studenten\" or RCDS in German), a student organisation associated with the CDU, created the website \"'\" (\"Students for Merkel\") featuring photographs of university students imitating the \"Merkel-Raute\" with the slogan \"\" (\"I'm voting for Angie! And you?\"), to which readers were encouraged to upload their own photographs.\n\nThe CDU has brought back the Merkel-Raute for its 2017 election campaign as well. The Raute features prominently in its website for supporters, \"Ich unterstütze Merkel\" (\"I support Merkel\"). The website uses the slogan \"I love Raute\", along with a logo consisting of \"I ❤\" followed by a stylised Raute similar to that used by teAM Deutschland in 2013. It encourages supporters to upload photographs of themselves decorated with the aforementioned logo. The CDU has also made items such as pens, cups, stickers, and bags with this logo available for sale on its main website.\n\nSerbian President Aleksandar Vučić and POTUS Donald Trump occasionally perform the gesture as well.\n\nSince its installation, the giant CDU campaigning poster has enjoyed prominence on the Internet, especially with the users of social networking services. The releasing of digitally altered images has turned into an Internet meme, most notably featuring Merkel's hands superimposed on images of Mr. Burns (whose trademark is a similar gesture), Grumpy Cat, Spock and others.\n\nThe emoticon <> referencing the Merkel-Raute has also been adopted by the CDU as a symbol of Merkel in its Internet communications, even after the end of the 2013 election campaign. For example, it organised a competition on its Facebook page in which people were encouraged to comment with “<>” in order to win a bag printed with the aforementioned campaign poster. It also used the emoticon at the end of its 2013 year-end video montage, as well as in its Twitter congratulations to Merkel on her sixtieth birthday on 17 July 2014. On 29 October 2014, in response to an alternative Merkel emoticon circulating the Internet that had been expanded to two lines in order to include Merkel's face, the CDU confirmed on Twitter that it was the creator of the original \"<>\" emoticon.\n\n"}
{"id": "18445010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18445010", "title": "Middle East Centre for Arab Studies", "text": "Middle East Centre for Arab Studies\n\nThe Middle East Centre for Arab Studies (MECAS) was an Arabic language college created by the British Army during World War II in Jerusalem, and relocated afterwards as a civilian institution to Lebanon near Beirut where it functioned between 1947-1978.\n\nThe Middle East Centre for Arab Studies was established by the British Army during World War II in Jerusalem. Between 1944-1946 it functioned in the requisitioned Austrian Hospice (), where it was headed by the English Arabist Bertram Thomas. Its purpose was to teach officers Arabic language and culture. After a short post-war intermezzo in the town of Zarqa in Transjordan, in 1947 it moved to its final location in Shemlan, in the Mount Lebanon Governorate of Lebanon.\n\nIn Lebanon the college was reopened by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office of the British Government. Initially, the school was housed in a small building, but later expanded to a much larger purpose-built facility.\n\nThe college gained notoriety as a \"spy school\" after it was publicly denounced as such by Kamal Jumblatt speaking in the Lebanese Parliament. Although the charge has stuck, and the label is still commonly used, there is little evidence to support this beyond infamous British/Soviet double agent George Blake, who was a student at the school and who was taken from there to Heathrow, where he was formally arrested on espionage charges.\n\nThe Civil War made the situation increasingly difficult, and in 1976, MECAS was temporarily evacuated before closing altogether in 1978.\n\nToday its building houses the Help and Hope Institution, run by the Dar Al-Aytam Al-Islamiyah, which is home to 200 mentally handicapped children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55180493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55180493", "title": "Middle Eastern Studies (journal)", "text": "Middle Eastern Studies (journal)\n\nMiddle Eastern Studies is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal of Middle-Eastern studies. It was established in 1964 by Elie Kedourie, who served as editor-in-chief from 1964–1992, and is published by Taylor & Francis. From 1992–2016, the journal was edited by Sylvia Kedourie. It is now co-edited by Saul Kelly and Helen Kedourie.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.443.\n"}
{"id": "271162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271162", "title": "Mircea Dinescu", "text": "Mircea Dinescu\n\nMircea Dinescu (; born November 11, 1950) is a Romanian poet, journalist and editor.\n\nHe was born in Slobozia, the son of Ştefan Dinescu, a metalworker, and Aurelia (born Badea). Dinescu studied at the Faculty of Journalism of the Ștefan Gheorghiu Academy, and was considered a gifted young poet during his youth, with several poetry volumes published.\n\nIn August 1988, Dinescu was invited by the USSR Union of Writers in the Soviet Union and on August 25, he gave an interview to the Romanian section of the Voice of Russia. During the interview, he expressed his support for the Glasnost and Perestroika policies of the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter returning to Bucharest, he invited some friends (including Gabriel Liiceanu, Alexandru Paleologu and Andrei Pleșu) to write a protest against Ceaușescu's policies that were destroying Romanian culture and villages, but they failed to reach a consensus on the text and Dinescu decided to write his own protest. The members of the group were then visited by the Securitate, which argued that their actions were done under KGB orders as an attack against Romania, not against Ceaușescu.\n\nHis book, \"Moartea citeşte ziarul\" (\"Death is reading the newspaper\") was turned down in 1988 by the Communist regime's censorship apparatus, and was then published in Amsterdam.\n\nOn March 17, 1989, he was fired from \"România Literară\" literary magazine, as a result of an anti-totalitarian interview against President Nicolae Ceauşescu, which Dinescu had granted to the French newspaper \"Libération\" in December 1988. According to him, the reason for dismissal was \"receiving visits from diplomats and journalists from Socialist and capitalist countries without permission\". He was expelled from the Romanian Communist Party, held under house arrest, with his house guarded 24/7, all visits banned; he was allowed to go outside just for shopping, but always flanked by two Securitate officers.\n\nDinescu got support from seven writers (Geo Bogza, Ștefan Augustin Doinaș, Dan Hăulică, Octavian Paler, Andrei Pleșu, Alexandru Paleologu and Mihail Şora), who wrote a letter to Dumitru Radu Popescu, the President of the Writers' Union, asking him \"to undo an injustice\". Despite the original authors' secrecy (they didn't publish it abroad), six of them (all, except for Geo Bogza, a veteran socialist) were forbidden to publishing. He got additional support from poet Doina Cornea, literary critics Alexandru Călinescu and Radu Enescu, and, in November 1989, a collective of 18 young academics and writers, who also wrote letters to Popescu.\n\nDespite being isolated, Dinescu noticed that with a handful of exceptions, the writers did not protest against the oppression of the regime. On November 11, he wrote a statement in which he attacked the Romanian intelligentsia for their sycophancy for Ceaușescu, the Romanian Orthodox Church for being \"trade unionists in religious vestments\", journalists for being 'apostles of the personality cult\" and writers for being \"trusted handmaidens of the party\".\n\nIn December 1989 he took a preeminent part in the Romanian Revolution, taking part in the occupation of the National Television building by the people of Bucharest. According to popular rumors, his fellow revolutionary Ion Caramitru, unaware that he was being filmed, said to Dinescu something that was taken to be \"Mircea, fă-te că lucrezi!\" (\"Mircea, pretend you are working!\"); this was to be proof that the Revolution was a carefully staged front for a coup d'état. According to the investigation of Alex Mihai Stoenescu, Caramitru actually said \"Mircea, arăţi că lucrezi\" (\"Mircea, it seems you're working [on something]\" – while holding Dinescu's booklet in front of camera), to which Dinescu replied \"La un apel\" (\"[I'm working] on an appeal [to the people]\") – which was indicative of their ill-preparedness and preoccupation in quickly drafting a single revolutionary proclamation on the spot.\n\nAfter the fall of Communism, he co-founded \"Academia Caţavencu\", the most famous Romanian satirical magazine. He quit the publication in 1998 and went on founding his own publications, \"Plai cu Boi\" (loosely translated as \"Land of the Dumb\") – a satirical Playboy-style magazine and \"Aspirina Săracului\" (\"The Poor Man's Aspirin\" – a humorous reference to sexual intercourse) – a weekly satirical magazine.\n\nHe invested a part of the money he earned from the books published into agriculture, his estate makes the wine sold under the name \"Vinul Moşierului\" (\"Landlord's wine\") – the name is a tongue-in-cheek reference to an ironic comment President Ion Iliescu had made about Dinescu's social status.\n\nDinescu remains a strong and charismatic voice of the civil society. As member of Consiliul Naţional pentru Studierea Arhivelor Securităţii (\"National Council for Studying the Archives of the Securitate\"), he is particularly concerned with exposing the former officers and collaborators of Securitate. He is also a strong critic of Communism and of Romanian leaders that had connections with the Communist regime.\n\nAlthough not politically involved, he openly supported Traian Băsescu's candidature for President of Romania during the 2004 elections.\n\nIn May 2005, in collaboration with the journalist Cristian Tudor Popescu, he started a new newspaper called \"Gândul\", with an initial circulation of 100,000 copies, but he sold his shares in July 2006. He and Stelian Tănase host a talk show on Realitatea TV (\"Tănase şi Dinescu\").\n\nDinescu was appointed a Commander of the Order of the Star of Romania. In 1991, he became an Honorary Member of the University of Augsburg.\n\n\"Testament – Anthology of Modern Romanian Verse\" (1850–2015) second edition – bilingual version English/Romanian. Daniel Ionita – editor and principal translator, with Eva Foster, Daniel Reynaud and Rochelle Bews. Minerva Publishing House. Bucharest 2015. \n\n"}
{"id": "34495251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34495251", "title": "National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia", "text": "National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia\n\nThe National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia (, \"sak'art'velos kulturuli memkvidreobis datsvis saagento\") is a government agency in Georgia responsible for preservation, protection, research and promotion of cultural heritage of the country. The agency was established in 2008, bringing several major heritage monument complexes of national and global significance in Georgia under its umbrella. The agency is headed by Director General, a position occupied by the art historian Nikoloz Vacheishvili since November 2008.\n\nThe monument complexes united under the National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia are:\nThe wider tasks of the agency include preservation, protection and promotion of museums, reserves, moveable and immoveable monuments and sites of the Georgian cultural heritage throughout Georgia and beyond the country, archaeological expeditions, as well as development and implementation of cultural, education and tourist programs to popularize the Georgian cultural heritage. The agency has also been involved in negotiations with foreign government over the protection of Georgian cultural heritage in respective countries, such as Turkey and Cyprus.\n"}
{"id": "51427743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51427743", "title": "Necropolitics", "text": "Necropolitics\n\nNecropolitics is the use of social and political power to dictate how some people may live and how some must die.\n\nAchille Mbembe, author of \"On the Postcolony\", was the first scholar to explore the term in depth in his article of the same name. Necropolitics is often discussed with biopower, the Foucauldian term for the use of social and political power to control people's lives.\n\nMbembe was clear that necropolitics is more than a right to kill (Foucault's \"droit de glaive\"), but also the right to expose other people (including a country's own citizens) to death. His view of necropolitics also included the right to impose social or civil death, the right to enslave others, and other forms of political violence. Necropolitics is a theory of the walking dead, namely a way of analysing how \"contemporary forms of subjugation of life to the power of death\" forces some bodies to remain in different states of being located between life and death. Mbembe uses the examples of slavery, apartheid, the colonisation of Palestine and the figure of the suicide bomber to show how different forms of necropower over the body (statist, racialised, a state of exception, urgency, martyrdom) reduce people to precarious conditions of life.\n\nJasbir Puar coined the term \"queer necropolitics\" to analyze the post-9/11 queer outrage regarding gay bashing and simultaneous queer complicity with Islamophobia. Many scholars use Puar's queer necropolics in conjunction with Judith Butler's concept of a grievable life. Queer necropolitics is the subject of an anthology from Routledge.\n"}
{"id": "16933614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16933614", "title": "Ninnion Tablet", "text": "Ninnion Tablet\n\nThe Ninnion Tablet, dated to approximately 370 BC, is a red clay tablet depicting the ancient Greek Eleusinian Mysteries (religious rites connected to Greek mythology). It was rediscovered in Eleusis, Attica in 1895, and is kept in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens.\n\nThe tablet depicts Iacchus leading a procession of initiates into the Mysteries. Receiving this group are the deities Demeter and Persephone. Above the artifact's main scene are multiple representations of the moon. The Ninnion Tablet is the only known original representation of the Mysteries' initiation rites.\n\n"}
{"id": "3751097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3751097", "title": "Oleksander Ohloblyn", "text": "Oleksander Ohloblyn\n\nOleksander Ohloblyn, Ukr. Олександр Петрович Оглоблин (born in Kiev, 1899 and died in Ludlow, Massachusetts, United States, 1992) was one of the most important Ukrainian emigre historians of the Cold War era.\n\nOhloblyn traced his ancestry to the Novgorod-Siversky region of Left-bank Ukraine, which had formed an important part of the autonomous Ukrainian \"Hetmanate\" in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and throughout his professional career as a historian retained a lively interest in this area and wrote frequently about it. Educated at the universities in Kiev, Odessa, and Moscow, from 1921 to 1933 he taught history at the Kiev Institute of People's Education (as Kiev University was known after the revolution), but during Joseph Stalin's purges, was dismissed from his posts, forced to recant his allegedly \"bourgeois nationalist\" views, and suffered repression including several months of imprisonment. In the late 1930s he returned to teaching at Kiev and Odessa universities. When the Germans occupied Kiev in the fall of 1941, Ohloblyn was appointed head of the Kiev Municipal Council, a post which he held from September 21 to October 25, and was a member of the Ukrainian National Council which tried to organize Ukrainian life under the difficult conditions of the occupation. He desperately tried to save from execution some of Jews he knew but the German commandant of Kiev informed him that \"the Jewish issue belongs to exclusive jurisdiction of Germans and they will solve it at their own discretion\" (, in Russian). Politics under the Nazis was not to his taste and he quickly retired from his public positions and returned to his scholarly work. In 1942 he worked as a director of Kiev Museum-Archive of Transitional Period, whose exhibition compared life under Bolsheviks and under Germans. In 1943 he moved to Lviv in western Ukraine and in 1944 to Prague. Upon the approach of the Red Army, he fled west to Bavaria. From 1946 to 1951, he taught at the Ukrainian Free University in Munich. In 1951, he moved to the United States where he was active in various Ukrainian emigre scholarly institutions such as the Ukrainian Academy of Arts and Sciences in the US and the Ukrainian Historical Association. From 1968 to 1970, he was a Visiting Professor of History at Harvard University.\n\nDuring his early Soviet period, Ohloblyn authored several monographs on Ukrainian economic history (reprinted in the west in 1971 as \"A History of Ukrainian Industry\") and began publishing on the Mazepa era of the early eighteenth century. After the war, he continued his studies of seventeenth and eighteenth century Ukraine, publishing books on the Treaty of Pereiaslav of 1654 between the Ukrainian Cossacks and the Muscovite Tsar (1954), the political elite of Left-bank Ukraine in the eighteenth century (1959), and Hetman Mazepa and his era (1960). He also published an important update to Dmytro Doroshenko's pioneering \"Ukrainian Historiography\" (1957).\n\nIn his various publications which appeared in the west, Ohloblyn followed his distinguished emigre predecessor, Dmytro Doroshenko, in stressing the strivings for national unity, autonomy, and independence of the Ukrainian Cossack elite and their successors, the Ukrainian gentry of Left-bank Ukraine. He greatly admired Hetman Ivan Mazepa whom, he thought well represented this trend, and who actually openly defied Moscow during the reign of Tsar Peter the Great.\n\nIn his writings on Ukrainian historiography, Ohloblyn took a moderate position, positively evaluating the work of his former opponent Mykhailo Hrushevsky, who had been severely criticisized by the generations of the 1930s and 1940s, including Doroshenko, for his ostensible undervaluing of the strivings of the Ukrainian Cossack elite for statehood and independence. Ohloblyn tried to evaluate populist Ukrainian historians like Mykola Kostomarov, Volodymyr Antonovych, and Hrushevsky within the context of their own times rather than that of the next generations which had learned new lessons about the importance of statehood from their experiences during the revolution.\n\nAlthough Ohloblyn never held a tenured professorship at an American university and was largely unknown to the English speaking world, his activities in the Ukrainian Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Ukrainian Historical Association and his extensive publications in the Ukrainian language influenced younger generations of Ukrainian historians in the United States and other western countries. His students and admirers who have continued his work include Lubomyr Wynar, Orest Subtelny, and Zenon Kohut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48420348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48420348", "title": "Recasting Women: Essays in Colonial History", "text": "Recasting Women: Essays in Colonial History\n\nRecasting Women: Essays in Colonial History is a 1989 book, edited by Kumkum Sangari and Sudesh Vaid, published by Kali for Women in India and by the Rutgers University Press in the United States. The anthology attempts to explore the inter-relation of patriarchies with political economy, law, religion and culture and to suggest a different history of 'reform' movements, and of class and gender relations. This books is considered to be a landmark contribution by Indian feminist movement.\n\nAny discussion on rewriting history from perspective of feminists would recognize that history writing is not innocent and transparent practice. It is a situated practice, which is mediated by historians. The social location of the historian (caste, gender, class), his/ her theoretical location and the present context which determines what is considered historical enough to be written. Doing feminist history is not a matter of choice.\n\nAccording to Joan Scott Joan Wallach Scott, the history of women can be studied through three genres of history:\n\n1. History of Inclusion- when the nature of history itself was not questioned. Women were added as women worthies. The early attempts of feminist history writing implied including the women worthies i.e. the women warriors or poets were highlighted to prove that if given space, women could act like men. History was unearthed to make women visible.\n\n2. History of Contribution- In this genre, emphasis was on the fact that women were not only present in history but also participated in determining the course of history. For example, women’s contribution to revolutions or nationalist movements.\n\n3. History of Oppression- It was argued that the image of ‘ideal’ woman reinstated women’s oppression. Women were recognized as a separate category of analysis in history. Although it created essentialized ahistorical category of women, it is contribution is establishing the fact that women had history.\n\nThe book \"Recasting Women\", in using gender as category of analysis in their study of Colonial India, reworked our notions of social reform. The authors used women’s question as entry point to recast our understanding of social reform in colonial India. Thus, the book foregrounds a different kind of gender history. The authors have shown through their studies how the middle class, who spearheaded the social reform movement, was gendered. They have also argued how the public and private sphere was redrawn. Thus they have made clear distinction between gender as category of description and category of analysis. By doing so, they recognized women as a separate category of analysis in history.\n\nAs the editors clearly state in their introduction, the book was the outcome of the need to understand the historical processes which reconstitute patriarchy in colonial India, which also bears significance for the present for two reasons:\n\n1. In the two decades preceding the book, post-colonial hope of improving status of women was shattered.\n\n2. The nationalist model of reform and development lost legitimacy.\n\nThus studying the politics of social change became the subject of feminist inquiry. The authors clearly distinguish between doing women’s history and feminist historiography in early India. The latter, they argue, recognizes that every aspect of social reality is gendered.\n\nThe book identifies the differences within patriarchies according to class i.e. defining gender was crucial to the formation of classes and dominant ideologies. The process of social restructuring was simultaneous with the process of reconstituting patriarchies. The land resettlements of colonial era gave more power to the landholding groups and pushed the tenants and agricultural labor to further poverty. This had implications for women of both classes, which explains their active participation in peasant struggles in later years. Land ownership and control over means of production remained in hands of men. Moreover, the codification customs into colonial law gave legal sanction to patriarchal practices on marriage, succession and adoption.\n\nThe authors argue that the middle class reforms for women were crucial for their cultural nationalism and related to their self-definition of class. It is also about redefining the public and the private sphere. For them, the private was the indigenous alternative to western materialism.\n\nAnother significant contribution made in this book is arguing how the new ideal woman was defined in opposition to women from lower class. Thus which women had more access to the public sphere and how, got redrawn for women of both classes.\n\nThe authors also assert that both tradition and modernity carry patriarchal ideologies. Therefore, they make argument in favor of understanding them with their complexities, beyond the binary opposition mode.\n\nIn the essays that follow, the first one by Uma Chakravarti is about challenging the notion of glorious status of Indian women in ancient India, as constructed by nationalist histories of colonial times. She argues that even if it was to be accepted, it was true only for Aryan women not Vedic dasis. In her essay she looks at how traditions are invented. For the nineteenth century nationalists, the focus was only on upper caste Hindu women in defining the ideal womanhood.\n\nRecasting in colonial period was also influenced by articulations of nationalism i.e. defining what is nation and claiming power. The pre-independent Indian nationalism demanded participation of women in political sphere. By the late nineteenth century, cultural nationalism was articulated. The idea of nation was determined on basis of cultural superiority, on the basis of which the claim for self-rule was made. In this period, because culture is considered superior, there was opposition to social reforms, unlike in the previous century when women’s issues were central to social reforms. As if the women’s question did not exist. This is what Partha Chatterjee calls in his essay, the nationalist resolution of women’s question.\n\nHowever, as the authors themselves admit in the introduction, the limitation of the book lies in its lack of representativeness. The essays are confined to the dominant Hindu community, mostly from North India and mainly about middle classes. Despite its limitation, the book is held by common concern for changing position of women both in its material specificity and in the inverse representations within discourses which legitimize their social status. Thus it is useful for further studies on reconstitution of patriarchies.\n\nDavid Kopf has reviewed this book in \"The Journal of Interdisciplinary History\". In his review, he observes:\n"}
{"id": "1129479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129479", "title": "Sociolismo", "text": "Sociolismo\n\nSociolismo (\"partner-ism\"), also known as amiguismo (\"friend-ism\"), is the informal term used in Cuba to describe the reciprocal exchange of favors by individuals, usually relating to circumventing bureaucratic restrictions or obtaining hard-to-find goods.\n\nIt comes from the Spanish word \"socio\" which means business partner or buddy, and is a pun on the official government policy of \"socialismo\" (socialism). It is analogous to the \"blat\" of the Soviet Union or the term \"combina\" in Israel. It is a form of corruption in Cuba.\n\nThe term is particularly associated with the black market economy, and perceived cronyism in Cuba's state controlled command economy. \"Socios\" can be black market operators who \"facilitate\" (steal) goods that are officially reserved for the state. They can also get someone a job or obtain paperwork.\n\nThe system is used by anyone who needs to send an e-mail or print a resume but does not have a computer, or needs paint or cement but has no access to an Office Store or Home Improvement Store. Gary Marx, the Chicago Tribune's Havana correspondent, reports the system works this way: Cubans send out signals they need something, make telephone calls and visit neighbors and friends to find the right person who can get things in motion.\n\nFew people own cars and the buses, or \"camellos\", are slow and overcrowded; many Cubans spend hours each day arranging rides to get to work, school or accomplish a task. People often must reach out and secure what they need \"por fuera\" (\"through the outside\") or \"por la izquierda\" (\"through the left\"), slang terms that mean \"outside the official system\".\n\nThe system has different levels and obligations. Friends, neighbors and relatives do favors for each other without expecting anything in return. But with lesser-known acquaintances, exchange is more normal for such things as shampoo, a piece of chicken, fruit, or cash.\n\nSometimes the favors extend to hundreds of people. Employees of a state company in Pinar del Río were given special treatment at a local hospital in exchange for paper, pens and other scarce materials and services.\n\n\"Sociolismo\" lets any person with control over some resource exchange access to the resource for some current or future personal material benefit. Complex networks of reciprocal obligations thus became an important part of the functioning of the Cuban economy.\n\nDaily life involves maintaining the personal relationships necessary to ensure access to necessary goods and services, through unofficial channels, or through official channels but by unofficial means. Though the term became prominent during the economic downturn known as the Special Period in Cuba, usage has continued into the mid-2000s.\n\nAspects of Cuban sociolismo were exported to the United States via Cuban immigrants, who relied on friends and relatives in their new country for help in finding jobs, since they were not able to verify their skills or employment in Cuba. This was particularly prevalent in the largest Cuban-American community, in Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "858743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858743", "title": "Southern Gothic", "text": "Southern Gothic\n\nSouthern Gothic is a subgenre of Gothic fiction in American literature that takes place in the American South.\n\nCommon themes in Southern Gothic literature include deeply flawed, disturbing or eccentric characters who may be involved in hoodoo, ambivalent gender roles, decayed or derelict settings, grotesque situations, and other sinister events relating to or stemming from poverty, alienation, crime, or violence. Due to the era that many of these stories were written, many include very racist elements and themes.\n\nElements of a Gothic treatment of the South were apparent in the 19th century, ante- and post-bellum, in the grotesques of Henry Clay Lewis and the de-idealized visions of Mark Twain. The genre came together, however, only in the 20th century, when dark romanticism, Southern humor, and the new literary naturalism merged into a new and powerful form of social critique. The thematic material was largely a result of the culture existing in the South following the collapse of the Confederacy. It left a vacuum in both values and religion that became filled with poverty due to defeat in the Civil war and reconstruction, racism, excessive violence, and hundreds of different denominations resulting from the theological divide that separated the country over the issue of slavery. \n\nThe term \"Southern Gothic\" was originally used as pejorative and dismissive. Ellen Glasgow used the term in this way when she referred to the writings of Erskine Caldwell and William Faulkner. She included the authors in what she called the \"Southern Gothic School\" in 1935, stating that their work was filled with \"aimless violence\" and \"fantastic nightmares.\" It was so negatively viewed at first that Eudora Welty said, \"They better not call me that!\"\n\nThe Southern Gothic style employs macabre, ironic events to examine the values of the American South. Thus unlike its parent genre, it uses the Gothic tools not solely for the sake of suspense, but to explore social issues and reveal the cultural character of the American South – Gothic elements often taking place in a magic realist context rather than a strictly fantastical one.\n\nWarped rural communities replaced the sinister plantations of an earlier age; and in the works of leading figures such as William Faulkner, Carson McCullers and Flannery O'Connor, the representation of the South blossomed into an absurdist critique of modernity as a whole.\n\nThere are many characteristics in Southern Gothic Literature that relate back to its parent genre of American Gothic and even to European Gothic. However, the setting of these works are distinctly Southern. Some of these characteristics are exploring madness, decay and despair, continuing pressures of the past upon the present, particularly with the lost ideals of a dispossessed Southern aristocracy and continued racial hostilities.\n\nSouthern Gothic particularly focuses on the South's history of slavery, racism, fear of the outside world, violence, a \"fixation with the grotesque, and a tension between realistic and supernatural elements\".\n\nSimilar to the elements of the Gothic castle, Southern Gothic gives us the decay of the plantation in the post-Civil War South.\n\nVillains who disguise themselves as innocents or victims are often found in Southern Gothic Literature, especially stories by Flannery O'Connor, such as \"Good Country People\" and \"The Life You Save May Be Your Own\", giving us a blurred line between victim and villain.\n\nSouthern Gothic literature set out to expose the myth of old antebellum South, and its narrative of an idyllic past hidden by social, familial, and racial denials and suppressions.\n\n\nSome have included Eudora Welty in the category, but apparently she disagreed: \"They better not call me that!\", she abruptly told Alice Walker in an interview.\n\nA resurgence of Southern Gothic themes in contemporary fiction has been identified in the work of figures like Barry Hannah (1942–2010), Joe R. Lansdale (b. 1951) and Cherie Priest (b. 1975).\n\nA number of films and television programs are also described as being part of the Southern Gothic genre. Some prominent examples are:\n\n\nSouthern Gothic (also known as Gothic Americana, or Dark Country) is a genre of music characterized by a fusion of alternative rock and classic country/folk. The genre shares thematic connections with the Southern Gothic genre of literature, and indeed the parameters of what makes something Gothic Americana appears to have more in common with literary genres than traditional musical ones. Songs often examine poverty, criminal behavior, religious imagery, death, ghosts, family, lost love, alcohol, murder, the devil and betrayal.\n\n\nThe images of Great Depression photographer Walker Evans are frequently seen to evoke the visual depiction of the Southern Gothic; Evans claimed: \"I can understand why Southerners are haunted by their own landscape\".\n\nAnother noted Southern Gothic photographer was surrealist, Clarence John Laughlin, who photographed cemeteries, plantations, and other abandoned places throughout the American South (primarily Louisiana) for nearly 40 years.\n\nWilliam Gibson took an ironic look at the cult of \"Southernness\" in his novel \"Virtual Light\". Rydell, the stolid, southern antihero, is looking for a job at an LA shop called Nightmare Folk Art—Southern Gothic. The (northern) owner says he finds Rydell unsuitable: \"What we offer people here is a certain \"vision\", Mr. Rydell. A certain \"darkness\" as well. A Gothic quality...The \"Mind\" of the South. A \"fever dream\" of sensuality\".\n\nPut out by finding himself not southern enough for this New Englander, \"'Lady,' Rydell said carefully, 'I think you're crazier than a sack full of assholes.' Her eyebrows shot up. 'There,' she said. 'There what?' 'Color, Mr. Rydell. Fire. The brooding verbal polychromes of an almost unthinkably advanced decay.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1748812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1748812", "title": "Stone ship", "text": "Stone ship\n\nThe stone ship or ship setting was an early burial custom in Scandinavia, Northern Germany and the Baltic states. The grave or cremation burial was surrounded by slabs or stones in the shape of a ship. The ships vary in size and were erected from c. 1000 BC to 1000 AD.\n\nStone ship were an early burial custom, characteristically Scandinavian but also found in Northern Germany and the Baltic states. The grave or cremation burial was surrounded by tightly or loosely fit slabs or stones in the outline of a ship. They are often found in grave fields, but are sometimes far from any other archaeological remains.\n\nShip settings are of varying sizes, some of monumental proportions. The largest known is the mostly destroyed Jelling stone ship in Denmark, which was at least long. In Sweden, the size varies from (Ale's Stones) to only a few metres. The orientation also varies. Inside, they can be cobbled or filled with stones, or have raised stones in the positions of masts. The illusion of being ships has often been reinforced by larger stones at the ends. Some have an oblique stern.\n\nScattered examples are found in Northern Germany and along the coast of the Baltic States. Excavations have shown that they are usually from the latter part of the Nordic Bronze Age, c. 1000 BC – 500 BC (e.g. Gotland) or from the Germanic Iron Age, the Vendel Period and the Viking Age (e.g. Blekinge and Scania).\n\nScholars have suggested both that the stone ship developed out of the desire to equip the dead with everything he had in life, and alternatively that it was specifically associated with the journey to Hel. One puzzling feature is that they sometimes occur at the base of a barrow, enclosing a flat area presumably intended for public ceremonies.\n\nIn a paper published in 2012, Joseph S. Hopkins and Haukur Þorgeirsson propose a connection between stone ships and the image of a 'ship in a field' that the goddess Freyja's afterlife locations Fólkvangr and Sessrúmnir considered together produce. According to Hopkins and Haukur, \"'A ship in the field' in the mythical realm may have been conceived as a reflection of actual burial customs and vice versa. It is possible that the symbolic ship was thought of as providing some sort of beneficial property to the land, such as good seasons and peace brought on by Freyr’s mound burial in \"Ynglinga saga\".\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40080014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40080014", "title": "Union Seminary Quarterly Review", "text": "Union Seminary Quarterly Review\n\nThe Union Seminary Quarterly Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering theology that was established in 1939. The editor-in-chief is Jason Wyman.\n"}
{"id": "5794299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5794299", "title": "Venta Silurum", "text": "Venta Silurum\n\nVenta Silurum was a town in the Roman province of \"Britannia\" or Britain. Today it consists of remains in the village of Caerwent in Monmouthshire, south east Wales. Much of it has been archaeologically excavated and is on display to the public.\n\nVenta was established by the Romans in AD 75 as an administrative centre for the defeated Silures tribe in Roman Wales. Venta Silurum seems to mean \"Market town of the Silures\" (cf. Venta Belgarum and Venta Icenorum). This is confirmed by inscriptions on the \"Civitas Silurum\" stone, now on display in the parish church. The town, which was located on the Roman road between \"Isca Augusta\" (Caerleon) and \"Glevum\" (Gloucester) and close to the Severn estuary, was - in contrast with nearby \"Isca\" - essentially established for civilian administration rather than for military purposes.\n\nInitially Venta had a forum and basilica. By the early part of the 2nd century, during the reign of Hadrian, the \"civitas\" had begun construction work on a market place and developing centre of local government. Public baths and shops, including a blacksmiths, were built about the same time. Remains of farms and dwellings, some with courtyards, have also been excavated.\n\nA Roman temple, perhaps dedicated to Mars and the Celtic god Ocelus, have been identified on the site. A bowl with a chi-rho symbol shows that the worship of early Christian worship had begun in the late 3rd century.\n\nFollowing the withdrawal of the Roman legions from Britain, the town remained occupied until at least the mid-5th century. Early Christian worship was still established. The town might have had a bishop. A monastery was founded by Saint Tatheus in the 6th century. The site of the present church occupies part of an early Christian cemetery.\n\nThe name \"Venta\" gave its name to the emerging Kingdom of Gwent (called initially \"Kingdom of Guenta\"), and the town itself became known as \"Caer-went\" or \"the castra/fort of Venta/Gwent\". Tradition holds that Caradog Freichfras of Gwent moved his court from Caerwent to Portskewett around the 6th century.\n\nThe town lacked substantial defences until the mid 4th century when stone town walls were built. A small garrison may have been based in the town during this period. Large sections of the defensive walls are still in place, rising up to 5 metres in height in places. The walls have been described as \"easily the most impressive town defence to survive from Roman Britain, and in its freedom from later rebuilding one of the most perfectly preserved in Northern Europe.\" In 1881 a portion of a highly intricate coloured floor mosaic or Tessellated pavement, depicting different types of fish, was unearthed during excavations in the garden of a cottage. Excavations in 1971 dated the north-west polygonal angle-tower to the mid-4th century.\n\nIn 2008, a dig involving Wessex Archaeology and volunteers from the local Chepstow Archaeology Society, found a row of narrow shop buildings and a villa with painted walls, frescoes of Roman art and mosaic floors. Among the artefacts excavated were a bone penknife hilt depicting two gladiators fighting, coins, Roman glassware, ceramics, human and animal bones, lead patches used for repairing and pieces of mosaic.\nThese excavations featured in Channel 4's \"Time Team\" programme, broadcast on 25 January 2009.\n\nModern houses are built on top of half the site of the old Roman market place. The ruins of several Roman buildings are still visible, including the foundations of a 4th-century temple. The fact that most of the houses lacked mosaic or hypocaust-heated floors, however, suggests that despite its size, Caerwent never achieved the cultural level of other Romano-British tribal capitals.\n\nIn 2010 a programme of archaeological work was carried out, by Monmouth Archaeology, as part of the construction of a new garage, at Museum Cottage. A number of finds were made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41396788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41396788", "title": "Vietnamese calligraphy", "text": "Vietnamese calligraphy\n\nVietnamese calligraphy (Vietnamese Quốc ngữ: thư pháp Việt Nam, Hán Nôm: 書法越南) refers to the calligraphic traditions of Vietnam. It can refer to calligraphic works using a variety of scripts, including Chinese characters, Chữ nôm, and the Latin-based Quốc ngữ. Historically, calligraphers used the former two scripts. However, due to the adoption of the Latin-based Quốc ngữ, modern Vietnamese calligraphy also uses Roman characters.\n\nTraditional Vietnamese calligraphy is strongly affected by that of China. As part of the East Asian cultural spheres, Classical Chinese was often used as the written medium of communication, and as a result, Vietnamese calligraphy thus also follows Chinese calligraphy’s standard and use Han script (Chinese language) in many of its writings. For example, during the Lý dynasty, its style was very much similar to China’s Tang dynasty (618-907), during the Trần dynasty, it was influenced strongly by China’s Song (960-1279) and Yuan (1271-1368) dynasties.\n\nNonetheless, over time, Vietnam developed its own styles of calligraphy for writing both Classical Chinese and Chữ nôm. In Later Le dynasty, Vietnam developed a unique style of calligraphy which was called Nam tự (南字）by Phạm Đình Hổ (範廷琥) in his book Vũ Trung Tùy Bút (雨中隨筆). It was first used in bureaucracy only, but later became popular in all writing purposes. It was also called Lệnh Thư (令書) in Việt Sử Toát Yếu (越史撮要) because of its bureaucratic characteristic at first. \n\nIn modern times, calligraphy has been done frequently in the Latin-based Quốc Ngữ script, as Chữ nôm and Chinese characters have largely fallen out of use. Quốc Ngữ calligraphy gained popularity during the New Poetry and Free Poetry Movements, due to the increasing popularity of using the Vietnamese vernacular, as well as influence from French literature. Modern Vietnamese calligraphy is undoubtedly influenced by modern Latin cursive, but is written using the calligraphy brush, rather than quill or reed pens as is done in Western calligraphy. Much as Chinese calligraphy is used to write poems, festive banners, signage, and so on, Vietnamese calligraphy can also serve the same purpose today.\n\n"}
{"id": "47262048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262048", "title": "Votive offering", "text": "Votive offering\n\nA votive offering or votive deposit is one or more objects displayed or deposited, without the intention of recovery or use, in a sacred place for broadly religious purposes. Such items are a feature of modern and ancient societies and are generally made in order to gain favor with supernatural forces.\n\nSome offerings have apparently been made in anticipation of the achievement of a particular wish, but in Western cultures from which documentary evidence survives it has been more typical to wait until the wish has been fulfilled before making the offering, for which the more specific term ex-voto may be used. Other offerings were very likely regarded just as gifts to the deity, not linked to any particular need.\n\nIn Buddhism, votive offering such as construction of stupas was a prevalent and holy practice in Ancient India, an example of which can be observed in the ruins of the ancient Vikramshila University and other contemporary structures. Votive offerings have been described in historical Roman era and Greek sources, although similar acts continue into the present day, for example in traditional Catholic culture and, arguably, in the modern-day practice of tossing coins into a wishing well or fountain. The modern construction practice called topping out can be considered as an example of a votive practice that has very ancient roots.\n\nIn archaeology, votive deposits differ from hoards in that although they may contain similar items, votive deposits were not intended for later recovery.\n\nIn Europe, votive deposits are known from as early as the Neolithic, with polished axe hoards, reaching a peak in the late Bronze Age. High status artifacts such as armor and weaponry (mostly shields, swords, spears and arrows), fertility and cult symbols, coins, various treasures and animals (often dogs, oxen and in later periods horses) were common offerings in antiquity.\n\nThe votive offerings were sacrificed and buried or more commonly cast into bodies of water or peat bogs, whence they could not possibly have been recovered. In certain cases entire ships have been sacrificed, as in the Danish bog Nydam Mose. Often all the objects in a ritual hoard are broken, possibly 'killing' the objects to put them even further beyond utilitarian use before deposition. The purposeful discarding of valuable items such as swords and spearheads is thought to have had ritual overtones. The items have since been discovered in rivers, lakes and present or former wetlands by construction workers, peat diggers, metal-detectorists, members of the public and archaeologists.\n\nA saying by Diogenes of Sinope as quoted by Diogenes Laertius, indicates the high level of votive offering in Ancient Greece:\n\nThe Treasuries at Olympia and Delphi (including the Athenian Treasury and Siphnian Treasury) were buildings by the various Greek city-states to hold their own votive offerings in money and precious metal; the sites also contained large quantities of votive sculptures, although these were clearly intended to glorify each city in view of its rivals as well as to give thanks to the gods. Votive offerings were also used as atonement for sins committed against a god or goddess. The offerings were in certain cases created by a separate person due to the gifter having an injury or other circumstances, which was allowed.\n\nSome Greek offerings, such as bronze tripods at Delphi, were apparently displayed for a period and then buried in groups. At Olympia many small figurines, mostly of animals, were thrown onto the huge pile of ashes from animal sacrifices at the altar outside the Temple of Zeus. Much of our knowledge of ancient Greek art in base metal comes from these and other excavated deposits of offerings. Arms and armour, especially helmets, were also given after a victory.\n\nIn Mesoamerica, votive deposits have been recovered from the Olmec site of El Manati (dated to 1600–1200 BC) and the Maya Sacred Cenote at Chichen Itza (850–1550 AD).\n\nArchaeologists have recovered some votive offerings in ancient Sparta from the 5th century BC. These votive offerings give evidence to the presence of literacy in Spartan culture. Placing greater emphasis on inscriptions which seem to have been made by the individual making the offering, archaeologists can interpret that, of the early dedicators, there were very few in number and that most, if not all, were from the upper classes. One piece of pottery was found that may have had measurement signs on it. This would indicate an everyday literacy among the Spartans if this is true. Unfortunately, scholars have not recovered any other piece of pottery with a similar inscription to support that single find.\n\nThe 13 Ancient Votive Stones of Pesaro were unearthed in 1737 on a local Pesaro farm in the Province of Pesaro e Urbino, Italy, and date to pre-Estrucan times. They are inscribed with the names of various Roman gods such as APOLLO, MAT[ER]-MATVTA, SALVS, FIDE, and IVNONII (Juno).\n\nA curse tablet or defixio is a small sheet of tin or lead on which a message wishing misfortune upon someone else was inscribed. Usually found rolled up and deliberately deposited, there are five main reasons for dedicating a curse tablet:\n\n1 – Litigation,\n2 – Competition,\n3 – Trade,\n4 – Erotic Ambition,\n5 – Theft\n\nOf those in Britain the vast majority are of type 5. The two largest concentrations are from the sacred springs at Aquae Sulis, where 130 examples are recorded, and at Uley, where over 140 examples are visible.\nThe use of the curse-tablet in seeking restoration of stolen property is strong evidence of invoking divine power through a non-traditional religious ceremony, often involving some form of water-deposition. The usual form of divine invocation was through prayer, sacrifice and altar dedication so access to this information provides useful insights into Roman provincial culture.\n\nMany unrecovered ancient votive offerings are threatened in today's world, especially those submerged in wetlands or other bodies of water. Wetlands and other aquatic sites often protect and preserve materials for thousands of years, because of their natural occurring anaerobic environments. However, many seabeds have been disturbed, rivers and streams have been stretched out or re-routed in the landscape, and many wetlands have been fully or partially drained or landfilled for various reasons in the last 100–200 years. Therefore, many remaining objects are in danger of oxidation and eventual rapid deterioration. The leading causes of the disturbances are dredging, bottom trawling fishing boats, agricultural activities, peat cutting, groundwater extraction by water wells and establishments of larger infrastructural facilities like expressways, water treatment plants, and in some instances, large-scale nature re-establishment projects.\n\nThe Torah makes provision for \"free-will offerings\" which may be made by any individual. These are different from votive offerings which are linked to a vow. cf Leviticus 22.23 where the Hebrew root letters for a freewill offering are נדב (nadab), but for a votive offering are נדר (nadar). In this verse a clear differentiation is made between the two. See Strongs numbers H5068 where the Hitpael is to volunteer, or make a free will offering and H5087 where the Qal is to vow a vow.\n\nWhen Solomon built the first temple he provided a number of furnishings above and beyond what had been commanded to Moses on Mount Sinai (see Temple of Solomon).\n\nOral tradition in Rabbinic Judaism also speaks of a huge golden grape vine artifact outside of the holy site of the Temple in Jerusalem before its destruction by the Romans.\n\nThe tradition of votive offerings has been carried into Christianity in both the East and the West. The particular type of the votive crown, originally Byzantine, was also adopted in the West.\n\nAccording to Sacred Tradition, after Constantine the Great's conversion and subsequent victory at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge, he donated one of the crosses he carried in battle to the Church. This cross is reputed to be preserved on Mount Athos.\n\nOne of the most famous Orthodox votive offerings is that by Saint John of Damascus. According to tradition, while he was serving as Vizier to Caliph Al-Walid I, he was falsely accused of treachery and his hand was cut off. Upon praying in front of an icon of the Theotokos his hand was miraculously restored. In thanksgiving, he had a silver replica of his hand fashioned and attached it to the icon (\"see image at left\"). This icon, now called \"Trojeručica\" (The Three-handed) is preserved at Hilandar Monastery on Mount Athos.\n\nOrthodox Christians continue to make votive offerings to this day, often in the form of \"tamata\", metal plaques symbolizing the subject of their prayers. Other offerings include, candles, prosphora, wine, oil, or incense. In addition, many will leave something of personal value, such as jewelry, a pectoral cross or military decoration as a sign of devotion.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, offerings were made either to fulfill a vow made to God for deliverance, or a thing left to a Church in gratitude for some favor that was granted. Today, votives can be lit votive candles, offered flowers, statues, vestments, and, monetary donations. Traditional special forms of votive offering ex votos include small silver models of the afflicted part of the body, inscribed stone tablets, folk art paintings of an incident of danger such as the votive paintings of Mexico, and model ships donated by sailors who have survived a dangerous voyage. In the Spanish-speaking world a milagro is a small metal offering, equivalent to the Orthodox tamata.\n\nMany Catholic churches still have areas where such offerings are displayed. Notre-Dame-des-Victoires, Paris, displays over 10,000, with a military specialization, and including many military decorations given by their recipients. The Votive Church, Vienna is a late example of many churches which are themselves votive offerings, in this case built to give thanks for a narrow escape from assassination by Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria in 1853.\n\nMedieval examples include:\n\n\nEspecially in the Latin world, there is a tradition of votive paintings, typically depicting a dangerous incident which the offeror survived. The votive paintings of Mexico are paralleled in other countries. In Italy, where more than 15,000 ex-voto paintings are thought to survive from before 1600, these began to appear in the 1490s, probably modelled on the small predella panels below altarpieces. These are a form of folk art, typically painted on tin plates salvaged from packaging. Other examples may be large and grand paintings, such as Titian's \"Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter\", given in thanks for a naval victory.\n\nAyagapata is a type of votive slab associated with worship in Jainism. Numerous such stone tablets discovered during excavations at ancient Jain sites like Kankali Tila near Mathura in India. Some of them date back to the 1st century. These slabs are decorated with objects and designs central to Jain worship such as the \"stupa\", \"dharmacakra\" and \"triratna\".\n\nA large number of \"ayagapata\" (tablet of homage), votive tablets for offerings and the worship of \"tirthankara\", were found at Mathura.\n\nThese stone tablets bear a resemblance to the earlier \"Shilapatas\" - stone tablets that were placed under trees to worship \"Yakshas\". However, this was done by indigenous folk communities before Jainism originated suggesting that both have commonalities in rituals. A scholar on Jain art wrote about an \"Ayagapata\" discovered around Kankali Tila,\"The technical name of such a tablet was \"Ayagapata\" meaning homage panel.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15455836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15455836", "title": "W. H. Auden bibliography", "text": "W. H. Auden bibliography\n\nThis is a bibliography of books, plays, films, and libretti written, edited, or translated by the Anglo-American poet W. H. Auden (1907–1973). See the main entry for a list of biographical and critical studies and external links.\n\nIn the list below, works reprinted in the \"Complete Works of W. H. Auden\" are indicated by footnote references.\n\n\n\"Note: These are works that Auden did not intend to publish\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPost-1969 supplements to the item listed above are included in the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "2016081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2016081", "title": "Witzelsucht", "text": "Witzelsucht\n\nWitzelsucht ( \"joking addiction\") is a set of rare neurological symptoms characterized by a tendency to make puns, or tell inappropriate jokes or pointless stories in socially inappropriate situations. It makes one unable to read sarcasm. A less common symptom is hypersexuality, the tendency to make sexual comments at inappropriate times or situations. Patients do not understand that their behavior is abnormal, therefore are nonresponsive to others' reactions. This disorder is most commonly seen in patients with frontal lobe damage, particularly right frontal lobe tumors or trauma. The disorder remains named in accordance with its reviewed definition by German neurologist Hermann Oppenheim; its first description as the less focused \"Moria\" (\"stupidity\"), by German neurologist Moritz Jastrowitz, was in 1888.\nDue to similarity of symptoms of the disorder to the mannerisms of Batman's arch-rival Joker, it is sometimes known as 'The Joker Syndrome'. \n\nA condition rarely diagnosed, Witzelsucht has been well documented in the recent era in at least two cases:\n\nCase #1: A 30-year-old, right-handed man was admitted to the department of neurology for irritability, inappropriate behavior, and morbid hyperphagia with obesity. His inappropriate laughter and persistent pun and joke telling was a sharp contrast to his personality as an intellectual theological scholar, known for his exceptional memory as opposed to his sense of humor. This behavior was generally prompted by environmental stimuli such as physician’s rounds or blood sampling. To the patient, his behavior seemed normal, which explains why he remained nondiscriminating toward his jokes, their context, and their impression on those around him. Neurological examination revealed mild spastic left hemiparesis with minimal motor coordination and impairment of voluntary fine movements. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed hypoperfusion, or decreased blood flow, in the right frontoparietal area. Additionally, verbal and performance tests showed evidence of poor concentration skills, high distractibility, and difficulty with visual-spatial tasks. The patient’s performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test was severely impaired, suggesting frontal dysfunction.\n\nCase #2: A 56-year-old man, KS, was admitted to the hospital with signs of a putaminal hemorrhage, including dense paralysis on the left side of his body and face, difficulty swallowing, and visual field defects on his left side. On the fifth day of hospitalization, he was alert and cooperative with no disorientation, delusion, or emotional lability. He then became euphoric and outspoken, speaking in puns and witticisms with an exaggerated smile. The content of his conversations, however, was not bizarre or random. He would work in puns and jokes while speaking his concerns about his other physical symptoms from the stroke in a coherent manner. Sometimes he would not crack a smile at something he said to make others around him laugh hysterically, while other times he could not appreciate others' jokes. During this time, KS also developed hypersexuality, using erotic words and inappropriate behavior toward the female hospital staff. Before his stroke, KS's family reported he did make jokes on occasion, but never in this bizarre manner, and never behaved impolitely to women. MRI tests showed bleeding at the right putamen, extending into the posterior and lateral portions of the right thalamus and defects in the thalamus and right basal ganglion. Another test showed deficits in recent memory, orientation, abstract thinking, drawing, and verbal fluency.\n\nIn both case studies, patients showed an altered sense of humor, mostly in regard to producing and appreciating humor. The right hemisphere is involved with processing speed and problem solving, which plays a role in humor processing. These patients have difficulty fully interpreting a joke's content, but can recognize the importance of the form of a joke. Patients with witzelsucht often find non sequiturs, slapstick humor, and puns funniest since these forms of humor do not require integration of content across sentences. In other words, the end of the joke is not dependent on the first part; one does not need to make a logical connection to understand humor. Patients show no change in understanding simple logic, and understand the importance of surprise in humor (hence why they choose slapstick humor instead of the “correct” punch line); however, once they have registered this surprise, they cannot connect the punch line to the body of the joke to fully appreciate the true humor behind the joke. Successful jokes require a juxtaposition of the sound and the meaning of words used to understand the punch line. However, patients with witzelsucht have difficulty connecting the two, resulting in an inability to appreciate humor.\n\nAdditionally, patients show no emotional reaction to humor, whether produced by themselves or others. This lack of responsiveness is due to dissociation between their cognitive and affective responses to humorous stimuli. That is, even when a patient understands that a joke is funny (based on quantitative brain activity), they do not respond with laughter, or even a smile. While they have grasped the cognitive basis of humor, they do not affectively respond. This also considered a cognitive component of empathy, affecting ability to take the perspective of others; hence why patients often do not respond to humor produced by other people.\n\nThis symptom is much rarer than the unusual use of puns and nonresponsive sense of humor most notably seen in witzelsucht patients. Nonetheless, patients can still exhibit hypersexuality by making sexual comments at socially inappropriate times. Some signs of this behavior include impulsivity, poor judgment, deficits in emotional regulation, excess preoccupation with sex, and cognitive rigidity (difficulty in appreciating another’s emotion, inability to yield). More than likely this symptom is linked to amygdala damage that can occur during a stroke, which can also induce frontal lobe damage.\n\nDamage to the frontal lobe has been related to changes in personality. The frontal lobes are crucial for the development of personality, sense of self, and humor development. Anatomically, there are meaningful connections between the frontal lobes (specifically the polar and ventral/medial areas) and other brain regions related to affective-emotional responses. Early cases of witzelsucht observed damage to the mesial-orbital region of the frontal lobe. In general, damage to this area results in puerility, disinhibition, and an inappropriate jocular affect. . The frontal lobes are also involved in processing narrative conversation and understanding abstract or indirect forms of communication, such as sarcasm. This is a critical role in humor appreciation. Subjects with damage to the right superior frontal cortex (Brodmann areas 8/9) choose punchlines which are simplistic and do not integrate content across a narrative. This region of the brain is responsible for problem-solving skills and holding information to recall during processing (i.e. working memory). Only damage to the right hemisphere of the brain, not the left, is linked to humor. Specifically, pathology in the right frontal lobe (specifically the superior and anterior regions) correlated with deficits in humor in patients as opposed to other brain regions in the right hemisphere.\n\nOne of the main roles of the right hemisphere, which is organizing and integrating information, is found in the right frontal lobe. Additionally, it is also responsible for episodic memory, which is essential in humor appreciation. A person may remember experiences in order to fully understand a joke in the current context. This remembering of personally experienced events is considered episodic memory. Appreciating humor requires integrated operations within the brain, all of which can be processed in the right frontal lobe. It has been considered a heteromodal cortex, which means that it responds to multiple stimuli, capable of interpreting internal and external sensory input. The coordination of these sensory interpretations are ideal for humor appreciation and production, one of the highest and most evolved human cognitive functions.\n\nOne of the major theories of humor is the incongruity-resolution model, which considers humor appreciation as a problem-solving task. The punch-line, which can be taken out of place from the body of the text, must be detected and then connected with the lead. This logical process is an important role in the frontal lobes; therefore, damage to this area of the brain leads to difficulty connecting the start of a joke to the punch-line. In incongruity-resolution, there is more information to be integrated within the frontal lobe (i.e. when the joke makes more sense, in a somewhat logical way, the scripts within the brain can be unified better.) Patients with witzelsucht cannot make that logical connection in incongruity-resolution jokes, hence why they communicate through nonsense humor, mostly in the form of puns and non sequiturs.\n\nTwo other components related to the frontal lobes contribute to the social behavior of a witzelsucht patient. Previous studies have established a connection with the right hemisphere and emotional responsiveness. The specific anatomical location is still unclear, but it was shown that the right frontal operculum was most relevant in emotional gesturing. This, combined with the dissociation between cognitive and affective stimuli can explain why patients show no reaction to humor. Personality and drawing on past experiences have been shown to influence humor processing and appreciation. A person may remember past experiences in their own life in order to fully understand a joke in the current context. This remembering of personally experienced events is considered episodic memory, which is processed within the frontal lobes. Additionally, this inability to remember past experiences could also cause a person to forget what is socially appropriate; which could explain why witzelsucht patients sometimes say hypersexual comments in public.\n\nThe amygdala plays a significant role in processing emotional stimuli and producing affective responses, which in turn is utilized in social interactions. The amygdala regulates the attachment of emotional significance to corresponding sensory stimuli. Lesions in the amygdala do not disrupt a specific sexual mechanism. Instead, they disturb the emotional processing of stimuli, which causes random and/or inappropriate responses. The amygdala has a positive effect on sexual behavior by allowing the appropriate attachment of emotional significance to external sexual stimuli. Previous human studies have shown an association between temporal lobe dysfunction and altered sexual behavior. There has also been evidence of hypersexual behavior after epileptic seizures. Epileptic foci can be found on the temporal lobe, near the amygdala. It has been postulated that there is an increased likelihood that a patient would exhibit hypersexuality directly after a seizure. Due to limited cases studying the connection between witzelsucht and hypersexuality, studies concerning epileptic foci on the temporal lobe could be looked at to gain more information.\n\nWitzelsucht can occur in the context of frontotemporal dementia, a neurological disorder resulting from degeneration of the frontal lobes and/or anterior temporal lobes. There are a range of neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with frontal lobe dementia, including progressive declines in social conduct, insight, and personal and emotional regulation and reactivity. The most common social changes that arise in patients include awkwardness, decreased propriety and manners, unacceptable physical boundaries, and/or improper verbal or physical acts. Childish, frivolous, or silly behavior is associated with damage to the right frontal, and most likely adjacent orbitofrontal lobe involvement. This can be associated with witzelsucht, as well as moria- a similar disorder resulting in childish euphoria and cheerful excitement.\n\nWitzelsucht is considered a disorder of mirth or humor, which is distinct from disorders of laughter. Patients with witzelsucht are essentially insensitive to humor, but are capable of producing it while other patients excessively laugh, often at things that are not funny. The most common disorders of laughter are associated with pseudobulbar palsy, which can be caused by severe brain trauma, most commonly in the right hemisphere. Pathological laughter in this can be triggered by trivial stimuli, which could be disconnected from the underlying mood, and be combined with crying. Pathological laughter can also occur in the absence of pseudobulbar palsy. Gelastic (laughing) seizures are another neurological case of inappropriate or excessive laughter occurring in brief bursts. Treatment for these disorders can include antidepressants and antimanic agents.\n\nSerotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, venlafaxine, were given to case study KS four months after initial stroke that started symptoms of witzelsucht. Changes back to his original behavior were noticeable after daily dose of 37.5 mg of venlafaxine for two weeks. In subsequent two months, inappropriate jokes and hypersexual behavior were rarely noticed. Due to the rareness of this disorder, not much research into potential treatments has been conducted.\n\n"}
