{"id": "39727824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39727824", "title": "Afro-Kittian and Nevisian", "text": "Afro-Kittian and Nevisian\n\nAfro-Kittians and Afro-Nevisians are Saint Kitts and Nevis people whose ancestry lies within the continent of Africa, most notably West Africa.\n\nAs of 2013, black people are the predominant ethnic group in Saint Kitts and Nevis.\n\nThe initial arrival of Africans in St. Kitts and Nevis was in the late 17th century as a result of the slave trade. St Kitts, the largest of the two islands, has geography well suited for sugar plantations, but was plagued by colonial warfare in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. Nevis, which has similar geography and was relatively sheltered, became an early center of the slave trade in the West Indies. The first census of Nevis, conducted in 1671, recorded 1,739 African slaves. Six years later this number grew to 3,849, consisting of 1,422 men, 1,321 women, and 1,106 children. In contrast, a census in St. Kitts recorded 1,436 African slaves one year later. Attracted by the stability of Nevis, the Royal African Company headquartered their West Indian slave trade in the port city of Charlestown: from 1674 to 1688 more than 6000 slaves were sold at auction here.\n\nIn the early years of the plantation system on St. Kitts and Nevis, slaves were forced to clear the forests in preparation for sugar production. The difficulty of this work, combined with poor rations, resulted in a slave death rate “that was incredibly high on the two islands during the later part of 17th century”. As the clearing work neared completion, planters tried to combat the high death rate by initiating a one-year “seasoning period” in which newly arrived slaves were supervised by older, trustworthy slaves. By the end of the 18th century over 65% percent of the islands’ slave populations were native born and slave importation had decreased to fewer than 100 a year.\n\nThere is little recorded information about the family structures of slaves on St. Kitts and Nevis, but slave “marriages” appear to have been encouraged as they were sometimes recorded by planters. Children might grow up partially in a nuclear family situation, but were socialized as a group. Oral traditions, such as the Anansi spider from West Africa, were passed down. Around the age of 4 or 5 children were first put to work, generally in groups called a “hogmeat gang”. In these “gangs” 5 or 6 children were supervised by a slave woman while they did lighter work such as weeding and feeding animals. At night, children would eat small meals, often prepared by their mothers, consisting mostly of imported grain.\n\nIn December the slave population had slightly more freedom and were often given extra beef and pork. The white population on the islands however organized guards to monitor the activities of slaves during their time off. In general, the white population was wary of slaves revolting.\n\nOn the eve of emancipation approximately 11% of the population on the islands were freed colored people. Skilled slaves could buy their freedom by earning wages for their crafts, such as carpentry and masonry, on their day off. Freedom could also be gained legislatively and through wills.\n\nCommunities of freed people developed, with inhabitants mostly working trades but in some cases earning a living as merchants.\n\nIn 1833 the British Empire outlawed slavery, but full legal freedom didn’t come to St. Kitts and Nevis until 1838. Instead, the government of St. Kitts and Nevis set up a form of modified slavery called apprenticeship. Under this system, former slave holders continued to own all farmable land and slaves had to buy their freedom by working 45 hours a week for a period of 4 to 6 years. \n\nSince Saturdays were market day, when slaves had traditionally sold wares for income, having to work 6 days a week was a large hindrance for apprentices attempting to purchase their freedom. \n\nSlaves heard that the island of Antigua had granted full freedom to slaves and recognized the change to the apprenticeship system was simply bondage under another name.\n\nIn addition, some absentee slave owners on St. Kitts freed all, or most, of their slaves.\nThus the transition from apprenticeship to slavery was met with resistance, both “quiet and disquiet”. \n\nOn the day the apprenticeship program was set to begin, August 2, 1834, few apprentices on St.Kitts showed up to their positions.\n\nThose that did tended to hold more skilled positions, reflecting the stratification among slaves themselves.\n\nThe resistance was high enough that the governor of The Leeward Islands, Evan Murray Macgregor, announced that if apprentices didn’t return by the 6th, martial law would go into effect.\n\nMeanwhile, many of the apprentices were leaving their homes and fleeing to the hills. \n\nPlanters attempted to quell the revolt by identifying leaders and punishing them with jail time or lashes, but 2 weeks after the apprenticeship program was supposed to start, the majority of workers remained in the mountains.\n\nWhile August was the down season for farming, slave owners were still worried about their unattended livestock.\n\nTo combat the revolt, planters burned the homes and possessions of absent apprentices.\n\nIn addition, militia were sent into the mountains to drive resistance members from their temporary homes.\n\nThe combination of these two actions brought most of the former slaves out of the mountains and martial law was lifted on August 18.\n\nThere were no recorded deaths or injuries from the revolt, although some of the resistance received jail time, lashes, or were exiled.\n\nThe remaining 3 and a half years of the apprenticeship continued relatively peacefully. \nAfter emancipation, differences began to develop between life on St. Kitts and on Nevis. \nPlanters on Nevis, which is smaller and has less fertile land, had trouble offering competitive wages to their workers.\nTo combat this, they allowed labourers to share in the profits of the sugarcane they grew.\nWhile white planters continued to own land, on Nevis black field labourers had greater ties to it.\nThey thus had greater control over what could be planted.\nSubsequently, black peasant farmers on Nevis were able to grow more sustenance crops than their counterparts on Nevis.\nWhile not legally barred from owning land, most blacks were practically barred from owning land through suppressive economic practices.\nTheir survival thus continued to rely a great deal on the whims of the white land owning class.\n\nIf blacks did manage to earn extra income, they would not find any banks on either of the two islands.\n\nWorkers would either hide coins in their homes or purchase livestock as an investment.\n\nIn the last two decades of the 19th century, sugar prices fell after German beet sugar hit English markets.\n\nThe ensuing depression hit Afro-Kittitians and Nevisians especially hard.\n\nCurrently, 92% of the population is African-Caribbean: So, 80% of the archipelago's population is Afro-Kittians and Afro-Nevisians (75% black and 5.3% mulatto, partially of Irish origin) and 12% are Afro-Europeans (European pf African descent). Only 8% of the population is from other origins (5% of people is of Indian origin and Afro-Indian and 3.3% from other parts of South Asia). The whites are 1% (of British, French, Portuguese and Lebanese descent).\n"}
{"id": "24043731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24043731", "title": "Amba people", "text": "Amba people\n\nThe Amba (pl. Baamba and known by various other names) are a people located in border area of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda south of Lake Albert in the northern foothills of the Rwenzori Mountains. On the Uganda side, they are found in Bundibugyo District. On the Congolese side, they are located in the Watalinga and Bawisa subcounties of Beni, South Kivu. Numbering 35,600 on the Uganda side in the 2002 census and 4,500 on the Congolese side according to a 1991 SIL International estimate, Ethnologue lists their total population as 40,100. Agriculturalists, the Amba traditionally cultivate plantains, millet, maize, sweet potatoes, peanuts, rice, coffee, cotton, and cassava, while raising goats and sheep. The Amba practice Christianity.\n\nThe Amba language spoken by the Amba is called, variously, Kwamba by the Amba themselves and is known as Kihumu in the DR Congo. There are many others. It has a 70% lexical similarity with Bera. Dialects include Kyanzi (Kihyanzi) and Suwa (Kusuwa).\n\nThe Amba were part of the armed Rwenzururu movement against the Toro Kingdom and central government that reached heights in the mid-1960s and early 1980s. In 2008, the government recognized the Kingdom of Rwenzururu, formed by the Amba and Konjo peoples, as Uganda's first kingdom shared by two tribes.\n"}
{"id": "13073911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13073911", "title": "Azerbaijani nationalism", "text": "Azerbaijani nationalism\n\nAzerbaijani nationalism (Azerbaijani: Azərbaycan milliyətçiliyi), also referred to as Azerbaijanism (Azərbaycançılıq), started out as a cultural movement among Azerbaijani intellectuals within the Russian Empire during the second half of the 19th century. While initially cultural in nature, it was later developed further into a political ideology which culminated in the establishment of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic in 1918.\n\nCompared to Armenian and Georgian nationalism, a specifically ethnic nationalism was rather slow to develop among Azerbaijanis, partly due to their self-identification as part of the larger Muslim world rather than as a singular ethnocultural nation. Following the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and its declaration of independence in 1991, however, Azerbaijan has witnessed the ascent of a particularly strong Azerbaijani nationalism, including various types of Pan-nationalism and irredentism.\n\nIrredentist claims by Azerbaijani nationalists would mainly seek to incorporate large sections of Iran as well as parts of Armenia, Russia, Georgia and Turkey within a proposed enlarged territory known as \"Whole Azerbaijan\". Iran hosts a larger number of ethnic Azerbaijanis than the independent nation of Azerbaijan, and prior to the establishment of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic in 1918 the name of \"Azerbaijan\" was exclusively used to identify the adjacent region of contemporary northwestern Iran.. \n\nAzerbaijani consciousness is also central to wider cooperation with ethnically affiliated populations through Pan-Turkism. \n\nDuring the Soviet era, Armenians and Azerbaijanis coexisted peacefully. When the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh broke out, however, this changed radically. The initial Armenian claims to Nagorno-Karabakh, in Azerbaijan, yielding from Armenian nationalism were laid in late 1987.\n\nFrom 1998, Armenia began accusing Azerbaijan of embarking on a campaign of destroying a cemetery of finely carved Armenian khachkars in the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic. On May 30, 2006, Azerbaijan barred the European Parliament from inspecting and examining the ancient burial site. Charles Tannock, British Conservative Party foreign affairs spokesman in the European parliament, stated, \"This is very similar to the Buddha statues destroyed by the Taliban. They have concreted the area over and turned it into a military camp. If they have nothing to hide then we should be allowed to inspect the terrain.\" Hannes Swoboda, an Austrian Socialist MEP and member of the committee barred from examining the site, said he hopes a visit can be arranged in the autumn. He stated that \"if they do not allow us to go, we have a clear hint that something bad has happened. If something is hidden we want to ask why. It can only be because some of the allegations are true.\" He also warned: \"One of the major elements of any country that wants to come close to Europe is that the cultural heritage of neighbors is respected.\"\n\nA key advocate of Azerbaijani nationalism is Farida Mammadova, who has made anti-Armenian statements. In response to desecration of Azerbaijani holy sanctuary \"Agadede\" south of Yerevan in 2005, Mammadova said that \"it is known, that on whole planet exactly the Armenian people is distinguished by the absence of spiritual and other human values. And it is them who are used to appropriate the cultures of other nations while living in another state\".\n\nAccording to Thomas de Waal, Mammadova has grasped the Albanian theory after studying the history of Caucasian Albania and used it to push the Armenians out of Caucasus altogether. She has placed Caucasian Albania on the territory of modern Armenia: all the territories, churches and monasteries in Armenia have appeared Albanian. Mammadova had visited the Gandzasar monastery in 1975 and read the inscription on facade \"I Hasan-Jalal, built this church for my people of Aghvank...\" referring to an ancient name of Albania.\n\n"}
{"id": "20553768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20553768", "title": "Bambassi language", "text": "Bambassi language\n\nBambassi is an Omotic Afroasiatic language spoken in Ethiopia around the towns of Bambasi and Didessa in the area east of Asosa in Benishangul-Gumuz Region. The parent language group is the East Mao group. Alternative names for the language are Bambeshi, Siggoyo, Amam, Fadiro, Northern Mao, Didessa and Kere.\n\nThe most current information on the number of Bambassi speakers is not known, as the 2007 census grouped the Mao languages together, despite low lexical similarity. 33,683 mother tongue speakers of Maogna (covering Bambassi, Hozo and Seze) were listed.\n\nBambassi has a 31% lexical similarity with other Omotic languages.\n\nBambassi has 5 vowels: /a, e, i, o, u/. The vowels have lengthened forms, and Bambassi has contrastive vowel length.\n"}
{"id": "447726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447726", "title": "Bemba language", "text": "Bemba language\n\nThe Bemba language, \"ChiBemba\" (also \"Cibemba, Ichibemba, Icibemba\" and \"Chiwemba\"), is a major Bantu language spoken primarily in north-eastern Zambia by the Bemba people and as a lingua franca by about 18 related ethnic groups, including the Bisa people of Mpika and Lake Bangweulu, and to a lesser extent in Katanga in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, and Botswana. Including all its dialects, Bemba is the most spoken indigenous language in Zambia. The Lamba language is closely related and some people consider it a dialect of Bemba.\n\nThe Bemba people are descendants of inhabitants of the Luba kingdom, which existed in what is now the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo, and in north-eastern Zambia.\n\nBemba is one of the most widely spoken languages in Zambia, spoken by many people who live in urban areas, and is one of Zambia's seven recognized regional languages. Zambia's first president, Kenneth Kaunda, though Malawian by descent, was raised in a Bemba-speaking community, and two of the four Zambian president since have been Bemba-speakers. The third president, Levy Mwanawasa, was a Lenje, who belong to the Bantu Botatwe [three people] ethnic grouping that comprises the Tonga-Lenje-Ila peoples. The Fourth President, Rupiah Bwezani Banda was a Chewa from the Eastern Province. In the years after the MMD took power in 1991, it was accused numerous times of promoting Bemba over other regional languages in the country. Although the lingua franca of the Zambian capital Lusaka is a dialect of Nyanja language, it incorporates numerous Bemba words and expressions.\n\nBemba has several dialects, many being varieties of Bemba spoken by other tribes which have historically fallen under Bemba influence. They include Chishinga, Lomotwa, Ngoma, Nwesi, Kabende, Luunda, Mukulu, Ng’umbo, and Unga, which is spoken by Twa pygmies and sometimes considered a separate language (Nurse 2003). The Twa of Bangweulu speak another dialect of Bemba.\n\nA form known as Town Bemba, with slightly altered grammar and incorporating many English and Swahili loanwords, is used in the major cities of the Copperbelt.\n\nThe orthographical system in common use, originally introduced by Edward Steere, is quite phonetic. Its letters, with their approximate phonetic values, are given below.\n\nIt has become increasingly common to use 'c' in place of 'ch'. In common with other Bantu languages, as affixes are added, combinations of vowels may contract and consonants may change. For example, 'aa' changes to a long 'a', 'ae' and 'ai' change to 'e', and 'ao' and 'au' change to 'o (in other cases, a 'y' is often used to separate other combinations of vowels). The nasal 'n' changes to 'm' before 'b' or 'p', and is pronounced ŋ before 'k' or 'g'; after 'n', 'l' changes to 'd'. These rules will all be implicit in the tables given below.\n\nLike many Bantu languages, Bemba is tonal, with two tones; however, tone has limited effect on meaning as the number of words that would otherwise be confused is small. Stress tends to fall on the prefix, when it exists, and can lead to subtle differences of meaning (see the verb forms below).\n\nMany of the main features of Bemba grammar are fairly typical of Bantu languages: it is agglutinative, depends mainly on prefixes, has a system of several noun classes, a large set of verbal aspects and tenses, very few actual adjectives, and, like English, has a word order that is subject-verb-object. Most of the classification here is taken from that given by Schoeffer, Sheane and Cornwallis.\n\nBemba nouns are divided into several partially-semantic classes. They are indicated by their prefixes and are generally similar but not always identical to the \"concord prefixes\", attached to verbs they govern, adjectives qualifying them, and pronouns standing for them. By one convention, based on the plural, they are arranged as follows (most alternate forms are caused by phonetic considerations):\n\nThe prefixes in class 9 essentially indicate case: 'ku-' corresponds to 'to' or 'from', 'mu-' to 'in', 'into', or 'out of', and 'pa-' to 'at'.\n\nAs is common in Bantu languages, adjectives follow the words they qualify, and take the adjectival concord prefixes, but there are not many of them in the strictest sense. Adverbs, relative clauses, or 'descriptors', often fulfil their function instead. Descriptors are placed after the noun, with the particle '-a', and the relevant pronoun prefix between them: \"chintu cha nomba\", 'new thing'.\n\nThe numbers from 1 to 10 are:\n\nThe numerals 1-5 take adjectival concord prefixes (except for class 1 singular: \"muntu umo,\" 'one person'). The numerals 6-10 are left unchanged. 'Ikumi' has the plural 'makumi', which can be used as a noun with 'na' (and, with) to form all numbers up to 99: for example, \"makumi yatatu na pabula\", 'thirty nine'. 100 is 'mwanda', with plural 'myanda'.\n\nThe class-independent personal pronouns are: 'ine' (1st person sg.), 'iwe' (2nd person sg.), 'ifwe' (1st person pl.), 'imwe' (2nd person pl.). These are absolute, in the sense that they stand alone, and cannot appear as subjects or objects as they are. There are separate possessive pronouns, and the third person pronouns depend on class. There are also demonstrative pronouns, divided both by class and into three kinds by deixis ('this one, that one, and that one over there'), and relative pronouns are formed from these.\n\nVerbs have simple forms, usually ending in '-a' (everything before the 'a' being the 'stem', 'root' or 'radical'), and are agglutinated according to person, number and class of subject and object, tense, mood, voice, aspect and whether they are affirmative or negative. Further, their stems change to indicate various other shades of meaning. The following rules can all be combined in a mostly straightforward manner, Bemba being agglutinative and not inflective, but there are still some exceptions.\n\nThe subject prefixes and object infixes for the personal pronouns are given below. \nThese can vary slightly according to mood, and the subject prefixes change for negative verbs. Where they are different, object prefixes are given in brackets.\n\nThe subject prefix is placed first, and then the object infix. When the subject or object is a specific noun in a given class, the verbal concord prefix of this class is used, and the negative form adds the prefix 'ta-' before this.\n\nThe classification given here is that presented by Schoeffer. \n\nSome of these require a modified stem, changing final 'a' to 'ile' if the preceding vowel is 'a', 'i' or 'u', and to 'ele' if it is 'e' or 'o', or, if the last consonant is nasal, changing the 'a' to 'ine' or 'ene' accordingly. There are irregularities in several verbs.\n\nThe tense infixes are given below. They come after the subject and object prefixes, and before the verb stem, except for the recent, completed or historic past in 'na-', which appears at the very beginning. Stress is marked with an acute (´) accent.\n\nThe moods correspond closely to the Bantu norms.\n\nThe simple singular imperative is identical to the 'dictionary' form of the verb consisting of the stem and the suffix '-a', changing to an '-e' if an object prefix is used - there is no subject prefix. The simple plural imperative changes '-a' to '-eni'. Prefixing 'aku-' or 'uka-', adds a sense of instruction to resume or continue an action. An emphatic form can be given by using the subject pronoun prefix (generally of class 1) and following this by the infix '-inda-'.\n\nThe subjunctive is used hypothetically, as an indirect imperative, in exhortations, and in subordinate clauses, similarly but not identically to the subjunctive of many European languages. The common feature is a change of the final '-a' of the verb to '-e'. Its forms are given below. Here V stands for the verb stem, and P for any pronoun prefixes (infixes). The usual phonological rules apply.\n\nThe infinitive, strictly a verbal noun, has two forms. The simple form has prefix 'ku-' added to the simple form, as mentioned above, and the habitual infinitive has prefix 'kula-'.\n\nThe passive is formed by placing the infix '-w-' before the last vowel of the verb, but it is not frequently used. A 'neutral' voice can be formed by using '-ik-' instead if the preceding vowel is a, i or u, and '-ek-' if the preceding vowel is e or o. This form is differs in meaning from the passive in that it emphasises the state resulting from an action rather than the action itself (cf. English 'the pot is broken', as opposed to 'the ball is kicked').\n\nGenerally, the indicative prefixes 'ta-' to the subject prefix except for the first person singular which changes to 'nshi' or 'shi'. Generally, the subjunctive adds 'i' after the pronoun prefixes and in most cases changes a final 'e' to 'a'. The infinitive occasionally uses the negative 'te'. However, the precise rules are more complex, and the forms depend more finely on tense, aspect and mood. When the negative is used with the imperfect 'le', it is often in the sense of action not yet done, and is referred to by Schoeffer as a separate 'deferred tense'.\n\nThere are several other verb forms which change the stem by adding an extra syllable before the final 'a'. These are given below.\n\nThere are also several compound tenses, many using the copula 'kuli' and 'kuba'.\n\nThese are used to introduce coordinating or subordinate clauses, similarly to their use in English.\n\n\n\"Abantu bonse bafyalwa abalubuka nokulingana mu mucinshi nensambu. Balikwata amano nokutontonkanya, eico bafwile ukulacita ifintu ku banabo mu mutima wa bwananyina.\"\n\nAll human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. (First article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.)\n\nThere is a sizeable amount of literature in Bemba. There are narratives, poems and plays. Some of the notable writers in Bemba include Stephen Mpashi, Chongo Kasonkomona,Chishimba, Paul Mushindo, Bwalya Chilangwa, Mwila Launshi and Kambole, among others. \n\nA lot of the novels and narratives in Bemba were written between the period 1950 and 1980. Recently, very few creative works are published in Zambia mainly due to two reasons: the readership is generally poor and secondly, because of the first reason, publishers tend to hesitate to publish creative works in Bemba, especially novels of substantial length, for financial reasons due to the likely low levels of readership and thus profit. Instead, there are many short stories and novellas in Bemba literature.\n\nDespite these hiccups, such as poor readership and lack of publishing, the quality of the works that are published in Bemba is often high. Moreover, there seem to be many talented writers who would like to write in this language but could not because of the reasons that have been given above and others that are related.\n\nIn terms of literally criticism, a lot of the works in Bemba language have not been reviewed and criticised. This is because there are very few literary critics in Bemba, though slowly growing. Some of these include Lutato and Shadreck Kondala, among others. Classic Bemba books include \"Uwauma Nafyala\", \"Pano Calo\" and \"Imilimo ya bena Kale\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58067266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58067266", "title": "Bodenfelde Black Widows", "text": "Bodenfelde Black Widows\n\nThe Bodenfelde Black Widows were two German serial killers, who committed four murders from 1994 to 2000 in the Bodenfelde municipality.\n\nLydia L., a former prostitute born in 1939, invited older men to live with her in a relationship or to care for the elderly. The men were later murdered by her and her helper, Siggi S. However, a turnaround occurred when he aide herself reported the crimes to the police, confessing her participation in them as well.\n\nThe following relationships were assigned to Lydia L.:\n\n\nIn the last four cases, the court recognized as murders. Lydia L. was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2009 by the District Court of Göttingen, and she is now serving in the Vechta Prison. A revision submitted by her was unsuccessful.\n\nLydia's accomplice Siggi S. wa sentenced to 12 years imprisonment, which she served in the Rosdorf correctional facility. By her own account, she said that she had been afraid of being poisoned.\n\nIn 2014, Lydia L. sued the new owner of her house, who was said to have disposed of personal belongings without her permission. The claim was dismissed by the court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56208958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56208958", "title": "Cannabis in Bermuda", "text": "Cannabis in Bermuda\n\nCannabis in Bermuda is legal for medical use and decriminalized for recreational use.\n\nIn November 2016, the Supreme Court of Bermuda ruled in favor of allowing the medical use of cannabis. As of July 2018, two doctors have been licensed to prescribe the drug.\n\nIn December 2017, Bermuda passed legislation decriminalizing personal possession of 7 grams or less of cannabis.\n"}
{"id": "101289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101289", "title": "Chartism", "text": "Chartism\n\nChartism was a working-class movement for political reform in Britain that existed from 1838 to 1857. It took its name from the People's Charter of 1838 and was a national protest movement, with particular strongholds of support in Northern England, the East Midlands, the Staffordshire Potteries, the Black Country, and the South Wales Valleys. Support for the movement was at its highest in 1839, 1842, and 1848, when petitions signed by millions of working people were presented to the House of Commons. The strategy employed was to use the scale of support which these petitions and the accompanying mass meetings demonstrated to put pressure on politicians to concede manhood suffrage. Chartism thus relied on constitutional methods to secure its aims, though there were some who became involved in insurrectionary activities, notably in south Wales and in Yorkshire.\n\nThe People's Charter called for six reforms to make the political system more democratic:\n\nChartists saw themselves fighting against political corruption and for democracy in an industrial society, but attracted support beyond the radical political groups for economic reasons, such as opposing wage cuts and unemployment.\n\nAfter the passing of the Reform Act 1832, which failed to extend the vote beyond those owning property, the political leaders of the working class made speeches claiming that there had been a great act of betrayal. This sense that the working class had been betrayed by the middle class was strengthened by the actions of the Whig governments of the 1830s. Notably, the hated new Poor Law Amendment was passed in 1834, depriving working people of outdoor relief and driving the poor into workhouses, where families were separated. It was the massive wave of opposition to this measure in the north of England in the late 1830s that gave Chartism the numbers that made it a mass movement. It seemed that only securing the vote for working men would change things, and indeed Dorothy Thompson, the pre-eminent historian of Chartism, defined the movement as the time when \"thousands of working people considered that their problems could be solved by the political organization of the country.\" In 1836 the London Working Men's Association was founded by William Lovett and Henry Hetherington, providing a platform for Chartists in the south east. The origins of Chartism in Wales can be traced to the foundation in the autumn of 1836 of Carmarthen Working Men's Association.\n\nBoth nationally and locally a Chartist press thrived in the form of periodicals, which were important to the movement for their news, editorials, poetry and (especially in 1848) reports on international developments. They reached a huge audience. \"The Poor Man's Guardian\" in the 1830s, edited by Henry Hetherington, dealt with questions of class solidarity, manhood suffrage, property, and temperance; and condemned the Reform Act of 1832. The paper explored the rhetoric of violence versus non-violence, or what its writers referred to as moral versus physical force. It was succeeded as the voice of radicalism by an even more famous paper: the \"Northern Star and Leeds General Advertiser\". The Star was published between 1837 and 1852, and in 1839 was the best-selling provincial newspaper in Britain, with a circulation of 50,000 copies. Like other Chartist papers it was often read aloud in coffee houses, workplaces and the open air. Other Chartist periodicals included the \"Northern Liberator\" (1837–40), \"English Chartist Circular\" (1841–3), and the \"Midland Counties' Illuminator\" (1841). The papers gave justifications for the demands of the People's Charter, accounts of local meetings, commentaries on education and temperance and a great deal of poetry. The papers also advertised upcoming meetings, typically organised by local grass roots branches, held either in public houses, or in their own halls. Research of the distribution of Chartist meetings in London which were advertised in the Norther Star shows that the movement was not uniformly spread across the Metropolis, but was instead clustered in the city's West End where a group of Chartist tailors had shops, as well as in Shoreditch in the east, and relied heavily on pubs that also supported local friendly societies. Readers also found denunciations of imperialism—the First Opium War (1839–42) was condemned—and of the arguments of free traders about the civilizing and pacifying influences of free trade.\n\nIn 1837, six Members of Parliament and six working men, including William Lovett (from the London Working Men's Association, set up in 1836) formed a committee, which in 1838 published the \"People's Charter\". This set out the six main aims of the movement. The achievement of these aims would give working men a say in law-making: they would be able to vote, and their vote would be protected by a secret ballot; and they would be able to stand for election to the House of Commons as a result of the removal of property qualifications and the introduction of payment for MPs. None of these demands was new, but the People's Charter was to become one of the most famous political manifestos of 19th century Britain.\n\nChartism was launched in 1838 by a series of enormous meetings in Birmingham, Glasgow and the north of England. A huge meeting was held on Kersal Moor near Salford, Lancashire, on 24 September 1838 with speakers from all over the country. Speaking in favour of manhood suffrage, Joseph Rayner Stephens declared that Chartism was a \"knife and fork, a bread and cheese question\". These words indicate the importance of economic factors in the launch of Chartism. If, as the movement came together, there were different priorities amongst local leaders, the Charter and the Star soon created a national, and largely united, campaign of national protest. John Bates, an activist, recalled:\n\nThe movement organised a National Convention in London in early 1839 to facilitate the presentation of the first petition. Delegates used the term MC, Member of Convention, to identify themselves; the convention undoubtedly saw itself as an alternative parliament. In June 1839, the petition, signed by 1.3 million working people, was presented to the House of Commons, but MPs voted, by a large majority, not to hear the petitioners. At the Convention, there was talk of a general strike or \"sacred month\". In the West Riding of Yorkshire and in south Wales, anger went even deeper, and underground preparations for a rising were undoubtedly made.\n\nSeveral outbreaks of violence ensued, leading to arrests and trials. One of the leaders of the movement, John Frost, on trial for treason, claimed in his defence that he had toured his territory of industrial Wales urging people not to break the law, although he was himself guilty of using language that some might interpret as a call to arms. Dr William Price of Llantrisant—more of a maverick than a mainstream Chartist—described Frost as putting \"a sword in my hand and a rope around my neck\". Hardly surprisingly, there are no surviving letters outlining plans for insurrection, but physical force Chartists had undoubtedly started organising. By early autumn men were being drilled and armed in south Wales, and also in the West Riding. Secret cells were set up, covert meetings were held in the Chartist Caves at Llangynidr and weapons were manufactured as the Chartists armed themselves. Behind closed doors and in pub back rooms, plans were drawn up for a mass protest.\n\nOn the night of 3–4 November 1839 Frost led several thousand marchers through South Wales to the Westgate Hotel, Newport, Monmouthshire, where there was a confrontation. It seems that Frost and other local leaders were expecting to seize the town and trigger a national uprising. The result of the Newport Rising was a disaster for Chartism. The hotel was occupied by armed soldiers. A brief, violent, and bloody battle ensued. Shots were fired by both sides, although most contemporaries agree that the soldiers holding the building had vastly superior firepower. The Chartists were forced to retreat in disarray: more than twenty were killed, at least another fifty wounded.\n\nTestimonies exist from contemporaries, such as the Yorkshire Chartist Ben Wilson, that Newport was to have been the signal for a national uprising. Despite this significant setback the movement remained remarkably buoyant, and remained so until late 1842. Whilst the majority of Chartists, under the leadership of Feargus O'Connor, concentrated on petitioning for Frost, Williams and William Jones to be pardoned, significant minorities in Sheffield and Bradford planned their own risings in response. Samuel Holberry led an abortive rising in Sheffield on 12 January; and on 26 January Robert Peddie attempted similar action in Bradford. In both Sheffield and Bradford spies had kept magistrates aware of the conspirators' plans, and these attempted risings were easily quashed. Frost and two other Newport leaders, Jones and Williams, were transported. Holberry and Peddie received long prison sentences with hard labour; Holberry died in prison and became a Chartist martyr.\n\n\"1842 was the year in which more energy was hurled against the authorities than in any other of the 19th century\". In early May 1842, a second petition, of over three million signatures, was submitted, and was yet again rejected by Parliament. The \"Northern Star\" commented on the rejection:\n\nThe depression of 1842 led to a wave of strikes, as workers responded to the wage cuts imposed by employers. Calls for the implementation of the Charter were soon included alongside demands for the restoration of wages to previous levels. Working people went on strike in 14 English and 8 Scottish counties, principally in the Midlands, Lancashire, Cheshire, Yorkshire, and the Strathclyde region of Scotland. Typically, strikers resolved to cease work until wages were increased \"until the People's charter becomes the Law of the Land\". How far these strikes were directly Chartist in inspiration \"was then, as now, a subject of much controversy\". The \"Leeds Mercury\" headlined them \"The Chartist Insurrection\", but suspicion also hung over the Anti-Corn Law League that manufacturers among its members deliberately closed mills to stir-up unrest. At the time, these disputes were collectively known as the \"Plug Plot\" as, in many cases, protesters removed the plugs from steam boilers powering industry to prevent their use. Amongst historians writing in the 20th century, the term General Strike was increasingly used. Some modern historians prefer the description \"strike wave\". In contrast, Mick Jenkins in his \"The General Strike of 1842\" offers a Marxist interpretation, showing the strikes as highly organized with sophisticated political intentions. Unrest began in the Potteries of Staffordshire in early August, spreading north to Cheshire and Lancashire (where at Manchester a meeting of the Chartist national executive endorsed the strikes on the 16th). The strikes had begun spreading in Scotland and West Yorkshire from the 13th. There were outbreaks of serious violence, including property destruction and the ambushing of police convoys, in the Potteries and the West Riding. Though the government deployed soldiers to suppress violence, it was the practical problems in sustaining an indefinite stoppage that ultimately defeated the strikers. The drift back to work began on 19 August. Only Lancashire and Cheshire were still strike-bound by September, the Manchester powerloom weavers being the last to return to work on 26 September.\n\nThe state hit back. Several Chartist leaders, including O'Connor, George Julian Harney, and Thomas Cooper were arrested. During the late summer of 1842 hundreds were incarcerated – in the Potteries alone 116 men and women went to prison. A smaller number, but still amounting to many dozens – such as William Ellis, who was convicted on perjured evidence – were transported. However, the government's most ambitious prosecution, personally led by the Attorney General, of O'Connor and 57 others (including almost all Chartism's national executive) failed: none were convicted of the serious charges, and those found guilty of minor offences were never actually sentenced. Cooper alone of the national Chartist leadership was convicted (at a different trial), having spoken at strike meetings in the Potteries. He was to write a long poem in prison called \"The Purgatory of Suicides.\"\n\nDespite this second set of arrests, Chartist activity continued. Beginning in 1843, O'Connor suggested that the land contained the solution to workers' problems. This idea evolved into the Chartist Co-operative Land Company, later called the National Land Company. Workers would buy shares in the company, and the company would use those funds to purchase estates that would be subdivided into 2, 3, and 4 acre (8,000, 12,400 and 16,000 m²) lots. Between 1844 and 1848, five estates were purchased, subdivided, and built on, and then settled by lucky shareholders, who were chosen by lot. Unfortunately for O'Connor, in 1848 a Select Committee was appointed by Parliament to investigate the financial viability of the scheme, and it was ordered that it be shut down. Cottages built by the Chartist Land Company are still standing and inhabited today in Oxfordshire, Worcestershire, Gloucestershire and on the outskirts of London. Rosedene, a Chartist cottage in Dodford, Worcestershire, is owned and maintained by the National Trust, and is open to visitors by appointment.\n\nCandidates embracing Chartism also stood on numerous occasions in general elections. There were concerted campaigns in the election of 1841 and election of 1847, when O'Connor was elected for Nottingham. Feargus became the only Chartist to be elected an MP; it was a remarkable victory for the movement. More commonly, Chartist candidates participated in the open meetings, called hustings, that were the first stage of an election. They frequently won the show of hands at the hustings, but then withdrew from the poll to expose the deeply undemocratic nature of the electoral system. This is what Harney did in a widely reported challenge against Lord Palmerston in Tiverton, Devon, in 1847. The last Chartist challenge at a parliamentary poll took place at Ripon in 1859.\n\nWith O'Connor elected an MP and Europe swept by revolution, it was hardly surprising that Chartism re-emerged as a powerful force in 1848. On 10 April 1848, a new Chartist Convention organised a mass meeting on Kennington Common, which would form a procession to present a third petition to Parliament. The estimate of the number of attendees varies depending on the sources (O'Connor said 300,000; the government, 15,000; \"The Observer\" newspaper suggested 50,000). Historians say 150,000. The authorities were well aware that the Chartists had no intention of staging an uprising, but were still intent on a large-scale display of force to counter the challenge. 100,000 special constables were recruited to bolster the police force. In any case, the meeting was peaceful. The military had threatened to intervene if working people made any attempt to cross the Thames, and the petition was delivered to Parliament by a small group of Chartist leaders. The Chartists declared that their petition was signed by 6 million people, but House of Commons clerks announced that it was a lesser figure of 1.9 million. In truth, the clerks could not have done their work in the time allocated to them; but their figure was widely reported, along with some of the pseudonyms appended to the petition such as \"Punch\" and \"Sibthorp\" (an ultra-Tory MP), and the credibility of Chartism was undermined.\n\nAfter the defeat of April 1848, there was an increase rather than a decline in Chartist activity. In Bingley, Yorkshire, a group of \"physical force\" Chartists led by Isaac Ickeringill were involved in a huge fracas at the local magistrates' court and later were prosecuted for rescuing two of their compatriots from the police. The high-point of the Chartist threat to the establishment in 1848 came not in on 10 April but in June, when there was widespread drilling and arming in the West Riding and the devising of plots in London. The banning of public meetings, and new legislation on sedition and treason (rushed through Parliament immediately after 10 April), drove a significant number of Chartists (including the black Londoner William Cuffay) into the planning of insurrection. Cuffay was to be transported, dying in Australia.\n\nO'Connor's egotism and vanity have been identified as causes in the failure of Chartism. This was a common theme in histories of the movement until the 1970s. However, since the 1980s, historians (notably Dorothy Thompson) have emphasised the indispensable contribution O'Connor made to Chartism. Further, she argues that the causes of the movement's decline are too complex to be blamed on one man. Historians have recently shown interest in Chartism after 1848. The final National Convention—attended by only a handful—was held in 1858. Throughout the 1850s, there remained pockets of strong support for the Chartist cause in places such as the Black Country.\n\nErnest Charles Jones became a leading figure in the National Charter Association during its years of decline, together with George Julian Harney, and helped to give the Chartist movement a clearer socialist direction. Jones and Harney knew Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels personally. Marx and Engels at the same time commented on the Chartist movement and Jones' work in their letters and articles.\n\nIn Kennington, the Brandon Estate features a large mural by Tony Hollaway, commissioned by London County Council's Edward Hollamby in the early 1960s, commemorating the Chartists' meeting on 10 April 1848.\n\nDuring this period, some Christian churches in Britain held \"that it was 'wrong for a Christian to meddle in political matters ... All of the denominations were particularly careful to disavow any political affiliation and he who was the least concerned with the 'affairs of this world' was considered the most saintly and worthy of emulation.\" This was at odds with many Christian Chartists for whom Christianity was \"above all practical, something that must be carried into every walk of life. Furthermore, there was no possibility of divorcing it from political science.\" Rev. William Hill, a Swedenborgian minister, wrote in the \"Northern Star\": \"We are commanded ... to love our neighbors as ourselves ... this command is universal in its application, whether as friend, Christian or citizen. A man may be devout as a Christian ... but if as a citizen he claims rights for himself he refuses to confer upon others, he fails to fulfill the precept of Christ\".\nThe conflicts between these two views led many like Rev. Joseph Barker to see Britain's churches as pointless. \"I have no faith in church organizations,\" he explained. \"I believe it my duty to be a man; to live and move in the world at large; to battle with evil wherever I see it, and to aim at the annihilation of all corrupt institutions and at the establishment of all good, and generous, and useful institutions in their places.\" To further this idea, some Christian Chartist Churches were formed where Christianity and radical politics were combined and considered inseparable. More than 20 Chartist Churches existed in Scotland by 1841. Pamphlets made the point and vast audiences came to hear lectures upon the same themes by the likes of Rev. J. R. Stephens, who was highly influential in the movement. Political preachers thus came into prominence.\n\nBetween late 1844 and November 1845, subscriptions were raised for the publication of a hymn book which was apparently printed as a 64-page pamphlet and distributed for a nominal fee, although no known copy is thought to remain. In 2011, a previously unknown and uncatalogued smaller pamphlet of 16 hymns was discovered in Todmorden Library in the North of England. This is believed to be the only Chartist Hymnal in existence. Heavily influenced by dissenting Christians, the hymns are about social justice, \"striking down evil doers\", and blessing Chartist enterprises, rather than the conventional themes of crucifixion, heaven, and family. Rather than the crucifixion or Christ's glory, the focus of the hymns is a cry for liberty. Some of the hymns protested against the exploitation of child labour and slavery. Another of the hymns proclaimed: \"Men of wealth and men of power/ Like locusts all thy gifts devour\". Two of the hymns celebrate the martyrs of the movement. \"Great God! Is this the Patriot's Doom?\" was composed for the funeral of Samuel Holberry, the Sheffield Chartist leader, who died in prison in 1843, while another honours John Frost, Zephaniah Williams, and William Jones, the Chartist leaders transported to Tasmania in the aftermath of the Newport rising of 1839.\n\nThe Chartists were especially critical of the Church of England for unequal distribution of the state funds it received resulting in some bishops and higher dignitaries having grossly larger incomes than other clergy. This state of affairs led some Chartists to question the very idea of a state-sponsored church, leading them to call for an absolute separation of church and state.\n\nFacing severe persecution in 1839, Chartists took to attending services at churches they held in contempt to display their numerical strength and express their dissatisfaction. Often, they would forewarn the preacher and demand that he preach from texts they believed supported their cause, such as 2 Thessalonians 3:10, 2 Timothy 2:6, Matthew 19:23 and James 5:1-6. In response, the set-upon ministers would often preach the need to focus on things spiritual and not material, and of meekness and obedience to authority, citing such works as Romans 13:1–7 and 1 Peter 2:13–17.\n\nChartism did not directly generate any reforms. It was not until 1867 that urban working men were admitted to the franchise under the Reform Act 1867, and not until 1918 that full manhood suffrage was achieved. Slowly the other points of the People's Charter were granted: secret voting was introduced in 1872 and the payment of MPs under the Parliament Act of 1911. Annual elections remain the only Chartist demand not to be implemented. Participation in the Chartist Movement filled some working men with self-confidence: they learned to speak publicly, to send their poems and other writings off for publication, to be able, in short, to confidently articulate the feelings of working people. Many former Chartists went on to become journalists, poets, ministers, and councillors.\n\nPolitical elites feared the Chartists in the 1830s and 1840s as a dangerous threat to national stability. In the Chartist stronghold of Manchester, the reform movement undermined the political power of the old Tory-Anglican elite that had controlled civic affairs. However, the reformers of Manchester were themselves factionalised.\n\nAfter 1848, as the movement faded, its demands appeared less threatening and were gradually enacted by other reformers. After 1848, middle class parliamentary Radicals continued to press for an extension of the franchise in such organisations as the National Parliamentary and Financial Reform Association and the Reform Union. By the late 1850s, the celebrated John Bright was agitating in the country for franchise reform. However, working class radicals had not gone away. The Reform League campaigned for manhood suffrage in the 1860s, and included former Chartists amongst its ranks. Chartism has also been regarded by historians as a forerunner to the UK Labour Party.\n\nChartism was also an important influence in some British colonies. Some leaders had been transported to Australia, where they spread their beliefs. In 1854, Chartist demands were put forward by the miners at the Eureka Stockade on the gold fields at Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. Within two years of the military suppression of the Eureka revolt, the first elections of the Victorian parliament were held, with near-universal male suffrage and by secret ballot. In the African colonies after 1920, there were occasional appearances of a \"colonial chartism\" which called for improved welfare, upgraded education, freedom of speech, and greater political representation for natives.\n\nThe Chartist movement was criticised by Thomas Carlyle in his 1840 long pamphlet \"Chartism\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51254962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51254962", "title": "Chinese people in Sweden", "text": "Chinese people in Sweden\n\nChinese people in Sweden include people born in the People's Republic of China, or have ancestry from there. It may also include people originating from Taiwan and Hong Kong. They form a sizable community and are one the biggest Asian groups. As of 2016, there are 29,640 mainland Chinese immigrants in Sweden, and 1,501 from Taiwan and 584 from Hong Kong. The figure may even be higher as most of 17,727 Vietnamese that fled to Sweden during the Vietnam War are ethnic Chinese due to persecution by the new Communist government. These figures don't include the children of these immigrants born in Sweden. Including Chinese born in Sweden and the ethnic Chinese from Southeast Asia, the total number of Chinese in Sweden may be as much as 50,000–60,000.\n25% of Sweden's international university students come from China.\n"}
{"id": "20148394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20148394", "title": "Daai Chin", "text": "Daai Chin\n\nThe Daai are an ethnic group living in Chin State, Myanmar. The Daai consist of 32 Chin tribes, which have been registered by the Government of Burma since 1890. The recent Military Regime’s census mentions the Daai tribe as the 62nd of 135 tribes of Burma. Researchers refer to them as the Daai group in the ethnic survey book of Burma. The Daai Chin appear to be of Mongolian, Indo-Chinese, and Tibeto-Burman descent. The Daai people live in the Mindat, Paletwa, Matupi and Kanpetlet townships of Southern Chin State in Burma. There are more than 180 Daai villages with a total population of somewhere between 60,000 and 90,000. Their population makes the Daai-Chin the majority tribe of the Southern Chin Hills.\n\nThe Daai land was an independent country until the British expedition in 1890, and later annexation in 1897 by the United Kingdom. The Daai language varies slightly between sub tribes. Their ethnic tribal symbol is the \"khuum\" (rocket tail dragon). The \"ling leih\" (\"Bulbophyllum refractum\", one of orchid species) is their royal flower. About 99% of Daai and Daai (Yindu) are Christians.\n\nThe Daai Chin inhabit a part of the Southern Chin State of Myanmar, located on the mainland of Southeast Asia. It is surrounded by China to the north and northeast, Laos to the east, Thailand to the east and southeast, India to the northwest, Bangladesh to the west and the Andaman Sea to the south. The country is divided into four topographical zones. The Eastern Shan Plateau is a highland region that merges with the Dawna and Tenasserim Yoma mountain ranges. The central belt zone covers the valleys of the Irrawaddy, Chindwin and Sittang rivers as well as a mountainous region to the north and a low lying delta to the south. The third region is the western mountain zone, also known as the Arakan Mountains, a series of ridges that start in the northern mountain area and extend to the southwestern corner. The Arakan coastal zone is a narrow alluvial strip lying between the Arakan Mountains and the Bay of Bengal.\n\nThe Daai land is situated in the southern part of the Chinland (Chin state) located on the western mountain zone of Myanmar. It is also located between north latitude 20˚ 42' and 21˚ 35', and between east longitude 93˚ 14' and 94˚ 8'. Daai land covers the west of Mindat Township, the northwest of Kanpetlet township, the northeast of Paletwa township and to the southeast of the Matupi township. The longest part of their land is about 120 miles (193 km) and the narrowest part is roughly 60 miles (96 km). The Daai land is mountainous and situated between 800 m–3200 m above sea level. Daai Land has thousands of slope ranges of mountains, brooks, streams and a small river called the Lemro River. The biggest stream is Mone (မုန္းေခ်ာင္း). Many natural water courses flow through the mountain ranges running from north to south, forming valleys and gorges.\n\n\" The very word Daai is derived from the word thai/ Daai, meaning peace, plain and harmony, and its root for adjective form is Do, Dam, and Daai, literally meaning plain or good for Do, valley or plain for Dam, and cool for Daai. Therefore we can note that the term Daai as plain though the present location is hilly and mountainous. A present the term Daai is a collective name, of the inhabitants of Daai land in the southern Chin state of Myanmar. According to Thang Hleih, the word Daai represents the people who live peacefully, gently lovingly, harmoniously, generously and kindly. The word, therefore, stands for the people who are living inside the most interior part of southern Chin State. \nThe Daai appears to be from Mongoloid stock and from Tibeto-Burman family as the other Chin tribes. At present there are 175 Daai villages with a total population between 50000 and 60000. They have their own particular traditional cultures, way of life, language, practices and traditional beliefs, and societies as other tribes in Myanmar. \n\nDaai people can be found in the west of Mindat township, the north - west of Kanpetlet township, the north - east of Paletwa township and the south - east of Matupi township, the southern part of the Chin state in Myanmar very close to Bangladesh and Northern India. The entire area is hilly made up of a series of ranges running from north to south which fortunately give sufficient food and rice to the inhabitants and their neighbors. The longest part of its land is about 120 miles (193 km) and the narrowest part is roughly 60 miles (96 km), and the area is far from each township between 60 miles and 90 miles. The Daai land is situated between 800ft to 3200 ft above the sea level.\" ***\n\nThe overall Daai population is estimated somewhere between 60,000 and 90,000. 15% of the total population (500,000) of the Chin State are Daai people. Some of the Daai people live in and around Myanmar and all over the world. Daai people are descended from Tibetan, Tibeto - Burma, Kuki - Chin - Naga, Kuki - Chin, Chin - Daai.\n\nDaai land is divided into four parts within the southern Chin state: Kanpetlet, Mindat, Matupi and Paletwa townships. Today Daai land encompasses Chin state, Myanmar. The local government separated Daai land into Kanpetlet Daai, Mindat Daai, Matu Daai and Paletwa Daai.\n\nThere are only basic educational institutions, such as middle schools (students from 5 to 14 years of age) in Daai lands. Basic primary school is available in almost all villages. Higher education is available only in a few villages. Today, Daai,and Daai (Yindu) people are receiving further education in various Christian colleges such as in the capital cities of Yangon, Falam, Hakha, Mandalay, Kalay, Maymyo, Kyaukhtu, Pakokku .And also American , India, and some others country.\n\nThere are government clinics and dispensaries in some villages, but there is no medicine in those dispensaries. People go to the nearest Burmese villages and the cities to buy medicine. There are no doctors in Daai land. Sometimes medical staff and nurses visit Daai lands. They occasionally administer government-provided vaccination to the Daai people.\n\nAll Daai tribes speak the Daai Chin language, of the Sino-Tibetan family (not to be confused with the Daai language, belonging to the Tai-Kadai family). There are slightly different styles between the subtribes of Kanpetlet township and Matupi township. Despite this, the different dialects are usually mutually intelligible. Daai writing was developed in the 1990s with the help of German people, with an alphabet based on the German alphabet.\nBriefly, it should be concluded that the Daai alphabets, diphthongs are totally influenced by German alphabets because those days there are no educated persons ( it means that Daai peoople cannot speak English and English Grammar and Structure)who are a \"YES\" person. At those days (about 1980) no experience they have. What a German lady said were followed by Daais who except Kheng Saw were uneducated persons, who got involved in Daai literature Committee were under Class 8 level. That is the reason that it should be like that it is a One-man-show.\n\nUnder the leadership of Daai Central Literature and Culture Committee,as Daais tried and try to be taught the Daai dialect to Daais in Southern Chin State at public primary schools, the Union Minister of Education recognized Daai dialect and permitted to print Grade one, two and three. Which text books are being taught in Mindat township, Kanpetlet township, Paletwa township, and, Matupi township which only faces difficulty to teach in public schools. \n\nNot least but least, all Daais must give them appreciation to them who devoted to spending time for Daai literature. They will be in Daais's minds and hearts even thought they are weak in education.\n\nThere are more than 180 villages in Daai land. Daai villages make up 13% of the 1,355 total villages in the Chin State. Villages range from 10 to 140 houses, the largest and most populated village in Daai land is Majar Innu Village in the Kanpetlet township, west of the central part of Daai land.\n\nApproximately thirty years ago, Daai people practised animism. Since then, most Daai people have converted to Christianity within the last two decades. Currently about 99% of the Daai people are Christian. Two hundred years ago, the first American Missionary, Adoniram Judson, went to Myanmar (Burma) and gave his life to the Lord reaching out to Myanmar (Burma). He positioned the lay ministers to lead the believers in Myanmar (Burma) after he died. That was in Rangoon (Yangon), the Capital City of Myanmar (Burma). They could not reach to the Daai area at that time because it was very far and for many other reasons. The gospel reached to the Daai area in around 1970 by other missionaries. That was 156 years after Judson's arrival in Myanmar (Burma).\n\nDaai people practise shifting cultivation, known as \"\"Taungya\" in Burmese and \"Lou\"\" in the Daai language. Cultivators cut and burn forests and raise agricultural crops for one to two years before moving on to another site, only returning to the original after 10 to 11 years.\n\nThe Daai people living in western part of Myanmar and southern part of Chin State have rich customs and traditions. Their traditions and rituals are associated with their shifting cultivation in the hills. The practice of shifting cultivation is deeply rooted in Daai culture. Shifting cultivation for the Daais is more than sustenance, it is a way of life, the foundation from which emerged their economic and social traditions.\n\nIn its early period, shifting cultivation provided food for the Daai. However, these days it serves as the economic mainstay for the Daai, providing money to buy clothes, attend school, and trade with their neighbours.\n\nThe Daai people cultivate rice, corn, millet, beans, peas, cucumber, pumpkin, gourd, egg plant, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, ginger, sesame and celery in their gardens or farms. Daai farmers cultivate at the beginning of monsoon season (the mid-April to June) and harvest crops in October and November. The cultivation method is dependent on monsoon rains.\n\nGenerally, Daai land is mostly used for slash-and-burn or shifting cultivation, with the least-developed regions inhabited by the indigenous hill tribes of Myanmar. Daai people earn their livelihood by shifting between cultivation (Taung Ya) and subsistence farming. Farming and gardening are only for their subsistence and personal consumption, transportation systems and markets are not developed in Daai land.\n\nSome Daai people migrate to Malaysia because their lives and political, cultural, and religious freedoms are threatened in Myanmar. There, the parents struggle for their daily bread as undocumented migrants, vulnerable to arrest for immigration offences, and are often subject to detention, prosecution, whipping and deportation for several months.\n\nDaai refugees in Malaysia originate from Myanmar, where current conditions do not permit them to return. Daai refugees are scattered throughout Malaysia in places such as Johor Baru, Ipoh, the Cameron Highlands, Kalang, Kajang, Rawang, and others.\n\nThere are no refugee camps in Malaysia. Instead, Daai refugees share living spaces in groups of up to 20 people, living in low-cost apartments, urban villages or housing estates near Malaysian homes. Many also live in makeshift camps in jungles near construction sites where they seek employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "18950248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950248", "title": "Demographics of Hamburg", "text": "Demographics of Hamburg\n\nThe German city of Hamburg is the most populous city in the European Union which is not a national capital. The city contains an approximate 1.8 million people.\n\nThe figures since 1970 are published by the Statistical Office for Hamburg and Schleswig Holstein, based on the information of several state authorities.\nHamburg was by far the most populated German City after the Thirty Years' War. Due to its , which had been finished 1625, the city was never conquered and many people fled into it.\n\nOn December 31, 2006 there were 1,754,182 registered people living in Hamburg (up from 1,652,363 in 1990). The population density was .\n\nThere were 856,132 males and 898,050 females in Hamburg. For every 1,000 males there were 1,049 females. In 2006 there were 16,089 births in Hamburg, of which 33.1% were given by unmarried women, 6,921 marriages and 4,583 divorces. In 2006, 198 registered partnerships took place at the civil registration office (\"Standesamt\"). 40 partnerships were dissolved by court order since 2001. In the city the population was spread out with 15.7% under the age of 18, and 18.8% were 65 years of age or older. 257,060 resident aliens were living in Hamburg (14.8% of the population). The largest group are with only Turkish citizenship with 58,154 (22.6% of the resident aliens), followed by 20,743 with only Polish citizenship. 4,046 people were from the United Kingdom and 4,369 were from the United States. According to GTZ, 22,000 immigrants living in Hamburg are from Afghanistan, thus forming the largest Afghan community in Germany and Europe.\n\nAfter a descent of the population in the 1970s, Hamburg has constantly grown since 1999. Although the numbers of death are higher than the births given. However, Since 2010 the number of births have exceeded the number of deaths.\n\nOn 31 December 2016, there were 1,860,759 people registered as living in Hamburg in an area of . The population density was . The metropolitan area of the Hamburg region (Hamburg Metropolitan Region) is home to 5,107,429 living on .\n\nThere were 915,319 women and 945,440 men in Hamburg. For every 1,000 males, there were 1,033 females. In 2015, there were 19,768 births in Hamburg (of which 38.3% were to unmarried women); 6422 marriages and 3190 divorces, and 17,565 deaths. In the city, the population was spread out with 16.1% under the age of 18, and 18.3% were 65 years of age or older. 356 People in Hamburg were over the age of 100.\n\nAccording to the Statistical Office of the State of Hamburg, the number of people with a migrant background is at 34% (631,246). Immigrants come from 180 different countries. 5891 people have acquired German cititzenship in 2016.\n\nIn 2016, there were 1,021,666 households, of which 17.8% had children under the age of 18; 54.4% of all households were made up of singles. 25.6% of households with children were single parent households. The average household size was 1.8.\n\nIn 2008 Wandsbek was the most populous borough in Hamburg. Until February 2008 the Harburg borough was the second-most. Through the change of the borders in Hamburg, the quarter Wilhelmsburg merged into Hamburg-Mitte, and Hamburg-Mitte became the second-most populous borough.\n\nThe Hamburg Institute for Sexual Research conducted a survey over the sexual behavior of young people in 1970, and repeated it in 1990. Whereas in 1970 18% of the boys aged 16 and 17 reported to have had at least one same-sex sexual experience, the number had dropped to 2% by 1990. \"Ever since homosexuality became publicly argued to be an innate sexual orientation, boys' fear of being seen as gay has, if anything, increased,\" the director of the institute, Volkmar Sigusch, suggested in a 1998 article for a German medical journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "172956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172956", "title": "Demogroup", "text": "Demogroup\n\nDemogroups are teams of demosceners, who make computer based audio-visual works of art known as demos. Demogroups form a subculture collectively known as the demoscene.\n\nGroups frequently consist of students, young computer enthusiasts who spend days coding their demos. They often have a pseudonym (called a \"handle\" or \"nick\"), usually chained together with the name of their group (in formats like \"Scener of Demo Group\" or \"Scener/DG\"). Demosceners rarely use their real names in demoscene contexts. This is a tradition originating from the demoscene's roots, where small demos were distributed along with cracked software, usually computer games.\n\nMany demogroups have been founded by friends who already knew each other in real life. However, there have also been groups that have taken their form online via Bulletin Board Systems or the Internet. Perhaps the most important way for demogroups to communicate is IRC. Demosceners from different groups also meet each other in real life at demoparties and smaller meetings.\n\nDemogroups often bear resemblances to corporate companies: demogroups incorporate wordmarks, logos, catchphrases and slogans for their promotion. It is very important for a demogroup to have good PR, and major groups have dedicated group organisers who are responsible for \"managing the group's human resources\", i.e. nag the members who slack off. Some groups also treat the recruitment of new members with great care, often applying \"trial periods\" in which the new member has to prove himself to be worthy. However these practices are often just intentional exaggeration (often tongue-in-cheek), to maintain an \"elite\" image for the group.\n\nA group is perhaps the most important social unit in the demoscene, and belonging to a group is often considered more or less synonymous to being a demoscener. Even individual productions, with no group activity involved, are typically associated with the group of the creative individual. There have even been several \"one-man groups\" when an individual demomaker with no group has wanted to release a demo or intro.\n\nThe countries with the most active demogroups and demoparties are currently the Nordic countries (Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark), Germany, the Netherlands, Hungary and France.\n\nDue to the community-like nature of the demoscene, multi-national demogroups are not uncommon.\n\nDemosceners specialize themselves into various categories to be able to take part in the demomaking process. A few people are able to cross over between multiple archetypes (e.g. coder-musician, musician-designer), but this is by no means a trend.\n\nThe coder is the demogroup's programmer who creates the demo's software framework and is responsible for the actual realtime state of the demo. While some coders specialize in developing system-level functionality (such as providing wrappers and APIs for other coders to base their code on), others code effects which are usually visual representations of mathematical formulas, such as fractals or metaballs.\n\nIn the 1990s, coders were most often entirely responsible for the demo's flow and arrangement, including the effect's synchronization to the music and sometimes even the design. Nowadays, software tools known as \"demotools\" are widely used, allowing this work to be done by a designer who does not have to be a coder. Many groups, however, still prefer that the coder takes most of the responsibility in the demomaking process, including the design.\n\nIn many cases, an attempt for excelling in several areas has resulted in one area outshadowing the others: for instance, coders who try to make music often come up with \"coder music\" which may be technically passable but lacks artistic ambitions. \"Coder graphics\" and \"coder palettes\" are similar terms for graphics and color schemes.\n\nGraphic artists (or \"graphicians\" in scene lingo) create the visual coherency behind a demo, which include still pictures, design elements, fonts, colors, 3D objects, textures and animation.\n\nOriginally, there was a single type of graphician creating typical 2D graphics (referred to as pixeled graphics because they were typically created pixel by pixel). Ever since demos started using complex (as in, much more elaborate than cubes and donuts) 3D graphics, graphicians that exclusively model 3D graphics are also around, sometimes referred to as (3D) modelers.\n\nMusicians are responsible for the composing, arranging, mixing and mastering (and in some cases, performing) the soundtracks and sound effects in the demo.\n\nIn the older days, musicians worked with trackers, and the world of tracked music was heavily dominated by demoscene musicians. In later times, it became possible for the PC demos to use streaming, high-quality music formats, and the musicians started to gradually change their tools to professional music sequencers. However, tracked music and other specialized formats still continue to be used in size-restricted intros as well as demos written for more restrictive platforms such as mobile devices and vintage computers.\n\nDemosceners often form fake groups, which are essentially secret identities for making humorous or vulgar productions without scathing their original reputation - people in a fake group hide behind a pseudonym (which, considering their demoscene handles, usually becomes a pseudo-pseudonym). This type of masquerading is often just performed to confuse naïve newcomers to the scene; while some fake identities are never revealed for their time of activity, in most cases a large portion of unrelated people are aware of the real persons behind the spoof.\n\nThough they are not strictly \"demogroups\" by definition, the scene always had various individuals who excelled in all areas of demomaking; rather than gathering various other persons to aid them in a creative process, they do all of the programming, music making and visual art themselves. While the obvious disadvantage of this type of working is the multiple of amount of work one must do with a given quality standard, one-man groups usually point out that having no others to work with gets rid of discussions and creative differences alike, and is actually a very free way of working.\n\nOne-man groups are usually treated with a mix of respect and curiosity within the scene, because they're not an extremely common phenomenon, and some of the scene marks them as an unnecessary effort for virtuosity, largely because it is virtually impossible to perform above average in all areas - one-man demos and intros usually bear obvious lacks in given areas, depending on whether the creator was more a coder, graphician or musician, who adapted other skillsets later.\n\nPerhaps the most successful one-man army of the demoscene is Dmitry \"AND\" Andreev, two-time winner of the Assembly demo party in the 64k intro category.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13963144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13963144", "title": "Disappearance of Rahma el-Dennaoui", "text": "Disappearance of Rahma el-Dennaoui\n\nRahma el-Dennaoui (born April 19, 2004) is a Lebanese Australian girl who went missing on 10 November 2005.\nShe was last seen in the bedroom of her home in Lurnea, Sydney, Australia, early that morning, where the 19-month-old girl and her siblings slept. Despite a police search and appeals to the general public, no trace of the little girl has yet been found.\n\nRahma was born to Hosayn El-Dennaoui, a migrant from Iaal, Lebanon, and Alyaa, from the nearby village of Dayranbouh. Rahma was between two of her sisters on a double bed under the window. She had trouble sleeping in the heat and her father got up and went to check on her at 2 am. When he returned at 8 am, she was gone. Rahma had not been walking long, and it is nearly a kilometre from the el-Dennaoui home to any bushland, making a toddler's journey there unlikely. There was a rip in the fly-screen covering the window above her bed, and this opening was large enough for Rahma to fit through. Other sources say the screen was cut, not torn. Sniffer dogs found no trace of the little girl, and police are now treating the disappearance as an abduction, although no motive was known.\n\nIn May 2007, \"New Idea\" magazine offered a $20,000 (AUS) reward for information on what happened to Rahma. The magazine's editor-in-chief Robyn Foster says it was the similarities between Rahma and the highly publicised case of Madeleine McCann that sparked her interest in the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "35918078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35918078", "title": "Duano’ language", "text": "Duano’ language\n\nDuano’ is a Malayan language of Indonesia and Malaysia. In Malaysia the language is moribund, being spoken by only a tenth of the ethnic population.\n"}
{"id": "28267380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28267380", "title": "Dâw language", "text": "Dâw language\n\nDâw is a Nadahup language spoken by about one hundred Dâw people in the northwestern part of Amazonas, Brazil, in an area commonly known as Alto Rio Negro. Most Dâw also speak Nheengatu and Portuguese.\n\nAn extinct variety, \"Kurikuria(r)í\", named after the Curicuriari River, was a distinct language sociolinguistically, but at least partially intelligible with Dâw.\n\nDâw has 15 vowels:\n\nVowels are laryngealized when occurring beside a glottal stop, as seen in the examples below.\n\nVowel harmony in Dâw is seen primarily in two situations: in compounding and with the focus marker , where \"V\" indicates a vowel. When combining two words with the first word having the syllable structure CVC, vowel harmony is not seen, e.g. \"high\" + \"boat\" = \"airplane\". However, when combining two words with the first word having the syllable structure CV, vowel harmony is seen, e.g. \"canoe\" + \"eye\" = \"sun\". The vowel of the focus marker is the same as the vowel of the syllable it is appended to, e.g. \"blood\" + = .\n\nDâw has 25 consonants:\n\nGlottalized consonants are also laryngealized, as seen in the examples below.\n\nThe plosive consonants have no audible release as codas, e.g. \"to kick\" is realized as , and \"to scratch with the nail\" as . When being onsets, and are realized as ejective consonants, i.e. and , unlike the other plosive consonants, which are realized simply as plain consonants, e.g. \"without hair\", \"to hook\".\n\nStress is fixed in Dâw, occurring on the last syllable of a word. A few suffixes in Dâw do not take the stress, however. The suffixes are divided into two groups, metric suffixes and extrametric suffixes. The former follows the general rule of stress on the last syllable, while the latter does not. See the examples below, where is a metric suffix, and an extrametric suffix.\n\nIn Dâw there are either three or four tones, depending on analysis. There are a low tone, a high tone, a rising tone and a falling tone, marked by a grave accent, an acute accent, a caron and circumflex, respectively, but only the two latter are lexical. The low tone only occurs on syllables without stress, while the high tone only occurs on syllables with stress, and the rising and falling tones may occur on all syllables. As the low and high tones are not lexical, they are often left unmarked, as in \"tooth\", which really is realized as .\n\nBesides the lexical function of tone, tone may also function morphologically and syntactically. Consider the examples below, the first being morphological and the second being syntactical, showing how tone is used in a derivative manner and how tone is used to differentiate intransitive from transitive verbs.\n\nVowel length is predictable and present in Dâw, yet not distinctive lexically. All vowels with a rising or falling tone are long, while all vowels without a tone are short.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "973737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=973737", "title": "Formatted text", "text": "Formatted text\n\nFormatted text, styled text, or rich text, as opposed to plain text, has styling information beyond the minimum of semantic elements: colours, styles (boldface, italic), sizes, and special features in HTML (such as hyperlinks).\n\nFormatted text cannot rightly be identified with binary files or be distinct from ASCII text. This is because formatted text is not necessarily binary, it may be text-only, such as HTML, RTF or enriched text files, and it may be ASCII-only. Conversely, a plain text file may be non-ASCII (in an encoding such as Unicode UTF-8). Text-only formatted text is achieved by markup which too is textual, while some editors of formatted text like Microsoft Word save in a binary format.\n\nFormatted text has its genesis in the pre-computer use of underscoring to embolden passages in typewritten manuscripts. In the first interactive systems of early computer technology, underscoring was not possible, and users made up for this lack (and the lack of formatting in ASCII) by using certain symbols as substitutes. Emphasis, for example, could be achieved in ASCII in a number of ways:\n\n\nSurrounding by underscores was also used for book titles: Look it up in _The_C_Programming_Language_.\n\nFormatting can be marked by tags distinguished from the body text by special characters, such as angle brackets in HTML. For example, this text:\n\nis marked up in HTML thus:\n\nThe italicised text is enclosed by an opening and a closing italics tag. In LaTeX, the text would be marked up like this:\n\nMarkup languages can be implemented with any text editor, needing no special software.\n\nSince the invention of MacWrite, the first WYSIWYG word processor, in which the typist codes the formatting visually rather than by inserting textual markup, word processors have tended to save to binary files. Opening such files with a text editor reveals the text embellished with various binary characters, either around the formatted areas (e.g. in WordPerfect) or separately, at the beginning or end of the file (e.g. in Microsoft Word).\n\nFormatted text documents in binary files have, however, the disadvantages of formatting scope and secrecy. Whereas the extent of formatting is accurately marked in markup languages, WYSIWYG formatting is based on memory, that is, keeping for example your pressing of the boldface button until cancelled. This can lead to formatting mistakes and maintenance troubles. As for secrecy, formatted text document file formats tend to be proprietary and undocumented, leading to difficulty in coding compatibility by third parties, and also to unnecessary upgrades because of version changes.\n\nWordStar was a popular word processor that did not use binary files with hidden characters.\n\nOpenOffice.org Writer saves files in an XML format. However, the resultant file is a binary since it is compressed (a tarball equivalent).\n\nPDF is another formatted text file format that is usually binary (using compression for the text, and storing graphics and fonts in binary). It is generally an end-user format, written from an application such as Microsoft Word or OpenOffice.org Writer, and not editable by the user once done.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7425590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7425590", "title": "Free Hugs Campaign", "text": "Free Hugs Campaign\n\nThe Free Hugs Campaign is a social movement involving individuals who offer hugs to strangers in public places. The hugs are meant to be random acts of kindness—selfless acts performed just to make others feel better. International Free Hugs Month is celebrated on the first Saturday of July and continues until August first.\n\nThe campaign in its present form was started in 2004 by an Australian man known only by the pseudonym \"Juan Mann\". The campaign became famous internationally in 2006 as the result of a music video on YouTube by the Australian band Sick Puppies, which has been viewed over 78 million times as of April 16, 2018.\n\nThe Free Hugs campaign in its present form was started by Juan Mann on June 30, 2004, when he began giving out hugs in the Pitt Street Mall in central Sydney. In the months prior to this, Mann had been feeling depressed and lonely as a result of numerous personal difficulties. However, a random hug from a stranger made an enormous difference, with Mann stating that \"...I went out to a party one night and a completely random person came up to me and gave me a hug. I felt like a king! It was greatest thing that ever happened.\"\n\nMann carried the now iconic \"FREE HUGS\" sign from the outset. However, on his first attempt in his hometown, where he returned to find that he was the only person he knew, as his friends and family had moved away, he had to wait fifteen minutes before an elderly lady came up to him and gave him a hug.\nInitial distrust of Juan Mann's motives eventually gave way to a gradual increase of people willing to be hugged, with other huggers (male and female) helping distribute them. In October 2005 police told them they must stop, as Mann had not obtained public liability insurance worth $25 million for his actions. Mann and his companions used a petition to attempt to convince authorities that his campaign should be allowed to continue without the insurance. His petition reached 10,000 signatures. He submitted it and was allowed to continue giving free hugs.\n\nMann befriended Shimon Moore, lead singer for Sick Puppies, shortly after commencing his campaign, and over a two-month period in late 2005 Moore recorded video footage of Mann and his fellow huggers. Moore and his band moved to Los Angeles in March 2005 and nothing was immediately done with the footage. Meanwhile, Mann continued his campaign throughout 2005 and 2006 by appearing in Pitt Street Mall in Sydney most Thursday afternoons.\n\nIn mid-2006 Mann's grandmother died, and in consolation Moore made the music video using the footage he had shot in 2004 to send to Mann as a gift, stating in an interview that, \"I sent it to him on a disc as a present and I wrote down 'This is who you are'.\" The video was later uploaded onto YouTube, where it has been viewed 74 million times as of October 2013.<ref name=\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vr3x_RRJdd4\">Free Hugs Campaign - Official Page (music by Sick Puppies.net )</ref>\n\nOn October 30, 2006, Mann was invited by Oprah Winfrey to appear on her show \"Oprah\" after her producer's doctor saw the Free Hugs video on YouTube. Juan Mann made an appearance outside her studio that morning, offering free hugs to the crowd waiting to see the taping of that day's episode. Oprah's camera crews caught several people in the audience hugging Mann as the morning progressed.\n\nOn October 23, 2007, Juan Mann announced his residential address online and offered an open invitation to anyone to come over and chat on-camera as part of his 'open-house project'. Mann hosted 80 guests over 36 days. On November 25, 2007, Mann's landlord threatened him with eviction, so he launched an online appeal.\n\nOn December 25, 2007, Juan Mann published an e-book as a free download. On November 22, 2008, at YouTube Live Sick Puppies did a performance of \"All the Same\" while Juan Mann gave hugs to crowd members. On February 13, 2009 a Free Hug Day took place.\n\nFree hugs signs were also commonly seen at Phish shows at least as early as 1996.\nA website that is generally recognized as the official site of the free hugs campaign, The Official Home of the Free Hugs Campaign, was launched in mid-2007. This site enables those involved in the campaign to better organize themselves and coordinate their efforts. Many initiatives resulted from these efforts. For example, on the website's forum (hosted on Dragon Arts), those involved in the campaign called for an annual International Free Hugs Day. Mann declared that the day would fall on the first Saturday following June 30 each year; this being the first date that Mann ever offered free hugs in Pitt Street Mall, Sydney in 2004. The first International Free Hugs Day was July 7, 2007, the second on July 5, 2008, and the third was on July 4, 2009. (See above regarding Valentine's Day).\n\nMann's Official Blog remained dormant after his apparent retirement but has been updated at times; it proclaims itself as the \"true home\" of the Free Hugs Campaign and hosts interviews conducted with individuals holding Free Hugs Campaigns internationally.\nIn Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, two men were arrested by the Commission for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice for offering free hugs in a public space. The move was criticized on Twitter, however others opposed the campaign altogether.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24068163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068163", "title": "Fuzhou Tanka", "text": "Fuzhou Tanka\n\nFuzhou Tanka (Fuzhou dialect: 曲蹄; Foochow Romanized: Kuóh-dà̤; Simplified Chinese: 福州疍民 Hók-ciŭ Dáng-mìng; 江妹仔 Gĕ̤ng-muói-giāng; 曲蹄婆 Kuóh-dà̤-bò̤), or Fuzhou Boat People, is an ethnic group in Fujian, China. A branch of the Tanka people, they traditionally lived on sampans in the lower course of Min River and the coast of Fuzhou in Fujian Province most of their lives and have been officially recognized as Han Chinese since 1955.\n\nThere are several different views on the origin of Fuzhou Tanka. The mainstream theory believes that Fuzhou Tanka are descendants of the Baiyue of ancient times. As a branch of the Tanka people, Fuzhou Tanka has been in South China for more than 2000 years. Their Fuzhounese name \"Kuóh-dà̤\" (曲蹄) is a derogatory term used by the Fuzhou people on land, which can be literally translated into \"bowlegged\" and might come from the bow shape of their legs caused by longtime living in the low cabins of their boats.\n\nThe Amoy University anthropologist Ling Hui-hsiang wrote on his theory of the Fujian Tanka being descendants of the Baiyue. He claimed that Guangdong and Fujian Tanka are definitely descended from the old Pai Yue peoples, and that they may have been ancestors of the Malay race.\n\nFuzhou Tanka now speak the Fuzhou dialect, which is widely used by the majority Fuzhou people in this region. Mandarin has also been brought to many of them through national compulsory education. However, they had their own language in history, but gradually abandoned it. In Ming Dynasty, many of them were already able to speak the Fuzhou dialect or other Eastern Min languages.\n\nTraditionally, Fuzhou Tanka people lived on boats in most of their lives. They were severely discriminated by land living Fuzhounese residents. Their life depended on fishing and ferrying, and most of them remained poor and uneducated before the founding of Republic of China. Fuzhou Tanka people had a rich tradition of folk music, especially call and response. They also had different views on chastity and remarriage from the land living Han Chinese. Pre-marital sex and remarriage were not restricted in their society. Due to the discriminatory policy imposed by the land living Han majority, Fuzhou Tanka were forced to dress themselves in a humble way to show their inferiority to the land residents.\n\nBy the second half of the 19th century, many Tanka people had already been converted to Roman Catholicism. Some of these Catholic Tanka consequently moved onto land under the protection of Catholic Church. In the Republic of China era, the ethnic egalitarianism was guaranteed by law. Since the 1950s, the Communist government began to resettle Fuzhou Tanka to land dwellings. As a result, many Fuzhou Tanka villages were built along the Min River and the coast. Nowadays, most Fuzhou Tanka people have abandoned their traditional waterborne lives and intermarriage is common. Their traditions, such as Fuzhou Tanka folk music, are under threat as well.\n\nBefore the founding of Republic of China, the Fuzhou Tanka were generally treated by land Chinese residents as mean and inferior. They were not allowed to dwell on land, receive education, wear silk clothes or work in government or army. In some areas, they were even forbidden to walk on land, otherwise, they would be faced with death threats. Since the 18th century several attempts had been made by the Qing and Kuomintang governments to lift the discrimination against Tanka people, but it was only in the People's Republic of China era that all the discriminatory policies were completely eliminated. Before the founding of the People's Republic of China, the ‘gypsies of the sea’ were not allowed to go ashore or marry the people living along the beach.\n\nBefore the 19th century, many Fuzhou Tanka practiced Taoism, worshiping Mazu, Linshui and other gods and goddesses. In the late 19th century, many Fuzhou Tanka people were converted to Roman Catholic. Received, protected and assisted by the Roman Catholic Church in Fuzhou through Protectorate of missions, some of them were able to build simple land dwellings. Currently, the majority of Fuzhou Tanka people are Roman Catholic, which constitute a significant portion in Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Fuzhou.\n\nThe Fuzhou Tanka have different surnames than the Tanka of Guangdong. Qing records indicate that \"Weng, Ou, Chi, Pu, Jiang, and Hai\" (翁, 歐, 池, 浦, 江) were surnames of the Fuzhou Tanka. Qing records also stated that Tanka surnames in Guangdong consisted of \"Mai, Pu, Wu, Su, and He\", alternatively some people claimed Gu and Zeng as Tanka surnames.\n\n"}
{"id": "2379013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2379013", "title": "Glayde Whitney", "text": "Glayde Whitney\n\nGlayde D. Whitney (1939 – 8 January 2002) was an American behavioral geneticist and psychologist. He was professor at Florida State University. Beyond his work into the genetics of sensory system function in mice, in his later life he supported David Duke as well as research into race and intelligence and eugenics.\n\nWhitney was born in Montana and grew up in Minnesota. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota, as well as his doctorate from there in 1966. He then enlisted in the United States Air Force and served until 1969. He subsequently worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for Behavioral Genetics (University of Colorado at Boulder), under Gerald McClearn and John C. DeFries.\n\nIn 1970, Whitney was hired by Florida State University to represent behavioral genetics in the psychobiology program, where he stayed until his death at the age of 62 on January 8, 2002, after contracting a severe cold that aggravated emphysema. He considered himself to be a \"Hubert Humphrey liberal.\"\n\nWhitney was the author of over 60 papers on the genetics of taste sensitivity in inbred mice. Support for some of this work came from a prestigious Claude Pepper Award for Research Excellence from the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and in 1994 he received the Manheimer Lectureship Award from the Monell Chemical Senses Center, which recognizes career achievements of individuals in the chemosensory sciences. At the height of his genetics career, he was the president of the Behavior Genetics Association from 1994 to 1995.\n\nThe later years of his career were embroiled in controversy. Whitney was a frequent contributor to magazines such as \"Mankind Quarterly\", \"The g Factor Newsletter\" and \"The William McDougall Newsletter\". While outgoing president of the Behavior Genetics Association in 1995, some members of this group demanded his resignation after his presidential address suggested the need to investigate the possibility of genetic factors behind the high incidence of black crime in America.\n\nWhitney generated further controversy in August 1998 when he wrote the foreword for \",\" an autobiography by David Duke, a politician and former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. In the book, Duke uses genetic science to push for the re-segregation of schools – arguing it is better to group children \"in line with their natural abilities.\" Though Whitney declined to endorse Duke's re-segregation plan, his foreword supported the value of the book, despite the reputation of Duke, as a collection of scientific evidence, describing it as \"a painstakingly documented, academically excellent work of sociobiological-political history ... provid[ing] on the order of a thousand references and footnotes.\"\n\nWhitney spoke against a putative disparity in expert and public opinion regarding race behavioral genetics, and claimed private discussions at scientific meetings had become disjointed from public pronouncements. He argued that opponents of such research are positioned against the scientific tradition of open inquiry, maintained even when one detests another's subject. Whitney praised the scientific achievements of Jews, but accused \"organized Jewry\" of playing a prominent role in suppressing race behavioral genetics in response to racism directed toward them, resulting in a \"dishonest and hypocritical version of egalitarianism.\" Whitney was a member of the Institute for Historical Review, a Holocaust denial organization, and he made the case for its views.\n\nIn reading Duke's work, Whitney noted, \"I discovered that Duke's 'racism' was not born of hatred, but of science and history.\" Whitney made a hereditarian argument for the racial IQ disparity found in intelligence research, and regarded affirmative action as the result of a larger disparity between public rhetoric and scientific realities.\n\n\"As the hard scientific data came in, it became more certain that genetic differences (heredity) played a large role in the discrepancy. But in public it became politically incorrect to even acknowledge that there was a difference.\"\nIn the controversy following, Whitney received death threats. He felt that the controversy distracted from what was meant to be a scientific discussion and stated that \"races are different for many genetic systems that influence everything from behavior and psychology to physiology, medicine and sports [...] Screaming nasty words does not change the reality.\" Whitney's views regarding race and intelligence prompted the Florida Senate to pass Resolution 2742 in 1999, \"condemning the racism and bigotry espoused by Florida State University Professor Glayde Whitney.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29320125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29320125", "title": "Göran Gustafsson Prize", "text": "Göran Gustafsson Prize\n\nA Göran Gustafsson Prize is a national Swedish prize for outstanding scientific achievement awarded annually by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Chemistry, Mathematics, Medicine, Molecular Biology and Physics. It was created by means of a donation from Swedish businessman Göran Gustafsson and amounts to about 450,000 USD as a research grant and 25,000 USD as a private bonus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2465789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465789", "title": "Haratin", "text": "Haratin\n\nHaratin, also referred to as Harratins, Haratine or Hartani, are oasis-dwellers in the Sahara, especially in the Maghreb. They are particularly found in Mauritania (where they form a plurality), Morocco and Western Sahara. They have Sub-Saharan African heritage and make up a distinct group of largely-settled workers, and with 40% of Mauritania's total population, they are its largest ethnic group. They have been called a socially distinct class of workers, or a caste that emerged from a legacy of slavery in Africa under the Berbers and Moors.\n\nThey have been socially-isolated, low-status, endogamous group of former slaves or descendants of slaves. Most originated from Sahel and sub-Saharan region of West Africa. They adopted Islam under the Moors and were forcibly recruited into the Moroccan army by Ismail Ibn Sharif to consolidate power. Their primary occupation has been as agriculture serfs, herdsmen and subservient workers, and they speak Hassaniya Arabic.\n\nThe word Haratin has been traced to two roots. The first root is from \"haratine\", the Arabic word for \"plowmen\". The second etymology is based from the Berber word \"ahardan\" referring to skin color, more specifically \"dark color\".\n\nThe origins of the Haratin people are in various black African ethnic groups in the sub-Saharan and Sahel regions of West Africa, such as Bambara, Soninke and others. They were raided or captured during war and brought into the Saharan lands as slaves. Their ancestors and they have worked in arable lands particularly around the oases across the Sahara. They adopted the language and culture of the people who owned them, and they now speak Berber or Arabic. In countries such as Morocco, they are sometimes classified either as Berber or Arab, depending on their language and society they are found in. In Mauritania, however, where there are nearly 1.5 million Haratins, they have developed a separate sense of ethnic identity.\n\nThey have historically inherited their slave status and family occupation, have been endogamous and socially segregated. Some communities differentiated two types of slaves, one called \"`Abid\" or \"slave\" and \"Haratin\" or \"freed slave\". However, states John Shoup – a professor of Anthropology, both 'Abid and Haratin were not free to own land or had equivalent property rights. Regardless of whether they were technically free or not, they were treated as socially inferior in the communities they lived in. Being denied the right and the ability to own any land, they historically survived by accepting a patron-client serf relationship either as domestic servant or as share-cropping labor (\"khammasin\").\n\nThey became the target for conscription by the Moroccan ruler Ismail Ibn Sharif as he sought to build a military who had no social or cultural attachment to any other Arab or Berber group in Maghreb, and he conscripted all Haratin and 'Abid he found in any Moroccan town. This Haratin army was then forced into a series of wars in order to consolidate the power of Ismail.\n\nIn Mauritania, the Haratin form one of the largest ethnic groups and account for as much as 40% of the Mauritanians. They are sometimes referred to as \"Black Moors\", in contrast to Beidane, or \"White Moors\". The Haratin are Arabic-speakers. They are either former slaves or the descendants of slaves from sub-Saharan West Africa, some acquired by Berbers after the 3rd century, and others after the arrival of the Arabs. Most of them have origins in the ethnic groups such as the Bambara, Fulani, Soninké and Wolof people. They have adopted the language and culture of the Berber or Arab community they have lived with.\n\nThe Haratin of Mauritania, states Joseph Hellweg – a professor of Anthropology specializing on West African studies, were part of a social caste-like hierarchy that likely developed from a Bedouin legacy between 1300 and 1500 CE. The \"Hassan\" monopolized the occupations related to war and politics, the \"Zwaya\" (Zawaya) the religious roles, the \"Bidan\" (White Moors) owned property and held slaves (Haratins, Black Moors), and the slaves constituted the lowest of the social strata. Each of these were castes, endogamous, with hereditary occupations and where the upper strata collected tribute (\"horma\") from the lower strata of Mauritanian society, considered them socially inferior, and denied them the right to own land or weapons thereby creating a socio-economically closed system.\n\nIn 1960, Mauritania officially abolished slavery, and made another update to its slavery law in 1981. However, even after the formalities, abolishment and new laws, discrimination against Haratin is still widespread, and many continue to be, for all practical purposes, enslaved, while large numbers live in other forms of informal dependence on their former masters.\nAmnesty International reported that in 1994 90,000 Haratine still lived as \"property\" of their master, with the report indicating that \"slavery in Mauritania is most dominant within the traditional upper class of the Moors.\" According to Mauritanian officials, any master-serf relationship is mutually consensual. This position has been questioned by the United Nations and human rights advocacy groups.\n\nThe Amnesty International report states that \"[s]ocial attitudes have changed among most urban Moors, but in rural areas, the ancient divide is still very alive.\" There have been many attempts to assess the real extension of slavery in modern Mauritania, but these have mostly been frustrated by the Nouakchott government's official stance that the practice has been eliminated. Amnesty further estimated that some 300,000 freed slaves continued to be in service of their former masters.\n\nHaratin have been the slave strata of the Moroccan society through its recorded history. They were owned in every town and farming centers before the time of Moroccan ruler Ismail Ibn Sharif. They provided domestic labor, farm labor, physical labor inside towns and markets, as well as were conscripted to fight wars.\n\nAccording to Remco Ensel – a professor of Anthropology specializing in Maghreb studies, the word \"Haratin\" in Moroccan is a pejorative that connotes \"subordination, disrepute\" and in contemporary literature, it is often replaced with \"Drawi\", \"Drawa\", \"Sahrawi\", \"Sahrawa\" or other regional terms. The Moroccan Haritin, states Chouki El Hamel – a professor of History specializing in African Studies, are the diaspora of black West Africans who were forcefully transported across the Sahara and sold in Moroccan slave markets over centuries. They absorbed the \"Arabo-centric values in the dominant interpretation of Islam\", states El Hamel, over the generations and they see themselves as Muslim Moroccans, rather than by their ethnic or native group.\n\nThe Haratin strata, as slave workers, were a major institution of Moroccan society through the 19th century. Yet, there has been a general lack of historical records about their origins and ethnography, leading to several constructed proposals, and their mention is older Moroccan literature is generally limited to their status as slaves and more focussed on the rights on their owners. It is their contemporary economic and social marginalization that is awakened renewed interest in their history and their oral histories.\n\nThe Haratins remain indispensable workers in modern oases societies, states Ensel, and continue to be mistreated in contrast to the upper strata called the \"Shurfa\". According to Remco Ensel, \"Haratin\" along with \"Swasin\" in Morocco and other northern fringe societies of the Sahara, were a part of a social hierarchy that included the upper strata of nobles, religious specialists and literati, followed by freemen, nomadic pastoral strata and slaves. The Haratin were hierarchically higher than the \"`Abid\" (descendant of slaves) at the very bottom, but lower than \"Ahrar\". This hierarchy, states Ensel, has been variously described as ethnic groups, estates, quasi-castes, castes or classes.\n\nThe Haratins historically lived segregated from the main society, in a rural isolation. Their subjugation was sometimes ideologically justified by nobles and some religious scholars, even though others disagreed. The social stratification of Haratin and their inter-relationships with others members of the society varied by valley and oasis, but whether the Haratins were technically 'unfreed, semi-freed or freed' slaves, they were considered as \"inferior\" by other strata of the society. The Haratin remain the marginalized population of Morocco, just like other similar groups around the world.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, Morocco alleges that slavery is widespread in the Tindouf refugee camps run by the Polisario Front in south-western Algeria; POLISARIO denies this and claims to have eradicated slavery through awareness campaigns. A 2009 investigative report by Human Rights Watch interviewed some dark-skinned Sahrawis, who are a small minority in the camps; they stated that some \"blacks\" are \"owned\" by \"whites\" but this ownership manifested only in \"granting\" marriage rights to girls. In other words, a dark-skinned girl must have an approval from her \"white master\". Without this the marriage can not be performed by a Qadi (Islamic Judge).\n\nThe report notes that POLISARIO claims to oppose any such discrimination, but raises questions about possible official collusion in, or indifference to, the practice. In addition, a case of an official document that grants freedom to a group of enslaved families has been found by HRW. The document in question dates as recently as 2007. The document was signed by a local judge or an official civil servant. Slavery is still engraved in memories due to historical and traditional reasons, and such cases are not as shocking as one might think to the society of the Sahrawi refugee camps. The Human Rights Watch concludes its chapter on slavery as follows, \"In sum, credible sources testified to Human Rights Watch about vestiges of slavery that continue to affect the lives of a portion of the black minority in the Tindouf camps. The practices involve historical ties between families that involve certain rights and obligations that are not always clear. Being a slave does not necessarily preclude enjoying freedom of movement.\"\n\nResponding to questions about slavery, the POLISARIO has acknowledged the survival \"to a limited extent, of certain practices related to antiquated thinking\" and said it was \"determined to combat and eradicate them whenever they emerge and no matter what shape they take.\" We welcome this statement and urge the POLISARIO to be vigilant in pursuing this objective.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1404840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404840", "title": "Hulaulá language", "text": "Hulaulá language\n\nHulaulá () is a modern Jewish Aramaic language, often called \"Neo-Aramaic\" or \"Judeo-Aramaic\". It was originally spoken in Iranian Kurdistan and small parts in the easternmost parts of Iraqi Kurdistan. Most speakers now live in Israel. The name \"Hulaulá\" simply means 'Jewish'.\n\nSpeakers sometimes call their language \"Lishana Noshan\" or \"Lishana Akhni\", both of which mean 'our language'. To distinguish it from other dialects of Jewish Neo-Aramaic, Hulaulá is sometimes called \"Galiglu\" ('mine-yours'), demonstrating different use of prepositions and pronominal suffixes. Scholarly sources tend simply to call it \"Persian Kurdistani Jewish Neo-Aramaic\".\n\nHulaulá is written in the Hebrew alphabet. Spelling tends to be highly phonetic, and elided letters are not written.\n\nHulaulá sits at the southeastern extreme of the wide area over which various Neo-Aramaic dialects used to be spoken. From Sanandaj, the capital of Kurdistan Province, Iran, the area extended north, to the banks of Lake Urmia. From there, it extended west to Lake Van (in Turkey), and south onto the Plain of Mosul (in Iraq). Then it headed east again, through Arbil, back to Sanandaj.\n\nThe upheavals in their traditional region after the First World War and the founding of the State of Israel led most of the Persian Jews to settle in the new homeland in the early 1950s. Most older speakers still have Kurdish as a second language, while younger generations have Hebrew. Hulaulá is the strongest of all the Jewish Neo-Aramaic languages, with around 10,000 speakers. Almost all of these live in Israel, with a few remaining in Iran, and some in the United States.\n\nHulaulá is somewhat intelligible with the Jewish Neo-Aramaic of Lake Urmia and Iranian Azerbaijan: Lishan Didan. It is also somewhat intelligible with its western neighbour, the Jewish Neo-Aramaic of Arbil: Lishanid Noshan. However, it is unintelligible with the Christian Neo-Aramaic of Sanandaj: Senaya. Christians and Jews spoke completely different Neo-Aramaic languages in the same region. Like other Judaeo-Aramaic languages, Hulaulá is sometimes called \"Targumic\", due to the long tradition of translating the Hebrew Bible into Aramaic, and the production of targums.\n\nThe various dialects of Hulaulá were clustered around the major settlement areas of Jews in the region: the cities of Sanandaj and Saqqez in Kurdistan Province, Iran, with a southern outpost at Kerend, and a cluster in the Iraqi city of Sulaymaniyah. Hulaulá is full of loanwords from Hebrew, Akkadian, Persian and Kurdish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31693419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31693419", "title": "Israeli Presidential Conference", "text": "Israeli Presidential Conference\n\nThe Israeli Presidential Conference is a high level conference held in Jerusalem, once every 18 months originally, and more recently annually, under the auspices of the Israeli President and Nobel Prize laureate, Shimon Peres. The gathering, titled \"Facing Tomorrow\", brings together the world top leaders and thinkers in a wide variety of fields including policy, energy, science, economics, culture, art, religion, and thought, to navigate the most pressing global challenges ahead.\n\nThe Conference was inaugurated in May 2008 by Israel's ninth President, Shimon Peres. The conference seeks to investigate the crises and solutions, trends and innovations, visions and ideals that are shaping our collective future. The aim of the Conference was the development of an annual event that not only \"talks\" but also drives action and encourages practical initiatives.\n\nPrevious conferences had as speakers a variety of global leaders, international scholars and activists, poets and scientists, artists and clergy, entrepreneurs, economists and industrialists, including George W. Bush, Elie Wiesel, Robert De Niro, Rupert Murdoch, and Bernard-Henri Lévy.\n\nEach Conference consists of plenary sessions, panel discussions, roundtables, master classes and an exhibition.\n\nThe 2008 Conference Steering Committee partnered with The Jewish Policy Planning Institute to develop and produce the Conference. The 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2013 Steering Committees partnered with The Hebrew University of Jerusalem to develop and produce the Conference.\n\nOn 7 May 2013, physicist Stephen Hawking informed the organizers that he was cancelling his participation as keynote speaker. He indicated that this was in support of the academic boycott protesting Israel's treatment of Palestinians. It was later found that among the 20 academics who lobbied Hawking to boycott were Professor Noam Chomsky and Professor Malcolm Levitt who advocated boycott as the proper method for scientist to respond to the \"explicit policy\" of \"systemic discrimination\" against the non-Jewish and Palestinian population. Hawkings decision was heavily criticized by several academics, including former Harvard University president Larry Summers and David Newman, who warned that \"an academic boycott just destroys one of the very few spaces left where Israelis and Palestinians actually do come together.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "16960740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16960740", "title": "Jam Tamachi", "text": "Jam Tamachi\n\nJam Khairuddin Al-Maroof Jam Tamachi bin Jam Unar (,) was a famous ruler of Sindh. He belonged to the Unar tribe of Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nThe army of Sultan Alauddin Khalji arrived in the vicinity of Bukkur, reconquered that fort, and prepared to go to Sehwan. A fight took place between them and the Samma, in which the latter were defeated. Jam Tamachi and his whole family was taken prisoner and carried to Delhi, where he had to live for many years in exile.\n\nIn the absence of their ruler, the people lived quietly around Tharri under Jam Tamachi’s brother Babinah son of Jam Unar, as their headman. After some years, Khairuddin son of Jam Tamachi, who in his infancy had gone with his father to Delhi, was permitted to return to Sindh after his father’s death and was to be the chief of his tribe. Accordingly Jam Khairuddin came and took the helm of the government of his father’s country.\n\nIn a short time Sultan Muhammad bin Tughluq came to Sindh via Gujrat, in pursuit of the rebel Taghi. Muhammad bin Tughluq wanted to see Jam Khairuddìn, but the latter avoided meeting him, as he had for years remained a prisoner with him. Angered by the act, Sultan attacked on Sindh but died in the vicinity of Thatta. Sultan was succeeded by his son Firuz Shah Tughluq, who hastened to Delhi without conquering Sindh. Jam Khairuddin followed him to Sann near Sehwan, returned to his capital, and commenced ruling the country quietly and justly.\n\nAn example of his justice may be given here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42775341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42775341", "title": "Janie Hampton", "text": "Janie Hampton\n\nJanie Hampton (born as Anderson, 14 March 1952) is a British author, best known for her biography of Joyce Grenfell and social history books \"The Austerity Olympics\", \"How the Girl Guides Won the War\", and an international development and women’s health activist.\nJanie Hampton is the penultimate daughter of the author Verily Anderson and the playwright Donald Clive Anderson. Her siblings include the author Rachel Anderson and the television producer Eddie Anderson. She has been married since 1971 and has four children.\n\nWhile living on a small-holding in Shropshire in the 1970s Hampton designed and made clothes that she sold in London, Los Angeles and Rome. Her customers included musician Robert Plant and author Louisa Young.\n\nIn 1980 the Hamptons moved to Zimbabwe, where she studied for a BA in Human Sciences, wrote books and articles on health issues, and was the Women's Editor of the \"Manica Post\". After her return to Britain in 1985, she produced \"The Medical Programme\" and \"Focus on Africa\" for the BBC World Service. In 1988 she gained an MSc in International Health from the Institute of Child Health, London. Her thesis was on the health and development of pre-school children, researched while living in the remote Honde Valley, Zimbabwe\n\nIn 1991, the British Overseas Development Administration (now the Department for International Development) commissioned Hampton to help develop its policy on international women's health. She then planned health projects in Africa, South America and Asia.\n\nIn 1992 Hampton was elected onto the founding committee of Writers in Oxford and became its chair in 2003. As part of the 2001 Year of the Artist she was the first Arts Council-sponsored writer-in-residence in a pub. She is an Associate Member of Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge.\n\nIn 2009, Hampton, Jane Moore and Belinda Coote founded the Chauncy Maples Malawi Trust, which aimed to restore the ship MV \"Chauncy Maples into a mobile clinic for Lake Malawi. Hampton resigned from the trust in 2013 after £2 million had been raised for the renovation of the ship. In 2014, she became patron of the Malawi Association UK and represented Malawi as a guest of HM Queen at the Commonwealth Reception at Buckingham Palace.\n\nIn 2016 Hampton founded the \"World Menstrual Network\"' to connect activists, practitioners, politicians, researchers and individuals around the world working to improve menstrual health. With The Malawi Girl Guides Association, The Cup Effect Hampton ran a feasibility study in a refugee camp, secondary schools and a national park which showed that women and girls in Malawi want to use menstrual cups. Compared to washable cloths or disposable pads or tampons, they found cups more comfortable, cheaper and more environmentally sustainable. As a result, ActionAid Malawi has begun a national menstrual cup programme. Hampton promotes menstrual health through the media, including an essay for Aeon ideas website and for World Menstrual Day.\n\nHampton has written articles for various newspapers and magazines, including the \"Guardian\", \"Daily Telegraph\", \"The Times\", \"Independent\", \"Spare Rib\", \"Total Politics\", \"New Statesman\", \"Sunday Telegraph\", and \"The Author\". In 2011, she was appointed Olympics Correspondent of \"The Oldie\" magazine. \n\nHampton writes a History Girl blog on the 27th of every month with articles on a range of subjects such as Elizabeth Fry; hammock exercise; and great women such as Victorian novelist and philanthropist Felicia Skene.\n\nHampton has been a journalist in Zimbabwe, Kenya, Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda and was interviewed about the history of the Olympic Games in London on various radio stations and television channels, including \"BBC Breakfast\" and \"Newsnight\".\n\nHampton has spoken at Cliveden House, \"The Oldie\" literary luncheons, The World Literacy Summit and many literary festivals.\n\n\"A Family Outing in Africa\" described the Hampton's journey from Zimbabwe to the UK via Zaire (on public transport with her three children) and was published by Macmillan in 1988. She continued to write about health issues throughout the 1990s and was also increasingly successful as an author of social history. In 2002, her biography of writer and actor Joyce Grenfell was published to critical acclaim.\n\n\"The Austerity Olympics\", a social history of the London Olympics of 1948, was introduced by Sebastian Coe and quoted by many Olympic observers, including Mayor of London Boris Johnson and was shortlisted for the William Hill Sports Book of the Year. The book was filmed by BBC TV as Bert and Dickie, starring Matt Smith and Geoffrey Palmer.\n\n\"How the Girl Guides Won the War\" chronicled the role of Guides and Brownies in 20th-century feminist history. \nIn 2018, Lionsgate of Hollywood obtained the rights to the book for a film, produced by Ryan Christians of Marc Platt Productions. \nHampton's latest two books are about the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II (\"Rationing and Revelry\") and state visits by members of the British Royal Family (\"The Royal Tours\").\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23574884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574884", "title": "Jethal clan", "text": "Jethal clan\n\nThe Jethal are a clan found in Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nThe Jethal claim Jatt descent, but its pedigree is traced to be a Sindh Mahar, who some 12 or 14 generations ago, married the sister of a Ghouri king. The king, however, drove Mahar with his 21 sons in the Kirana Bar. Mahar eventually crossed the Jhelum River, and settled at Ratta Pind, now a mound near the town of Kandwal. According to other traditions, they are Jatt by origin. They own four villages of Jethal, Musiana, Dhudi Thal and Kahaana. They use Mahar and Ch as their titles. \nThey are considered to be the descent of Sardarzai phara of Mahar tribe.\n\nThey are also said to have originally settled at Ucch Shah Jalal, the modern town of Uch in Bahawalpur.\n\n"}
{"id": "173589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173589", "title": "Languages of Iran", "text": "Languages of Iran\n\nThe current Language Policy of Iran is addressed on chapter two of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran (Articles 15 & 16). It asserts that the Persian language is the Lingua Franca of the Iranian nation and as such, bound to be used through all official government communications and schooling system. In addition, the constitution also recognizes the Arabic language as the language of Islam, giving it a formal status as the language of religion, and regulates its spreading within the Iranian national curriculum.\n\nDue to the nation's unique social and ethnic diversity, the constitution also acknowledges and permits the use of minority languages in the mass media as well as within the schools, in order to teach their literature. The minority languages of Iran do not receive a formal status and are not officially regulated by the authorities.\n\nThe first legislation which granted the Persian language its status was initiated back in 1906, as part of an electoral law that positioned it as the official language of the state of Iran, its government, its political institutions and its legal system. In the course of time this enactment followed by others, which eventually lead to a monolingual policy by the Iranian regime.\n\nPerceiving multilingualism as a threat to the nation’s unity and Territorial integrity, and seeing the need to restrict minority languages’ use and to advance the Persian language’s hegemony, Iran’s language policy consists of a non-translation outline as well: all government, administration and educational settings are obliged to use merely Persian for any written communication. That includes political institutions (i.e. the Iranian Parliament), official bureaucratic communication (forms, signage etc.) and schooling (all children from the age of six and up are exposed only to Persian as the language of teaching and learning and of textbooks within the public school system). In other words, the Iranian authorities holds that minorities needs to learn the Iranian vernacular to an extent that will allow them to communicate with state institutions.\n\nWith regard to the Iranian Language Planning, among the institutions accountable for advancing the Iranian Language Planning (e.g. Ministry of Education and Ministry of Science, Research and Technology) is the Academy of Persian Language and Literature, which was established on 1991. Constantly seeking to revise and elaborate the nation’s official language, this institute focuses on the linguistics of the Persian language and on the internal aspects of Language Planning, rather than on minority languages use within the Iranian society. Other aspects of Language Planning (e.g. sociolinguistic or functional literacy) have not been assigned to a formal institute and are currently handled free of any official master plan, by the educational ministries.\n\nDifferent publications have reported different statistics for the languages of Iran. There have been some limited censuses taken in Iran in 2001, 1991, 1986 and 1949–1954.\nThe following are the languages with the greatest number of speakers (data from the CIA World Factbook):\n\nClassification categories of the spoken languages:\n\nThe following are the languages with the greatest number of speakers (data from the CIA World Factbook):\n\nA census taken in the Iranian month of Mordad (July 21 – August 21) in 1991. In this census, all 49,588 mothers who gave birth in the country, were issued birth certificates. They were asked about their mother-tongue. which were : 46.2% (Persian), 20.6% (Azerbaijani), 10% Kurdish, 8.9% Luri, 7.2% Gilaki and Mazandarani, 3.5% Arabic, 2.7% Baluchi, 0.6% Turkmen, 0.1% Armenian, and 0.2% Others (e.g. Circassian, Georgian, etc.). The local dialect of Arabic spoken in Iran is Khuzestani Arabic, an Iraqi Arabic dialect, but the varieties of Arabic taught across Iran to students in secondary schools, regardless of their ethnic or linguistic background, are Modern Standard Arabic and Classical Arabic, the latter a liturgical language of Islam.\n\nA recent survey by the US-based organization \"Terror Free Tomorrow\" with error is +/- 3.1 percent margin and uniform sampling based on provincial populations mentions the breakdown as following:\n\nIn 1986, there was also a nationwide census done. See: (Farhad Nu’mani, Sohrab Behdad, Class and Labor in Iran: Did the Revolution Matter?, Published 2006, Syracuse University Press, 2006) on the percentage of Iranians that known Persian, those who do not know and those who know it fluently.\nAccording to the Kurdish-Belgian-American scholar Mehrdad Izady, whose work can be found at Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs, Gulf 2000 Project website, the Iranian census of 2001 mentions that 68% of the population speaks Persian as a first language, while he himself gives the following figures for 2014:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2772684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772684", "title": "List of awards presented by the Governor General of Canada", "text": "List of awards presented by the Governor General of Canada\n\nBelow is a list of awards presented by the Governor General of Canada on behalf of the Canadian monarch. The officeholder presents awards to recognize those people who have demonstrated excellence or exceptional dedication to service in ways that bring special credit to the country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3312462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3312462", "title": "Lists of LGBT figures in fiction and myth", "text": "Lists of LGBT figures in fiction and myth\n\nThe large amount of material within the scope of \"fiction and myth\" has been divided into the following:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43408841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43408841", "title": "Macedonian Heraldry Society", "text": "Macedonian Heraldry Society\n\nThe Macedonian Heraldry Society (MHS) is the only professional body in the field of heraldry, vexillology, phaleristics, chivalristics and nobiliar issues in Macedonia. The society was founded on 2 July 2003 in Skopje.\n\nThe coat of arms of the Macedonian Heraldry Society has three heraldic representations: lesser, middle and greater coat of arms.\n\nThe lesser coat of arms of the society is blazoned: Gules, a hippocamp Argent holding baton and quill in saltire, all Or.\n\nThe middle coat of arms of the society is blazoned: Gules, a hippocamp Argent holding baton and quill in saltire, all Or. Shield crowned with heraldic crown, behind shield herald’s batons, all Or.\n\nThe greater coat of arms of the society is blazoned: Over the crowned shield a mantle Gules doubled Argent, crowned with heraldic crown Or.\n\nThe flag of the society is a banner with a 1:1 proportion and with the blazon of the coat of arms.\n\nPresident and herald of the society is Jovan Jonovski, member of the Orders and Medals Committee of the President of the Republic of Macedonia, member of the International Commission on Orders of Chivalry (ICOC), an associate member of Académie Internationale d'Héraldique (AIH). Editor of \"Macedonian Herald\".\n\nVice President and pursuivant of the society is Petar Gajdov, lawyer, head of the phaleristics section.\n\nSecretary and pursuivant of the society is Aleksandar Gizharovski, software engineer, head of the vexillology section, editor of \"Macedonian Herald\".\n\nPopularization of heraldry is accomplished through lectures, workshops and presence in the media.\n\nLectures were held by several speakers from home and abroad. Among the lecturers were Dr. Stoyan Antonov, President of the Bulgarian Heraldry and Vexillology Society, Prof. Dr. Ivan Balta from Faculty of Philosophy in Osijek, Croatia, which had several lectures, and Dr. Vujadin Ivanisevic from Institute for Byzantine Studies in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nLectures on theoretical heraldry and practical training workshops were held in cooperation with several organizations. The biggest was the collaboration with the Museum of Macedonia on the project \"The Amazing World of Heraldry“ during which, for three years lectures and workshops were held.\n\nThe popularization of heraldry, vexillology and phaleristics is accomplished through many articles in daily newspapers and appearances on broadcast media too.\n\nStudies of the Macedonian heraldic heritage is the central part of the activities of the society. Researches have been performed in archives, libraries, private collections in Zagreb, Stuttgart, Brussels and Washington. Research results are exchanged and supplemented with colleagues from other countries on congresses and symposia, as well as discussion groups and forums.\n\nMacedonian Heraldry Society is engaged in designing coats of arms, flags, orders, decorations, etc. Among the most important are the Coat of arms of the President of the Republic of Macedonia, the Coat of arms of the Macedonian Orthodox Church – Ohrid Archbishopric and the Order of Merit for Macedonia.\n\nThe Macedonian Heraldry Society is actively working on improving the quality and standardization of the municipal heraldry in the Republic of Macedonia. Members of the society are authors of coats of arms and flags of the municipalities: Radovish, Novo Selo, Kriva Palanka and Kochani. The society was also consulted in the selection of several municipal arms.\n\nOne of the activities of the society is establishing a register of both old and new heraldic achievements. For the registered arms, an appropriate matricula is issued. They are also published in \"Macedonian Herald“.\n\nIn 2000 the president of the society, Jovan Jonovski, published the website \"Heraldry in Macedonia\" where coats of arms and citations from the book \"Coats of Arms of Macedonia\" by Dr. Aleksandar Matkovski were published, in English and Macedonian. The website was complemented with arms used in Macedonia: territorial, corporate and personal. The website began to publish information on historical, theoretical and heraldry in general. A group of interested individuals gathered around the website, mostly Macedonians from abroad. When sufficient number of interested individuals was finally reached, in July 2003 the Macedonian Heraldry Society was founded.\n\nThe Macedonian Heraldic Society publishes an official journal, \"Macedonian Herald\", where the members of the society publish articles regarding their researches, municipal coats of arms and flags are commented, heraldic achievements registered in the heraldic register are published, as well as articles in the field of phaleristics, signumanistics and emblematics.\n\nThe journal is bilingual, in Macedonian and English.\n\nBesides the printed edition, \"Macedonian Herald\" is freely available on the website of the society.\n\nThe Macedonian Heraldry Society is a full member of Confédération Internationale de Généalogie et d'Héraldique (CIGH) since the 29th International Congress on Genealogy and Heraldic Sciences in Stuttgart, Germany, held in September 2010.\n\nAt the 24th Congress of the International Federation of Vexillological Associations (FIAV) in August 2011 in Washington, USA, the society became a full member of this prestigious organization.\n\nThe Macedonian Heraldry Society gave logistical support for the establishment of the Bulgarian Heraldry and Vexillology Society (BHVS). A MHS delegation regularly participates on BHVS annual meetings.\n\nThe president of the society attended the founding of the Croatian Heraldic and Vexillologic Association (CHVA).\n\nThe society also collaborates with the Serbian Heraldry Society.\n\nThe members of the society have published articles in the specialized magazines: \"Grb i Zastava\" of the Croatian Heraldic and Vexillologic Association, \"Herold\" of the Bulgarian Heraldry and Vexillology Society and \"Glas heralda\" and \"Ocilo\" of the Serbian Heraldry Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17777038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17777038", "title": "Mediated deliberation", "text": "Mediated deliberation\n\nMediated deliberation is a form of deliberation that is achieved through the media which acts as a mediator between the mass public and elected officials. The communication professionals of the media relay information, values, and diverse points of view to the public in order for effective public deliberation to occur. Benjamin Page proposes mediated deliberation be a \"division of labor\" with the idea of using the media to deliver information between the elected officials and the public because modern problems make it impossible to rely on the elected officials to deliberate for the public. The role of the media is to encourage discussion amongst the citizens to keep them engaged with their elected officials.\n\nMediated deliberation follows the conception of a deliberative democracy. According to Jürgen Habermas, a German philosopher, \"no modern political process could function effectively without the \"professionals of the media system\" and the various elites who produce mediated political communication.\" This ideal mediated deliberation would:\nto mobilize and pool relevant issues and required information, and to specify interpretations; to process such contributions discursively by means of proper arguments for and against; and to generate rationally motivated \"yes\" and \"no\" attitudes [i.e., public opinions] that are expected to determine the outcome of procedurally correct decisions.\n\nThrough this ideal model, mediated deliberation should promote public knowledge on important issues as well as encouraging public opinion through enlightenment.\n\nTo achieve an effective mediated deliberation, it requires collective responsibility from the media producers, including newspapers, television broadcasters, and the internet. The media needs to reliable because many people gain information and knowledge about events and issues. Robert Goodwin, a philosopher, described the idea of \"deliberation within\" which is the deliberation that occurs in an individual's mind. \"The point in having a deliberative media process is for individuals to hear conflicting considerations and weigh them to arrive at their own judgments.\" Through the analytic and social processes of deliberation, the table shows the roles that the media producers and media users need to fulfill in order for the ideal, mediated deliberation to occur. In the analytic process, it involves introspection on subjective values while reflecting on personal and emotional experiences with facts. The following tables are copyrighted © 2008 by Sage Publications, Inc from John Gastil’s book, \"Political Communication and Deliberation.\" \nAlong with the analytic process, the social process involves more equal access and comprehension while considering other diverse points of view.\n\nSocial Process\nThe analytic and social processes for mediated deliberation gives people the opportunity to evaluate the actions of media producers as well as their users.\n\nAs the host of \"The Daily Show,\" Jon Stewart appeared on CNN's former show \"Crossfire\" on October 15, 2004. Instead of discussing current events, Stewart argued that \"Crossfire\" \"fails miserably\" at providing its viewer audience with balanced information about politics. \"Crossfire\" \"presented itself as part of the deliberative process yet engaged in \"partisan hackery,\" Stewart concluded \"[it was not an honest debate]\". Stewart accused \"Crossfire\" of not upholding the \"responsibility to the public discourse\" and instead, it appeared to be a political theater. In response to Stewart's remarks, CNN canceled \"Crossfire\" in 2005.\n\nLance Bennett noticed that the media tend to not present balanced viewpoints for current events. Shortly after the September 11 attacks in the United States, Bennett's research showed the media coverage to represent only one, popular political party without a strong opposition party.\n\nBenjamin Page analyzed the 1991 U.S. war against Iraq in the \"New York Times\" from November 9, 1990 to January 15, 1991 to examine whether or not the stories covered by the media were balanced and fair. Page wanted to see if there were a diversity of views about the war from a variety of sources. As a result, the editors and regular columnists consumed most of the \"Times\" in the most read sections of the paper while ordinary citizens' voices were placed in the Letters section. Page noted that few experts on the Middle East or peace groups were presented in columns even though the \"Times\" 's editors were evenly balanced among three views of the conflict with Iraq: entirely peaceful solution; the U.S. should continue to use economic sanctions followed by military intervention, if necessary; and immediate use of force. Page concluded that although the media were balanced with the three views of the editors, other major viewpoints were not included. For example, the overwhelming majority of the \"Times\" 's readers supported a more peaceful stance but their views \"were not presented in proportion to their adherents among the general public\". Instead, their letters were presented in the Letters section which is less read than where the editors' and regular columnists' articles are located. \n\nPage criticizes the media for having \"different media outlets [taking] distinctive political stands.\" Television programs tend to take stands in a more muted and subtle way through verbal statements while printed sources present their ideologies in relation to the interests of their audience over time. In addition, Page notes that \"\"certain media outlets\"--especially newspapers and magazines, but sometimes also television program networks--do not merely reflect the social and political forces around them; instead, they \"actively work to shape political discourse to their own purposes.\"\" The media would emphasize points about a story that they want to make.\n\nCivic journalism (sometimes called public journalism) is a movement that peaked in the 1990s as an attempt to reconnect with democracy and to increase persons' trust in journalism by being more debatable, neutral, and independent with an issue. As attempts to achieve these goals, newspapers \"redesigned their coverage to emphasize the concerns of citizens\"; encourage citizens to discuss public issues, and change techniques in newsgathering and reporting.\n\nOn January 25, 2003, the Public Journalism Network in Georgia established a declaration which made it clear that journalists believed in maintaining these changes in journalism.\n\n\"The Public Journalism Network brings together a diverse group of print and electronic media organizations that share the same general goal of connecting with the public they serve and promoting not just media deliberation but also the kinds of conversations, discussions, and public meetings\" \nIn brief, the Public Journalism Network Charter states:\n\n\"We believe journalism and democracy work best when news information and ideas flow freely; news fairly portrays a full range and variety of life and culture of all communities; when public deliberation is encouraged and amplified, and when news helps people function as political actors and not just political consumers...journalists should stand apart in making sound professional judgment and should not stand apart in learning about and understanding these communities...new techniques for storytelling and information-sharing to help individual communities to have their own voice as a whole set of communities...stories and images can help or hinder as people struggle to reach sound judgments about personal lives and well-being...to reach deeper into communities and serve people...listen to people...study dynamics of communities and the complexity of public life...journalism helps people see the world as a whole and helps them take responsibility for what they see.\" \nModeling after the National Issues Forums, Citizen Voices was a Philadelphian newspaper's \"attempt to engage\" across the diverse city during a 1999 mayoral race between a white Republican against a black Democrat. After noticing skewed responses from more educated and affluent white readers in this racially divided city, Citizen Voices aimed to encourage more public involvement from lower class minorities by creating a citizens’ issues-oriented mayoral campaign. To invite participants from all backgrounds, Citizen Voices invented \"The Oprah Show\" as a comedic parody of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" as a way to get citizens to think about problems and solutions within their city. The second phase of the project included a National Issues Forum-style discussion where citizens deliberated on position papers that the mayoral candidates submitted and drafted five issues with their questions for the mayoral debate including: education, jobs, neighborhoods, public safety, and reforming city hall. The issue of race was added to these five topics due to race relations complicating Philadelphia's effort to address its problems. \"Throughout the year, Citizen Voices remained a frequent presence on \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" 's opinion pages.\" Editorials on the campaign revolved around the issues that were picked by Citizens Voices and were even published on the commentary page in full-page layouts. Candidates were asked to respond to these questions on the issues that were drafted by citizens. As a result, it appeared that low-income participants were more willing and more confident to express their political views.\n\nOne of the best sources to see an example of a mediated deliberation is investigative journalism. The media responds and reports events that generate a lot of public concern or interests. In investigative journalism, the media conducts their own original research and investigation to uncover a news story that would have otherwise gone unnoticed. Sometimes, it is triggered from a reporter's hunch or even an outside source. For example, the \"Washington Post\" 's articles revealing the Watergate scandal involving President Richard Nixon through the famous \"Deep Throat\" outside source. Over the years, investigative reporting has steadily declined. In 2002, about one in 150 stories accounted for investigative journalism compared to one in 60 in 1998. This reduction has been caused by many factors including: \nAssuming the reports are valid, investigative journalism can improve mediated deliberation by serving as an objective, unbiased source. Reporters may present the necessary information and facts of an issue needed for individuals to decide the whether or not future action needs to take place.\n"}
{"id": "30196210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30196210", "title": "Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco", "text": "Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco\n\nThe San Francisco Mercantile Library Association (est. 1852) was a civic group organized in San Francisco, California, to \"stimulate a generous rivalry in mental culture, by rendering it the fashion to read and converse on literary topics.\" Its founders J.B. Crockett, F.A. Woodworth, and F.C. Ewer aspired to \"make our infant city as distinguished for literature and science as it already is for its commerce and wealth.\" By 1854 the group had collected for its library some 3,000 volumes. The library grew to 14,000 volumes by 1861, and to 36,000 by 1874. Holdings included travel writing, essays, plays, California history, American history, and literature by Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Sainte-Beuve. In 1906 the association merged into the San Francisco Mechanics' Institute. Later the same year an earthquake disaster ruined the combined collections. The Institute constructed a new Mechanics'-Mercantile Library building in 1910.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50258153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50258153", "title": "Muisca Confederation", "text": "Muisca Confederation\n\nThe Muisca Confederation was a loose confederation of different Muisca rulers (\"zaques\", \"zipas\", \"iraca\" and \"tundama\") in the central Andean highlands of present-day Colombia before the Spanish conquest of northern South America. The area, presently called Altiplano Cundiboyacense, comprised the current departments of Boyacá, Cundinamarca and minor parts of Santander with a total surface area of approximately .\n\nAccording to some Muisca scholars the Muisca Confederation was one of the best-organized confederations of tribes on the South American continent. Modern anthropologists, such as Jorge Gamboa Mendoza, attribute the present-day knowledge about the confederation and its organization more to a reflection by Spanish chroniclers who predominantly wrote about it a century or more after the Muisca were conquered and proposed the idea of a loose collection of different people with slightly different languages and backgrounds.\n\nIn the times before the Spanish conquest of the Muisca, the central part of present-day Colombia; the Eastern Ranges of the Colombian Andes was inhabited by the Muisca people who were organised in a loose confederation of rulers. The central authorities of Bacatá in the south and Hunza in the north were called \"zipa\" and \"zaque\" respectively. Other rulers were the \"iraca\" priest in sacred City of the Sun Sugamuxi, the \"Tundama\" of Tundama and various other \"caciques\" (chiefs). The Muisca spoke Chibcha, in their own language called \"Muysccubun\"; \"language of the people\".\n\nThe Muisca people, different from the other three great civilisations of the Americas; the Maya, Aztec and Inca, did not build grand stone architecture. Their settlements were relatively small and consisted of \"bohíos\"; circular houses of wood and clay, organised around a central market square with the house of the \"cacique\" in the centre. Roads were present to connect the settlements with each other and with the surrounding indigenous groups, of which the Guane and Lache to the north, the Panche and Muzo to the west and Guayupe, Achagua and Tegua to the east were the most important.\n\nEarly Amerindian settlers led a hunter-gatherer life among still extant megafauna living in cool habitats around Pleistocene lakes, of which the humedales in Bogotá, Lake Suesca, Lake Fúquene and Lake Herrera are notable examples. Multiple evidences of late Pleistocene to middle Holocene population of the Bogotá savanna, the high plateau in the Colombian Andes, have been found to date. As is common with , Tequendama was inhabited from around 11,000 years BP, and continuing into the prehistorical, Herrera and Muisca periods, making it the oldest site of Colombia, together with El Abra (12,500 BP), located north of Zipaquirá and Tibitó, located within the boundaries of Tocancipá (11,740 BP). The oldest human remains and the oldest complete skeleton were discovered at Tequendama and has been named \"Hombre del Tequendama\" or \"Homo Tequendama\". Other artefacts have been found in Gachalá (9100 BP), Sueva (Junín) and Zipacón. Just west of the Altiplano, the oldest archaeological remains were found; in Pubenza, part of Tocaima and have been dated at 16,000 years Before Present.\n\nThe Herrera Period is a phase in the history of Colombia. It is part of the Andean preceramic and ceramic, time equivalent of the North American pre-Columbian formative and classic stages and age dated by various archaeologists. The Herrera Period predates the age of the Muisca people, who inhabited the Altiplano Cundiboyacense before the Spanish conquest of the Muisca and postdates the lithic formative stage and prehistory of the eastern Andean region in Colombia. The Herrera Period is usually defined as ranging from 800 BCE to 800 AD, although some scholars date it as early as 1500 BCE.\n\nAmple evidence of the Herrera Period has been uncovered on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense and main archaeologists contributing to the present knowledge about the Herrera Period are scholars Ana María Groot, Gonzalo Correal Urrego, Thomas van der Hammen, Carl Henrik Langebaek Rueda, Sylvia M. Broadbent, Marianne Cardale de Schrimpff and others.\n\nThe Muisca were polytheistic and their religion and mythology was closely connected with the natural area they were inhabiting. They had a thorough understanding of astronomical parameters and developed a complex luni-solar calendar; the Muisca calendar. According to the calendar they had specific times for sowing, harvest and the organisation of festivals where they sang, danced and played music and drank their national drink chicha in great quantities.\n\nThe most respected members of the community were mummified and the mummies were not buried, yet displayed in their temples, in natural locations such as caves and even carried on their backs during warfare to impress their enemies.\n\nTheir art is the most famous remnant of their culture, as living spaces, temples and other existing structures have been destroyed by the Spanish who colonised the Muisca territories. A primary example of their fine goldworking is the Muisca raft, together with more objects made of gold, \"tumbaga\", ceramics and cotton displayed in the Museo del Oro in Bogotá, the ancient capital of the southern Muisca.\n\nThe Muisca were a predominantly agricultural society with small-scale farmfields, part of more extensive terrains. To diversify their diet, they traded mantles, gold, emeralds and salt for fruits, vegetables, coca, yopo and cotton cultivated in lower altitude warmer terrains populated by their neighbours, the Muzo, Panche, Yarigui, Guane, Guayupe, Achagua, Tegua, Lache, Sutagao and U'wa. Trade of products grown farther away happened with the Calima, Pijao and Caribbean coastal communities around the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta.\n\nThe Muisca economy was self-sufficient regarding the basic supplies, thanks to the advanced technologies of the agriculture on raised terraces by the people. The system of trade was well established providing both the higher social classes and the general population abundances of gold, feathers, marine snails, coca, yopo and other luxury goods. Markets were held every four to eight days in various settlements throughout the Muisca Confederation and special markets were organised around festivities where merchants from far outside the Andes were trading their goods with the Muisca.\n\nApart from agriculture, the Muisca were well developed in the production of different crafts, using the raw materials traded with surrounding indigenous peoples. Famous are the golden and \"tumbaga\" objects made by the Muisca people. Cotton mantles, cloths and nets were made by the Muisca women and traded for valuable goods, tropical fruits and small cotton cloths were used as money. The Muisca were unique in South America for having real coins of gold, called \"tejuelos\".\n\nMining was an important source of income for the Muisca, who were called \"Salt People\" because of their salt mines in Zipaquirá, Nemocón and Tausa. Like their western neighbours, the Muzo -who were called \"The Emerald People\"- they mined emeralds in their territories, mainly in Somondoco. Carbon was found throughout the region of the Muisca in Eocene sediments and used for the fires for cooking and the production of salt and golden ornaments.\n\nThe people used a decimal counting system and counted with their fingers. Their system went from 1 to 10 and for higher numerations they used the prefix \"quihicha\" or \"qhicha\", which means \"foot\" in their Chibcha language \"Muysccubun\". Eleven became thus \"foot one\", twelve \"foot two\", etc. As in the other pre-Columbian civilizations, the number 20 was special. It was the total number of all body extremities; fingers and toes. The Muisca used two forms to express twenty: \"foot ten\"; \"quihícha ubchihica\" or their exclusive word \"gueta\", derived from \"gue\", which means \"house\". Numbers between 20 and 30 were counted \"gueta asaqui ata\" (\"twenty plus one\"; 21), \"gueta asaqui ubchihica\" (\"twenty plus ten\"; 30). Larger numbers were counted as multiples of twenty; \"gue-bosa\" (\"20 times 2\"; 40), \"gue-hisca\" (\"20 times 5\"; 100). The Muisca script consisted of hieroglyphs, only used for numerals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe sacred sites of the Muisca Confederation were based in the Muisca religion and mythology. The Muisca were a highly religious people with their own beliefs on the origin of the Earth and life and human sacrifices were no exception to please the gods for good harvests and prosperity.\n\nLake Guatavita, Guatavita, was the location where the new \"zipa\" would be inaugurated. It became known with the Spanish conquerors as the site of \"El Dorado\" where the new zipa was covered in gold dust and installed as the new ruler of the southern Muisca.\n\nIn the legends of the Muisca, mankind originated in Lake Iguaque, Monquirá, when the goddess Bachué came out from the lake with a boy in her arms. When the boy grew, they populated the Earth. They are considered the ancestors of the human race. Finally, they disappeared unto the lake in the shape of snakes.\n\nAccording to Muisca myths, the Tequendama Falls, outside Soacha, was the site where the first \"zipa\" Meicuchuca lost his beautiful lover who turned in a snake and disappeared in the waters of the Bogotá River.\n\nEl Infiernito, close to the present town of Villa de Leyva was a sacred site where the Muisca erected structures based on astronomical parameters.\n\n\nThe conquest of the Muisca was the heaviest of all four Spanish expeditions to the great American civilisations. More than 80 percent of the soldiers and horses that started the journey of a year to the northern Muisca Confederation didn't make it. Various settlements were founded by the Spanish between and .\n\nA delegation of more than 900 men left the tropical city of Santa Marta and went on a harsh expedition through the heartlands of Colombia in search of \"El Dorado\" and the civilisation that produced all this precious gold. The leader of the first and main expedition under Spanish flag was Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada, with his brother Hernán second in command. Several other soldiers were participating in the journey, who would later become encomenderos and taking part in the conquest of other parts of Colombia. Other contemporaneous expeditions into the unknown interior of the Andes, all searching for the mythical land of gold, were starting from later Venezuela, led by Bavarian and other German conquistadors and from the south, starting in the previously founded Kingdom of Quito in later Ecuador.\n\nThe first phase of the conquest was ended by the victory of the few conquistadors left over Tisquesusa, the last \"zipa\" of Bacatá, who fell and died \"bathing in his own blood\"after the battle at Funza, on the Bogotá savanna, April 20, 1537. The arrival of the Spanish conquerors was revealed to Tisquesusa by the mohan Popón, from the village of Ubaque. He told the Muisca ruler that foreigners were coming and Tisquesusa would die \"bathing in his own blood\". When Tisquesusa was informed of the advancing invasion of the Spanish soldiers, he sent a spy to Suesca to find out more about their army strength, weapons and with how many warriors they could be beaten. The \"zipa\" left the capital Bacatá and took shelter in Nemocón which directed the Spanish troops to there, during this march attacked by more than 600 Muisca warriors.\n\nWhen Tisquesusa retreated in his fort in Cajicá he allegedly told his men he would not be able to combat against the strong Spanish army in possession of weapons that produced \"thunder and lightning\". He chose to return to Bacatá and ordered the capital to be evacuated, resulting in an abandoned site when the Spanish arrived. In search for the Muisca ruler the conquistadores went north to find Tisquesusa in the surroundings of Facatativá where they attacked him at night.\n\nTisquesusa was thrusted by the sword of one of De Quesada's soldiers but without knowing he was the \"zipa\" he let him go, after taking the expensive mantle of the ruler. Tisquesusa fled hurt into the mountains and died of his wounds there. His body was only discovered a year later because of the black vultures circling over it.\n\nWhen Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada found out the \"caciques\" were conspiring against him, he sent out several expeditions of soldiers. His captain Juan de Céspedes went south to found Pasca on July 15, 1537. Hernán was sent north and Gonzalo himself went northeast, to search for the mythical Land of Gold \"El Dorado\". There he didn't find golden cities, but emeralds, the Muisca were extracting in Chivor and Somondoco. First foundation was Engativá, presently a locality of Bogotá, on May 22, 1537. Passing through Suba, Chía, Cajicá, Tocancipá, Gachancipá, Guatavita and Sesquilé, he arrived in Chocontá, founding the modern town on June 9. The journey went eastward into the Tenza Valley through Machetá, Tibiritá, Guateque, Sutatenza and Tenza, founded on San Juan; June 24. On the same day, Hernán founded Sutatausa. Gonzalo continued northwest through La Capilla and Úmbita. He arrived in Turmequé that he founded on July 20.\n\nIn August 1537 Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada entered the territories of the \"zaque\", who ruled from Hunza. When the Spanish conquerors entered the outskirts of Hunza and found a hill with poles were bodies were dangling, they named it \"Cerro de la Horca\" (\"Gallow Hill\"). At the time of the conquest Quemuenchatocha was the \"zaque\" and he ordered his men to not submit to the European invaders or show them the way to his \"bohío\". He sent messengers to the Spanish conquistadors with valuable peace offers. While this was happening, Quemuenchatocha had hidden his treasures from the Spanish. Hunza was located in a valley not as green as the Bogotá savanna. The advantage of the Spanish weaponry and the use of the horses quickly beat the Muisca warriors.\n\nWhen Gonzalo arrived at the main \"bohío\" of Quemuenchatocha, he found the Muisca ruler sitting in his throne and surrounded by his closest companions. All men were dressed in expensive mantles and adorned with golden crowns. On August 20, 1537, the Spanish beat the \"zaque\" and the big and strong Muisca ruler was taken captive to Suesca. There he was tortured and the Spanish soldiers hoped he would reveal where he hid his precious properties. The absence of Quemuenchatocha paved the route for his nephew Aquiminzaque to succeed him as ruler of the northern Muisca, a practice common in Muisca traditions. When Quemuenchatocha was finally released from captivity in Suesca, he fled to Ramiriquí, where he died shortly after. The Spanish soldiers found gold, emeralds, silver, mantles and other valuables in Tunja. They were not able to take all the precious pieces and many were secretly taken away by the Muisca, using folded deer skins. They hid the \nvaluables in nearby hills.\n\nNot only the Spanish settlers had lost large percentages of their men due to warfare and diseases. The assessed corregimientos of the Province of Tunja between 1537 and 1636 shows a decline of the total Muisca population between 65 and 85%. Epidemics were the main cause of the rapid reduction in population. Various have been reported and many undescribed in the first twenty years of contact.\n\nAfter the foundation of Bogotá and the installation of the new dependency of the Spanish Crown, several strategies were important to the Spanish conquerors. The rich mineral resources of the Altiplano had to be extracted, the agriculture was quickly reformed, a system of encomiendas was installed and a main concern of the Spanish was the evangelisation of the Muisca. On October 9, 1549, Carlos V sent a royal letter to the New Kingdom directed at the priests about the necessity of population reduction of the Muisca. The indigenous people were working in the encomiendas which limited their religious conversion. To speed up the process of submittance to the Spanish reign, the mobility of the indigenous people was prohibited and the people gathered in resguardos. The formerly celebrated festivities in their religion disappeared. Specific times for the catechesis were controlled by laws, as executed in royal dictates in 1537, 1538 and 1551. The first bishop of Santafé, Juan de los Barrios, ordered to destroy the temples of the Muisca and replace them with catholic churches. The last public religious ceremony of the Muisca religion was held in Ubaque on December 27, 1563. The second bishop of Santafé, Luis Zapata de Cárdenas, intensified the aggressive policies against the Muisca religion and the burnings of their sacred sites. This formed the final nail in the coffin of the former polytheistic society.\n\nThe transition to a mixed agriculture with Old World crops was remarkably fast, mainly to do with the fertility of the lands of the Altiplano permitting European crops to grow there, while in the more tropical areas the soil was not so much suited for the foreign crops. In 1555, the Muisca of Toca were growing European crops as wheat and barley and sugarcane was grown in other areas. The previously self-sustaining economy was quickly transformed into one based on intensive agriculture and mining that produced changes in the landscape and culture of the Muisca.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38349000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38349000", "title": "Mwele language", "text": "Mwele language\n\nMwele is a minor Bantu language of Gabon.\n"}
{"id": "3783897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3783897", "title": "Nil by Mouth (charity)", "text": "Nil by Mouth (charity)\n\nNil By Mouth is a Scottish charity, established in 2000, which seeks to challenge sectarianism within Scottish Society.\n\nNil By Mouth was founded as a campaign by Cara Henderson in response to the sectarian murder of her school friend, Mark Scott. Nil By Mouth’s purpose is to promote the elimination of Sectarian attitudes and behaviours in Scotland with a view to the advancement of greater understanding and respect.\n\nNil By Mouth currently deliver inputs to schools, colleges and workplaces on issues surrounding sectarianism, including sectarian language and online hatred. The charity also appear regularly in the media to provide informed comment and analysis of incidents, policy decisions and to promote their own campaigns.\n\nNil by Mouth is committed to a Scotland free from Sectarianism\n\nNil by Mouth will promote the elimination of Sectarian attitudes and behaviours in Scotland with a view to the advancement of greater understanding and respect.\n\n1. Campaign for greater recognition of the damage caused by Sectarianism and promote positive change.\n\n2. Work with legislation and policy developers to support the eradication of Sectarian attitudes, language and behaviour.\n\n3. Develop, promote and deliver education and training to promote good relations and challenge Sectarian attitudes, language and behaviour.\n\n4. Provide support and resources for individuals and organisations to challenge Sectarianism\n\nTeenager Mark Scott was murdered as he made his way home from a football match in Glasgow on October 7, 1995. Mark did not know his attacker, Jason Campbell. During Jason’s murder trial it was revealed that one of the motives for his attack was Mark’s perceived religious background based on the colour of his football scarf. Cara Henderson was 15 at the time her school friend was murdered. Four years later, in 1999, she began the process of establishing a campaign against sectarian hatred in Scotland.\n\nCara began campaigning in the media; telling her story at community events and lobbying politicians and policy makers. She launched a Charter for Change in 2000, which outlined Nil By Mouth’s vision for challenging sectarian attitudes in Scotland. Cara won a Philip Lawrence Award for her work in empowering young people. Despite no longer being actively involved, Cara Henderson remains an honorary patron of the charity.\n\nIn 2015, Cara was named Evening Times Scotswoman of The Year for 2014. Regarded as one of the most prestigious awards in Scotland, Cara was chosen ahead of First Minister Nicola Sturgeon.\n\nBeyond Religion and Belief is Nil By Mouth’s workplace training package. The programme, which can be delivered free of charge, has been developed and piloted over recent years in partnership with the Scottish Government, the STUC and many other public and private sector employers.\n\nThe package provides organisations with a framework to address sectarianism in the workplace and includes advice on; policy and procedure, awareness raising workshops and a line management development module.\n\nIn 2011 Nil By Mouth launched their Champions for Change schools programme with the aim of challenging sectarian attitudes through education at as early an age as possible. One of the core aims of Champions for Change is to encourage regular contact between young people from different religious and cultural traditions. The programme is supported by the charity’s own fundraising efforts and there is no charge to schools involved.\n\nPitch Perfect is Nil By Mouth’s marketing competition which gives further and higher education students the opportunity to create and design their own anti-sectarian awareness campaign. The first winner was the ‘Kiss Bigotry Goodbye’ campaign, which aims to highlight the positives of being a football fan in Scotland. More recent campaigns include ‘Just The Tip of The Iceberg’ and ‘Don’t Be a Clown’.\n"}
{"id": "22626861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22626861", "title": "Observationes Medicae (Tulp)", "text": "Observationes Medicae (Tulp)\n\nObservationes Medicae is a 1641 book by Nicolaes Tulp. Tulp is primarily famous today for his central role in the 1632 by Rembrandt of the Amsterdam Guild of Surgeons, which commemorates his appointment as praelector in 1628.\n\n\"Observationes Medicae\" is also the title commonly used by early Dutch doctors in the 16th and 17th centuries who wrote up their cases from private practise in Latin to share with contemporary colleagues.\n\nThough already well known at the time his book was written, Professor Tulp enjoyed international fame after publishing this book, and in 1652 a second edition was printed, highly unusual at that time. His book comprises 164 cases from his practise, kept in a diary from his early career onwards. His book was illustrated with plates, and it is not clear who drew these or engraved them. According to various sources, he drew many of these himself. His birth name was Claes Pietersz. He adopted the name Tulp when he had a Tulip shaped sign placed outside his door when he set up shop in Amsterdam. Many of his early patients could not read or write. He soon no longer needed to advertise his services, however, and his many duties as Praelector, and later, mayor of the city of Amsterdam, prevented him from spending so much time on his practise. He published the book 5 years after the Amsterdam Pharmacopoeia was completed, which was his own personal initiative, and that helped to set intercity medical standards in the region known as the United Provinces.\n\nTulp had a reputation for a moral upstanding character, and Joost van den Vondel wrote poetry extolling his virtue. He later also wrote a poem in honor of the second edition of this book.\n\nTulp's book has various accounts of unusual illnesses and primarily growths or \"carcinomas\", but also has accounts of creatures brought back from Dutch East India Company ships. His drawing of a Chimpanzee is considered the first of its kind. This creature was called an \"Indian Satyr\", since all ships cargo was considered Indonesian. However, the accompanying text claims the animal came from Angola. This drawing was copied many times and formed the basis for many theories on the origin of man. Most notably, Tulp's work and that of Jacob de Bondt (alias Jacobus Bontius) was copied and republished by Linnaeus to show a link between apes and man.\n\nOne of the interesting cases is the story of how Jan de Doot performed a bladder operation on himself.\n\n\"But this stone weighing 4 ounces and the size of a hen's egg was a wonder how it came out with the help of one hand, without the proper tools, and then from the patient himself, whose greatest help was courage and impatience embedded in a truly impenetrable faith which caused a brave deed as none other. So was he no less than those whose deeds are related in the old scriptures. Sometimes daring helps when reason doesn't.\"\n\n\"Observationes Medicae\" became so popular, that a hundred years later a translated version was published. Professor Tulp never wanted to publish in Dutch for fear of hypochondriac behavior. He was very against quacks and self-medication and it was for this reason that he worked on the Amsterdam Pharmacopoeia. This second version therefore, would have been against his wishes. However, the book was prefaced by a long \"lykoratie\", or ode to his memory, in which Ludovicus Wolzogen explains what a wonderful man Tulp was, and everything that he did for the city of Amsterdam and medicine in general. He claims to have made an accurate translation from the Latin, but the flowery language is so different from Tulp's terse descriptions, that this is highly unlikely. After this edition, the number of cases went up from 164 to 251,\n\nThe chapters and accompanying plates of the 1641 and 1740 editions of Book one are the same, only four extra chapters appear in the later version.\nThe chapters and accompanying plates of the 1641 and 1740 editions of Book two are the same, only one extra chapter appears in the later version.\nThe chapters and accompanying plates of the 1641 and 1740 editions of Book three are the same, the \"Indisch Satyr\" is also the last plate in the later version.\nThere is no Book four in the original version, but the later version calls it \"Register der Hoofdstukken van het vierde boek\". The sixty chapters and accompanying plates are some of the most popular in Dutch medical literature, however, including the Jan de Doot (or Jan Lethaus, a bastardized version of the Latin for lethal - lethalis), ending with a chapter on Tea.\n\n"}
{"id": "31169676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31169676", "title": "Paambadam", "text": "Paambadam\n\nPaambadam is an ear ring worn by elderly women in South Indian States such as Tamil Nadu & Kerala.\n\nDesigned in the shape of a snake hood, with two balls, two knobs, a square piece and a tongue pieced together, the gold coated ear rings weigh about 50 g each.\n\nPaambadam in Tamil means the hood of the snake(paambin padam).\n\nThe sheer weight of a paambadam enlarges the ear lobe, which has to be pierced with a special knife for gradual expression.\n\nPaambadam would be worn with one or two others of similar size and weight, pulling down and stretching the earlobe considerably. The remarkable semi-abstract design actually incorporates animal forms, showing the head of a snake.\n\nCurrently due to more modernisation, such earrings are not worn.\n\nhttp://www.asianart.com/articles/ganguly/index.html\n"}
{"id": "2610365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610365", "title": "Palagi", "text": "Palagi\n\nPalagi (pronounced \"paalangi\" - \"singular\") or papaalagi (\"plural\") is a term in Samoan culture of uncertain meaning, sometimes used to describe foreigners. Tent and Geraghty (2001) comment that the origin of the Western Polynesian \"Papāalagi~Pālagi\" and the Fijian \"Vāvālagi~Pāpālagi\" remains a matter of speculation.\n\n\"Papāalagi~Pālagi\" is a word in the Samoan language describing non-Samoans especially European westerners or Caucasians. In Samoa the term is used to describe foreigners. The word is both a noun e.g. \"a Palagi\" (European person) or an adjective e.g. \"Palagi\" house (non-traditional Samoan house). The word is a cognate in other Polynesian languages and has gained widespread use throughout much of western Polynesia, including in Tokelau, Tuvalu, 'Uvea and Futuna.\n\nWritten \"Pālagi\" or \"Papālagi\" in Samoan, and \"Papālangi\" or \"Pālangi\" in Tongan, the term \"Pālagi\" is also used in Niuean.\n\nThe etymology of the term \"Palagi\" is disputed. An explanation that emerged in the 19th century is that word is derived from the Polynesian rootwords \"pa\" (meaning: gates) and \"lagi\" (meaning: sky or heaven), hence the standard translation \"gates of heaven\" It has been suggested that the compound word comes from the Polynesian's reaction to seeing for the first time, European missionaries enter the country. Their skin being a different color made them think they were men sent from the gates of heaven. Tcherkézoff (1999) argues that such an interpretation is a European projection to explain Polynesian cosmology.\n\nThe explanation of Niuean word \"Palagi\", is that \"pa\" means bang such as that of a gun and \"lagi\" means sky, literally means bangs into the sky. In \"Papa-lagi\" \"papa\" means more than one bang or many bangs, and \"lagi\" means sky. In the olden days, Europeans who landed on Niue carried guns and often fired the guns into the sky, when they landed on the reef, to scare away potential trouble-making natives.\n\nJan Tent, a Macquarie University linguist, and Dr. Paul Geraghty, director of the Institute of Fijian Language and Culture in Suva, suggest that the word may have its origins in the travels of the Polynesians themselves. They believe that the Polynesian islanders may have encountered Malay travellers prior to contact with Europeans, and adopted the Malay word \"barang\" (meaning: imported cloth). These researchers also suggest another possible etymology - the Malay word for European, as used in the 17th and 18th centuries, was \"faranggi\". However, they discount this possibility as the word \"palangi\" seems to have originally referred to cloth; only later was the word transferred to the people.\n\nA possible alternative etymology for \"palangi\" is that is it derived from the Perso-Arabic term farangi, meaning \"an outsider\". The extent to which Arab traders explored the Pacific Islands, or that Pacific Island communities had contact with Muslim trades remains uncertain but Arab and Persian Muslim colonies were established in Indonesia and Malaysia starting around the 10th century AD. According to an unpublished paper by Prof. Bivar of the School of Oriental and African Studies, there is some textual evidence from Arab and Persian travelogues (cf. The Journeys of Sinbad in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\") for contact between Muslim traders and Pacific islands prior to European discoveries and landfalls.\n\nCaptain Cook noted the expression \"ko e vaka no papalangi\" (the boats of Papalangi) in Tonga, with Cook's transcription being \"Towacka no papalangie\" and his translation as \"cloth ships\".\n\nThe specific origin of this term remains uncertain. The term has gained widespread use throughout much of western Polynesia including Tokelau, Tuvalu, 'Uvea and Futuna, etc., with the expansion of use of the term being though to have occurred in the 18th century when Tongans, and to lesser extent Samoans, regularly interacted with white sailors, beachcombers, convicts, missionaries, and whalers who clearly delineated ethnoracial boundaries between themselves (papalagi/papalangi) and the Polynesians they encountered.\n\nThe missionary John Williams, of the London Missionary Society, records a speech in Samoa, in 1830, referring to the great powers of the \"papalangis\".\n\nLouis Becke after having worked and travelled in the Pacific from 1869 to 1885 uses \"papalagi\" to mean a white person in stories set in what is now Tuvalu, \"The Rangers of the Tia Kua\", \"Kennedy the Boatsteerer\" in which appears \"The last native girl who occupied the proud position of \"Te avaga te papalagi\" (the white man's wife) was a native of the island of Maraki\"; Samoa, \"A Basket of Bread-Fruit\", \"At a Kava-Drinking\" in which appears \"\"alii papalagi\" (white gentleman)\" and \"this wandering \"papalagi tafea\" (beachcomber)\", \"The Best Asset in a Fool’s Estate\" in which appears “the \"papalagi mativa\" (poor white)”; and the Tokelau, \"Challis the Doubter\".\n\nLargely because of the growing Pacific Islander culture in New Zealand, this word has been adopted by other Pacific cultures. Its usage in New Zealand's Pacific Islander media such as television and radio is common, and it is often used by the mainstream media to describe non-Samoans of European descent.\n\nThe term is now also used in New Zealand in a similar way to the Māori term Pākehā, but it is not restricted in referring to white people within Pacific-island surroundings. As with Pākehā, Samoans and Tongans initially applied \"palagi/palangi\" and \"papalagi/papalangi\" to whites of British derivation. Today, the Samoan term \"\"gagana fa'a Palagi\", the Tongan term \"lea fakapālangi\"\" and the Tuvaluan term \"faka-Pālagi\" still refer to the English language specifically, even though it is understood that many ethnic Europeans who are considered \"palagi\" do not speak English but rather German, French, Spanish, etc. While the term is generally applied to people of European ancestry as a means of differentiation or categorization, some feel the term is derogatory, especially when aimed pointedly toward half-caste Samoans or ethnic Samoans who were born and raised in western, metropolitan societies; \"\"fia palagi\" and \"fie palangi\"\" are commonly applied to ethnic Samoans and Tongans, respectively, who are viewed as favoring the \"white man's\" lifestyle or culture in lieu of traditional Polynesian modes of speech, dress, housing, interpersonal relations, etc.\n\nTcherkezoff (1999) comments,\"Europeans are still called Papālagi in today's languages. In Samoan, it is an absolutely common everyday word, not in any way a metaphoric ceremonial expression used for special circumstances or used in \"[purely]\" derogatory/laudatory ways.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10796040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10796040", "title": "Parking guidance and information", "text": "Parking guidance and information\n\nParking guidance and information (PGI) systems, or car park guidance systems, present drivers with dynamic information on parking within controlled areas. The systems combine traffic monitoring, communication, processing and variable message sign technologies to provide the service.\n\nModern parking lots utilize a variety of technologies to help motorists find unoccupied parking spaces, car location when returning to the vehicle and improve their experience. This includes adaptive lighting sensors and parking space indicators (red for occupied, green for available and blue is reserved for the disabled; above every parking space), and indoor positioning system (IPS).\n\nPGI systems are a product of the worldwide initiative for the development of intelligent transportation system in urban areas. PGI systems can assist in the development of safe, efficient and environmentally friendly transportation network.\n\nPGI systems are designed to aid in the search for vacant parking spaces by directing drivers to car parks where occupancy levels are low. The objective is to reduce search time, which in turn reduces congestion on the surrounding roads for other traffic with related benefits to air pollution with the ultimate aim of enhancement of the urban area.\n\nParking guidance systems (PGS) have different elements:\n\n"}
{"id": "375331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375331", "title": "Public land", "text": "Public land\n\nIn all modern states, some land is held by central or local governments. This is called public land. The system of tenure of public land, and the terminology used, varies between countries. The following examples illustrate some of the range.\n\nIn several Commonwealth countries such as Australia, New Zealand and Canada, public lands are referred to as Crown lands. Recent proposals to sell Crown lands have been highly controversial.\n\nIn France, () may be held by communes, \"départements\", or the central State.\n\nIn Portugal the land owned by the State, by the two autonomous regions (Azores and Madeira) and by the local governments (municipalities (Portuguese: \"municípios\") and \"freguesias\") can be of two types: public domain (Portuguese: \"domínio público\") and private domain (Portuguese: \"domínio privado\"). The latter is owned like any private entity (and may be sold), while public domain land cannot be sold and it is expected to be used by the public (although it can be leased to private entities for up to 75 years in certain cases). Examples of public domain land are the margins of the sea and of the rivers, roads, streets, railways, ports, military areas, monuments. The State's private domain is managed by Direção-Geral do Tesouro e Finanças and the State's public domain is managed by various entities (state companies and state institutes, like Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente, I.P., Estradas de Portugal, E.P.E., Refer - Rede Ferroviária Portuguesa, E.P.E., APL - Administração do Porto de Lisboa, S.A., etc.).\n\nPublic lands in Israel on the West Bank are based in the Ottoman Empire law specifying that land not worked for over ten years becomes 'state lands'. This became the base for deciding cases brought up by Arabs when certain Israeli settlements were created on presumed barren land (see Halamish).\n\nIn the United States governmental entities including cities, counties, states, and the federal government all manage land which are referred to as either public lands or the public domain. \n\nThe majority of public lands in the United States are held in trust for the American people by the federal government and managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the United States National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Fish and Wildlife Service under the Department of the Interior, or by the United States Forest Service under the Department of Agriculture. Other federal agencies that manage public lands include the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the United States Department of Defense, which includes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nIn general, Congress must legislate the creation or acquisition of new public lands, such as national parks; however, under the 1906 Antiquities Act, also known as the National Monuments Act, the President may designate new national monuments without congressional authorization if the monument is on federally-owned land.\n\nEach western state also received federal \"public land\" as trust lands designated for specific beneficiaries, which the States are to manage as a condition to acceptance into the union. Those trust lands cannot any longer be considered public lands as allowing any benefits to the \"public\" would be in breach of loyalty to the specific beneficiaries. The trust lands (two sections, or about per township) are usually managed extractively (grazing or mining), to provide revenue for public schools. All states have some lands under state management, such as state parks, state wildlife management areas, and state forests. \n\nWilderness is a special designation for public lands which have been completely undeveloped. The concept of wilderness areas was legislatively defined by the 1964 Wilderness Act. Wilderness areas can be managed by any of the above Federal agencies, and some parks and refuges are almost entirely designated wilderness. A wilderness study area is a tract of land that has wilderness characteristics, and is managed as wilderness, but has not received a wilderness designation from Congress. \n\nTypically each parcel is governed by its own set of laws and rules that explain the purpose for which the land was acquired, and how the land may be used. \n\nThe concept of a formal designation and conservation of public lands dates back to our first National Parks. While designating the parks as public, the conservation was another matter. Theodore Roosevelt and his conservation group, Boone and Crockett Club took matters into their own hands, by creating laws and regulations that protected these national treasures. Roosevelt and the Boone and Crockett Club continued on influencing the creation of scores of public lands including the National Refuge System, USFS and the United States National Forest system.\n\nMost state- and federally managed public lands are open for recreational use. Recreation opportunities depend on the managing agency, and run the gamut from the less restrictive, undeveloped wide open spaces of BLM lands to the highly developed and controlled national and state parks. Wildlife refuges and state wildlife management areas, managed primarily to improve habitat, are generally open to wildlife watching, hiking, and hunting, except for closures to protect mating and nesting, or to reduce stress on wintering animals. National forests generally have a mix of maintained trails and roads, wilderness and undeveloped portions, and developed picnic and camping areas.\n\nHistorically in the western United States, much public land is leased for grazing by cattle or sheep (most National Park Service areas are closed to livestock grazing). This includes vast tracts of National Forest and BLM land, as well as land on some Wildlife Refuges. National Parks are the exception. This use became controversial in the late 20th century as it was examined by environmentalists and scientists concerned about the impact of these exotic animals on native plant populations and watersheds.\n\nLarge tracts of public land in the United States are available for leasing for petroleum or mineral production. Lands which have a high likelihood of producing valuable resources can, as of 2018, command prices as high as $80,000 an acre per year. Large tracts of other lands, where the likelihood of the presence or successful exploitation of resources are very low, could be leased, as of 2018, for as low as $1.50 an acre per year. The Trump administration greatly expanded mineral leasing resulting in a substantial increase in fracking in likely locations in Wyoming and New Mexico, but a great deal of land where prospects for successful production was very low was leased at very low rates to speculators.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212698", "title": "Quackery", "text": "Quackery\n\nQuackery, often synonymous with health fraud, is the promotion of fraudulent or ignorant medical practices. A quack is a \"fraudulent or ignorant pretender to medical skill\" or \"a person who pretends, professionally or publicly, to have skill, knowledge, qualification or credentials they do not possess; a charlatan or snake oil salesman\". The term \"quack\" is a clipped form of the archaic term \"\", from a \"hawker of salve\". In the Middle Ages the term \"quack\" meant \"shouting\". The quacksalvers sold their wares on the market shouting in a loud voice.\n\nCommon elements of general quackery include questionable diagnoses using questionable diagnostic tests, as well as untested or refuted treatments, especially for serious diseases such as cancer. Quackery is often described as \"health fraud\" with the salient characteristic of aggressive promotion.\n\nSince it is difficult to distinguish between those who knowingly promote unproven medical therapies and those who are mistaken as to their effectiveness, United States courts have ruled in defamation cases that accusing someone of quackery or calling a practitioner a \"quack\" is not equivalent to accusing that person of committing medical fraud. To be both quackery and fraud, the quack must know they are misrepresenting the benefits and risks of the medical services offered (instead of, for example, promoting an ineffective product they honestly believe is effective).\n\nIn addition to the ethical problems of promising benefits that can not reasonably be expected to occur, quackery also includes the risk that patients may choose to forego treatments that are more likely to help them, in favor of ineffective treatments given by the \"quack\".\n\nStephen Barrett of Quackwatch defines quackery \"as the promotion of unsubstantiated methods that lack a scientifically plausible rationale\" and more broadly as:\n\nPaul Offit has proposed four ways in which alternative medicine \"becomes quackery\":\n\n\nUnproven, usually ineffective, and sometimes dangerous medicines and treatments have been peddled throughout human history. Theatrical performances were sometimes given to enhance the credibility of purported medicines. Grandiose claims were made for what could be humble materials indeed: for example, in the mid-19th century \"revalenta arabica\" was advertised as having extraordinary restorative virtues as an empirical diet for invalids; despite its impressive name and many glowing testimonials it was in truth only ordinary lentil flour, sold to the gullible at many times the true cost.\n\nEven where no fraud was intended, quack remedies often contained no effective ingredients whatsoever. Some remedies contained substances such as opium, alcohol and honey, which would have given symptomatic relief but had no curative properties. Some would have addictive qualities to entice the buyer to return. The few effective remedies sold by quacks included emetics, laxatives and diuretics. Some ingredients did have medicinal effects: mercury, silver and arsenic compounds may have helped some infections and infestations; willow bark contained salicylic acid, chemically closely related to aspirin; and the quinine contained in Jesuit's bark was an effective treatment for malaria and other fevers. However, knowledge of appropriate uses and dosages was limited.\n\nThe science-based medicine community has criticized the infiltration of alternative medicine into mainstream academic medicine, education, and publications, accusing institutions of \"diverting research time, money, and other resources from more fruitful lines of investigation in order to pursue a theory that has no basis in biology.\" R.W. Donnell coined the phrase \"quackademic medicine\" to describe this attention given to alternative medicine by academia. Referring to the Flexner Report, he said that medical education \"needs a good Flexnerian housecleaning.\"\n\nFor example, David Gorski criticized Brian M. Berman, founder of the University of Maryland Center for Integrative Medicine, for writing that \"There [is] evidence that both real acupuncture and sham acupuncture [are] more effective than no treatment and that acupuncture can be a useful supplement to other forms of conventional therapy for low back pain.\" He also castigated editors and peer reviewers at the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" for allowing it to be published, since it effectively recommended deliberately misleading patients in order to achieve a known placebo effect.\n\nWith little understanding of the causes and mechanisms of illnesses, widely marketed \"cures\" (as opposed to locally produced and locally used remedies), often referred to as patent medicines, first came to prominence during the 17th and 18th centuries in Britain and the British colonies, including those in North America. Daffy's Elixir and Turlington's Balsam were among the first products that used branding (e.g. using highly distinctive containers) and mass marketing to create and maintain markets. A similar process occurred in other countries of Europe around the same time, for example with the marketing of Eau de Cologne as a cure-all medicine by Johann Maria Farina and his imitators. Patent medicines often contained alcohol or opium, which, while presumably not curing the diseases for which they were sold as a remedy, did make the imbibers feel better and confusedly appreciative of the product.\n\nThe number of internationally marketed quack medicines increased in the later 18th century; the majority of them originated in Britain and were exported throughout the British Empire. By 1830, British parliamentary records list over 1,300 different \"proprietary medicines,\" the majority of which were \"quack\" cures by modern standards.\n\nA Dutch organisation that opposes quackery, ' (VtdK) was founded in 1881, making it the oldest organisation of this kind in the world. It has published its magazine ' (\"Dutch Magazine against Quackery\") ever since. In these early years the played a part in the professionalisation of medicine. Its efforts in the public debate helped to make the Netherlands one of the first countries with governmental drug regulation.\nIn 1909, in an attempt to stop the sale of quack medicines, the British Medical Association published \"Secret Remedies, What They Cost And What They Contain\". This publication was originally a series of articles published in the \"British Medical Journal\" between 1904 and 1909. The publication was composed of 20 chapters, organising the work by sections according to the ailments the medicines claimed to treat. Each remedy was tested thoroughly, the preface stated: \"Of the accuracy of the analytical data there can be no question; the investigation has been carried out with great care by a skilled analytical chemist.\" The book did lead to the end of some of the quack cures, but some survived the book by several decades. For example, Beecham's Pills, which according to the British Medical Association contained in 1909 only aloes, ginger and soap, but claimed to cure 31 medical conditions, were sold until 1998.\n\nBritish patent medicines lost their dominance in the United States when they were denied access to the Thirteen Colonies markets during the American Revolution, and lost further ground for the same reason during the War of 1812. From the early 19th century \"home-grown\" American brands started to fill the gap, reaching their peak in the years after the American Civil War. British medicines never regained their previous dominance in North America, and the subsequent era of mass marketing of American patent medicines is usually considered to have been a \"golden age\" of quackery in the United States. This was mirrored by similar growth in marketing of quack medicines elsewhere in the world.\nIn the United States, false medicines in this era were often denoted by the slang term snake oil, a reference to sales pitches for the false medicines that claimed exotic ingredients provided the supposed benefits. Those who sold them were called \"snake oil salesmen,\" and usually sold their medicines with a fervent pitch similar to a fire and brimstone religious sermon. They often accompanied other theatrical and entertainment productions that traveled as a road show from town to town, leaving quickly before the falseness of their medicine was discovered. Not all quacks were restricted to such small-time businesses however, and a number, especially in the United States, became enormously wealthy through national and international sales of their products.\n\nIn 1875, the \"Pacific Medical and Surgical Journal\" complained: \n\nOne among many examples is William Radam, a German immigrant to the USA, who, in the 1880s, started to sell his \"Microbe Killer\" throughout the United States and, soon afterwards, in Britain and throughout the British colonies. His concoction was widely advertised as being able to \"cure all diseases\", and this phrase was even embossed on the glass bottles the medicine was sold in. In fact, Radam's medicine was a therapeutically useless (and in large quantities actively poisonous) dilute solution of sulfuric acid, coloured with a little red wine. Radam's publicity material, particularly his books, provide an insight into the role that pseudoscience played in the development and marketing of \"quack\" medicines towards the end of the 19th century.\n\nSimilar advertising claims to those of Radam can be found throughout the 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st centuries. \"Dr.\" Sibley, an English patent medicine seller of the late 18th and early 19th centuries, even went so far as to claim that his Reanimating Solar Tincture would, as the name implies, \"restore life in the event of sudden death\". Another English quack, \"Dr. Solomon\" claimed that his Cordial Balm of Gilead cured almost anything, but was particularly effective against all venereal complaints, from gonorrhoea to onanism. Although it was basically just brandy flavoured with herbs, the price of a bottle was a half guinea (£sd system) in 1800, equivalent to over £ ($) in 2014.\n\nNot all patent medicines were without merit. Turlingtons Balsam of Life, first marketed in the mid-18th century, did have genuinely beneficial properties. This medicine continued to be sold under the original name into the early 20th century, and can still be found in the British and American pharmacopoeias as \"Compound tincture of benzoin\". In these cases, the treatments likely lacked empirical support when they were introduced to the market, and their benefits were simply a convenient coincidence discovered after the fact.\n\nThe end of the road for the quack medicines now considered grossly fraudulent in the nations of North America and Europe came in the early 20th century. February 21, 1906 saw the passage into law of the Pure Food and Drug Act in the United States. This was the result of decades of campaigning by both government departments and the medical establishment, supported by a number of publishers and journalists (one of the most effective was Samuel Hopkins Adams, who wrote \"The Great American Fraud\" series in \"Collier's\" in 1905). This American Act was followed three years later by similar legislation in Britain and in other European nations. Between them, these laws began to remove the more outrageously dangerous contents from patent and proprietary medicines, and to force quack medicine proprietors to stop making some of their more blatantly dishonest claims.\n\n\"Medical quackery and promotion of nostrums and worthless drugs were among the most prominent abuses that led to formal self-regulation in business and, in turn, to the creation of the\" Better Business Bureau.\n\n\"Quackery is the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for a profit. It is rooted in the traditions of the marketplace\", with \"commercialism overwhelming professionalism in the marketing of alternative medicine\". \"Quackery\" is most often used to denote the peddling of the \"cure-alls\" described above. Quackery continues even today; it can be found in any culture and in every medical tradition. Unlike other advertising mediums, rapid advancements in communication through the Internet have opened doors for an unregulated market of quack cures and marketing campaigns rivaling the early 20th century. Most people with an e-mail account have experienced the marketing tactics of spamming – in which modern forms of quackery are touted as miraculous remedies for \"weight loss\" and \"sexual enhancement\", as well as outlets for medicines of unknown quality.\n\nWhile quackery is often aimed at the aged or chronically ill, it can be aimed at all age groups, including teens, and the FDA has mentioned some areas where potential quackery may be a problem: breast developers, weight loss, steroids and growth hormones, tanning and tanning pills, hair removal and growth, and look-alike drugs.\n\nIn 1992, the president of The National Council Against Health Fraud, William T. Jarvis, wrote in \"Clinical Chemistry\" that:\n\nFor those in the practice of any medicine, to allege quackery is to level a serious objection to a particular form of practice. Most developed countries have a governmental agency, such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the US, whose purpose is to monitor and regulate the safety of medications as well as the claims made by the manufacturers of new and existing products, including drugs and nutritional supplements or vitamins. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) participates in some of these efforts. To better address less regulated products, in 2000, US President Clinton signed Executive Order 13147 that created the White House Commission on Complementary and Alternative Medicine. In 2002, the commission's final report made several suggestions regarding education, research, implementation, and reimbursement as ways to evaluate the risks and benefits of each. As a direct result, more public dollars have been allocated for research into some of these methods.\n\nIndividuals and non-governmental agencies are active in attempts to expose quackery. According to John C. Norcross et al. less is consensus about ineffective \"compared to effective procedures\" but identifying both \"pseudoscientific, unvalidated, or 'quack' psychotherapies\" and \"assessment measures of questionable validity on psycho-metric grounds\" was pursued by various authors. The evidence-based practice (EBP) movement in mental health emphasizes the consensus in psychology that psychological practice should rely on empirical research. There are also \"anti-quackery\" websites, such as Quackwatch, that help consumers evaluate claims. Quackwatch's information is relevant to both consumers and medical professionals.\n\nZhang Wuben, a quack who posed as skilled in traditional Chinese medicine in the People's Republic of China, based his operation on representations that raw eggplant and mung beans were a general cure-all. Zhang, who has escaped legal liability as he portrayed himself as a nutritionist, not a doctor, appeared on television in China and authored a best-selling book, \"Eat Away the Diseases You Get from Eating\". Zhang, who charged the equivalent of $450 for a 10-minute examination, had a two-year waiting list when he was exposed. Investigations launched after a run on mung beans revealed that contrary to his representations, he did not come from a family of accomplished traditional practitioners (中医世家) and never had the medical degree from Beijing Medical University he claimed to have. His only education was a brief correspondence or night school course, completed after he was laid off from a textile factory. Zhang, despite negative publicity on the national level, continues to practice but has committed himself to finding a cheaper cure-all than mung beans. His clinic, Wuben Hall, adjacent to Beijing National Stadium, was torn down as an illegal structure. Much of Zhang Wuben's success was due to the efforts of Chinese entrepreneurs, including one government-owned company, who promoted him.\n\nHu Wanlin, who did hold himself out as a doctor, was exposed in 2000 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He adulterated his concoctions with sodium sulfate, Glauber's salt, a poison in large doses. That case resulted in creating a system of licensing medical doctors in China.\n\nThere have been several suggested reasons why quackery is accepted by patients in spite of its lack of effectiveness:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23872653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23872653", "title": "Relationship between child pornography and child sexual abuse", "text": "Relationship between child pornography and child sexual abuse\n\nA range of research has been conducted examining the link between viewing child pornography and perpetration of child sexual abuse, and much disagreement persists regarding whether a causal connection has been established. Perspectives fall into one of three positions:\n\nOne perspective is that exposure to child pornography promotes criminal sexual intent that otherwise would not exist. The promotion may take place via material that legitimizes sexual interest in minors. Anonymity (or belief that anonymity exists) may further loosen the internal restraints, facilitated by still or moving images, which makes actual criminal sexual behavior with children more probable if the person was already sexually motivated toward children, or, by creating new sexual interests in children. A review article states that these are plausible hypotheses, but that there is a lack of clarity as to the general applicability of these mechanisms. The authors also note that, \"among some groups of predisposed individuals, easy access to a wide variety of engrossing and high-quality child pornography could serve as a substitute for involvement with actual victims\".\n\nAccording to the National District Attorneys Association of America, \"In light of the documented link between individuals who view child pornography and individuals who actually molest children, each child pornography case should be viewed as a red flag to the possibility of actual child molestation.\" John Carr, founding member of the United Kingdom Home Secretary’s Internet Task Force on Child Protection, in a report published by the NCH stated, \"Many pedophiles acknowledge that exposure to child abuse images fuels their sexual fantasies and plays an important part in leading them to commit hands-on sexual offenses against children.\"\n\nA 1987 report by the U.S.A. National Institute of Justice described \"a disturbing correlation\" between traders of child pornography and acts of child molestation. A 2008 longitudinal study of 341 convicted child molesters in America found that pornography's use correlated significantly with their rate of sexually re-offending. Frequency of pornography use was primarily a further risk factor for higher-risk offenders, when compared with lower-risk offenders, and use of highly deviant pornography correlated with increased recidivism risk for all groups. The majority of men who have been charged with or convicted of child pornography offenses show pedophilic profiles on phallometric testing. A study with a sample of 201 adult male child pornography offenders using police databases examined charges or convictions after the index child pornography offense(s). 56% of the sample had a prior criminal record, 24% had prior contact sexual offenses, and 15% had prior child pornography offenses. One-third were concurrently charged with other crimes at the time they were charged for child pornography offenses. 17% of the sample offended again in some way during this time, and 4% committed a new contact sexual offense. Child pornography offenders with prior criminal records were significantly more likely to offend again in any way during the follow-up period. Child pornography offenders who had committed a prior or concurrent contact sexual offense were the most likely to offend again, either generally or sexually.\n\nAccording to the Mayo Clinic of the U.S.A., studies and case reports indicate that 30% to 80% of individuals who viewed child pornography and 76% of individuals who were arrested for Internet child pornography had molested a child; however, they state that it is difficult to know how many people progress from computerized child pornography to physical acts against children and how many would have progressed to physical acts without the computer being involved.\n\nA study conducted by psychologists at the American Federal Bureau of Prisons has concluded that \"many Internet child pornography offenders may be undetected child molesters\", finding a slightly higher percentage of molesters among child pornography offenders than the Mayo Clinic study, though they also \"cautioned that offenders who volunteer for treatment may differ in their behavior from those who do not seek treatment.\" The study was withdrawn by Bureau officials from a peer-reviewed journal which had accepted it for publication, due to concerns that the results might be misinterpreted. Some researchers argued that the findings \"do not necessarily apply to the large and diverse group of adults who have at some point downloaded child pornography, and whose behavior is far too variable to be captured by a single survey\". Child protection advocates and psychologists like Fred Berlin, who heads the National Institute for the Study, Prevention and Treatment of Sexual Trauma, expressed disapproval over the failure to publish the report.\n\nDennis Howitt (1995) disagrees with such research, arguing the weakness of correlational studies. He argues that \"one cannot simply take evidence that offenders use and buy pornography as sufficient to implicate pornography causally in their offending. The most reasonable assessment based on the available research literature is that the relationship between pornography, fantasy and offending is unclear.\"\n\nA Swiss study reviewing the criminal record of 231 men who were charged with viewing child pornography found that those without a prior sexual conviction are unlikely to sexually assault a child. The study found that in the six years before the 2002 police operation, 1% were known to have committed a hands-on sexual offense and 1% committed a hands-on sex offense in the six years afterwards. The study reinforces previous research that consumers are well-educated and view other types of illegal pornography like acts involving animals and violence as well. Author Frank Urbaniok said it should not automatically be assumed that they were a risk for sexually assaulting a child and said: \"Our results support the assumption that these consumers, in fact, form a distinct group of sex offenders. Probably, the motivation for consuming child pornography differs from the motivation to physically assault minors. Furthermore, the recidivism rates of 1% for hands-on and 4% for hands-off sex offences were quite low.\" A 2005 paper by Canadian researchers Michael Seto and Angela Eke found that of 201 men charged with child pornography offenses, 24% had committed prior offenses of sexual contact and 4% went on to commit subsequent sexual offenses after being charged or prosecuted.\n\nMilton Diamond, from the University of Hawaii, presented evidence that \"[l]egalizing child pornography is linked to lower rates of child sex abuse\". Results from the Czech Republic indicated, as seen everywhere else studied (Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Finland, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Sweden, USA), that rape and other sex crimes \"decreased or essentially remained stable\" following the legalization and wide availability of pornography. His research also indicated that the incidence of child sex abuse has fallen considerably since 1989, when child pornography became readily accessible – a phenomenon also seen in Denmark and Japan. The findings support the theory that potential sexual offenders use child pornography as a substitute for sex crimes against children. While the authors do not approve of the use of real children in the production or distribution of child pornography, they say that artificially produced materials might serve a purpose.\n\nDiamond suggests to provide artificially created child pornography that does not involve any real children. His article relayed, \"If availability of pornography can reduce sex crimes, it is because the use of certain forms of pornography to certain potential offenders is functionally equivalent to the commission of certain types of sex offences: both satisfy the need for psychosexual stimulants leading to sexual enjoyment and orgasm through masturbation. If these potential offenders have the option, they prefer to use pornography because it is more convenient, unharmful and undangerous. (Kutchinsky, 1994, pp. 21).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3105067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105067", "title": "Rural society in China", "text": "Rural society in China\n\nRural society in the People's Republic of China occupies less than a half of China's population (roughly 45%) and has a varied range of standard of living and means of living. Life in rural China differs from that of urban China. In southern and coastal China, rural areas are developing and, in some areas, statistically approaching urban economies. In northwest and western regions, rural society remains perceived as of a low standard and primitive. Basic needs such as running water and accessible transportation are a problem in these areas.\n\nOne of the major avowed objects of the Communist Party of China (CPC) during its rise to prominence between 1921 and 1949 was the improvement of the standard of living of the average Chinese citizen, the vast majority of whom were rural dwellers. During the pre-1936 period, the CPC played a major role in transforming rural life in areas it influenced or controlled. A major area was land reform, where control was taken from traditional land owners and wealthy peasants, and appropriated to the state, that is, collectivized. China in the early post-1949 period saw increases in mechanization of agriculture, the spread of electricity, running water, and modern technology to rural areas. However, by the late 1950s, much remained to be done.\n\nMao noted that most benefits were accruing not to the rural areas, where the vast majority of Chinese still lived, and who were the ostensible focus of the revolution, but to urban centers. Identity card systems channeled unequal degrees of resources, including food rations, to urbanites and rural dwellers. The \"rustication\" of the Cultural Revolution failed.\n\nDuring the Great Leap Forward campaign of 1958 to 1961, China's leaders attempted to accelerate collectivization and dramatically increase the pace of industrial production throughout the country, particularly in rural areas. This mostly involved small-scale production, such as the smelting of \"backyard\" steel. It was thought that through collectivization and mass labour, China's steel production would surpass that of the United Kingdom within only 15 years from the start of the \"leap.\" \n\nAn experimental commune was established in Henan early in 1958, and soon communes spread throughout the country. Tens of millions were mobilised to produce a single commodity that was symbolic of industrialisation—steel. Approximately 25,000 communes were set up, each with around 5,000 households. The hope was to industrialize by making use of the massive supply of cheap labor and avoid having to import heavy machinery. Small backyard steel furnaces were built in every commune where peasants produced small nuggets of cast iron made from scrap metal. Simultaneously, peasants communities were collectivised.\n\nThe Great Leap Forward is now widely seen, both within and outside China, as a major economic disaster. Peasants often abandoned farming to produce steel or work in other industrial production. The three years between 1959 and 1962 were known as the \"Three Bitter Years,\" the Three Years of Natural Disasters (although this name is now rarely used in China), and the Great Leap Famine, as the Chinese people suffered from extreme shortages of food. The period had a profound impact on the history of rural life in China.\n\nUnder Deng Xiaoping, urbanization in China has expanded at an unprecedented speed since the declaration of \"Reform and Open Policy\". new policies in China's economy shifted the approach from collective farming to household-based production quotas, in many ways reversing decades of collectivization efforts. In many areas of China, especially southern and coastal China, the standard of living improved dramatically after Deng's reforms. Township and Village Enterprises brought industrial production to rural areas—predominantly along the southern coasts—helping open these rural communities to greater economic prosperity.\n(The idea of industrial production in rural areas had been attempted under Mao but with much more limited success; for instance, industrial plants in highly remote areas found their ultimate production efforts hampered.) Soon, however, an imbalance appeared where northern, interior, and western China remained at a far lower degree of economic development, a situation which persists to the 21st century. However, there are multiple, complex factors contributing to this state of affairs. For instance, distances are much farther, and geography often more challenging, in western and interior regions. Population is more spread out; social structures may also play a role, in that the demographics and social structures of these regions often differ significantly from those of coastal China.\n\nDeng Xiaoping's reforms included the introduction of planned, centralized management of the macro-economy by technically proficient bureaucrats, abandoning Mao's mass campaign style of economic construction. Deng sustained Mao's legacy to the extent that he stressed the primacy of agricultural output and encouraged a significant decentralization of decision making in the rural economy teams and individual peasant households. At the local level, material incentives, rather than political appeals, were to be used to motivate the labor force, including allowing peasants to earn extra income by selling the produce of their private plots at free market.\n\nRural markets selling peasants' homegrown products and the surplus products of communes were revived under the more free-market economic approach of Deng. Not only did rural markets increase agricultural output, they stimulated industrial development as well. With peasants able to sell surplus agricultural yields on the open market, domestic consumption stimulated industrialization as well and also created political support for more difficult economic reforms.\n\nDevelopment remains uneven, with many highly prosperous areas far outpacing deeply impoverished regions where parents have great difficulty attaining enough income to ensure their children can be sent to school, despite the already-low education fees. Indeed, educational and social imbalances are a salient feature of this uneven development.\n\nOne emerging trend since at least the 1990s is the \"floating population\" or \"black (e.g. black market) people\", rural migrants (民工 \"min gong\") entering urban areas in search of work. Until recent developments, rural residents lacked the legal permission to resettle in urban areas without approval, yet between tens and hundred of millions did resettle in search of jobs. Many have found work, in the form of construction and other sectors with relatively low wages and benefits, and high workplace hazards. Numerous social issues have developed as a result, namely discrimination of ruralites in cities, psychological isolation of rural migrants, some of which has led to crime. In this sense, then, rural life has \"entered\" the cities.\n\nLack of employment opportunities has increasingly made life in many rural regions difficult, hence the apparent enticement to resettle in urban areas. Of course, jobs are still limited, so many do relocate in cities only to find prospects much more meager than they had expected. Statistics suggest a very high proportion of residents of rural areas are unemployed or underemployed.\n\nThe development of Special Economic Zones also spurred rural growth in some parts of China.\n\nIn 2013, China announced a new plan to reduce poverty and develop impoverished rural regions by raising rural farmers' income growth and reducing obstacles in agricultural development. The plan includes the promotion of new types of agricultural businesses, such as family farms and organized cooperatives, and encouraging industrial and commercial enterprises to invest in agriculture.\n\nThe first major action to alter village society was the land reform of the late 1940s and early 1950s, in which the party sent work teams to every village to carry out its land reform policy. This in itself was an unprecedented display of administrative and political power. The land reform had several related goals. The work teams were to redistribute some (though not all) land from the wealthier families or land-owning trusts to the poorest segments of the population and so to effect a more equitable distribution of the basic means of production; to overthrow the village elites, who might be expected to oppose the party and its programs; to recruit new village leaders from among those who demonstrated the most commitment to the party's goals; and to teach everyone to think in terms of class status rather than kinship group or patron-client ties.\n\nIn pursuit of the last goal, the party work teams convened extensive series of meetings, and they classified all the village families either as landlords, rich peasants, middle peasants, or poor peasants. These labels, based on family landholdings and overall economic position roughly between 1945 and 1950, became a permanent and hereditary part of every family's identity and, as late as 1980, still affected, for example, such things as chances for admission to the armed forces, colleges, universities, and local administrative posts and even marriage prospects.\n\nThe collectivization of agriculture was essentially completed with the establishment of the people's communes in 1958. Communes were large, embracing scores of villages. They were intended to be multipurpose organizations, combining economic and local administrative functions. Under the commune system the household remained the basic unit of consumption, and some differences in standards of living remained, although they were not as marked as they had been before land reform. Under such a system, however, upward mobility required becoming a team or commune cadre or obtaining a scarce technical position such as a being a truck driver.\n\nUnder the collectivized system, grain production kept up with population growth (China's population nearly doubled from 1950 to 1980), and the rural population was guaranteed a secure but low level of subsistence. But the collectivized system seemed to offer few possibilities for rapid economic growth. There was some discontent with a system that relied so heavily on orders from above and made so little allowance for local conditions or local initiative. In the late 1970s, administrators in provincial-level units with extensive regions of low yields and consequent low standards of living began experimenting with new forms of tenure and production. In most cases, these took the form of breaking up the collective production team, contracting with individual households to work assigned portions of collective land, and expanding the variety of crops or livestock that could be produced. The experiments were deemed successful and popular, and they soon spread to all districts. By the winter of 1982-1983, the people's communes were abolished; they were replaced by administrative townships and a number of specialized teams or businesses that often leased such collective assets as tractors and provided services for money.\n\nThe agricultural reforms of the early 1980s led to a confusingly large number of new production arrangements and contracts. Underlying the variability of administrative and contractual forms were several basic principles and trends. In the first place, land, the fundamental means of production, remained collective property. It was leased, allocated, or contracted to individual households, but the households did not own the land and could not transfer it to other households. The household became, in most cases, the basic economic unit and was responsible for its own production and losses. Most economic activity was arranged through contracts, which typically secured promises to provide a certain amount of a commodity or sum of money to the township government in return for the use of land, or workshops, or tractors.\n\nThe goal of the contracting system was to increase efficiency in the use of resources and to tap peasant initiative. The rigid requirement that all villages produce grain was replaced by recognition of the advantages of specialization and exchange, as well as a much greater role for markets. Some \"specialized households\" devoted themselves entirely to production of cash crops or provision of services and reaped large rewards. The overall picture was one of increasing specialization, differentiation, and exchange in the rural economy and in society in general. Rural incomes increased rapidly, in part because the state substantially increased the prices it paid for staple crops and in part because of economic growth stimulated by the expansion of markets and the rediscovery of comparative advantage.\n\nDecollectivization increased the options available to individual households and made household heads increasingly responsible for the economic success of their households. In 1987, for example, it was legally possible to leave the village and move into a nearby town to work in a small factory, open a noodle stand, or set up a machine repair business. Farmers, however, still could not legally move into medium-sized or large cities. The Chinese press reported an increased appreciation in the countryside for education and an increased desire for agriculturally oriented newspapers and journals, as well as clearly written manuals on such profitable trades as rabbit-raising and beekeeping. As specialization and division of labor increased, along with increasingly visible differences in income and living standards, it became more difficult to encompass most of the rural population in a few large categories. During the early 1980s, the pace of economic and social change in rural China was rapid, and the people caught up in the change had difficulty making sense of the process.\n\nThe state retained both its powers and its role in the rural economy in the 1980s. Decollectivization, like the collectivization of the 1950s, was directed from the top down. Sometimes, apparently, it was imposed on communities that had been content with their collective methods. But in permitting households and communities greater leeway to decide what to produce and in allowing the growth of rural markets and small-scale industries, the state stepped back from the close supervision and mandatory quotas of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nDecollectivization obviated the supervisory functions of low-level cadres, who no longer needed to oversee work on the collective fields. Some cadres became full-time administrators in township offices, and others took advantage of the reforms by establishing specialized production households or by leasing collective property at favorable rates. Former cadres, with their networks of connections and familiarity with administrative procedures, were in a better position than ordinary farmers to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the growth of markets and commercial activity. Even those cadres not wholly devoted to increasing their own families' income found that to serve their fellow villagers as expected it was necessary to act as entrepreneurs. Village-level cadres in the mid-1980s were functioning less as overseers and more as extension agents and marketing consultants.\n\nBy 1987 rural society was more open and diverse than in the 1960s and 1970s, and the rigid collective units of that period, which had reflected the state's overwhelming concern for security, had been replaced by networks and clusters of smaller units. The new, looser structure demonstrated the priority placed on efficiency and economic growth. Basic security, in the sense of an adequate supply of food and guarantees of support for the disabled, orphaned, or aged, was taken for granted. Less than half of China's population remembered the insecurity and risks of pre-1950 society, but the costs and inefficiencies of the collective system were fresh in their minds. Increased specialization and division of labor were trends not likely to be reversed. In the rural areas the significance of the work unit appeared to have diminished, although people still lived in villages, and the actions of low-level administrative cadres still affected ordinary farmers or petty traders in immediate ways.\n\nThe state and its officials still dominated the economy, controlled supplies of essential goods, taxed and regulated businesses and markets, and awarded contracts. The stratification system of the Maoist period had been based on a hierarchy of functionally unspecialized cadres directing the labors of a fairly uniform mass of peasants. It was replaced in the 1980s by a new elite of economically specialized households and entrepreneurs who had managed to come to terms with the administrative cadres who controlled access to many of the resources necessary for economic success. Local cadres still had the power to impose fees, taxes, and all manner of exactions. The norms of the new system were not clear, and the economic and social system continued to change in response to the rapid growth of rural commerce and industry and to national economic policies and reforms.\n\nIncreased commercial activity produced a high degree of normative ambiguity, especially in areas like central Guangdong and Jiangsu provinces, where rural economic growth was fastest. Neither the proper role of local officials nor the rights and obligations of new entrepreneurs or traders were clear. The line between the normal use of personal contacts and hospitality and extraordinary and criminal favoritism and corruption was ambiguous. There were hints of the development of a system of patron-client ties, in which administrative cadres granted favors to ordinary farmers in return for support, esteem, and an occasional gift. The increased number of corruption cases reported in the Chinese press and the widespread assumption that the decollectivization and rural economic reforms had led to growing corruption probably reflected both the increased opportunities for deals and favors of all sorts and the ambiguous nature of many of the transactions and relationships. The party's repeated calls for improved \"socialist spiritual civilization\" and the attempts of the central authorities both to create a system of civil law and to foster respect for it can be interpreted as responses to the problem. On the local level, where cadres and entrepreneurs were engaged in constant negotiation on the rules of their game, the problem was presumably being addressed in a more straightforward fashion.\n\nIn past Chinese society, the family provided every individual's support, livelihood, and long-term security. Today the state guarantees such security to those with no families to provide for them, and families and work units share long-term responsibility for the individual. The role of families has changed, but they remain important, especially in the countryside. Family members are bound, in law and custom, to support their aged or disabled members. The state, acting through work units, provides support and benefits only when families cannot. Households routinely pool income, and any individual's standard of living depends on the number of household wage earners and the number of dependents. In both cities and villages, the highest incomes usually are earned by households with several wage earners, such as unmarried adult sons or daughters.\n\nIn late traditional society, family size and structural complexity varied directly with class. Rural landlords and government officials had the largest families, poor peasants the smallest. The poorest segment of the population, landless laborers, could not afford to marry and start families. The need to provide for old age and the general association between the numbers of sons surviving to adulthood and long-term family success motivated individuals to create various non-standard family forms. Couples who produced no sons, or no children at all, adopted or purchased infants outright. Families with daughters but no sons tried to find men willing to marry their daughters and move into their families, abandoning their original families and sometimes even their original surnames. Families with daughters but no property to attract a son-in-law were sometimes forced to sell their daughters as concubines or prostitutes. The variation in family size and complexity was the result of variation in class position and of the dual role of the household as both family and economic enterprise.\n\nIn contemporary society, rural families no longer own land or pass it down to the next generation. They may, however, own and transmit houses. Rural families pay medical expenses and school fees for their children. Under the people's commune system in force from 1958 to 1982, the income of a peasant family depended directly on the number of laborers it contributed to the collective fields. This, combined with concern over the level of support for the aged or disabled provided by the collective unit, encouraged peasants to have many sons. Under the agricultural reforms that began in the late 1970s, households took on an increased and more responsible economic role. The labor of family members is still the primary determinant of income. But rural economic growth and commercialization increasingly have rewarded managerial and technical skills and have made unskilled farm labor less desirable. As long as this economic trend continues in the countryside in the late 1980s, peasant families are likely to opt for fewer but better educated children.\n\nThe consequence of the general changes in China's economy and the greater separation of families and economic enterprises has been a greater standardization of family forms since 1950. In 1987 most families approximated the middle peasant (a peasant owning some land) norm of the past. Such a family consisted of five or six people and was based on marriage between an adult son and an adult woman who moved into her husband's family. The variant family forms - either the very large and complex or those based on minor, nonstandard forms of marriage - were much less common. The state had outlawed concubinage, child betrothal, and the sale of infants or females, all of which were formerly practiced, though not common. Increased life expectancy meant that a greater proportion of infants survived to adulthood and that more adults lived into their sixties or seventies. More rural families were able to achieve the traditional goal of a three-generation family in the 1980s. There were fewer orphans and young or middle-aged widows or widowers. Far fewer men were forced to retain lifelong single status. Divorce, although possible, was rare, and families were stable, on-going units.\n\nA number of traditional attitudes toward the family have survived without being questioned. It is taken for granted that everyone should marry, and marriage remains part of the definition of normal adult status. Marriage is expected to be permanent. That marriage requires a woman to move into her husband's family and to become a daughter-in-law as well as a wife is still largely accepted. The norm of patrilineal descent and the assumption that it is sons who bear the primary responsibility for their aged parents remain. The party and government have devoted great effort to controlling the number of births and have attempted to limit the number of children per couple. But the authorities have not attempted to control population growth by suggesting that some people should not marry at all.\n\nIn the past, kinship principles were extended beyond the domestic group and were used to form large-scale groups, such as lineages. Lineages were quite distinct from families; they were essentially corporate economic-political groups. They controlled land and, in some areas of China, dominated whole villages and sets of villages and held title to most of the farmland. Like most other late traditional associations, lineages were dominated by wealthy and educated elites. Ordinary peasants paid as much of their crop to their lineage group as they might have to a landlord. The Communists denounced these organizations as feudal systems by means of which landlords exploited others. The lineages were suppressed in the early 1950s and their land confiscated and redistributed in the land reform. Communal worship of distant lineage ancestors lost much of its justification with the dissolution of the lineage estate and was easily suppressed over the next several years. Domestic ancestor worship, in which members of a single family worshiped and memorialized their immediate ancestors, continued at least until 1966 and 1967, in the early stages of the Cultural Revolution, when Red Guards destroyed altars and ancestral tablets. In 1987 the party was still condemning ancestor worship as superstitious but had made little effort to end it.\n\nThe Marriage Law of 1950 guaranteed everyone the freedom to choose his or her marriage partner. Nevertheless, especially in the countryside, there were few opportunities to meet potential mates. Rural China offered little privacy for courtship, and in villages there was little public tolerance for flirting or even extended conversation between unmarried men and women. Introductions and go-betweens continued to play a major role in the arrangement of marriages. In most cases each of the young people, and their parents, had an effective veto over any proposed match.\n\nIn the past, marriage was seen as the concern of families as well as of the two parties to the match. Families united by marriage were expected to be of equivalent status, or the groom's family to be of somewhat higher status. This aspect of marriage patterns has continued while the definitions of status have changed. Because inherited wealth was eliminated as a significant factor, evaluation had been shifted to estimates of earning power and future prosperity. The most desirable husbands have been administrative cadres, party members, and employees of large state enterprises. Conversely, men from poor villages have had difficulty finding wives. From the early 1950s to the late 1970s, when hereditary class labels were very significant, anyone with a \"counter-revolutionary\" background, that is, anyone previously identified with the landlord or even rich peasant class, was a bad prospect for marriage. Such pariahs often had no choice but to marry the offspring of other families with \"bad\" class backgrounds. At the other end of the social scale, there appeared to be a high level of intermarriage among the children of high-level cadres.\n\nMost rural Chinese has lived in one of some 900,000 villages, which have an average population of from 1,000 to 2,000 people. Villages have never been self-contained, self-sufficient units, and the social world of Chinese peasants has extended beyond their home villages. Almost all new wives come into a village from other settlements, and daughters marry out. All villagers have close kinship ties with families in other villages, and marriage go-betweens shuttle from village to village.\n\nBefore 1950 clusters of villages centered on small market towns that linked them to the wider economy and society. Most peasants were only a few hours' walk or less from a market town, which provided not only opportunities to buy and sell but also opportunities for entertainment, information, social life, and a host of specialized services. The villages around a market formed a social unit that, although less immediately visible than the villages, was equally significant.\n\nFrom the early 1950s on, China's revolutionary government made great efforts to put the state and its ideology into direct contact with the villages and to sweep aside the intermediaries and brokers who had traditionally interpreted central policies and national values for villagers. The state and the party were generally successful, establishing unprecedented degrees of political and ideological integration of villages into the state and of village-level awareness of state policies and political goals.\n\nThe unintended consequence of the economic and political policies of the 1950s and 1960s was to increase the closed, corporate quality of China's villages and to narrow the social horizons of villagers. Land reform and the reorganization of villages as subunits of people's communes meant that villages became collective landholding units and had clear boundaries between their lands and those of adjacent villages. Central direction of labor on collective fields made the former practices of swapping labor between villages impossible. The household registration and rationing systems confined villagers to their home settlements and made it impossible for them to seek their fortune elsewhere. Cooperation with fellow villagers and good relations with village leaders became even more important than they had been in the past. The suppression of rural markets, which accompanied the drive for self-sufficiency in grain production and other economic activities, had severe social as well as economic consequences. Most peasants had neither reason nor opportunity for regular trips to town, and their opportunities for exchange and cooperation with residents of other villages were diminished. Villages became work units, with all that that implied.\n\nDecollectivization in the early 1980s resulted in the revival of rural marketing, and a limited relaxation of controls on out-migration opened villages and diminished the social boundaries around them. The social world of peasants expanded, and the larger marketing community took on more significance as that of the village proper was diminished. Village membership, once the single most important determinant of an individual's circumstances, became only one of a number of significant factors, which also included occupation, personal connections, and managerial talent.\n\nAfter 1949, the Chinese healthcare system, in rural areas the first tier was made up of \"barefoot doctors\" working out of village medical centers. They provided preventive and primary-care services, with an average of two doctors per 1,000 people. The barefoot doctors emerged in 1968 when China lacked qualified health workers in rural areas and in 1985, China stopped using the term of barefoot doctor. Most of them were transferred to village doctors as private practitioners, making a living out of drug sales based on user fees.At the next level were the township health centers, which functioned primarily as out-patient clinics for about 10,000 to 30,000 people each. These centers had about ten to thirty beds each, and the most qualified members of the staff were assistant doctors. The two lower-level tiers made up the \"rural collective health system\" that provided most of the country's medical care. Only the most seriously ill patients were referred to the third and final tier, the county hospitals, which served 200,000 to 600,000 people each and were staffed by senior doctors who held degrees from 5-year medical schools.\n\nIn the late 20th and early 21st century, the availability and quality of health care varied widely from city to countryside. According to 1982 census data, in rural areas the crude death rate was 1.6 per 1,000 higher than in urban areas, and life expectancy was about 4 years lower. The number of senior physicians per 1,000 population was about 10 times greater in urban areas than in rural ones; state expenditure on medical care was more than -Y26 per capita in urban areas and less than -Y3 per capita in rural areas. There were also about twice as many hospital beds in urban areas as in rural areas. These are aggregate figures, however, and certain rural areas had much better medical care and nutritional levels than others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24919030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24919030", "title": "Sattar Alvi", "text": "Sattar Alvi\n\nAir Commodore Abdus Sattar Alvi (Urdu: عبد ستار ىلوى), , is a retired one-star rank air force general and a fighter pilot in the Pakistan Air Force, who is renown for his gallantry actions during his participation in the third Indo-Pakistani in 1971, and served as a military advisor in the Syrian Air Force during the Yom Kippur War of 1973.\n\nIn 1974, Alvi shot down the Israeli Air Force's Mirage III over the dogfight took place in Golan Heights in Syria, and was honored for his bravery with gallantry war-time medals by Syrian and Pakistan government.\n\nSattar Alvi was born in Bannu, NWFP, India in 1944, into a family that had the military background. His father was an officer in the British Indian Army who later served in the Pakistan Army. He was educated at the Bannu where he did his matriculation and attneded the Emerson College in Multan, Punjab where he secured his graduation.\n\nIn 1963, he was accepted to join the Air Force Academy in Risalpur where he received his flight training on the Cessna T-37T, and graduated in General Duty Pilot (GD) course in 1965. P/Off. Alvi participated in the second war with India in 1965, touring his duty as \"Mail Runners\" to convey messages from one base to another, served on this assignment until the war was ended.\n\nFrom 1966–71, Flt.Lt (Capt.) Alvi was selected in the military advisor group for the Iraqi Air Force, where he qualified as a test pilot for the MiG-21 and sat up the training school for the Iraqi IAF. He returned to Pakistan to participate in the third war with India and flew the Quick Reaction Close Support Missions especially in Shakargarh, where the battle with the Indian IAF was the most turbulent. After the war in 1971, Flt.Lt Alvi was sent to join the faculty at the Air Force Academy and served as a flight instructor on the flight manuals on the F-7P, a Chinese variant of MiG-21F.\n\nPakistani prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto sought to maintain close relationships with the Arab world. When the Yom Kippur war broke out, Alvi was one of the Pakistan Air Force fighter pilots who volunteered to go to the Middle East to support Egypt and Syria. By the time they arrived, however, Egypt and Israel had already concluded a ceasefire and only Syria remained in an active state of war against Israel. Alvi, who was serving as a Flight Lieutenant in 1973, joined the Syrian Air Force along with future-Air Chief Marshal of the Pakistan Air Force, Nur Khan. The PAF fighter pilots flew in a formation using the call-sign \"Shahbaz\" under Air Marshal Nur Khan.\n\nOn 26 April 1974, PAF fighter pilot Flight Lieutenant Sattar Alvi on deputation to No. 67A Squadron, Syrian Air Force (SAF) was flying a SAF MiG-21F-13 (Serial No. 1863) out of Dumayr Air Base, Syria in an eight-ship formation with a fellow PAF pilot and the Flight Leader, Squadron Leader Arif Manzoor.\n\nAlvi came to worldwide international notice when he shot down the IAF's Mirage IIICJ flown by Captain M. Lutz. On 26 April 1974, while on an aerial patrol, the PAF fighter pilot team including, \"Flight Lieutenant Captain Sattar Alvi\", \"Squadron Leader Major Saleem Metla\" and the formation's leader S\"quadron Leader Major Arif Manzoor\" had an encounter over the Golan Heights between a Mig-21 of the Syrian Air Force and two Israeli Mirages.\n\nWhile leading a Mig-21 patrol along the border, Squadron Leader Arif Manzoor was apprised of the presence of two Israeli Phantom aircraft and was cautioned that these could be decoys while two other fast tracks approaching from the opposite direction might be the real threat. The latter turned out to be Mirages and a moment later Alvi, in Arif's formation saw the No 2 Mirage breaking towards him. All this time, heavy radio jamming by Israeli ground stations was making things difficult but the Pakistani pilots were used to such tactics. He managed to shot down the jet piloted by Captain Lutz while the wingman quickly disengaged.\n\nAfter the engagements, Flight Lieutenant Captain Sattar Alvi and Shahbaz formation leader Squadron Leader Major Arif Manzoor were awarded two of Syria's highest decorations for gallantry, the Wisaam Faris and Wisaam Shuja'at in 1973 by the President of Syria Hafez al-Assad in a public ceremony. The government of Pakistan also awarded each PAF pilot the Sitara-e-Jur'at. The prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto personally met each of them and awarded the gallantry awards in public ceremonies.\n\nAfter the war, Sattar Alvi was promoted to Wing Commander and went on to command PAF's elite Combat Commanders' School and the premier PAF Base Rafiqui. In 1994, he was promoted to Air Commodore (Brigadier) and commanded the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC) until 1998. He retired as an Air Commodore in 1998 and received an honourable discharge from the air force.\n\n"}
{"id": "46449003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46449003", "title": "Shooting of Dontre Hamilton", "text": "Shooting of Dontre Hamilton\n\nOn April 30, 2014, a police officer, Christopher Manney, shot and killed Dontre Hamilton, at Red Arrow Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. No charges were brought, but Manney was fired from the force. As a result of the shooting and subsequent protests, Milwaukee police officers were equipped with body cameras.\n\nDontre D. Hamilton (d. April 30, 2014), of Milwaukee, was 31 years old at the time of his death. Hamilton had a history of mental illness. In 2013, he had made a suicide attempt by stabbing both sides of his neck and had been hospitalized. According to Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn, Hamilton had a prior history of arrests in Milwaukee which were \"directly connected to mental health issues.\" Hamilton's family stated that Hamilton had been treated for schizophrenia but was not violent. In the days before his death, Hamilton told his family that he was \"tired and hungry, and that somebody was going to kill him.\"\n\nOn April 30, 2014, Manney shot Hamilton fourteen times, killing him. The \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" summarized the events as follows:\n\nNo additional weapons were found on Hamilton's person.\n\nThe investigation was carried out by the Wisconsin Division of Criminal Investigation, a statewide agency, but the lead agents for the investigation were former Milwaukee police officers. \n\nThe Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office conducted an investigation. In December 2014, District Attorney John Chisholm found the use of force to be in self-defense and declined to prosecute.\n\nA federal investigation took place, and was closed in November 2015, with federal authorities determining that there was insufficient evidence to pursue federal criminal civil rights charges against Manney.\n\nAfter the shooting, Manney applied for duty disability, saying the shooting and its aftermath caused him to experience severe post-traumatic stress disorder. \n\nPolice Chief Edward Flynn fired Manney after the shooting. In March 2015, a three-member panel of the Milwaukee Fire and Police Commission unanimously upheld the firing, sustaining and confirming the two conclusions of an internal investigation, which determined that:\n\n\nThe firing does not affect Manney's pending disability application.\n\nIn 2014, Jovan Blacknell was retained by the family of Hamilton. In 2017, the Hamilton family received a 2.3 million dollar settlement from the City of Milwaukee.\n\nDontre's brother, Nate Hamilton, has also since co-founded the Coalition for Justice, an organization that has led rallies, marches, and street clean-ups. The Black Lives Matter movement has also protested Hamilton's death.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hamilton's death, \"Hamilton's family members worked with Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, the Police Department and other city leaders to have all officers receive Crisis Intervention Team training, considered the gold standard for working with people in psychiatric crisis, by 2017.\"\n\nAdditionally, eight Milwaukee aldermen and a majority of the Milwaukee Common Council, called in December 2014 for equipping all city police officers with body cameras on an expedited basis. In October 2015, the Fire and Police Commission approved, by a 4–1 vote, a new policy requiring \"most Milwaukee police officers to wear body cameras at all times while on duty, though they will not be required to have the devices always activated.\" A four-phase implementation process was developed, and officers began to wear the cameras in October 2015. However, following a similar police shooting of a Milwaukee black man in 2016, the Milwaukee Police Department was criticized for not submitting a review of its new patterns and practices.\n\nIn 2017, the film \"The Blood is at the Doorstep\" was released, which features Hamilton's family in the immediate months following his Manney killing him in self-defense. Directed by Erik Ljung, it was nominated for a SXSW Grand Jury Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "549864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549864", "title": "Sirenik Eskimo language", "text": "Sirenik Eskimo language\n\nSirenik Yupik, Sireniki Yupik (also Old Sirenik or Vuteen), Sirenik, or Sirenikskiy is an extinct Eskimo–Aleut language. It was spoken in and around the village of Sireniki (Сиреники) in Chukotka Peninsula, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, Russia. The language shift has been a long process, ending in total language death. In January 1997, the last native speaker of the language, a woman named Vyjye (Valentina Wye) (), died. Ever since that point, the language has been extinct; nowadays, all Sirenik Eskimos speak Siberian Yupik or Russian.\n\nСиӷы́ных is the endonym for the eponymous settlement of Sireniki. The endonym for the people itself is сиӷы́ныгмы̄́ӷий \"Sirenikites\"; the singular form is сиӷы́ныгмы̄́ӷа ).\n\nThis article is based on Menovschikov (1964), with cited examples transliterated from Cyrillic transcription to the International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nSome argue that the Sirenik language is a remnant of a third group of Eskimo languages, in addition to Yupik and Inuit groups, see online a visual representation by tree and an argumentation based on comparative linguistics. In fact, the exact genealogical classification of Sireniki language is not settled yet, and some others regard it belonging to the Yupik branch.\n\nMany words are formed from entirely different roots than in Siberian Yupik. Also the grammar has several peculiarities compared to other Eskimo languages, and even compared to Aleut. For example, dual number is not known in Sireniki Eskimo, while most Eskimo–Aleut language have dual, including even its neighboring Siberian Yupik relatives. The peculiarities amounted to mutual unintelligibility with even its nearest language relatives. This forced Sirenik Eskimos to use Chukchi language as a lingua franca when speaking with neighboring Eskimo peoples. Thus, any external contacts required using a different language for Sireniki Eskimos: they either resorted to use of lingua franca, or used Siberian Yupik languages (being definitely a mutually unintelligible, different language for them, not just a dialect of their own). This difference from all their language relatives may be the result of a supposed long isolation from other Eskimo groups: Sireniki Eskimos may have been in contact only with speakers of unrelated languages for many centuries in the past, influenced especially by non-relative Chukchi.\n\nAlthough the number of its speakers was very few even at the end of the nineteenth century, the language had at least two dialects in the past.\n\nAs for its morphological typology, it has polysynthetic and incorporative features (just like the other Eskimo languages).\n\nSome notes (very far from being a complete description):\n\nLike all other Eskimo languages, the morphology is rather complex. A description grouped by lexical categories follows.\n\nAlthough morphology will be treated grouped into a nominal and a verbal part, many Eskimo languages show features which “crosscut” any such groupings in several aspects:\n\nSome grammatical categories (e.g. person and number) are applicable to both verbal and nominal lexical categories.\n\nAlthough person and number are expressed in a single suffix, sometimes it can be traced back to consist of a distinct person and a distinct number suffix.\n\nParadigms can make a distinction in 3rd person for “self”, thus the mere personal suffix (of the verb or noun) can distinguish e.g.\n\nThus, it can be translated into English (and some other languages) using reflexive pronoun. This notion concerns also other concepts in building larger parts of the sentence and the text, see section #Usage of third person suffixes.\n\nAlthough other Eskimo languages know more than the familiar two grammatical numbers (by having also dual), Sireniki uses only singular and plural, thus it lacks dual. As mentioned, Sireniki is peculiar in this aspect not only among Eskimo languages, but even in the entire Eskimo–Aleut language family, even its neighboring Siberian Yupik relatives have dual.\n\nSuffix -- meaning “to be similar to sth”:\n\nPredicative form of a noun can be built using suffix --:\n\n\nNot only the grammatical cases of nouns are marked by suffixes, but also the person of possessor (use of possessive pronouns in English) can be expressed by agglutination.\nIt is just an excerpt for illustration: not all cases are shown, Sirenik language has more grammatical cases. The table illustrates also why Sirenik language is treated as agglutinative (rather than fusional).\n\nThere is no grammatical gender (or gender-like noun class system).\n\nSireniki is an absolutive–ergative language.\n\nCases (listed using Menovščikov's numbering):\n\nTo see why a single case can play such distinct roles at all, read morphosyntactic alignment, and also a short table about it.\n\nSome finer grammatical functions are expressed using postpositions. Most of them are built as a combinations of cases\nin a similar way as we use expressions like \"on top of\" in English.\n\nAlso at verbs, the morphology is very rich. Suffixes can express grammatical moods of the verb (e.g. imperative, interrogative, optative), and also negation, tense, aspect, the person of subject and object. Some examples (far from being comprehensive):\n\nThe rich set of morphemes makes it possible to build huge verbs whose meaning could be expressed (in most of widely known languages) as whole sentences (consisting of more words) . Sireniki – like the other Eskimo languages – has polysynthetic and incorporative features, in many forms, among others polypersonal agreement.\n\nThe polysynthetic and incorporative features mentioned above manifest themselves in most of the ways Sirenik language can express grammatical categories.\n\nFor background, see transitivity. (Remember also section #Ergative–absolutive.)\n\nSee also.\n\nEven the grammatical polarity can be expressed by adding a suffix to the verb.\n\nAn example for negative polarity: the negation form of the verb (to go):\n\nGrammatical aspect:\n\nAlso linguistic modality can be expressed by suffixes. Modal verbs like \"want to\", \"wish to\" etc. do not even exist:\n\nThe table illustrates also why Sirenik is treated as agglutinative (rather than fusional).\n\nFour grammatical voices are mentioned in:\nall of them are expressed by agglutination, thus, no separate words are required.\n\nA distinction between two kinds of participles (adverbial participle and adjectival participle) makes sense in Sireniki (just like in Hungarian, see and for detailed description of these concepts; or in Russian, see and ).\n\nSireniki has many kinds of participles in both categories. In the following, they will be listed, grouped by the relation between the “dependent action” and “main action” (or by other meanings beyond this, e.g. modality) – following the terminology of . A sentence with a participle can be imagined as simulating a subordinating compound sentence where the action described in the dependent clause relates somehow to the action described in the main clause. In English, an adverbial clause may express reason, purpose, condition, succession etc., and a relative clause can express many meanings, too.\n\nIn an analogous way, in Sireniki Eskimo language, the \"dependent action\" (expressed by the adverbial participle in the sentence element called adverbial, or expressed by the adjectival participle in the sentence element called attribute) relates somehow to the “main action” (expressed by the verb in the sentence element called predicate), and the participles will be listed below grouped by this relation (or by other meanings beyond this, e.g. modality).\n\nThey can be translated into English e.g. by using an appropriate adverbial clause. There are many of them, with various meanings.\n\nAn interesting feature: they can have person and number. The person of the dependent action need not coincide with that of the main action. An example (meant in the British English usage of “shall / should” in the 1st person: here, conveying only conditional, but no necessity or morality):\n\nAnother example (with a different adverbial participle):\nThey will be discussed in more details below.\n\nAn adverbial participle “explaining reason, purpose or circumstance of action” is expressed by suffix -- / -- (followed by appropriate person-number suffix). Examples:\n\nAnother example, with a somewhat different usage:\n\nUsing the adverbial participle -- / --, the dependent action (expressed by the adverbial participle in the sentence element called adverbial) finishes just before the main action (expressed by the verb in the sentence element called predicate) begins.\n\nIt can be expressed by suffix --. Examples:\nwhere\n\nAnother example:\n\nDependent action is conditional: it does not takes place, although it would (either really, or provided that some—maybe irreal—conditions would hold). Confer also conditional sentence.\n\nSireniki Eskimo has several adverbial participles to express that. We can distinguish them according to the concerned condition (conveyed by the dependent action): it may be\n\nIt is expressed with suffix -- / --, let us see e.g. a paradigm beginning with (if I get off / depart); (if you get off / depart):\n\nConfer counterfactual conditional. Sireniki can compress it into an adverbial participle: it is expressed with suffix -- / --.\n\nThe dependent action is expressed with an adverbial participle. The main action is conveyed by the verb. If also the main action is conditional (a typical usage), than it can be expressed with a verb of conditional mood. The persons need not coincide.\n\nAn example (meant in the British English usage of “shall / should” in the 1st person: here, conveying only conditional, but no necessity or morality):\n\nThe example in details:\n\nDependent action:\n\nThere are more kinds of them.\nThey can be used not only in attributive role (as in the above examples), but also in predicative role:\n\nAdjectival participle - / - conveys a meaning related rather to modality (than to the relation of dependent action and main action). It conveys meaning “able to”.\n\nSireniki is (just like many Eskimo languages) an ergative–absolutive language. For English-language materials treating this feature of Sireniki, see Vakhtin's book, or see online a paper treating a relative Eskimo language.\n\nAlthough the below examples are taken from Inuit Eskimo languages (Kalaallisut), but e.g. Sireniki's distinguishing between two kinds of 3rd person suffixes can be concerned, too (remember section #Person above: there is a distinct reflexive (“own”-like) and an “another person”-like 3rd person suffix).\n\nFor a detailed theoretical treatment concerning the notions of topic (and anaphora, and binding), with Eskimo-related examples, see online Maria Bittner's works, especially.\n\nFor a treatment of \"obviation\" in (among others) Eskimo languages, see online and in more details (also online) from the same authors.\n\nSee also.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34399818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34399818", "title": "Telugu Association of North America", "text": "Telugu Association of North America\n\nTelugu Association of North America (also referred to as TANA) is a non-profit organization and is one of oldest Indo-American national level organisation primarily for networking of Telugu people in the North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "58093079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58093079", "title": "The Magnitsky Act – Behind the Scenes", "text": "The Magnitsky Act – Behind the Scenes\n\nThe Magnitsky Act – Behind the Scenes is a 2016 docudrama feature film directed by Andrei Nekrasov, concerning the 2009 death in a Moscow prison cell, after 11 months in police custody, of 37-year-old Russian tax accountant Sergei Magnitsky. In 2007, Magnitsky was hired by American-born British financier Bill Browder to investigate the government's seizure of three of Browder's Russian subsidiaries. Discovering evidence of embezzlement, Magnitsky implicated two senior police officers in a tax rebate scam that used shell corporations plundered from Browder's holdings to defraud the Russian treasury of $230 million. Subordinates of those officials then arrested Magnitsky and charged him with the very crime he had exposed.\n\nAfter initially presenting this widely accepted narrative, \"The Magnitsky Act – Behind the Scenes\" proposes a counternarrative that, as \"The Guardian\" relates, \"Magnitsky was not beaten while in police custody, and that he did not make any specific allegations against individuals in his testimony to Russian authorities.\" By suggesting that Magnitsky was, as paraphrased by \"The New York Times\", \"an accomplice rather than a victim,\" the documentary has provoked international controversy. The film takes its title from the Magnitsky Act, a bipartisan bill passed by the U.S. Congress and signed by President Barack Obama in 2012, designed to punish Russian officials allegedly responsible for Magnitsky's death.\n\nThe film is a co-production of German public television broadcaster ZDF, Wingman Media ApS, and Illume OY, with support from the Norwegian Film Institute, Nordisk Film & TV Fond, Finnish Film Foundation, Fritt Ord Foundation, Hinterland AS, and Stiftelsen Matriark Foundation. \n\nThe Prosecutor General of Russia and the Interior Ministry of Russia did not respond to the filmmaker's requests to share materials relevant to the investigation.\n\nThe film's premiere was set for the European Parliament in Brussels on April 27, 2016. The event was organized by Finnish Green Party politician and MEP Heidi Hautala. In 2010, Hautala introduced her then-boyfriend Andrei Nekrasov to Bill Browder. Now Nekrasov had made a film featuring extensive interview footage of Browder and challenging his single-handed control of the Magnitsky narrative.\n\nAt the eleventh hour, the premiere was canceled. \"The New York Times\" said threats of libel suits from Bill Browder accusing Nekrasov of defaming both him and Magnitsky had accompanied the cancellation. Nekrasov blamed two last-minute interventions. The first was from MEP Marieluise Beck, unhappy because Nekrasov refused to remove her interview segment from his film. The second objection, which Nekrasov considered decisive, came from the film's principal sponsor, German public television broadcaster ZDF. Along with its French public television subsidiary Arte, ZDF also shelved the film a few days before its scheduled telecast. \n\n\"The Magnitsky Act – Behind the Scenes\" premiered in Oslo, Norway in June 2016.\n\nIn June 2016, \"The New York Times\" reported that the film was \"generating a furor.\" On June 13, it was shown by invitation only at the Newseum, a private museum in Washington, D.C. dedicated to the news industry. \"The Washington Post\" called it part of \"a campaign to discredit Browder and the Magnitsky Act.\" Lawyers for Browder and Sergei Magnitsky's mother demanded that the screening be canceled. \"The New York Times\" said showing it at the Newseum, which \"sits on Pennsylvania Avenue in the shadow of the Capitol,\" was \"especially controversial because it could attract lawmakers or their aides.\" Besides congressional staffers, invitees included representatives from the United States Department of State and the White House National Security Council.\"\n\n\"The Daily Beast\" reported that Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with Donald Trump Jr. four days earlier to criticize the Magnitsky Act, paid for and attended the Newseum screening, to which Congressman Dana Rohrabacher, a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, was invited to \"try to recruit him to the Russian cause.\"\n\nWhen management refused to cancel the event, \"The Nation\" wrote that \"the Newseum deserves great credit for sticking to its principles,\" adding that \"the film provides a valuable service by asking how it is that American (and European) officials bought Browder's story without doing even the slightest due diligence. The American and European legislators who took Browder's version of events on faith now look credulous, at best.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\", however, editorialized, \"The film is a piece of agitprop that mixes fact and fiction to blame Magnitsky for the fraud and absolve Russians of blame for his death.\" According to \"The Post\", \"Mr. Nekrasov declares, 'Magnitsky wasn't a whistleblower. Magnitsky did not accuse any police officers. Magnitsky did not even investigate anything.' He adds, 'The young man died in a Russian prison. I do not believe it was murder. It was a case of negligence and the Russian system is to blame in many ways, but it wasn't murder; he wasn't murdered by the Russian state as Mr. Browder claims.' This is just what President Vladimir Putin and his honchos want the West to hear.\"\n\n\"The Post\" predicted, \"The film won't grab a wide audience but it offers yet another example of the Kremlin's increasingly sophisticated efforts to spread its illiberal values and mind-set abroad. In the European Parliament and on French and German television networks, showings were put off recently after questions were raised about the accuracy of the film, including by Magnitsky's family. We don't worry that Mr. Nekrasov's film was screened here, in an open society. But it is important that such slick spin be fully exposed for its twisted story and sly deceptions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26062743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26062743", "title": "Valaikaapu", "text": "Valaikaapu\n\nValaikaapu [வளைகாப்பு] is a ceremony and celebration held by Hindu, Muslim and Christian women in Tamil Nadu, and Telangana meant to bless a pregnant woman, celebrate her fertility, and ensure a safe birth. It is hosted by the pregnant woman's mother and father during the third trimester of the pregnancy. \n. Hindu women will be worn with bangles in both the hands in odd numbers. It is believed that the bangle sound induces the child's senses The women put red and green glass bangles on the mother-to-be’s wrists, sing hymns and songs and put vermilion on her forehead. The woman then rests at her parents' home for the final weeks of her pregnancy.\n\nThe purpose of the ceremony is to honour and protect the pregnant woman, who is seen as vulnerable to the evil eye, malign spirits and ghosts, and to ensure the birth of a healthy child. Valaikaapu was originally a simple ceremony, mainly limited to the exchange of bangles. But as valaikaapu became more widely practiced, it grew more lavish, and since the 1980s has been celebrated by most, according to anthropologists who have studied the practice, with \"magnificence and sumptuousness,\" with gifts including jewellery, saris, household appliances, mobile phones and gold ornaments.\n\nSimilar ceremonies are held in other parts of India and in Pakistan, including among Bengali women, Marathi and Konkani women (who call the ceremony Dohale Jevan [डोहाळे जेवण]), Punjabi women (who call it Godh-Bharai), Sindhi women, and Marwari women.\n"}
{"id": "22707751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707751", "title": "Yngsjö murder", "text": "Yngsjö murder\n\nThe Yngsjö murder occurred on 28 March 1889 in Yngsjö, Sweden. Hanna Johansdotter (born 1867) was murdered by her husband Per Nilsson and his mother Anna Månsdotter (born 28 December 1841), who became known as Yngsjömörderskan (in English: The Yngsjö Murderess). Both were sentenced to death for the murder, and Månsdotter became the last woman in Sweden to be executed.\n\nThe circumstances of the murder are not entirely clear, as both Månsdotter and her son gave several different explanations for it. In later years it has been suggested that she carried out the murder alone. During the trial it came to light that she had a sexual relationship with her son, and that this eventually led to the murder. It is believed that she murdered her daughter-in-law because of jealousy, and that she did this with her son's consent.\n\nAnna Månsdotter had married Nils Nilsson, 13 years her elder, expecting a wealthy future, but they had become poor and afflicted with debts. She had three children, of which only one, her son Per, lived to adulthood. Anna's spouse Nils died in 1883. She had arranged the marriage between Per and Hanna Johansdotter, possibly as a way to prevent the spread of rumours about incest. The marriage was not a happy one. Anna did not move in with her own mother, which had been the initial plan, and Hanna complained to her father that her mother-in-law was the cause of her unhappy marriage. One suggestion is that Hanna had discovered the sexual relationship between her husband and his mother, and that they together murdered her to prevent her from being able to tell anyone. One of many summaries given of the murder was that they beat her with a piece of wood, after which Anna strangled her. They then dressed her and placed her as if she had fallen down the stairs.\n\nMånsdotter was executed on the district jail grounds in Kristianstad on 7 August 1890 by executioner Albert Gustaf Dahlman. Per Nilsson was pardoned from his death sentence and was instead sentenced to hard labour for the rest of his life. He was however released in 1913 and died of tuberculosis in 1918.\n\nThe Yngsjö Murder has been portrayed in numerous movies and books over the years:\n\n\n"}
