{"id": "57710376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57710376", "title": "2018 in rock music", "text": "2018 in rock music\n\nThis article summarizes the events related to rock music for the year of 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56667134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56667134", "title": "2019 European Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships", "text": "2019 European Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships\n\nThe 2019 European Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships will take place in Liptovský Mikuláš, Slovakia from 18 to 21 July 2019 under the auspices of the European Canoe Association (ECA) at the Ondrej Cibak Whitewater Slalom Course. It will be the 21st edition of the competition for Juniors (U18) and the 17th edition for the Under 23 category. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "245909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245909", "title": "597 BC", "text": "597 BC\n\nThe year 597 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 157 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 597 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "188686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188686", "title": "Alternative 3", "text": "Alternative 3\n\nAlternative 3 is a television programme, broadcast once only in the United Kingdom in 1977, and later broadcast in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand, as a fictional hoax, an heir to Orson Welles' radio production of \"The War of the Worlds\". Purporting to be an investigation into the UK's contemporary \"brain drain\", \"Alternative 3\" uncovered a plan to make the Moon and Mars habitable in the event of climate change and a terminal environmental catastrophe on Earth.\n\nThe programme was originally meant to be broadcast on April Fools' Day, 1977. While its broadcast was delayed until June 20, the credits explicitly date the film to April 1. \"Alternative 3\" ended with credits for the actors involved in the production and featured interviews with a fictitious American astronaut.\n\nThe programme was presented as an edition of an Anglia TV series called \"Science Report\". The intended transmission date was April 1, but it seems that Anglia was unable to obtain an ITV network slot for the programme on that date due to strike action/labour disputes. The script was written by Chris Miles and David Ambrose. Music was supplied by Brian Eno, a portion of his score being released on the album \"Music for Films\" (1978). Apart from the presenter Tim Brinton, all the characters in the programme were played by actors who were explicitly credited at the end.\n\nThe episode began by detailing the so-called \"brain drain:\" a number of mysterious disappearances and deaths of physicists, engineers, astronomers, and others in related fields. Among the strange deaths reported was that of one \"Professor Ballantine\" of Jodrell Bank. Before his death, Ballantine delivers a videotape to a friend in the press, but upon playback the tape appears to contain only static.\n\nAccording to the research presented in the episode, it was hypothesized that the missing scientists were involved in a secret American/Soviet plan in outer space, and further suggested that interplanetary space travel had been possible for much longer than was commonly accepted. The episode featured an Apollo astronaut \"Bob Grodin\" (played by Shane Rimmer) who claims to have stumbled on a mysterious lunar base during his moonwalk.\n\nIt was claimed that scientists had determined that the Earth's surface would be unable to support life for much longer, due to pollution leading to catastrophic climate change. Physicist \"Dr Carl Gerstein\" (played by Richard Marner) claimed to have proposed in 1957 that there were three alternatives to this problem. The first alternative was the drastic reduction of the human population on Earth. The second alternative was the construction of vast underground shelters to house government officials and a cross section of the population until the climate had stabilised, a solution reminiscent of the finale of \"Dr Strangelove\". The third alternative, the so-called \"Alternative 3,\" was to populate Mars via a on the Moon.\n\nThe programme ends with some detective work; acting on information from Grodin, the reporters determine that Ballantine's videotape requires a special decoding device. After locating the decoder, the resulting video turns out to depict a joint American and Russian landing on the Martian surface in 1962.\n\nThe programme was made with stock film used at the time to make it appear like a conventional documentary programme. In a 1989 interview, actor Richard Marner (Dr Carl Gerstein) said he didn't rehearse his lines to make the delivery appear as natural as possible.\n\nWithin minutes of the programme ending, Anglia Television was flooded with telephone calls demanding more information. Callers were told the programme was a hoax. \"The Times\" on 21 June reported that \"Independent television companies last night received hundreds of protest calls after an Anglia programme, \"Alternative 3\", gave alarming facts about changes in the Earth’s atmosphere. It was a hoax, originally intended for April 1st.\" It also pointed out that several of the characters in the programme were played by well known actors.\n\nNick Austin, who was editorial director of Sphere Books when Watkins' adaptation was commissioned and published, writes that the book was the \"best chance I’d ever be likely to get to participate in a hoax of truly Guy Grand proportions — the best thing of its kind since Orson Welles' \"War of the Worlds\" radio broadcast.\"\n\nAustin writes that he was both delighted and disturbed by the \"Alternative 3\" controversy, and adds that the reasons \"a clever hoax, openly admitted to be such by its creators, should continue to exercise the fascination it so obviously does the best part of a generation after its first appearance is beyond my feeble powers of analysis and explanation.\"\n\nA more detailed explanation of the hoax is featured in a study of conspiracy theory subculture and literature, \"A Culture of Conspiracy: Apocalyptic Visions in Contemporary America\" (2003), wherein Michael Barkun devotes a few pages to \"Alternative 3\".\n\nBarkun writes that \"\"Alternative 3\" was clearly a hoax — and not only because it was intended for broadcast on April Fools' Day. The interviews with supposed scientists, astronauts, and others were far too dramatically polished to have been spontaneous, and in any case, the episode's closing credits named the actors who took the roles of interviewees and correspondents. Though artfully produced, the show's counterfeit documentary style could scarcely have been expected to fool many. As an Anglia TV spokeseman put it, 'We felt viewers would be fairly sophisticated about it.'\"\n\nBarkun notes that television and newspapers were \"swamped\" with inquiries about \"Alternative 3\" and that Anglia Television's sale of the book rights to Leslie Watkins caused the tale to spread far beyond the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1978, Leslie Watkins wrote a science fiction book based on the screenplay for the television episode. Watkins had previously written a few moderately successful \"suspense thriller\" novels, and his \"Alternative 3\" novelization detailed many of the claims presented in the episode. It was published by Sphere Books Ltd, of Grays's Inn Road, London. In the book, many of the fictional characters were replaced with real people. For example, quotes from the fictional astronaut Bob Grodin were attributed to real life astronauts Buzz Aldrin and Edgar Mitchell.\n\nJim Keith's \"Casebook on Alternative 3: Ufo's, Secret Societies and World Control\" (Illuminet Pr) , argues that some elements of the 1977 broadcast were in fact true.\n\nKen Mitchell's novel, \"Alternative 3\" (HarperCollins) uses the Alternative 3 scenario as a background to a techno-thriller. \n\nOn June 20, 2010, the 33rd anniversary of the original Anglia Television broadcast, an allegedly \"unexpurgated\" edition of the \"Alternative 3\" text was released as an eBook. \n\nThe film was released on DVD in October 2007, together with a 30-minute featurette with presenter Tim Brinton and writers David Ambrose and Christopher Miles who also directed \"Alternative 3\"; a production stills gallery; and contemporary press cuttings presented in the form of slowly scrolling rostrum camera shots.\n\nThe film is taken from a 16mm print with optical sound. According to Miles in the featurette, this is his personal copy, and the only one to have survived.\n\nBarkun notes that \"Alternative 3\" and the intermittent availability of Watkins' book \"lent itself to conspiracist interpretations,\" and though \"Alternative 3\" did not mention UFOs or extraterrestrials, many of the plans mentioned in \"Alternative 3\" have been featured in later assorted conspiracy theories. Barkun argues that \"Alternative 3\" was important in that its \"role in the growth of conspiracy theory lay in a later permutation\" related to UFOs and the UFO conspiracy theory. Milton William Cooper, for one, featured similar tales in some of his writings.\n\nAn episode of \"Dimension X\" featured a plot very similar to the later \"Alternative 3\": On the 14 July 1950 episode \"The Man In the Moon\", an employee of the fictional United States \"Bureau of Missing Persons\" overhears a radio broadcast from a man who claims to be held prisoner on the Moon. The employee investigates, and uncovers the kidnapping of many persons, including scientists and engineers, who are then forced to toil on the Moon by German overseers, who had colonized the Moon in the late 1930s, and who are preparing an invasion and takeover of the Earth. In turn, the movie \"Iron Sky\" also tells the story of Nazi moon-bases and a planned Earth invasion.\n\nThe novel \"Sold for a Spaceship\" (1973) by Philip High is set in the aftermath of a global ecological catastrophe; a ruling elite who escaped into space attempt to return to Earth, but find that they are unable to survive, whereas those left behind have adapted.\n\nCanadian rocker Ian Thomas' 1979 song \"Pilot\" clearly has links to the Alternative 3 mythos.\n\nLiverpool doom metal band Anathema's 1998 album \"Alternative 4\" was also named after the programme.\n\nPsychedelic rock band Monster Magnet have a song about the conspiracy, titled \"Third Alternative\" on their \"Dopes to Infinity\" album.\n\nThe novel \"Stark\" by Ben Elton features a conspiracy of the rich and powerful to escape a doomed Earth which is very similar to that depicted in \"Alternative 3\".\n\nThe song \"Alternative Three\" on the album \"Karma Had It Coming\" by Nova Scotia punk rock band, The Broomhandles takes inspiration from the program.\n\nCosta Botes cited \"Alternative 3\" as one of the influences that inspired him to produce the New Zealand mockumentary \" Forgotten Silver\" with Peter Jackson.\n\nA character in Richard Linklater's 1991 film \"Slacker\", portrayed by Jerry Delony, claims that \"Alternative 3\" is \"absolutely true\" and that humans have been on Mars since 1962.\n\nUK punk rock band UFX released a video using allegedly hoax footage from Alternative 3, the Roswell alien autopsy and footage of Nazi flying saucers to accompany the title track of their 2013 album Reverse Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "22036904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22036904", "title": "Battle of Grolle", "text": "Battle of Grolle\n\nThe Battle of Grolle (Dutch: \"Slag om Grolle\") is a regular historical reenactment of the siege of the fortified border town of Groenlo (formerly known as \"Grol\" or \"Grolle\") in the Achterhoek in 1627 during the Dutch Revolt. It is held in and around Groenlo itself every two years. The event lasts for three days and features a historic battle reenactment and a historic fair, with reenactors from many European countries. During the event, the reenactors try to relive the conditions of 1627 as faithfully as possible, without electricity or heating, while eating traditional food.\n\nThe event was held for the first time in 2005, with around 350 reenactors, among which were pikemen, swordsmen, around 100 musketeers and working cannons. In October 2008 the event was held for a second time, this time featuring more than 600 reenactors from France, Germany, England, Scotland, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands. The 2008 event included cavalry, 21 working cannons and more than 250 musketeers. The 'Grols Kanon', left behind as a gift to the people of Grol by Frederik Hendrik in 1627, was also used. The Montferland folk music group 'Het Gezelschap' even composed the song \"Grol\" as a theme song for the 2008 event. In the streets of Groenlo itself a 17th-century atmosphere is recreated, with beggars, street rascals, lepers, musicians and artisans. More than 30,000 people came to visit the 2008 event, and it was thus decided by the organizers to hold it every two years. The latest re-enactment is October 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "19549705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19549705", "title": "Battle of Lake Huleh (1157)", "text": "Battle of Lake Huleh (1157)\n\nIn the Battle of Lake Huleh in June 1157, a Crusader army led by King Baldwin III of Jerusalem was ambushed and badly defeated by Nur ad-Din Zangi, the emir of Aleppo and Damascus. While the king and some fighting men escaped to a nearby castle, a large number were killed or made prisoner. The Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem escaped worse damage when their adversary became ill and was unable to follow up his victory. The Hula Valley is located in the northeast part of modern-day Israel. At the time of the battle, the area belonged to the Kingdom of Jerusalem. \n\nIn 1154, Nur ad-Din Zangi achieved his goal of seizing Damascus and welding Syria into a Zengid empire. Instead of confronting a group of Muslim emirates and being able to play them off against one another, the Crusader states (Kingdom of Jerusalem, County of Tripoli and Principality of Antioch) faced a unified threat to their existence. \n\nEach year, the Damascenes pastured large flocks in the area of Banias on the Franks' territory, whose permission they had secured. In February 1157, Baldwin unwisely attacked them, seizing the animals to pay his kingdom's debts. This act of aggression violated a truce. Infuriated, Nur ad-Din immediately began launching raids on the Franks in the vicinity. \n\nNur ad-Din laid siege to the fortified town of Banias at the foot of Mount Hermon. In June, King Baldwin III of Jerusalem assembled a Frankish army and marched to the relief of Banias and its Knights Hospitaller defenders. While Baldwin and his knights camped near Lake Huleh in the upper Jordan River valley, they were surprised and defeated by forces under Nur ad-Din. The chronicler William of Tyre noted that \"no watch was kept in the Latin camp.\" Historian R. C. Smail writes that the setback was caused by Baldwin's \"carelessness and lack of normal precaution when in the neighborhood of the enemy.\" Baldwin and his surviving soldiers took refuge in the nearby castle at Safad. Losses were considerable. Ibn al-Qalanisi wrote of many Crusader prisoners and severed heads being presented in a victorious celebration in Damascus. \n\nBeyond the heavy casualties suffered in the combat, few consequences attended the Christian defeat. Banias remained a Latin territory until 1164. Nur ad-Din fell ill soon after his victory, and in his absence, Baldwin mounted a campaign in northern Syria. The Franks failed in a siege of Shaizar but recovered the castle of Harim for the Principality of Antioch in the winter of 1157. This set the stage for Nur ad-Din's crushing victory over the Crusaders at the Battle of Harim in 1164. But the next conflict would be the Battle of al-Buqaia in 1163. \n\n"}
{"id": "28005986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28005986", "title": "Bishop Mule Days", "text": "Bishop Mule Days\n\nBishop Mule Days is an annual festival celebrating the mule, held in Bishop, California over a six-day period leading up to Memorial Day. More than 700 mules compete in 181 events and the largest non-motorized parade in the United States. It started as a small show in 1969 with a few hundred attendees and has grown to Bishop's largest event, attracting as many as 30,000 spectators. Among mule shows, Bishop Mule Days has been described as \"The Granddaddy of Them All\".\n\nBob Tallman has been the senior announcer of Bishop Mule Days for over 20 years.\nAlso included are an arts and crafts show, and a country and western musical concert. The featured musical performer in 2010 was Lonestar and country star Jerrod Niemann performed in 2013.\n\nThe annual Bishop Mule Days parade takes place on the Saturday morning before Memorial Day. The parade route runs north on U.S. Route 395 through downtown Bishop. No motorized vehicles or floats are allowed; all entries must either be on foot, or use mules or horses. The 2010 parade had 110 units, including 18 mule pack strings from commercial pack stations and government agencies including the United States Forest Service, the National Park Service and the Mountain Warfare Training Center operated by the United States Marine Corps. Many historic mule-drawn and horse-drawn vehicles participate. Although most parade units are from California, units from Idaho, Nevada, Iowa, Arizona, Oregon and Utah participated in 2010.\n\nGrand marshalls of the parade in past years have included Ronald Reagan and Norman Livermore.\n\nCompetitive events take place over a six-day period at the Tri-County Fairgrounds in Bishop. \"A full slate of competitive events is featured, including events such as barrel racing, calf roping, steer stopping, cow penning, flat racing, and carriage driving. Activities also range from packing to dressage, and from team chariot racing to mule shoeing contests.\"\nThere were nearly 220 classes in 2010.\n\nThe packing scramble is a competitive event unique to Bishop Mule Days. Mule pack strings enter the arena, and are unloaded and untethered. Rodeo cowboys then stampede the herd, firing blank gunshots. The event is described as a \"wild and wooly spectacular\" with \"more than one hundred horses and mules running loose in the arena.\" \"Teams of professional backcountry packers compete against each other for bragging rights. Each team must wrangle its own mules out of a herd in the arena, pack them correctly, and race around to the finish line as spectators whoop, cheer and jeer.\" The winning team is the one that is first to reassemble and reload its pack string, and lead it out of the arena.\n\n"}
{"id": "1575920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1575920", "title": "Bosnian crisis", "text": "Bosnian crisis\n\nThe Bosnian crisis of 1908–09, also known as the Annexation crisis or the First Balkan Crisis, erupted in early October 1908 when Austria-Hungary announced the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, territories formerly within the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire. This unilateral action—timed to coincide with Bulgaria's declaration of independence (5 October) from the Ottoman Empire—sparked protestations from all the Great Powers and Austria-Hungary's Balkan neighbours, Serbia and Montenegro. In April 1909 the Treaty of Berlin was amended to reflect the \"fait accompli\" and bring the crisis to an end. The crisis permanently damaged relations between Austria-Hungary on one hand and Serbia, Italy and the Russian Empire on the other. It helped lay the grounds for World War I. Although the crisis ended with what appeared to be a total Austro-Hungarian diplomatic victory, Russia became determined not to back down again and hastened its military build-up. Austrian–Serbian relations became permanently stressed.\n\nThe mid-1870s witnessed a series of violent rebellions against Ottoman rule in the Balkans, and equally violent and repressive responses from the Turks. The Russian Tsar, Alexander II, wanting to intervene against the Ottomans, sought and obtained an agreement with Austria-Hungary. In the Budapest Conventions of 1877, the two powers agreed that Russia would annex Bessarabia, and Austria-Hungary would observe a benevolent neutrality toward Russia in the pending war with the Turks. As compensation for this support, Russia agreed to Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina.\n\nShortly thereafter, the Russians declared war, and, after a few setbacks, drove the Turks relentlessly back to within a few miles of Constantinople. What stopped the Russians from driving the Turks completely out of Europe was the willingness of the other great powers, particularly Britain and Austria-Hungary, to enforce an earlier treaty, the London Straits Convention of 1841, which stated that the Straits of Constantinople would be closed to warships during time of war. This had the effect of bottling up the Russian fleet in the Black Sea, but would be worthless if Russian troops gained control of the straits by land. After their victory in the war, the Russians then imposed the Treaty of San Stefano on the Ottomans, which, in part, reneged on pledges made in the Budapest Convention and declared that Bosnia-Herzegovina would be jointly occupied by Russian and Austrian troops.\n\nThe treaty of San Stefano was overturned by the 1878 Treaty of Berlin. Under article 29, Austria-Hungary received special rights in the Ottoman Empire's provinces of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. Article 25 stated: \"The provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be occupied and administered by Austria-Hungary\", and continued \"Austria-Hungary reserves the right to maintain garrisons and to have military and trading roads over the whole area of that portion [the Sanjak of Novi Pazar] of the ancient Vilayet of Bosnia.\"\n\nThe Sanjak of Novi Pazar separated Montenegro from Serbia and prevented the geographic and political union of these two states which were often closely aligned. The Austrian occupation of the Sanjak was also significant because it provided Austria-Hungary with a staging area for possible future expansion towards the Aegean port of Salonika in Ottoman controlled Macedonia. The Bosnian population was already religiously divided among Muslims, Catholics and Orthodox Christians. Austria-Hungary exercised its rights, taking firm control of Bosnia-Herzegovina and jointly occupying the Sanjak of Novi Pazar together with the Ottoman Empire. The Treaty of Berlin allowed for sole Austrian occupation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, but did not specify a final disposition of the provinces. This omission was addressed in the Three Emperors' League treaty of 1881, where both Germany and Russia endorsed Austria's right to annex Bosnia-Herzegovina. However, by 1897, under the new Tsar, Nicholas II, the Russian Imperial government had managed, again, to withdraw its support for Austrian annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Russian Foreign Minister, Count Michael Muraviev, stated that an Austrian annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina would raise \"an extensive question requiring special scrutiny\".\n\nIn 1903 the King of Serbia was assassinated in a coup and the pro-Russian Karađorđević dynasty came to the throne. Power shifted to elements widely interested in expansion into Bosnia. These Serbs wanted to take over the Sanjak of Novi Pazar and Bosnia-Herzegovina from the Austro-Hungarians. Relations between Serbia and Austria-Hungary gradually deteriorated. However, Russia's ability to support Serbia was greatly reduced following military humiliation in the 1905 Russo-Japanese War and the ensuing internal unrest. \n\nBy 1907, Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister Alois Aehrenthal began formulating a plan to solidify Austria-Hungary's position towards Serbia through annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina. His opportunity came in the form of a letter from Russian Foreign Minister Alexander Izvolsky and a subsequent meeting at Buchlau castle in Moravia, Austria-Hungary.\n\nOn 2 July 1908, Russian Foreign Minister Alexander Izvolsky sent a letter to Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister Alois Aehrenthal and proposed a discussion of reciprocal changes to the 1878 Treaty of Berlin in favour of the Russian interest in the Straits of Constantinople and Austro-Hungarian interests in the annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. On 14 July Aehrenthal responded with guarded acceptance of the proposed discussions. On 10 September, after long and complex discussions within the Imperial Government discussing the Izvolsky proposals to Austria-Hungary, Aehrenthal outlined a slightly different set of counter-proposals to him: he proposed that in exchange for a friendly Russian attitude when Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia-Herzegovina, Austria-Hungary would then withdraw its troops from the Sanjak. The letter then went on to offer to discuss, as a separate matter, the Straits question, on a friendly basis. Aehrenthal proposed that should agreement on Bosnia-Herzegovina be reached, his Government would not – should the Russians subsequently propose to assert a right of their Black Sea fleet to both use and protect their access to the Mediterranean through the Bosporus – automatically decide with the other powers to support collectively the Ottoman Empire's opposition (up to and including war) to such a proposal.\n\nOn 16 September, Izvolsky and Aehrenthal met face-to-face at Buchlovice Castle. No minutes were taken during these private meetings which lasted a total of six hours. Izvolsky accepted the responsibility to write up the conclusions of the meeting and forward them to Aehrenthal. On 21 September, Aehrenthal wrote to Izvolsky asking for this document to which Izvolsky replied two days later that the document had been sent to the Czar for approval. This document, if it ever existed, has never been produced.\n\nBy Aehrenthal's account given by Albertini, Izvolsky agreed that Russia would maintain \"a friendly and benevolent attitude\" if Austria-Hungary were to annex Bosnia-Herzegovina. Reciprocally, should Russia move to open \"the Straits to single ships of war\", Austria-Hungary would maintain a benevolent attitude. The two agreed that a likely consequence of the annexation was that Bulgaria, which was \"de facto\" independent since 1878, would declare its formal independence from the Ottoman Empire. Austria-Hungary would offer no territorial concessions to Serbia or Montenegro, but if they supported the annexation then Austria-Hungary would not oppose Serbian expansion in the Balkans, and would support the Russian demand to revise Article 29 of the Treaty of Berlin which restricted Montenegrin sovereignty. The parties agreed that \"these changes could receive sanction after negotiation with the Porte and the Powers\", but \"there would be no more talk of Bosnia-Herzegovina.\" Annexation would probably take place at the beginning of October. The original of Aehrenthal's account has not been found and so historians have had to make do with an undated office copy of the document.\n\nOn 30 September, Austria-Hungary informed Izvolsky, who was in Paris at the time, that the annexation would take place on 7 October. On 4 October, Izvolsky prepared a report at the request of the British Ambassador to France, Francis Bertie. Izvolsky stated that his position was that annexation was a matter to be settled between the signatories to the Treaty of Berlin. With the compensation of Austro-Hungarian withdrawal from the Sanjak of Novi Pazar, Russia would not consider the annexation as reason to go to war, but Russia and other governments would insist on changes to the Treaty favorable to themselves, including opening the Straits (Russia's interest), Bulgarian independence, territorial concessions to Serbia, and abolition of restrictions on Montenegrin sovereignty under article 29. Bertie told British Foreign Minister Grey that he felt Izvolsky was not being completely honest about the context whereby these understandings had come to be reached through his \"diplomacy.\"\n\nOn 6 October, the day after Bulgaria declared its independence from the Ottoman Empire, Emperor Franz Joseph announced to the people of this Ottoman territory (that had been occupied by Austria for 30 years) his determination to recognize and grant them an autonomous and constitutional regime, under his authority as their annexing sovereign. The following day, Austria-Hungary announced its withdrawal from the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. Bulgarian independence and the Bosnian annexation were not covered by the Treaty of Berlin and set off a flurry of diplomatic protests and discussions.\n\nSerbia mobilized its army and on 7 October the Serbian Crown Council demanded that the annexation be reversed or, failing that, Serbia should receive compensation, which it defined on 25 October as a strip of land across the northernmost portion of the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. In the end these demands were rejected. Serbia took control of the Sanjak after the Balkan wars.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire protested Bulgaria's declaration of independence with more vigor than the annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, which it had no practical prospects of governing. A boycott of Austro-Hungarian goods and shops did occur, inflicting commercial losses of over 100,000,000 \"kronen\" on Austria-Hungary. On 26 February, Austria-Hungary settled the matter in a treaty. Austria-Hungary agreed to pay the Ottomans 2.2 million Ottoman lira for the public land in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Bulgarian independence could not be reversed.\n\nThe annexation and Bulgarian declaration were viewed as violations of the Treaty of Berlin. France, Britain, Russia and Italy therefore were in favor of a conference to consider the matter. German opposition and complex diplomatic maneuvering as to the location, nature and preconditions of the conference delayed and ultimately scuttled it. Instead, the Powers reached agreement on amendments to the Treaty through consultations between capitals.\n\nItaly expected compensations in the areas of \"Italia Irredenta\" ruled by Austria-Hungary in exchange for its recognition of the annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, as was agreed upon in the Triple Alliance treaties with Austria-Hungary. However this did not happen and this became one of the reasons for Italy to break its alliance with Austria-Hungary in 1915. The mutual compensation clause was article 7 of the 1909 and of 5 December 1912 versions of the same treaty:\n\nHowever, if, in the course of events, the maintenance of the status quo in the regions of the Balkans or of the Ottoman coasts and islands in the Adriatic and in the Aegean Sea should become impossible, and if, whether in consequence of the action of a third Power or otherwise, Austria-Hungary or Italy should find themselves under the necessity of modifying it by a temporary or permanent occupation on their part, this occupation shall take place only after a previous agreement between the two Powers, based upon the principle of a reciprocal compensation for every advantage, territorial or other, which each of them might obtain beyond the present status quo, and giving satisfaction to the interests and well founded claims of the two Parties.\n\nBritish opposition to amending the Treaty of Berlin with respect to the Straits left Russia empty-handed and therefore Izvolsky and the Czar regarded the annexation and Aehrenthal's maneuvers as made in bad faith. Cognizant of Aehrenthal's rumored Jewish heritage, Izvolsky exploded, remarking \"The dirty Jew has deceived me. He lied to me, he bamboozled me, that frightful Jew.\" To bring Izvolsky to heel, Austria-Hungary threatened to release and then ultimately began leaking documents, in which, over the course of the previous 30 years, Russia had agreed that Austria-Hungary had a free hand to do as it liked with Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. These documents were an embarrassment to Russia, especially with regard to its relations with Serbia. Czar Nicholas II wrote to Emperor Franz-Joseph and accused Austria-Hungary of betraying a confidence and relations between the two countries were permanently damaged. Under Germany's advice, Austria-Hungary kept in confidence the 2 July and 23 September correspondence from Izvolsky to Aehrenthal and these were a continued threat to Izvolsky's position if Russia did not firmly and publicly accept amendment of Article 25 of the Treaty of Berlin to accept the annexation. On 22 March, Germany put Russia on the spot, demanding that Russia give a clear and unequivocal \"yes\" or \"no\" as to whether it committed to accept this amendment. Failure to give a positive reply would cause Germany to withdraw from the diplomatic discussions \"and let things take their course\". Under such pressure, Izvolsky caved and advised the cabinet to accept the amendment of Article 25 for fear that otherwise Austria would be free to act against Serbia. The cabinet agreed. On 23 March the Czar accepted the decision and communicated the decision to German Ambassador to Russia Portales. Britain however was not quite ready to acquiesce and stated that it would do so only once \"the Serbian question had been settled in a pacific manner.\" France fell in line behind Britain.\n\nOn 26 March, Austria-Hungary provided Britain with the negotiated text of Serbia's March declaration committing Serbia to accept the annexation. It ran:\nThe next day Austria-Hungary asked for Britain's firm assurance that once the negotiations with Serbia were complete, Britain would accept the amendment of Article 25. Without such assurance Austria-Hungary stated it would break off negotiations with Serbia. Later that day Austria-Hungary decided to partially mobilize its armed forces. On 28 March Britain committed as requested. On 31 March Serbia made its formal declaration of acceptance to Austria-Hungary representing a complete Serbian climb down. The crisis was over. The Great Powers signed the amendments to the Treaty of Berlin in the various capitals from 7 April to 19 April.\n\nA little over a year later, as a result of this diplomatic defeat, Izvolsky was demoted and made ambassador to France. He was permanently embittered against Aehrenthal and the Central Powers. The Russian Diplomat and newspaperman de Schelking relates Izvolsky's political downfall: \"In the Salons of Petrograd he was given the Sobriquet 'Prince of the Bosphorus'. In his conceit, Izvolsky could not see he was being mocked.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25276829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25276829", "title": "Bribery Act 2010", "text": "Bribery Act 2010\n\nThe Bribery Act 2010 (c.23) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that covers the criminal law relating to bribery. Introduced to Parliament in the Queen's Speech in 2009 after several decades of reports and draft bills, the Act received the Royal Assent on 8 April 2010 following cross-party support. Initially scheduled to enter into force in April 2010, this was changed to 1 July 2011. The Act repeals all previous statutory and common law provisions in relation to bribery, instead replacing them with the crimes of bribery, being bribed, the bribery of foreign public officials, and the failure of a commercial organisation to prevent bribery on its behalf.\n\nThe penalties for committing a crime under the Act are a maximum of 10 years' imprisonment, along with an unlimited fine, and the potential for the confiscation of property under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, as well as the disqualification of directors under the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986. The Act has a near-universal jurisdiction, allowing for the prosecution of an individual or company with links to the United Kingdom, regardless of where the crime occurred. Described as \"the toughest anti-corruption legislation in the world\", concerns have been raised that the Act's provisions criminalise behaviour that is acceptable in the global market, and puts British business at a competitive disadvantage.\n\nPrior to the Act, British anti-bribery law was based on the Public Bodies Corrupt Practices Act 1889, the Prevention of Corruption Act 1906 and the Prevention of Corruption Act 1916, a body of law described as \"inconsistent, anachronistic and inadequate\". Following the Poulson affair in 1972, the Salmon Committee on Standards in Public Life recommended updating and codifying these statutes, but the government of the time took no action. Similar suggestions were brought up in the first report of the Committee on Standards in Public Life established by John Major in 1994, and the Home Office published a draft consultation paper in 1997, discussing extending anti-bribery and anti-corruption law. This was followed by the Law Commission's report \"Legislating the Criminal Code: Corruption\" in 1998. The consultation paper and report coincided with mounting criticism from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, who felt that, despite the United Kingdom's ratification of the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, its bribery laws were inadequate.\n\nA draft Bribery Bill was announced in the 2002 Queen's Speech, but was rejected by the joint committee examining it. A second consultation paper was issued in 2005 examining the committee's concerns, before the government announced in March that \"there was broad support for reform of the current law, but there was no consensus as to how this could be achieved\". Following a white paper in March 2009, the Bribery Bill, based on the Law Commission's 2008 report \"Reforming Bribery\", was announced in the Queen's Speech. Initially given all-party support after its introduction by Jack Straw in 2009, the Bill was, according to \"The Guardian\", subject to an attempted filibuster by Members of Parliament from the Conservative Party. This followed pressure from the Confederation of British Industry, who worried that the Bill in its original form would hamper the competitiveness of British industry.\n\nThe Bill was given Royal Assent on 8 April 2010, becoming the Bribery Act 2010, and was expected to come into force immediately. The government instead chose to hold several rounds of public consultations before announcing that it would come into force in April 2011. Following the publication of guidance by the Ministry of Justice, the act came into effect on 1 July 2011. The Ministry of Justice also released a Quick Start Guide, which highlights some key points of the Act. The Quick Start Guide also suggests companies to consult relevant bodies for advice, including the UK Trade and Investment, and the government sponsored Business Anti-Corruption Portal. In October 2011 Munir Patel, a clerk at Redbridge Magistrates Court, became the first person to be convicted under the Bribery Act, along with misconduct in a public office.\n\nSections 1 to 5 of the Act cover \"general bribery offences\". The crime of bribery is described in Section 1 as occurring when a person offers, gives or promises to give a \"financial or other advantage\" to another individual in exchange for \"improperly\" performing a \"relevant function or activity\". Section 2 covers the offence of being bribed, which is defined as requesting, accepting or agreeing to accept such an advantage, in exchange for improperly performing such a function or activity. \"Financial or other advantage\" is not defined in the Act, but, according to Aisha Anwar and Gavin Deeprose in the \"Scots Law Times\", \"could potentially encompass items such as contracts, non-monetary gifts and offers of employment\". The \"relevant function or activity\" element is explained in Section 3—it covers \"any function of a public nature; any activity connected with a business, trade or profession; any activity performed in the course of a person's employment; or any activity performed by or on behalf of a body of persons whether corporate or unincorporated\". This applies to both private and public industry, and encompasses activities performed outside the UK, even activities with no link to the country. The conditions attached are that the person performing the function could be expected to be performing it in good faith or with impartiality, or that an element of trust attaches to that person's role.\n\nUnder Section 4, the activity will be considered to be \"improperly\" performed when the expectation of good faith or impartiality has been breached, or when the function has been performed in a way not expected of a person in a position of trust. Section 5 provides that the standard in deciding what would be expected is what a reasonable person in the UK might expect of a person in such a position. Where the breach has occurred in a jurisdiction outside the UK, local practises or customs should be disregarded when deciding this, unless they form part of the \"written law\" of the jurisdiction; \"written law\" is given to mean any constitution, statute or judicial opinion set down in writing. The general offences also cover situations where the mere acceptance of such an advantage would constitute improperly performing relevant functions or activities.\n\nBribery of foreign public officials is a distinct crime under Section 6, in line with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention. A person will be guilty of this offence if they promise, offer or give a financial or other advantage to a foreign public official, either directly or through a third party, where such an advantage is not legitimately due. A foreign public official is defined, under Section 6(4), as \" an individual holding legislative, administrative or judicial posts or anyone carrying out a public function for a foreign country or the country's public agencies or an official or agent of a public international organisation\". The inclusion of \"through a third party\" is intended to prevent the use of go-betweens to avoid committing a crime, although if the written law of the country of the foreign public official allows or requires the official to accept the advantage offered, no crime will be committed. Unlike with general bribery offences, there is no requirement to show that the public official acted improperly as a result; this is a distinction between the Act and the Anti-Bribery Convention. The offence under Section 6 only applies to the briber, and not to the official who receives or agrees to receive such a bribe.\n\nSection 7 creates the \"broad and innovatory offence\" of the failure of commercial organisations to prevent bribery on their behalf. This applies to all commercial organisations which have business in the UK. Unlike corporate manslaughter, this does not only apply to the organisation itself; individuals and employees may also be found guilty. The offence is one of strict liability, with no need to prove any kind of intention or positive action. It is also one of vicarious liability; a commercial organisation can be guilty of the offence if the bribery is carried out by an employee, an agent, a subsidiary, or another third-party, as found in Section 8. The location of the third-party is irrelevant to the prosecution— according to David Aaronberg and Nichola Higgins in the \"Archbold Review\", \"therefore, a German business with retail outlets in the UK which pays a bribe in Spain could, in theory at least, face prosecution in the UK\". Under Section 7(2), the commercial organisation has a defence if it can show that, while bribery did take place, the commercial organisation had in place \"adequate procedures designed to prevent persons associated with [the organisation] from undertaking such conduct\". Under the Act's explanatory notes, the burden of proof in this situation is on the organisation, with the standard of proof being \"on the balance of probabilities\". \n\nGuidance was published by the Secretary of State three months before the Act came into force. The Guidance sets out 6 principles to be followed by business. They cover such topics as Proportionate Procedures, Top-level Commitment, Risk Assessment, Due Diligence, Communication (including training) and Monitoring & Review. The one firm conclusion to be drawn from the Guidance is that every commercial organisation that might be subject to the rigours of the Act needs to have a code of conduct in place that appropriately reflects the Guidance and to ensure its personnel are fully conversant with the risks and adequately trained. If it is then charged with the offence of failing to prevent bribery, it would be able to show evidence of the ‘adequate procedures’ which it will need in order to defend itself.\n\nSection 10 requires the authorisation of any prosecution by the director of the appropriate prosecution agency before a case can go ahead; this is a shift from the old regime, which required the consent of the Attorney General for England and Wales. Section 11 explains the penalties for individuals and companies found guilty of committing a crime. If an individual is found guilty of a bribery offence, tried as a summary offence, they may be imprisoned for up to 12 months and fined up to £5,000. Someone found guilty on indictment, however, faces up to 10 years' imprisonment and an unlimited fine. The crime of a commercial organisation failing to prevent bribery is punishable by an unlimited fine. In addition, a convicted individual or organisation may be subject to a confiscation order under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, while a company director who is convicted may be disqualified under the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986.\n\nThe scope of the Act's provisions is set out in Section 12. For someone to fall within the Act's purview, they must have either committed a crime inside the United Kingdom, or acted outside of the United Kingdom in a way which would have constituted a crime had it happened in the UK. For a prosecution in the latter case, the person must have a \"close connection\" to the UK, which includes being a British citizen, resident or protected person, a company incorporated in the UK, or a Scottish partnership. Section 13 provides the only defence available with the general bribery offences—that the conduct was necessary for the proper functioning of the intelligence services or, when engaged in active service, the armed forces. Under Section 14, senior officers or directors in a company which commits a general bribery offence will also be liable for the purposes of the Act. In the case of an offence committed by a partnership, Section 15 provides that the prosecution must be brought in the name of the partnership and not in the name of any of the partners.\n\nUnder Section 16, the Act applies to servants of the crown, while Section 17 repeals all previous common law and statutory offences relating to bribery, replacing them with provisions of the Act. Section 18 provides that the Act applies to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland; while the separate consent of the Scottish Parliament is usually required in such cases, as is made clear in Section 19, a Legislative Consent Motion was passed on 11 February 2010, allowing for the application of the Act within Scotland.\n\nThe Act has been described as \"the toughest anti-corruption legislation in the world\", raising the bar above the standard set by the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Despite being \"widely drafted and far-reaching in scope [and] in many ways an improvement upon earlier corruption legislation\", significant concerns have been raised, mainly around the fact that the Act may harm British industry's competitiveness in the global market. David Aaronberg and Nichola Higgins, writing in the \"Archbold Review\", argue that section 6 particularly has the potential to include actions which are ethically problematic but seen as legally permissible. Aisha Anwar and Gavin Deeprose in the \"Scots Law Times\" take a similar line, highlighting as particularly problematic areas corporate hospitality and facilitation payments, described as \"essentially a form of extortion on the payer and, although not a common feature in the UK, they are commonplace in many international jurisdictions\", which may fall under the scope of the Act despite being permissible in the commercial world.\n\nIn May 2018, the House of Lords appointed a select committee to report on the Act. The current membership is as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158196", "title": "Committee", "text": "Committee\n\nA committee (or \"commission\") is a body of one or more persons that is subordinate to a deliberative assembly. Usually, the assembly sends matters into a committee as a way to explore them more fully than would be possible if the assembly itself were considering them. Committees may have different functions and their type of work differ depending on the type of the organization and its needs.\n\nA deliberative assembly may form a committee (or \"commission\") consisting of one or more persons to assist with the work of the assembly. For larger organizations, much work is done in committees. Committees can be a way to formally draw together people of relevant expertise from different parts of an organization who otherwise would not have a good way to share information and coordinate actions. They may have the advantage of widening viewpoints and sharing out responsibilities. They can also be appointed with experts to recommend actions in matters that require specialized knowledge or technical judgment.\n\nCommittees can serve several different functions:\n\n\nGenerally, committees are required to report to their parent body. Committees do not usually have the power to act independently unless the body that created it gives it such power.\n\nWhen a committee is formed, a chairman (or \"chair\" or \"chairperson\") is designated for the committee. Sometimes a vice-chairman (or similar name) is also appointed. It is common for the committee chairman to organize its meetings. Sometimes these meetings are held through videoconferencing or other means if committee members are not able to attend in person, as may be the case if they are in different parts of the country or the world.\n\nThe chairman is responsible for running meetings. Duties include keeping the discussion on the appropriate subject, recognizing members to speak, and confirming what the committee has decided (through voting or by unanimous consent). Using \"Roberts Rules of Order Newly Revised\" (RONR), committees may follow informal procedures (such as not requiring motions if it's clear what is being discussed). The level of formality depends on the size and type of committee, in which sometimes larger committees considering crucial issues may require more formal processes.\n\nMinutes are a record of the decisions at meetings. They can be taken by a person designated as the secretary. For most organizations, committees are not required to keep formal minutes. However, some bodies require that committees take minutes, especially if the committees are public ones subject to open meeting laws.\n\nCommittees may meet on a regular basis, such as weekly or more often, or meetings may be called irregularly as the need arises. The frequency of the meetings depend on the work of the committee and the needs of the parent body.\n\nWhen the committee completes its work, it provides the results in a report to its parent body. The report may include the methods used, the facts uncovered, the conclusions reached, and any recommendations. If the committee is not ready to report, it may provide a partial report or the assembly may discharge the committee of the matter so that the assembly can handle it. Also, if members of the committee are not performing their duties, they may be removed or replaced by the appointing power. Whether the committee continues to exist after presenting its report depends on the type of committee. Generally, committees established by the bylaws or the organization's rules continue to exist, while committees formed for a particular purpose go out of existence after the final report.\n\nIn parliamentary procedure, the motion to commit (or refer) is used to refer another motion—usually a main motion—to a committee.\n\nA motion to commit should specify to which committee the matter is to be referred, and if the committee is a special committee appointed specifically for purposes of the referred motion, it should also specify the number of committee members and the method of their selection, unless that is specified in the bylaws.\n\nAny proposed amendments to the main motion that are pending at the time the motion is referred to a committee go to the committee as well.\n\nOnce referred, but before the committee reports its recommendations back to the assembly, the referred motion may be removed from the committee's consideration by the motion to discharge a committee.\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, a motion to recommit can be made with or without instructions. If the motion is made without instructions, the bill or resolution is simply sent back to the committee. If the motion is made with instructions and the motion is agreed to, the chairman of the committee in question will immediately report the bill or resolution back to the whole House with the new language. In this sense, a motion to recommit with instructions is effectively an amendment.\n\nIn \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" (RONR), the motion to commit has three variations which do not turn a question over to a smaller group, but simply permit the assembly's full meeting body to consider it with the greater freedom of debate that is allowed to committees. These forms are to go into a committee of the whole, to go into a quasi committee of the whole, and to consider informally. Passing any of these motions removes the limitations on the number of times a member can speak. \"The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure\" has informal consideration, but does not have \"committee of the whole\" and \"quasi committee of the whole\".\n\nIn \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\", the motion to discharge a committee is used to take a matter out of a committee's hands before the committee has made a final report on it. A committee can use this motion to discharge a subcommittee.\n\nThe vote required is a majority vote if the committee has failed to report at the prescribed time or if the assembly is considering a partial report of the committee. Otherwise, it requires a majority vote with previous notice; or a two-thirds vote; or a majority of the entire membership.\n\nUnder \"The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure\", the assembly that has referred a motion or a matter to a committee may, by a majority vote, withdraw it at any time from the committee, refer it to another committee, or decide the question itself.\n\nOrganizations with a large board of directors (such as international labor unions, large corporations with thousands of stock holders or national and international organizations) may have a smaller body of the board, called an \"executive committee\", handle its business. The executive committee may function more like a board than an actual committee. In any case, an executive committee can only be established through a specific provision in the charter or bylaws of the entity (i.e. a board cannot appoint an executive committee without authorization to do so). Members of the executive committee may be elected by the overall franchised membership or by the board, depending on the rules of the organization. However formed, an executive committee only has such powers and authority that the governing documents of the organization give it. In some cases, it may be empowered to act on behalf of the board or organization, while in others, it may only be able to make recommendations.\n\nGovernments at the national level may have a \"conference committee\". A conference committee in a bicameral legislature is responsible for creating a compromise version of a particular bill when each house has passed a different version.\n\nA conference committee in the United States Congress is a temporary panel of negotiators from the House of Representatives and the Senate. Unless one chamber decides to accept the other's original bill, the compromise version must pass both chambers after leaving the conference committee. The committee is usually composed of the senior members of the standing committees that originally considered the legislation in each chamber.\n\nOther countries that use conference committees include France, Germany, Japan, and Switzerland. In Canada, conference committees have been unused since 1947.\n\nIn organizations, the term \"conference committee\" may have a different meaning. This meaning may be associated with the conferences, or conventions, that the organization puts together. The committees that are responsible for organizing such events may be called \"conference committees\".\n\nA \"standing committee\" is a subunit of a political or deliberative body established in a permanent fashion to aid the parent assembly in accomplishing its duties. A standing committee is granted its scope and powers over a particular area of business by the governing documents. Standing committees meet on a regular or irregular basis depending on their function, and retain any power or oversight originally given them until subsequent official actions of the governing body (through changes to law or by-laws) disbands the committee.\n\nMost governmental legislative committees are standing committees. The phrase is used in the legislatures of the following countries:\nUnder the laws of the United States of America, a standing committee is a Congressional committee permanently authorized by United States House of Representatives and United States Senate rules. The Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 greatly reduced the number of committees, and set up the legislative committee structure still in use today, as modified by authorized changes via the orderly mechanism of rules changes.\n\nExamples of standing committees in organizations are an audit committee, an elections committee, a finance committee, a fundraising committee, a governance committee, and a program committee. Typically, the standing committees perform their work throughout the year and present their reports at an annual meeting of the organization. These committees continue to exist after presenting their reports, although the membership in the committees may change.\n\nA \"nominating committee\" (or nominations committee) is a group formed for the purpose of nominating candidates for office or the board in an organization. It may consist of members from inside the organization. Sometimes a governance committee takes the role of a nominating committee. Depending on the organization, this committee may be empowered to actively seek out candidates or may only have the power to receive nominations from members and verify that the candidates are eligible.\n\nA nominating committee works similarly to an electoral college, the main difference being that the available candidates, either nominated or \"written in\" outside of the committee's choices, are then voted into office by the membership. It is a part of governance methods often employed by corporate bodies, business entities, and social and sporting groups, especially clubs. The intention is that they be made up of qualified and knowledgeable people representing the best interests of the membership. In the case of business entities, their directors will often be brought in from outside, and receive a benefit for their expertise.\n\nIn the context of nominations for awards, a nominating committee can also be formed for the purpose of nominating persons or things held up for judgment by others as to their comparative quality or value, especially for the purpose of bestowing awards in the arts, or in application to industry's products and services. The objective being to update, set, and maintain high and possibly new standards.\n\nA \"steering committee\" is a committee that provides guidance, direction and control to a project within an organization. The term is derived from the steering mechanism that changes the steering angle of a vehicle's wheels.\n\nProject steering committees are frequently used for guiding and monitoring IT projects in large organizations, as part of project governance. The functions of the committee might include building a business case for the project, planning, providing assistance and guidance, monitoring the progress, controlling the project scope and resolving conflicts.\n\nAs with other committees, the specific duties and role of the steering committee vary among organizations.\n\nA \"special committee\" (or working, select, or ad hoc committee) is established to accomplish a particular task or to oversee a specific area in need of control or oversight. Many are research or coordination committees in type or purpose, and are temporary. Some are a sub-group of a larger society with a particular area of interest which are organized to meet and discuss matters pertaining to their interests. For example, a group of astronomers might be organized to discuss how to get the larger society to address near earth objects. A subgroup of engineers and scientists of a large project's development team could be organized to solve some particular issue with offsetting considerations and trade-offs. Once the committee makes its final report to its parent body, the special committee ceases to exist.\n\nA committee that is a subset of a larger committee is called a \"subcommittee\". Committees that have a large workload may form subcommittees to further divide the work. Subcommittees report to the parent committee and not to the general assembly.\n\nWhen the entire assembly meets as a committee to discuss or debate, this is called a \"committee of the whole\". This is not an actual committee but a procedural device that is more commonly used in legislative bodies.\n\nCentral Committee was the common designation of a standing administrative body of communist parties, analogous to a board of directors, whether ruling or non-ruling in the 20th century and of surviving communist states in the 21st century. In such party organizations the committee would typically be made up of delegates elected at a party congress. In those states where it constituted the state power, the Central Committee made decisions for the party between congresses, and usually was (at least nominally) responsible for electing the Politburo. In non-ruling Communist parties, the Central Committee is usually understood by the party membership to be the ultimate decision-making authority between Congresses once the process of democratic centralism has led to an agreed-upon position\n\n"}
{"id": "9618668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9618668", "title": "Concert Artist Recordings", "text": "Concert Artist Recordings\n\nConcert Artist/Fidelio Recordings was a British classical music record label, situated in Royston, Hertfordshire, England, and owned and operated by William Barrington-Coupe. It is best known for selling unauthorized copies of commercial recordings by other artists as the work of pianists Sergio Fiorentino and Barrington-Coupe's late wife, Joyce Hatto. Barrington-Coupe's long history in the music world includes time with Saga Films and Records and pop record producer Joe Meek. The company issued recordings from 1955 until 2007.\n\nThe Concert Artist label received increased attention in its last years as it released over 100 CDs of highly acclaimed piano recordings attributed to Joyce Hatto. After a great deal of speculation, discussion and allegations, on 26 February 2007 Barrington-Coupe admitted fraud and plagiarism regarding his recently deceased wife's recent recordings. Joyce Hatto CDs released by Concert Artist are in fact plagiarised commercial recordings by other pianists on different labels. Some light editing and processing had been made to the Concert Artist releases in an effort to disguise the original recording's source.\n\nSome of the Concert Artist recordings attributed to Sergio Fiorentino have also been positively identified as previously released commercial recordings by other pianists. The Concert Artist release of Chopin's Mazurkas attributed to Alfred Cortot has been the subject of continuing debate since before the \"Hatto hoax\". Subsequent analyses of the Cortot recordings have concluded that there are \"ample grounds for suspicion\" that the recordings are not authentic, but the actual source recording has never been identified.\n\nWilhelm Backhaus, William Bennett, Alexander Brailowsky, Wolfgang Böhm, Ferruccio Busoni, Philip Challis, Leonard Cassini, Alfred Cortot, Adrian Creighton, Aeolian String Quartet, John Denman, Arthur Dennington, Ernst von Dohnányi, D’Oyly Carte Opera Company, English National Opera Orchestra, Sir Edward Elgar, Paula Fan, Albert Ferber, Sergio Fiorentino, Paul Freeman, Walter Gieseking, Grigory Ginsburg, Guildford Philharmonic Orchestra, Vernon Handley, Beatrice Harrison, Sir Hamilton Harty, Joyce Hatto, Henry Holst, Vladimir Horowitz, Edward Kilenyi, René Köhler (long suspected by many to be a fictitious conductor used for the misattributed Hatto recordings and now proven to be), London Mozart Ensemble, London Philharmonic Orchestra, Alan Loveday, Witold Malcuzynski, Mark Manning, Ozan Marsh, Frank Merrick, Benno Moiseiwitsch, Ignace Jan Paderewski, Sergei Rachmaninov, Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, Artur Rubinstein, Artur Schnabel, Albert Sammons, Oda Slobodskaya, Siegfried Schubert-Weber, Lionel Tertis, Rosemary Tuck, Nicholas Zumbro\n\n"}
{"id": "8931608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8931608", "title": "Electric Dylan controversy", "text": "Electric Dylan controversy\n\nBy 1965, Bob Dylan was the leading songwriter of the American folk music revival. The response to his albums \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\" and \"The Times They Are a-Changin'\" led the media to label him the \"spokesman of a generation\".\n\nIn March 1965, Dylan released his fifth album, \"Bringing It All Back Home\". Side one features Dylan backed by an electric band; side two features Dylan accompanying himself on acoustic guitar. On July 20, 1965, Dylan released his single \"Like a Rolling Stone\", featuring a rock sound. On July 25, 1965, Dylan performed his first electric concert at the Newport Folk Festival, joined by guitarist Mike Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg of the Paul Butterfield Blues Band. Some sections of the audience booed Dylan's performance, leading members of the folk movement, including Irwin Silber and Ewan MacColl, to criticize Dylan for moving away from political songwriting and for performing with an electric band instead.\n\nAt the 1963 Newport Folk Festival, Dylan had been received enthusiastically when he performed \"Blowin' in the Wind\" with Joan Baez, Peter, Paul and Mary, and other Festival performers. At the 1964 Newport Folk Festival, Dylan performed \"With God on Our Side\" and \"Mr Tambourine Man\". Positive reviews of Dylan's 1964 performance were accompanied by criticisms of Dylan's antics and dismissive nature; one critic wrote that \"being stoned had rarely prevented his giving winning performances, but he was clearly out of control\".\n\nOn Saturday, July 24, 1965, Dylan performed three acoustic songs, \"All I Really Want to Do\", \"If You Gotta Go, Go Now\", and \"Love Minus Zero/No Limit\", at a Newport workshop. According to Jonathan Taplin, a roadie at Newport (and later a road manager for the acts of Dylan's manager Albert Grossman), Dylan made a spontaneous decision on the Saturday that he would challenge the Festival by performing with a fully amplified band. Taplin said that Dylan had been irritated by what he considered condescending remarks which festival organiser Alan Lomax had made about the Paul Butterfield Blues Band when Lomax introduced them for an earlier set at a festival workshop. Dylan's attitude, according to Taplin, was, \"Well, f*** them if they think they can keep electricity out of here, I'll do it. On a whim, he said he wanted to play electric.\" Dylan assembled a band and rehearsed that night at a mansion being used by festival organizer George Wein.\n\nOn the night of Sunday, July 25, Dylan's appearance was between Cousin Emmy and the Sea Island singers, two traditional acts. Dylan's band included two musicians who had played on his recently released single \"Like a Rolling Stone\": Mike Bloomfield on lead guitar and Al Kooper on organ. Two of Bloomfield's bandmates from the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, bassist Jerome Arnold and drummer Sam Lay, also appeared at Newport, as well as Barry Goldberg on piano.\n\nFootage of the Newport performance appears in the documentary films \"Festival\" (1967), \"No Direction Home\" (2005) and \"The Other Side of the Mirror: Bob Dylan Live at the Newport Folk Festival 1963–1965\" (2007). The footage begins with Dylan being introduced by Master of Ceremonies Peter Yarrow: \"Ladies and gentlemen, the person that's going to come up now has a limited amount of time ... His name is Bob Dylan.\" In the documentary footage, both boos and cheers are heard a few bars into Dylan's first song, \"Maggie's Farm\", and continue throughout his second, \"Like a Rolling Stone\". Dylan and his band then performed \"Phantom Engineer\", an early version of \"It Takes a Lot to Laugh, It Takes a Train to Cry\". Dylan was said to have \"electrified one half of his audience, and electrocuted the other\".\n\nAfter \"Phantom Engineer\", Dylan and the band left the stage. Booing and clapping are in the background. When Peter Yarrow returned to the microphone, he begged Dylan to continue performing. According to Robert Shelton, when Dylan returned to the stage, he discovered he did not have the right harmonica and said to Yarrow, \"What are you doing to me?\" Dylan then asked the audience for \"an E harmonica\". Within a few moments, a clatter of harmonicas hit the stage. Dylan performed two songs on acoustic guitar for the audience: \"Mr. Tambourine Man\", and then, as his farewell to Newport, \"It's All Over Now, Baby Blue\". The crowd exploded with applause, calling for more. Dylan did not return to the Newport festival for 37 years. In an enigmatic gesture, Dylan performed at Newport in 2002, sporting a wig and fake beard.\n\nFilmmaker Murray Lerner and others present at Newport argued that the boos were from outraged folk fans who disliked Dylan playing an electric guitar. Others present, including musician Al Kooper, disagreed, arguing that the audience were upset by poor sound quality and the short duration of the set.\n\nPoor sound quality was the reason musician Pete Seeger, who was backstage, gave for disliking the performance: he says he told the audio technicians, \"Get that distortion out of his voice ... It's terrible. If I had an axe, I'd chop the microphone cable right now.\" Seeger has also said, however, that he only wanted to cut the cables because he wanted the audience to hear Dylan's lyrics properly because he thought they were important. Rumors that Seeger actually had an axe, or that a festival board member pulled or wanted to pull out the entire electrical wiring system are apocryphal. In the film \"No Direction Home\", John Cohen of the New Lost City Ramblers, who is Pete Seeger's brother-in-law, states that Seeger wanted to lower the volume of the band because the noise was upsetting his elderly father Charles, who wore a hearing aid. In the same film, Dylan claimed that Seeger's unenthusiastic response to his set was like a \"dagger in his heart\" and made him \"want to go out and get drunk\".\n\nAccording to jazz historian John Szwed, the legend about Pete Seeger cutting the cable or pulling the cords of the acoustic system may have arisen from an actual incident from earlier that afternoon. Szwed writes that Festival organizer Alan Lomax had asked Texas folklorist Mack McCormick, discoverer of Lightnin' Hopkins, to find a Texas prison gang to bring up to Newport to sing work songs, but the Texas Attorney General would not allow it, so McCormick had rounded up a group of ex-convicts. Since they had never performed together in front of an audience, much less a microphone, McCormick wanted to accustom them to the stage before the concert. \"But Bob Dylan's electric band had been rehearsing for some time and refused to leave. 'I was trying to tell Dylan, we need the stage', McCormick said. 'He continued to ignore me. So I went over to the junction box and pulled out the cords. Then he listened'.\"\n\nBruce Jackson, another director of the Newport Folk Festival, called the incident \"the myth of Newport\". Jackson was present at Dylan's 1965 performance and in 2002 reviewed an audio tape of it. Jackson contends that the booing was directed at Peter Yarrow (also a member of the Festival's Board), who upset the crowd when he attempted to keep Dylan's spot to its proper length; Jackson maintains there's nothing to indicate the crowd disliked Dylan's music, electrified or not.\n\nAl Kooper has argued that the boos were brought on by the short duration of Dylan's set, not the fact that Dylan had gone electric. He said: \"The reason they booed is that he only played for fifteen minutes when everybody else played for forty-five minutes or an hour. They were feeling ripped off. Wouldn't you? They didn't give a shit about us being electric. They just wanted more.\" (In fact, the standard set length that night was 15 minutes, and by the end of his electric segment Dylan had already been on stage longer than most of the performers who preceded him, but much of his time had been devoted to tuning and band members switching instruments, so he had only played the three songs.) According to performers Ian & Sylvia Tyson, it was \"an angry, startled reaction\" but that \"it was a hostile audience\" that year for other performers also.\n\nJoe Boyd, responsible for the sound mixing at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival, said in an interview with Richie Unterberger in 2007: \"I think there were a lot of people who were upset about the rock band, but I think it was pretty split. I think probably more people liked it than didn't. But there was certainly a lot of shouting and a lot of arguing, and a sound which, you can hear in a lot of ballparks. You used to get this confusion when Bill Skowron used to come up to the plate for the Yankees, 'cause his nickname was Moose. And everybody used to go, \"MOOSE!\" And it sounded like they were booing him. Because you don't get the articulation of the consonant, so that a crowd shouting \"more, more, more\" at the end of Dylan's three songs sounded very much like booing. I've heard recently a recording of that night, and it doesn't sound to me like booing so much as a roar, just a kind of general hubbub between songs, and during Yarrow's attempt to get Dylan back on stage... I really wouldn't be prepared to say it was 50–50, or two thirds/one third, or whatever. But I think that there was a segment of the audience, somewhere between a quarter and a half, that was dismayed or horrified or varying degrees of unhappy about what he was doing.\"\n\nIn 2007, documentary director Murray Lerner released on DVD his complete footage of Dylan's three appearances at Newport: \"The Other Side of the Mirror: Bob Dylan Live at the Newport Folk Festival 1963–1965\". When interviewed by \"Mojo\" magazine, Lerner was asked: \"There’s been a lot of debate over the years as to who exactly was doing the booing and who were they booing? Dylan? The organizers? The shortness of the set?\" Lerner replied: \"It's a good question. When we showed the film at The New York Film Festival [in October 2007] one kid gets up and says, 'About this booing... I was sitting right in front of the stage, there was no booing in the audience whatsoever. There was booing from the performers'. So I said, Well, I don't think you're right. Then another kid gets up and says 'I was a little further back and it was the press section that was booing, not the audience', and I said, Well, I don't think you're right. A third guy gets up and says 'I was there, and there was no question, it was the audience that was booing and there was no booing from the stage'. It was fascinating. People remember hearing what they thought they should hear. I think they were definitely booing Dylan and a little bit Pete Yarrow because he was so flustered. He was not expecting that audience's reaction and he was concerned about Bob’s image since they were part of the same family of artists through Al Grossman. But I absolutely think that they were booing Dylan going electric.\"\n\nDylan appears to have believed the booing represented disapproval of his new sound. Interviewed in San Francisco, on December 3, 1965, Dylan was asked whether he was \"surprised the first time the boos came?\" He responded: \"That was at Newport. Well, I did this very crazy thing, I didn't know what was going to happen, but they certainly booed, I'll tell you that. You could hear it all over the place... I mean, they must be pretty rich, to be able to go some place and boo. I couldn't afford it if I was in their shoes.\"\n\nIn July 2012, an episode of the PBS series \"History Detectives\" recounted the story of New Jersey resident Dawn Peterson, who claimed the Fender Stratocaster Dylan played at Newport was in her possession. She explained that Dylan had left the guitar on a plane piloted by her father, Victor Quinto, in 1965. In the program, vintage-instrument specialist Andy Babiuk is convinced the guitar in question is the one played at Newport. Lyrics of songs in the guitar case are identified as Dylan's work by Dylan memorabilia collector Jeff Gold. Dylan attorney Orin Snyder denied the authenticity of the guitar in a statement: \"Bob has possession of the electric guitar he played at the Newport Folk Festival in 1965.\" Snyder added, \"He did own several other Stratocaster guitars that were stolen from him around that time, as were some handwritten lyrics.\"\n\nAfter Dylan and Peterson quietly settled their legal dispute, the guitar was sold by Christie's auction house in New York for $965,000, in December 2013.\n\nOn July 26, 2015, the guitar was publicly played for the first time in fifty years during a tribute set at the Newport Folk Festival honoring the 50th anniversary of Dylan plugging in at Newport. The tribute set included Gillian Welch, Dave Rawlings, Willie Watson, the New Orleans Preservation Hall Jazz Band, Jason Isbell, and several others. Isbell played Dylan's guitar during the tribute set and Newport Folk Festival producer Jay Sweet was quoted as saying \"Dylan's guitar is home.\"\n\nThe next concert Dylan played after his Newport performance was on August 28, 1965, at Forest Hills Stadium, in Queens, New York. Dylan appears to have believed that the booing at Newport was a consequence of some fans disliking his electric sound. Photographer Daniel Kramer, who accompanied Dylan to the Forest Hills concert, wrote: \"Dylan held a conference with the musicians who were going to accompany him in the second half of the concert. He told them that they should expect anything to happen—he probably was remembering what occurred at Newport. He told them that the audience might yell and boo and that they should not be bothered by it. Their job was to make the best music they were capable of, and let whatever happened happen.\"\n\nMusician Tony Glover, in his liner notes for the \"\" album, quotes a contemporary account of the concert from \"Variety\": \"Bob Dylan split 15,000 of his fans down the middle at Forest Hills Tennis Stadium Sunday night... The most influential writer-performer on the pop music scene during the past decade, Dylan has apparently evolved too fast for some of his young followers, who are ready for radical changes in practically everything else... repeating the same scene that occurred during his performance at the Newport Folk Festival, Dylan delivered a round of folk-rock songs but had to pound his material against a hostile wall of anti-claquers, some of whom berated him for betraying the cause of folk music.\"\n\nThe polarised responses of Dylan's fans were exacerbated by the structure of his concerts in late 1965 and 1966; the first half would be 'folk,' Dylan solo accompanying himself on acoustic guitar and harmonica; with the second half 'rock,' Dylan and the Hawks with electric guitars and a full rock and roll combo. The rock segment was often greeted with hostility, as seen in shows in Sheffield and Newcastle upon Tyne in \"No Direction Home\". Footage from the Manchester concert, at the end of that film, includes the \"Judas\" heckling incident. During a quiet moment in between songs an audience member shouts loudly: \"Judas!\" Dylan replies: \"I don't believe you, you're a liar\" before telling his band to \"Play it fucking loud!\" as they launch into \"Like a Rolling Stone\". This incident was recorded, and the full concert was eventually released in 1998 as \"\" in Dylan's Bootleg Series. One fan who claimed to have shouted \"Judas!\" was John Cordwell; when interviewed by Andy Kershaw he said:\n\nAnother claimant to the \"Judas!\" shout was Keith Butler, who was a student at Keele University. Butler's presence was documented in the film \"Eat the Document\", when the 21-year-old was filmed leaving the Manchester Free Trade Hall, saying \"Any pop group could produce better rubbish than that! It was a bloody disgrace! He's a traitor!\" In 1999, he took part in a BBC Radio documentary about \"Live 1966\", and asked about his reaction at the time, he replied, \"I kind of think: 'You silly young bugger.'\"\n\nIn 2012, Dylan referred to the incident while addressing criticism that he hadn't clearly acknowledged his lyrical sources for his new album \"Tempest\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12866103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12866103", "title": "Epedigree", "text": "Epedigree\n\nAn epedigree (sometimes referred to as e-pedigree or electronic pedigree) is an electronic document which provides data on the history of a particular batch of a drug. It satisfies the requirement for a drug pedigree while using a convenient electronic form.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the 2006 Compliance Policy Guide for the Prescription Drug Marketing Act states that: \n\"A drug pedigree is a statement of origin that identifies each prior sale, purchase, or trade of a drug, including the date of those transactions and the names and addresses of all parties to them.\"\nAn epedigree is simply an electronic document which satisfies a pedigree requirement. The primary purpose of an epedigree is to protect consumers from contaminated medicine or counterfeit drugs.\n\nOn January 5, 2007 EPCglobal ratified the Pedigree Standard as an international standard that specifies an XML description of the life history of a product across an arbitrarily complex supply chain.\n\nAs of 2008, most states have enacted some sort of pedigree requirement and many have also required epedigree. However, the existing epedigree requirements amount to little more than requiring that pharmaceutical supply chain companies be able to provide reports in formats such as pdf, text files or spreadsheets. \n\nThe basic data elements of an original epedigree are:\n\nAs the product moves down the supply chain, each company is required to carry forward all previous epedigree information. In this way, the final point of sale has the complete lineage of every unit.\n\nePedigree laws were eventually replaced by a harmonized national standard called the Drug Quality and Security Act.\n\nePedigree laws were in a rapid state of flux with states changing the \"drop dead\" date for compliance with tracking and authentication years beyond the original dates set by Florida and California. The definitive requirements will include serialization. Companies that focus purely on achieving compliance will miss the opportunity to use regulation as a business driver. The ability to track and serialize unit level saleable packages (e.g. bottle of 25 pills) not just cases or pallets can create business value in knowing exactly where their products are purchased can do the following: \n1) Minimize cost of chargebacks through 100% accurate adjudication. Chargebacks account for 2-15% of gross revenue for a pharmaceutical manufacturer. \n2) Minimize risk by increasing accuracy in Medicare/Medicaid pricing calculations by fully knowing all fees, rebates, and chargebacks that should be applied to a specific unit sale. Over $4B in fines have been handed down for improperly calculating Medicare/Medicaid pricing. \n3) Limit liability of having to recall entire lots of product because a (non-serialized) shipment was stolen - see example: \n4) Achieve visibility for manufacturers in the labyrinth that is the wholesale distribution network to more accurately forecast demand and measure sales & marketing programs.\n\nAlthough simple epedigree systems are an important first step, significant improvement in public safety would result from a more standardized and automated approach. The larger and more difficult task of providing for an Automated Epedigree System has been suggested, but not required by any state. Such a system would require fairly significant changes to supply chain companies' data interchanges and would certainly require advanced Track and Trace technology (with bar codes or RFID). The requirements that come closest to an Automated Epedigree System have been proposed by California. In March 2008, the California Board of Pharmacy (CBOP) published its \"E-Pedigree Requirements\" which are scheduled to go into effect in a phased approach between 2015-2017 (since abandoned). CBOP has proposed an XML standard document and the law requires an \"interoperable electronic system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47813749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47813749", "title": "Extra Life (fundraiser)", "text": "Extra Life (fundraiser)\n\nExtra Life is a fundraising event, the proceeds of which go to branches of the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. 100% of all donations go directly to the hospitals.\n\nExtra Life was formed in 2008 to honor Victoria , who died of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It was aided by the Sarcastic Gamer community, who sent gifts and video games to her.\n\nThe main premise of the event is that group or teams get together and play different types of games for a 24 hour marathon. Many of these users will live-stream their game-play and activities on the platform Twitch. During this process, players will ask for donations that will then be sent to Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. Groups that participate range from Austin, Texas media company Rooster Teeth, to East Carolina University Board Gaming Society, and donations are given through cash or credit donation. Many participants have connections to the hospitals that they chose to highlight and donate their proceeds to and some donation pages continue to accept donations until December 31 of the year of the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "575603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575603", "title": "Five Suns", "text": "Five Suns\n\nThe term Five Suns in the context of creation myths, describes the doctrine of the Aztec and other Nahua peoples in which the present world was preceded by four other cycles of creation and destruction. It is primarily derived from the mythological, cosmological and eschatological beliefs and traditions of earlier cultures from central Mexico and the Mesoamerican region in general. The Late Postclassic Aztec society inherited many traditions concerning Mesoamerican creation accounts, while however modifying some aspects and supplying novel interpretations of their own.\n\nIn the creation myths which were known to the Aztec and other Nahua peoples of the Late Postclassic era, the central tenet was that there had been four worlds, or \"Suns\", before the present universe. These earlier worlds and their inhabitants had been created, then destroyed by the catastrophic action of leading deity figures. The present world is the fifth sun, and the Aztec saw themselves as \"the People of the Sun,\" whose divine duty was to wage cosmic war in order to provide the sun with his \"tlaxcaltiliztli\" (\"nourishment\"). Without it, the sun would disappear from the heavens. Thus the welfare and the very survival of the universe depended upon the offerings of blood and hearts to the sun.\n\nFrom the void that was the rest of the universe, the first god, Ometeotl, created itself. Ometeotl was both male and female, good and evil, light and darkness, fire and water, judgment and forgiveness, the god of duality. Ometeotl gave birth to four children, the four Tezcatlipocas, who each preside over one of the four cardinal directions. Over the West presides the White Tezcatlipoca, Quetzalcoatl, the god of light, mercy and wind. Over the South presides the Blue Tezcatlipoca, Huitzilopochtli, the god of war. Over the East presides the Red Tezcatlipoca, Xipe Totec, the god of gold, farming and Spring time. And over the North presides the Black Tezcatlipoca, also called simply Tezcatlipoca, the god of judgment, night, deceit, sorcery and the Earth.\n\nIt was these four gods who eventually created all the other gods and the world we know today, but before they could create they had to destroy, for every time they attempted to create something, it would fall into the water beneath them and be eaten by Cipactli, the giant earth crocodile, who swam through the water with mouths at every one of her joints. The four Tezcatlipocas descended the first people who were giants. They created the other gods, the most important of whom were the water gods: Tlaloc, the god of rain and fertility and Chalchiuhtlicue, the goddess of lakes, rivers and oceans, also the goddess of beauty. To give light, they needed a god to become the sun and the Black Tezcatlipoca was chosen, but either because he had lost a leg or because he was god of the night, he only managed to become half a sun. The world continued on in this way for some time, but a sibling rivalry grew between Quetzalcoatl and his brother the mighty sun, who Quetzalcoatl knocked from the sky with a stone club. With no sun, the world was totally black and in his anger, Tezcatlipoca commanded his jaguars to eat all the people.\n\nThe gods created a new group of people to inhabit the Earth, this time they were of normal size. Quetzalcoatl became the new sun and as the years passed, the people of the Earth grew less and less civilized and stopped showing proper honor to the gods. As a result, Tezcatlipoca demonstrated his power and authority as god of sorcery and judgment by turning the animalistic people into monkeys. Quetzalcoatl, who had loved the flawed people as they were, became upset and blew all of the monkeys from the face of the Earth with a mighty hurricane. He then stepped down as the sun to create a new people.\n\nTlaloc became the next sun, but Tezcatlipoca seduced and stole his wife Xochiquetzal, the goddess of sex, flowers and corn. Tlaloc then refused to do anything other than wallow in his own grief, so a great drought swept the world. The people's prayers for rain annoyed the grieving sun and he refused to allow it to rain, but the people continued to beg him. Then, in a fit of rage he answered their prayers with a great downpour of fire. It continued to rain fire until the entire Earth had burned away. The gods then had to construct a whole new Earth from the ashes.\n\nThe next sun and also Tlaloc’s new wife, was Chalchiuhtlicue. She was very loving towards the people, but Tezcatlipoca was not. Both the people and Chalchiuhtlicue felt his judgment when he told the water goddess that she was not truly loving and only faked kindness out of selfishness to gain the people’s praise. Chalchiuhtlicue was so crushed by these words that she cried blood for the next fifty-two years, causing a horrific flood that drowned everyone on Earth. Humans became fish in order to survive.\n\nQuetzalcoatl would not accept the destruction of his people and went to the underworld where he stole their bones from the god Mictlantecuhtli. He dipped these bones in his own blood to resurrect his people, who reopened their eyes to a sky illuminated by the current sun, Huitzilopochtli.\n\nThe Tzitzimimeh, or stars, became jealous of their brighter, more important brother Huitzilopochtli. Their leader, Coyolxauhqui, goddess of the moon, lead them in an assault on the sun and every night they come close to victory when they shine throughout the sky, but are beaten back by the mighty Huitzilopochtli who rules the daytime sky. To aid this all-important god in his continuing war, the Aztecs offer him the nourishment of human sacrifices. They also offer human sacrifices to Tezcatlipoca in fear of his judgment, offer their own blood to Quetzalcoatl, who opposes fatal sacrifices, in thanks of his blood sacrifice for them and give offerings to many other gods for many purposes. Should these sacrifices cease, or should mankind fail to please the gods for any other reason, this fifth sun will go black, the world will be shattered by a catastrophic earthquake, and the Tzitzimitl will slay Huitzilopochtli and all of humanity.\n\nMost of what is known about the ancient Aztecs comes from the few codices to survive the Spanish conquest. Their myths can be confusing not only because of the lack of documentation, but also because there are many popular myths that seem to contradict one another due the fact that they were originally passed down by word of mouth and because the Aztecs adopted many of their gods from other tribes, both assigning their own new aspects to these gods and endowing them with aspects of similar gods from various other cultures. Older myths can be very similar to newer myths while contradicting one another by claiming that a different god performed the same action, probably because myths changed in correlation to the popularity of each of the gods at a given time.\n\nOther variations on this myth state that Coatlicue, the earth goddess, was the mother of the four Tezcatlipocas and the Tzitzimitl. Some versions say that Quetzalcoatl was born to her first, while she was still a virgin, often mentioning his twin brother Xolotl, the guide of the dead and god of fire. Tezcatlipoca was then born to her by an obsidian knife, followed by the Tzitzimitl and then Huitzilopochtli. The most popular variation including Coatlicue depicts her giving birth first to the Tzitzimitl. Much later she gave birth to Huitzilopochtli when a mysterious ball of feathers appeared to her. The Tzitzimitl then decapitated the pregnant Coatlicue, believing it to be insulting that she had given birth to another child. Huitzilopochtli then sprang forth from her womb wielding a serpent of fire and began his epic war with the Tzitzimitl, who were also referred to as the Centzon Huitznahuas. Sometimes he is said to have decapitated Coyolxauhqui and either used her head to make the moon or thrown it into a canyon. Further variations depict the ball of feathers as being the father of Huitzilopochtli or the father of Quetzalcoatl and sometimes Xolotl.\n\nOther variations of this myth claim that only Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca were born to Ometeotl, who was replaced by Coatlicue in this myth probably because it had absolutely no worshipers or temples by the time the Spanish arrived. It is sometimes said that the male characteristic of Ometeotl is named Ometecutli and that the female characteristic is named Omecihualt. Further variations on this myth state that it was only Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca who pulled apart Cipactli, also known as Tlaltecuhtli, and that Xipe Totec and Huitzilopochtli then constructed the world from her body. Some versions claim that Tezcatlipoca actually used his leg as bait for Cipactli, before dismembering her.\n\nThe order of the first four suns varies as well, though the above version is the most common. Each world’s end correlates consistently to the god that was the sun at the time throughout all variations of the myth, though the loss of Xochiquetzal is not always identified as Tlaloc’s reason for the rain of fire, which is not otherwise given and it is sometimes said that Chalchiuhtlicue flooded the world on purpose, without the involvement of Tezcatlipoca. It is also said that Tezcatlipoca created half a sun, which his jaguars then ate before eating the giants.\n\nThe fifth sun however is sometimes said to be a god named Nanauatzin. In this version of the myth, the gods convened in darkness to choose a new sun, who was to sacrifice himself by jumping into a gigantic bonfire. The two volunteers were the young son of Tlaloc and Chalchiuhtlicue, Tecuciztecatl, and the old Nanauatzin. It was believed that Nanauatzin was too old to make a good sun, but both were given the opportunity to jump into the bonfire. Tecuciztecatl tried first but was not brave enough to walk through the heat near the flames and turned around. Nanauatzin then walked slowly towards and then into the flames and was consumed. Tecuciztecatl then followed. The braver Nanauatzin became what is now the sun and Tecuciztecatl became the much less spectacular moon. A god that bridges the gap between Nanauatzin and Huitzilopochtli is Tonatiuh, who was sick, but rejuvenated himself by burning himself alive and then became the warrior sun and wandered through the heavens with the souls of those who died in battle, refusing to move if not offered enough sacrifices.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29029179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29029179", "title": "Fête de l'Humanité", "text": "Fête de l'Humanité\n\nThe fête de l'Humanité (; \"English: Festival of Humanity\") is an event organised annually by French daily newspaper \"L'Humanité\" in order to fund itself. It is the largest popular gathering in France.\n\nL'Humanité was created in 1904 by French socialist Jean Jaurès but the first fête de l'Humanité took place in September 1930 to raise funds for the newspaper \"L'Humanité\" and 1000 people attended it. The 2010 festival attracted 600,000 visitors. The 2018 festival attracted 800,000 visitors over 3 days, breaking all records.\n\nThe festival is organized and held almost exclusively by volunteers, since it exists to fund the newspaper. \n\nHundreds of stalls are scattered around the venue offering food and drinks with the stall holders coming from all over the world to be part of the event. The fête is a unique mix of politics and entertaining, with concerts happening alongside many debates, art exhibits, movies, etc. Because of the proximity of l'Humanité with the French communist party, most of the volunteers are communists, even though the attendants aren't. \n\nThe festival comprises many stages (Grande Scène (main stage), scène Zebrock (rock stage), scène reggae, P'tite Scène (smaller stage), and tens of smaller stages inside stalls). The Main Stage can accommodate about 100,000 spectators. \n\nDue to its size, this festival is considered the kickoff of the left-wing's \"political year\" each year in September. Tens of thousands of left-wing activists gather there to celebrate and debate (from many sensitivites : communists, but also social-democrats, anarchists, trotskysts, sympathizers of the left wing, etc.). They forget their disagreements for a festive weekend and get energized to start the year. \n\nThe festival is usually attended by the main figures of the left wing (leaders of the French socialist party, Jean-Pierre Chevènement, Arlette Laguiller, Olivier Besancenot, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, etc.) as well as famous journalists (Edwy Plenel, Guillaume Meurice, etc.)\n\nMany artists such as Roger Hodgson, Léo Ferré, Stevie Wonder, Pink Floyd, The Who, Deep Purple, Jacques Brel, Johnny Hallyday, Renaud, Chuck Berry, Jacques Dutronc, Leonard Cohen, and Joan Baez have performed at this event. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24938291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24938291", "title": "Great Oulu fire of 1652", "text": "Great Oulu fire of 1652\n\nThe great Oulu fire of 1652 was a conflagration that destroyed the majority of the young city of Oulu, Finland on 2 October 1652. Almost all of the houses of the town’s bourgeoisie, the provision warehouses in which the Crown’s grain and money was stored and the drawbridge of Oulu Castle were destroyed.\n\nThe city was rebuilt after the fire according to the city plan drawn up by surveyor Claes Claesson in 1651. The new city plan doubled the surface area of the town. At the same time, the streets and city blocks were laid out in a more regular fashion. The shoreline of the Oulu River was turned into a marketplace that had its own measuring house, a weigh house, and, of course, a packhouse.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "13368107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13368107", "title": "International Delphic Committee", "text": "International Delphic Committee\n\nThe International Delphic Committee is the organization which prepares and holds the modern Delphic Games. Their headquarters are located in Russia (officially registered in 2003) \n\nAmong main priorities of activities is holding the Delphic Games, popularization and development of the International Delphic Movement, search and support of young talents, promotion and development of common to all mankind values by means of art, preservation of world cultural heritage, cultural upbringing of the growing up generation.\n\nThe activity of the International Delphic Committee has found support of heads of states and governments in a number of countries. Besides, the International Delphic Committee has established relations with UNESCO and the European Cultural Center of Delphi, which functions under the patronage of the Council of Europe.\n\nEvents which are held within the Delphic Movement are widely advertised and covered by more than 70 leading mass media and advertising agencies, and Official Opening and Closing ceremonies of the Delphic Games as well as the most important nominations are broadcast by television channels live. These Junior Delphic Games are dedicated to significant domestic events. This International Delphic Committee conducted also in September 2008 the second International Delphic Games in Saratov / Russia, but some Saratov Sunday editions and news portals have questioned the status and legitimacy of the games. However, in the federal press mention of this missing.\n\nA modern attempt to revive an ancient Greek festival Pythian Games. The history of the Delphic or Pythian Games reaches back 2600 years and took place in the year preceding the Olympic Games. The Pan-Hellenic events were dedicated to the god Apollo, who symbolised light and beauty, music, poetry, the healing arts and the Delphic oracle.\n\nUnder the patronage of the International Delphic Committee (headquartered in Moscow) and UNESCO were held the First Open Youth European Delphic Games in Volgograd city, Russian Federation, on May 2–7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "623593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623593", "title": "Jesus Christ Vampire Hunter", "text": "Jesus Christ Vampire Hunter\n\nJesus Christ Vampire Hunter is a 2001 cult film from Odessa Filmworks which deals with Jesus' modern-day struggle to protect the lesbians of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, from vampires with the help of Mexican wrestler El Santo (based on El Santo, Enmascarado de Plata, and played by actor Jeff Moffet, who starred as El Santo in two other Odessa Filmworks productions).\n\nThis film earned an honorable mention in the Spirit of Slamdance category at the 2002 Slamdance Film Festival.\n\n\"Time\"'s Richard Corliss panned the film, finding that \"the comedy is slack, the song lyrics feeble, the pace torpid\". Ken Eisner of \"Variety\" took a more neutral view, finding that \"the film is too silly to offend\". Jason Nolan of \"The Harrow\" deemed the production \"horridly wonderful\", although uneven, noting that \"[w]ith a film like this, you want it to be bumpy\". Film Threat's Eric Campos gave the film a generally positive review.\n\n"}
{"id": "57294790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57294790", "title": "Kasenkina Case", "text": "Kasenkina Case\n\nThe Kasenkina Case\n() – the 1948 Cold War political scandal was associated with the name of Oksana Kasenkina, a teacher of chemistry at the Soviet school in New York.\n\nThe personal tragedy of a lonely aging woman coincided in time with McCarthyism and the Berlin Blockade and was immensely overheated by the Mass media into a noisy and ambiguous affair. After 50 years it still remains of interest to historians and journalists. Ellis M. Zacharias, a retired Rear Admiral and senior Intelligence Officer of the US Navy, wrote: \"Bigoted individuals should not be allowed dominant influence on the delicate conduct of our foreign relations – but soon it became evident that such persons had gained complete control of the case. By inspiring headlines and stimulating the news stories below them, they drove the State Department to a diplomatic action whose severity was out of proportion to the incident\". The mystery of the case was unravelled only 50 years later when the classified top secret documents of the State Department and FBI became open to the public.\n\nAfter WWII the profound economic and political differences led to a confrontation between the wartime allies against Nazi Germany. In 1946 the United States, United Kingdom, and France unified their occupation zones in Germany. The Marshall Plan was introduced to support economic recovery of Western Europe and stop the expansion of Communism. In retaliation the Soviet Government began the Berlin Blockade (June 24, 1948 – May 12, 1949) by halting all surface traffic communications (road, railroad, and canal transport) to West Berlin, which was located 100 miles (160 km) inside Soviet-controlled Eastern Germany. Diplomatic negotiations on the terms of lifting the blockade were going at a very slow pace. As war-like tensions kept dangerously mounting Soviets began to reduce the number of their experts seconded to the United States.\nIn June 1948, on orders from Moscow, the Soviet school in New York was closed. All teachers and students were to return to the USSR by September. On July 31, when the steamer \"Pobeda\" was scheduled to sail, the former headmaster and math teacher Michael Samarin with his wife (an English teacher) and their 3 children were reported missing. Also missing was the 52-year-old chemistry teacher Oksana Kasenkina. Samarin immediately went to the FBI and asked for political asylum for his family, which was granted. Kasenkina's behavior was erratic, which caused a major international scandal. For 50 years and political reasons the US State Department held the documents of the Kasenkina case as classified and top secret. The documents declassified in 1998 and available to the public at the State Archives of the United States (National Archives, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD, 20740) show that three days before her departure, at different times two Russian-speaking men, – chemist Dr. Alexander Korzhinsky and Leo Castello, independently, started a conversation with Kasenkina on a park bench close to her place of residency. Korzhinsky invited her to his apartment for dinner;- she refused to eat but complained that she did not want to return to the USSR. He advised her to seek help at the office of the anti-soviet newspaper \"The New Russian Word\". On July 31 Vladimir Zenzinov a journalist and former member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party , took her to Reed farm in Valley Cottage belonging to the Tolstoy Foundation. The President of the Foundation, countess Alexandra Tolstaya , provided Kasenkina shelter and a job. The teacher worked in the kitchen and dining room serving farm workers, many of whom previously served in the White Movement and the Russian Liberation Army and therefore distrusted the Soviet teacher.\n\nAfter five days at the farm Kasenkina stopped a passing-by driver with a vegetable cart and secretly smuggled out a handwritten letter to the Consul-General of the USSR.\nOn August 6, 1948, Consul Jacob Lomakin received the five-page muddled handwritten letter in which she complained of loneliness and a suicidal mood. The excerpts from the letter read: -\"the reaction of the already undermined organism has set in. You never considered it necessary to speak frankly with me... I was in despair ready to commit suicide... Finally they began to persecute me, apparently being aware of my state of mind... And then just before my departure it seemed that they begun to pay some attention to me, but I was already warned of my condition...\" Kasenkina used propaganda clichés about loyalty to the dictatorship of the working class, \"devotion and love for the Fatherland and her \"hatred for traitors\", not a word about the US and no information on how she came to the farm. Her disorganized thoughts jumped from past to present. The letter certainly imparted no suggestion that its author was driven by an overwhelming desire to begin life over in United States, borne aloft by her ardor for freedom and hatred of Soviet tyranny ... The letter's most unambiguous statement is in its concluding plea to the Consul: \"I implore you, I implore you, don’t let me perish here. I have lost my will power.\" The unsigned letter ends with the handwritten address of the farm. The Consulate’s primary activities include the protection of the interest of their citizens temporarily or permanently residing in the host country. Kasenkina's letter addressed to Lomakin left him no alternative but to take the dangerous mission to Reed Farm.\n\nOn August 7, before starting to the farm, Lomakin called the Missing Persons Bureau, Police Dept of New York and asked for support. According to \"The New York Times\", Capt. John J. Cronin confirmed the call from the Consulate at 12:15 pm. \"He said that the Russian Consul General was going to Reed Farm to get a woman who was in a highly nervous state and asked for help.\" Capt. Cronin informed the New City Barracks nearest to Reed farm. The trooper got to the farm too late, the Consulate car with Kasenkina has already departed. Questioning under oath of the President of the Tolstoy Foundation, Countess Alexandra Tolstaya at the New York County Supreme Court on August 12, 1948 revealed the following events. As the black Buick executive car with a driver carrying the Consul, the vice-consul Zot Chepurnykh and stenographer Maria Kharlamova arrived, Kasenkina took her suitcase and walked out to meet them. Countess Tolstaya ordered 12 men to surround the diplomat's car. She called Kasenkina into the house, locked the door and tried to convince the teacher not to leave with the Soviets. Kasenkina did not listen to the arguments and repeated – \"I must go, I must go\". Seeing that the teacher was desperate to leave Tolstaya told the men not to hold the car, because Kasenkina decided to leave with the Consul \"of her own free will.\"\n\nUpon returning to the Consulate Lomakin immediately invited a large group of journalists and mass media workers. In this emergency press conference Kasenkina told how she was drugged and kidnapped by \"White Russian bandits\". Lomakin showed the envelope and Kasenkina's handwritten letter. He read aloud extracts from the letter in English translation. The photostatic copy was given to the United States Department of State and Federal Bureau of Investigation. On August 8, all major US newspapers came out with photos from the press conference, and The New York Times and New Herald Tribune published detailed reports. Countess A. Tolstaya stated that she was against providing shelter to Kasenkina believing she was sent for spying, in particular, to determine the location of Samarins. A separate article printed a statement by Congressman Karl Mundt, – a member of the HUAC requiring that Kasenkina should be questioned as a witness of USSR espionage activities.\n\nHeadlines of other newspapers cried out that the teacher was kidnapped \"by force\" from her hiding place at the farm of anti-communists and the letter to the Consul was called a fake. The Consul gave the photocopy of the letter into the hands of the representatives of the U.S. State Department, hoping for a fair resolution of the conflict. Publication of the letter would demonstrate that Kasenkina came to the Consulate of \"her own free will\". Despite the validity of his actions, the press and radio accused Lomakin of kidnapping, the authenticity of the letter was denied or called forged. Reporters hounded Lomakin. Day and night the building was surrounded by journalists and anti-soviet crowds. According to the memoirs of Kasenkina, ghosted by anticommunist writer Isaac Don Levine, she had a private room and freely moved within the Consulate. On August 12, former New York Democratic Congressman and New York State Supreme Justice Samuel Dickstein issued the \"habeas corpus\" writ ordering the Consul General to produce Kasenkina to the Supreme Court for questioning the next day. Lomakin refused, stating that the teacher was sick. Dickstein responded: \"he would order the sheriff to seize Mrs. Kasenkina if necessary. Immunity given to Lomakin and his staff does not extend to the teacher\". In 1999, declassified Soviet files revealed that Dickstein, known as the \"father of McCarthyism\", for many years was a paid agent of the Soviet secret service agency NKVD. The file documents indicate that for his greed, his handlers gave him a code name \"crook\" (in Russian -\"zhulik\").\n\nOn August 12, after five days at the Consulate, Kasenkina fell from a high third floor window to the building's concrete fenced yard. Miraculously she survived and was taken to the hospital. In Lomakin's version, she had jumped in suicidal despair. Four inspectors of the New York Police headed by Deputy Chief Inspector Conrad Rotingast were allowed by Lomakin to enter the Consulate building and inspect the teacher's room for a possible suicide note. They found a sealed letter addressed to Moscow, after translation by an FBI translator, a photostat was made and \"the letter was returned to the Consulate unopened\". In the letter written to her friends (or relatives) on June 10, 1948 Kasenkina wrote:\"We shall see one another very, very soon. I dream every day, every hour, and every minute of the moment of our meeting... It seems that even now I see the shores of our distant, vast and beloved Fatherland!..\" Graphology expertise proved that both letters were written by Kasenkina. History professor at Rutgers University Susan Carruthers in the book \"Prisoners of the Cold War: imprisonment, escape and brainwashing\" writes: \"in the first 6 hours at the hospital Kasenkina explained her action by the fact that she wanted to end it all\". No statements about the desire to obtain political asylum. In the hospital communication of Kasenkina with Soviet representatives was banned, while visits by Zenzinov and Tolstaya and reporters were permitted. The mass media called her action as a \"leap to freedom\" and harshly predicted: \"Soviet Consul May Face Firing Squad\" and \"Failure to Hold Kasenkina May Mean Death\". On August 28, 1948, two weeks after the incident, the BBC newsreel clip \"Mrs Kasenkina tells her story\", shows bedridden Kasenkina. When asked why she jumped, she mumbles in Russian almost the exact words from her letter to the Consul-General:- \"I have repeatedly asked you to tell me frankly everything that you know...\" , her words were maliciously mistranslated by interpreter Luba Trepak, who speaks of her leap to freedom. Ellias M. Zacharias writes \"the judgement of some of the men who rushed headlong to Mme Kasenkina’s bedside to take charge of her relations with the press and radio were not to be trusted. Their anti-Soviet record had been remarkable for its senseless and vindictive venom rather than for its effectiveness.\" For many weeks \"Voice of America\" radio beamed overseas in 22 languages, including Russian, the story of Mrs. Oksana Kasenkina. In retaliation the Soviets jammed Russian programs of VOA, including music. For decades mass media revived the Kasenkina Case without explanation of her emotional instability that caused her to radically change her life three times in 11 days. For 50 years the US State Department kept all the documents and the text of her letters classified as well as the fact that the FBI graphologist confirmed that it was entirely in Kasenkina's handwriting. Acting Police Commissioner Thomas F. Mulligan, in charge of investigating the Kasenkina Case, asked State Department Spokesman Michael J. McDermott for an English translations of both mysterious letters, but they were never turned over to the Police or Press. On September 21, 1948, in a letter to Kasenkina's lawyer Mr. Archie Dawson, State Department Acting Legal Adviser Jack B.Tate suggested that \"inasmuch as the letters are presumably the personal property of Mrs. Kasenkina, the question of releasing them to the Press is a matter for her decision so far as the Department of State is concerned\". \nDespite demands of her return by Soviet Ambassador Panyushkin, Kasenkina stayed in the US; in 1951 she received a US residence permit, and in 1956 became a US citizen; she died in Miami of heart failure on July 24, 1960.\n\nOn August 19, 1948 the Department of State requested the President to revoke the exequatur issued to Consul General Lomakin. The same day President Truman approved the decision of the State Department. Consul General Lomakin was declared persona non grata on the grounds that he kidnapped a woman and held her in custody. The Kasenkina Case coincided in time with the neck-to-neck presidential campaign of President Harry Truman and New York Governor Thomas Dewey. The revoke of the exequatur came before the State Department received a translation of Kasenkina's letters and ahead of graphology expertise. Cancellation of a high-ranking diplomat exequatur is rare and is always seen as a blow to the prestige of the country. In retaliation the Government of the USSR ended negotiations on lifting the Berlin Blockade, and closed its consulates in New York and San Francisco, that by protocol meant the closing of US consulates in Leningrad and Vladivostok. Secretary of State George C. Marshall said Russia's reprisal for ouster of Lomakin is regrettable, not serious.\nConsular relations between the USSR and the US were restored only after 24 years in 1972.\nIn his 1952 book, Ellis M. Zacharias writes: \" In the moment of Lomakin’s expulsion we lost the initiative to the Russians. ...we became deprived of a major diplomatic listening post in the far East\". In addition to the closing of Consulates, termination of Berlin blockade negotiations cost the United States millions of dollars spent on the creation of the airlift needed for food supply to the 2.5-million population of West Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8224463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8224463", "title": "List of Baja California Peninsula hurricanes", "text": "List of Baja California Peninsula hurricanes\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThe list of Baja California Peninsula hurricanes includes all of the tropical cyclones that impacted the Baja California Peninsula, which includes the Mexican states of Baja California and Baja California Sur.</onlyinclude> In the period 1951 to 2000, Baja California had one hurricane and three tropical storms make landfall. During the same period, Baja California Sur witnessed nineteen hurricanes and thirty tropical storms. During the same time period, the region got hit by two major hurricanes (Hurricane Oliva in 1967 and Hurricane Kiko in 1989). The most expensive storm in the area is Hurricane Odile in 2014 and the deadliest is Hurricane Liza in 1976.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost tropical cyclone impacts occurred in the month of September. This coincides with the statistical peak in the eastern north Pacific hurricane season, which occurs in early September or late August. Although hurricane season in the eastern north Pacific officially runs from May 15 to November 30, no known tropical cyclones have impacted the peninsula in May, November, or outside the season.\n\nAs many tropical cyclones impact the peninsula, sometimes when rather intense, deaths frequently occur.\n\nIf a tropical cyclone threatens to bring tropical storm or hurricane conditions to areas in the Baja California Peninsula, the government issues tropical cyclone warnings and watches for the threatened areas. The watches and warnings will be issued in coastal area between internationally recognized points known as breakpoints. The Baja California Peninsula has twenty-two breakpoints, running from the United States-Mexico border, south along the Pacific coast to Cabo San Lucas, and north along the Gulf of California coast to Calamajue. However, tropical cyclones can still bring dangerous conditions such as flooding to areas not covered by warnings and watches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46539522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46539522", "title": "List of classical music festivals", "text": "List of classical music festivals\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of classical music festivals, which encapsulates music festivals focused on classical music. Classical music is art music produced or rooted in the traditions of Western music (both liturgical and secular), and has long been played at festival-like settings. It encompasses a broad span of time from roughly the 11th century to the present day. The major time divisions of classical music are as follows: the early music period, which includes the Medieval (500–1400) and the Renaissance (1400–1600) era, played at early music festivals; the common practice period, which includes the Baroque (1600–1750), Classical (1750–1830), and Romantic eras (1804–1910), which included opera festivals and choral festivals; and the 20th century (1901–2000) which includes the modern (1890–1930) that overlaps from the late 19th-century, the high modern (mid 20th-century), and contemporary classical music festivals or postmodern (1975–2000) eras, the last of which overlaps into the 21st-century. The term \"classical music\" did not appear until the early 19th century, in an attempt to distinctly canonize the period from Johann Sebastian Bach to Beethoven as a golden age.\n"}
{"id": "41934388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41934388", "title": "London Conference on the Illegal Wildlife Trade", "text": "London Conference on the Illegal Wildlife Trade\n\nThe London Conference on the Illegal Wildlife Trade was an international conference held on 12–13 February 2014 in London. A declaration to protect wildlife was signed by 46 countries and 11 international organizations. The declaration calls for increasing enforcement of laws against poaching, reducing demand for wildlife products, and the \"sustainable utilization\" of wildlife.\n"}
{"id": "52252652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52252652", "title": "London Fashion Film Festival", "text": "London Fashion Film Festival\n\nLondon Fashion Film Festival is a London based annual event established by professionals from within the fashion and film\n\nindustries to showcase creative talents in the genre of fashion film.\n\nThe festival was inaugurated in 2013 and had its first award show in 2014. Each year, filmmakers, designers, agencies and labels all over the world are allowed to submit entries of their work which would then be reviewed by the organisers before an official list is Nominated for the award proper. The award festival will involve screening of the Nominated fashion films, presentation of the awards, a question and answer session and an after party The festival has showcased works of brands like Swarovski, Revlon, Juicy Couture and Harper’s Bazaar.\n\nThe 2014 maiden edition had 40 screened films from 13 categories out of which winners were Nominated.\nThe 2nd edition of the festival was held on 15 September 2015 at Mondrian Hotel, London. 35 short films and documentaries were screened from 13 categories.\nThe 2016 edition of the festival took place on 14 September 2016. There were 14 categories of awards.\n\nThe fourth edition of the awards took place on the 14th of September, 2017 and with attendees from United States, Canada, Spain and Italy. During the event, 60 individual films were shown to an audience of filmmakers and fashion professionals.\n\nThe festival's fifth edition took place on the 14th of September, 2018, drawing attendees from all over the world. It featured about 70 individual films which were shown to the audience during the event.\n"}
{"id": "1655799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1655799", "title": "Louis Riel (comics)", "text": "Louis Riel (comics)\n\nLouis Riel is a historical biography in comics by Canadian cartoonist Chester Brown, published as a book in 2003 after serializion in 1999–2003. The story deals with Métis rebel leader Louis Riel's antagonistic relationship with the newly established Canadian government. It begins shortly before the 1869 Red River Rebellion, and ends with Riel's 1885 hanging for high treason. The book explores Riel's possible schizophrenia—he believed God had named him Prophet of the New World, destined to lead the Métis people to freedom.\n\nThe work is noted for its emotional disengagement, its intentionally flat dialogue, and a minimalist drawing style inspired by that of Harold Gray's comic strip \"Little Orphan Annie\". Unusual for comics of the time, it includes a full scholarly apparatus: a foreword, index, bibliography, and end notes. The lengthy, hand-lettered appendix provides insight into Brown's creative process and biases and highlights where he changed historical facts to create a more engaging story, such as incorporating a conspiracy theory not widely accepted by historians. Brown became interested in the issue of property rights while researching the book, which led to a public change in his politics from anarchism to libertarianism.\n\nAlthough Brown intended it to be published only in book form, his publisher had him first serialize \"Louis Riel\" as a comic book, which lasted ten issues. The series was the first comic book to receive a grant from the Canada Council for the Arts. It won a favourable critical reception and three Harvey Awards. The serialization sold poorly, but the book version was a surprise bestseller. Its success played a major part in gaining shelf space for serious graphic novels in mainstream North American bookstores.\n\nSubtitled \"A Comic-Strip Biography\", \"Louis Riel\" looks at Métis rebel leader Louis Riel and his leadership in the Red River and North-West rebellions. It does not attempt a complete retelling of Riel's life—it omits long periods and ignores many aspects of his personality. Instead the focus is on his \"antagonistic relationship with the Canadian government\" from 1869 to 1885. The story comprises 241 pages of the 271-page book, and is supplemented with a complete scholarly apparatus: a foreword, bibliography, index, map section and extensive end notes. It has strong historiographical elements, detailing in the appendix the research done and choices made by the author in developing a story.\n\nBrown grew up in the Canadian province of Quebec, where the majority speaks French, and where Riel is often considered a martyr. However Brown, who grew up speaking only English, said he was largely ignorant of Riel's story until he read Maggie Siggins' 1994 biography \"Louis Riel: A Life of Revolution\". Many of Brown's favourite topics are entwined in \"Louis Riel\": anti-authoritarianism, outsider religion, insanity, and accuracy and objectivity in nonfiction. A central incident in the book is an eight-panel sequence in which Riel has a revelatory experience on a hilltop in Washington, D.C. He experiences visions and talks to God, who declares him Prophet of the New World and instructs him to lead his people to freedom. On the cover of the book, however, we see Riel standing alone in the wilderness, staring into the sky, leaving open the question of whether what he witnessed was real.\n\nIn 1995, Brown published the anti-psychiatry comics essay \"My Mom was a Schizophrenic\", in which he examines society's role in mental illness, and questions the medical profession's accepted beliefs about it. The six-page strip came with two pages of end notes gathered from his research. Brown enjoyed this project and thought he would like to take on another in which he could \"cram a lot of research into a comic strip\". When he came across Siggins' biography of Riel, he had been working on the experimental \"Underwater\" series, a project on which he felt he had lost his way. His father died in late 1997, and he decided he did not \"want to waste time with projects that weren't working out\". In 1998, he turned his attention to Riel, putting the unpopular \"Underwater\" series on hold.\n\nWhile researching, Brown came across two books by political scientist Tom Flanagan: \"Louis \"David\" Riel: \"Prophet of the New World\"\" (1996) and \"Louis Riel and the Rebellion: 1885 Reconsidered\" (2000). Brown found \"Prophet of the New World\" particularly intriguing as it dealt with Riel's religious ideas while reevaluating his alleged diagnosis of mental illness, two topics Brown had especial interest in, as he had previously made \"eccentric\" adaptations of the Gospel, and comics dealing with his mother's schizophrenia. He also came across books by researcher Don McLean and historian Douglas N. Sprague that advanced the conspiracy theory that the 1885 North-West Rebellion was deliberately provoked by Prime Minister John A. Macdonald to gain support for the building of the transcontinental railway.\n\nBrown had gained a reputation for improvised storytelling by the time he began work on \"Louis Riel\". With \"Underwater\", he had intended to write a script, but in the end chose to improvise. He found the results unsatisfactory, and decided to write a full script beforehand for his next project. The script for \"Louis Riel\" came to over 200 pages.\n\nBrown's was not the first depiction of the Métis leader in comics. James Simpkins, a Canadian cartoonist best known for Jasper the Bear, made a mildly anti-Riel two-page strip in 1967, and Pierre Dupuis produced a French-language two-page summary in 1979. A 23-page pro-Riel strip appeared in \"Canadian History Comic Book No. 2: Rebellion\" in 1972. In 1980, Italian artist Hugo Pratt created a character called Jesuit Joe who was supposed to have descended from Riel. Publishing house Les Éditions des Plaines published two books on Riel: Robert Freynet's 58-page (\"Louis Riel in Comics\") in 1990, and Zoran and Toufik's (\"Louis Riel, the Father of Manitoba\") in 1996, both in French. Riel also played a secondary role in the 1995 comic album (\"The Twilight of Bois-Brûlés\").\n\nThe government of the new Dominion of Canada (established 1867), under Prime Minister John A. Macdonald, has made a deal with the Hudson's Bay Company to purchase Rupert's Land—vast tracts of land in northern North America. The French-speaking Métis—people who are half Native, half white, and inhabit parts of Rupert's Land—dispute that their land can be sold to the Canadians without their consent. In the Red River settlement, the Métis, led by Louis Riel, dodge political manoeuverings on the part of Lieutenant Governor William McDougall and some of the English-speaking settlers, while seizing Fort Garry. After an armed standoff at English-speaking settler John Schultz's home, the Métis declare a provisional government and vote Riel their president, with an even number of French and English representatives. Schultz escapes from prison and rounds up a number of men with the intention of freeing the prisoners from Fort Garry, but when Riel lets the prisoners go, Schultz's men set out for home. On the way, a number of them pass Fort Garry, where they are captured and imprisoned. One of the prisoners, Thomas Scott, relentlessly quarrels with the guards, showering them with racial epithets. Eventually, the provisional government convicts him of treason and executes him by firing squad. The remaining prisoners are released, and the provisional government enters into negotiations with Ottawa, which results in the founding of the province of Manitoba. They are unable to get an amnesty for the execution of Scott, however. The Canadian army arrives, ostensibly to keep the peace. Riel flees to the U.S., and the anglophone population assumes governance.\n\nSchultz takes control of Manitoba, and the government of Ontario offers a cash reward for Riel's capture, dead or alive. Macdonald secretly sends Riel money to disappear, as his death would lose him votes in Quebec but allowing him to live would cost him votes in English Canada. Riel flees from town to town in the U.S. as bounty hunters try to track him down. In 1873, he returns to the Manitoba and wins a seat in the federal Parliament in a by-election. He fears actually sitting in parliament because there is still a bounty on his head, and continues to live in hiding. In 1874, he wins his seat again. Schultz wins a seat in the settlement as well, however, and Alexander Mackenzie has become Prime Minister, running on promises not to grant the rebels an amnesty. Riel is expelled from Parliament for failing to sit, but wins his seat again in the next by-election. The frustrated government finally extends an amnesty to the rebels—all except Riel, whose amnesty is conditional on a five-year banishment from Canada. During his exile, he has a visionary experience on a hilltop in Washington, D.C., in which God names him David, the Prophet of the New World, and tells him to lead the Métis to freedom. In 1876, Riel is secretly committed by a friend to a lunatic asylum near Montréal under a false name.\n\nOver the next several years, the Métis, unhappy with the Canadian government's handling of their land rights, move farther west across the Prairies. There as well, they see their petitions to the government repeatedly ignored and their rights trampled on. Finally, after being ignored for too long, the Métis search for Riel in Montana, in the hope that his return will force the Canadians to take their claims seriously. He is reluctant at first, as he has started a family and settled down as a schoolmaster. In the hopes that he will get money from the Canadian government for his tenure administering the Red River settlement (by this time known as Winnipeg), he moves his family to Batoche (now in Saskatchewan) in mid-1884. Macdonald has returned to the prime ministership and conspires with George Stephen, president of the financially burdened Canadian Pacific Railway, to use the situation to gain support for finishing the railway. By inciting a violent revolt amongst the Métis, the government can justify funding the railway to move troops to the Prairies. The Métis under Riel respond with arms as intended. Riel declares \"Rome has fallen!\" and breaks from the Catholic Church. He breathes the Holy Spirit into his followers, thereafter known as the Exovedate. Tensions build until the bloodshed at the Battle of Duck Lake, where Riel and his followers drive back the North-West Mounted Police. Macdonald takes this as a cue to send two thousand troops to the area. At the Battle of Fish Creek, the outnumbered Métis manage to drive back the Canadians, but at the Battle of Batoche, while Riel is increasingly immersed in religious activities, the Métis finally suffer defeat. In the hope that his trial will provide an opportunity to get the Métis' story to the public, Riel surrenders instead of fleeing.\n\nIn July 1885, Riel is put on trial in Regina for his role as leader in the North-West Rebellion. Against his will, Riel's lawyer tries unsuccessfully to defend him on grounds of insanity. He is found guilty of high treason. Though the jury pleads for mercy, he is sentenced to hang. In response to the pleas of Quebeckers to pardon Riel, Macdonald responds, \"He shall hang though every dog in Quebec bark in his favour\". After reconciling himself with the Church, Riel is hanged in Regina on 16 November 1885. In the aftermath, the remaining rebels receive a pardon, Macdonald and Stephen continue in their success, and Riel's wife dies.\n\nRiel (1844–85) was a French-speaking Métis politician from a devoutly Catholic background. He founded and named the Province of Manitoba (a Cree word meaning \"the god that speaks\"). He led the two Métis rebellions against the Canadian government: the Red River Rebellion of 1869–70 and the North-West Rebellion of 1885. Following the latter, he was hanged for high treason. Riel remains an ambiguous and controversial figure in Canadian history, and Brown's depiction maintains that ambiguity.\n\nRiel is depicted as charismatic. He is Montréal-educated and speaks English, which makes him a natural leader to the Métis, though his leadership is flawed—he ignores the military advice of his peers in battle, placing his faith in God that the Métis will defeat the Canadians. Brown depicts him as having a messianic complex and possibly having schizophrenia. He is unsure of himself, averse to bloodshed, and easily convinced to flee to the U.S. to avoid capture.\n\nMacdonald (1815–91) was the first Prime Minister of Canada, in office 1867–73, and again 1878–91. Brown depicts the Prime Minister in the role of scheming villain and caricatures his features in an absurd manner, giving him an extremely oversized nose and showing him as a drunk. He is a man of ambitions and will not let anyone stand in the way of his legacy. In the appendix, however, Brown discloses that he does not see Macdonald as the villain he has portrayed in the book. Brown's distrust of big government leads him to push the conspiracy theory side of the story to Macdonald's detriment, but, in the end, he states that he \"would rather have lived in a state run by John A. Macdonald than one run by Louis Riel\".\n\n\"Louis Riel\" is noted for its emotional restraint, and intentionally flat and expository dialogue. To critic Rich Kreiner the book \"has been rigorously scrubbed of staged drama and crowd-pleasing effects\". It avoids manipulation of the reader by invoking sympathy or sentiment. Brown takes a distanced approach and relies faithfully on his source material—he focuses on the concrete and corporeal and eschews techniques of speculation such as thought balloons. This includes his presentation of Riel's mystical experiences, which Brown presents plainly and without interpretation of its reality or lack thereof.\n\nThe book makes frequent deliberate use of silent panels, focused on imagery with the narrative moved forward by the characters' actions. Riel's \"despairs over the decisions he makes\" are expressed through pictures, as Brown had come to believe that historical comics had been too \"narration-heavy\". He wanted \"Louis Riel\" \"to show what the medium is capable of\", and made use of greater panel-to-panel continuity. While the grid of panels gives a feeling of page symmetry, the pages are not composed as a unit—scenes change anywhere on the page with little regard to page layout.\n\nPrinted on yellowish paper, each page conforms strictly to a rhythmic six-panel grid, in contrast to the free placement of panels that characterized Brown's autobiographical period. Tone and mood are set by the composition of the panels, as during Riel's trial when all tonal variation is dropped, and the white figures are placed against a heavy black background, which emphasizes the claustrophobic atmosphere.\n\nBrown makes the language barriers that separate the characters visual by having Riel drop the letter \"h\" in his dialogue (e.g. \"over t'e last several days\") and by putting French-language dialogue in ⟨chevron brackets⟩ and Cree language dialogue in ⟨⟨double-chevrons⟩⟩. He shows Riel, who was an educated and sophisticated speaker of French, struggling with English. These touches emphasize that English was not yet a dominant language in the regions in which the story unfolds. Brown uses consistent semantics in his speech balloons; the size and weight of the dialogue varies according to speech patterns, and sound effects vary according to how close they are to the reader.\n\nBrown's drawing style had always changed from project to project. He frequently cited Harold Gray of \"Little Orphan Annie\" as the primary influence on the drawing style of \"Louis Riel\"—restrained artwork which avoids extreme closeups, and blank-eyed characters with large bodies, small heads, and oversized noses. Gray's drawing and compositional style was well suited to the subject of \"Louis Riel\". Gray often used his strip as a public platform for politics, and \"Louis Riel\" was also very public and outward-looking. This approach is in great contrast to the inward-looking comics Brown had previously been known for—notably his autobiographical work. His cross-hatching style was reminiscent of the editorial cartoonists of Riel's time. Gray's outdoor scenes were inspired by the Illinois plains of Gray's youth, terrain similar to that of Manitoba and Saskatchewan.\n\nBrown also acknowledges significant debts to Jack Jackson's historical comics, Hergé's \"The Adventures of Tintin\", and the extremely exaggerated style of Larry Gonick's \"Cartoon History of the Universe\". He says he referred to Jack Hamm's \"How to Draw Animals\" when drawing the horses that appear frequently throughout the book, which were rendered running with their legs splayed, as an artist may have depicted them in the days before the influence of Eadweard Muybridge's photographs of bodies in motion. Brown drew each of the 1325 panels separately on watercolour paper on a block of wood he placed on his lap in lieu of a drawing table, which allowed him seamlessly to rearrange, insert, and delete panels as he saw fit. The drawings were finished using both a thin ink brush (no larger than size 0) and dip pen with a Hunt 102 nib and black ink.\n\nWhen he began \"Louis Riel\", Brown had increasingly been making use of notes and appendices in his work, beginning with his researching and annotating the 1994 comics essay, \"My Mom was a Schizophrenic\". He added appendices to the 1998 collection of short strips, \"The Little Man\", and the 2002 reprinting of \"I Never Liked You\". In \"Louis Riel\", the appendix totalled 23 pages, along with a bibliography and an index. Alan Moore's use of extensive end notes in his and Eddie Campbell's \"From Hell\", another fictional reconstruction of a historical event, influenced Brown's appendices. In the comics essay \"Dance of the Gull Catchers\" which closes the \"From Hell\" appendices, Moore metaphorically reveals to the reader the myriad choices he could have made from the available historical evidence when putting together his version of the Jack the Ripper story.\n\nAllowing him to \"tell the best story and tell the truth\", Brown's notes were self-reflexive, and drew attention to the artistic choices he made when putting together the book. Brown makes explicit the inaccuracies in the book, as when he realized his drawings of William McDougall did not match up with descriptions of him by biographers as a \"portly\" and \"heavily built man\". Brown chose not to redraw McDougall's scenes, deciding he \"could live with that level of inaccuracy\". He also admits that he deliberately changed some of the historical details, as when he has Prime Minister Macdonald in talks with the Hudson's Bay Company in London—Macdonald was not in London at that time and did not directly participate in the negotiations. In other instances, Brown noted where he paid special care to historical details: the dialogue of Riel's trial comes directly from court transcripts. Brown makes clear in his notes the amount of research undertaken for the book, emphasizing both its authenticity and his desire to show the different aspects of Riel's ambiguous story. Many of his changes were made for space considerations, as he intended to limit the book to about two hundred pages.\n\nThe notes range from nearly insignificant details to major discrepancies and deliberate distortions. They have a self-deprecatory tone that is common in North American comics, tracing its roots to the awkwardly self-aware underground comix of the 1960s and 1970s. They also reveal Brown's process in shaping the story from conflicting sources. He acknowledges some of the more capricious details. He explains he was not committed to the conspiracy theory he presented, but included it in order to present Macdonald in a certain light: \"[V]illains are fun in a story\", he said, and he was \"trying to tell this tale in an engaging manner\". He also included a \"Major-General Thomas Bland Strange\" in an 1885 meeting at which the general was not actually present. Brown explains that he included Strange because he was amused by the Major-General's name.\n\nBrown originally meant \"Louis Riel\" to be published in book form, but his publisher, Chris Oliveros, convinced him to serialize it first. Drawn and Quarterly published the ten comic-book instalments from 1999 until 2003. Brown was granted CA$6000 by the Canadian Council for the Arts in 2001 to assist in its completion. The full volume appeared in hardcover in 2003 and softcover in 2006. The book sold out its first printing in two months, went through multiple printings, and had sold fifty thousand copies by the beginning of 2011. The original serialization sold poorly, which made the book's success a surprise.\n\nThe comic book and the collection both came with an extensive appendix, and the collection came with a bibliography and an index, all hand-lettered by Brown. The collection's appendix came to 22 pages.\n\nIn the original serialization, as the series progressed the influence of Harold Gray became stronger. The characters' heads became smaller while their bodies and hands grew larger, with Riel appearing \"like the Hulk in a wool suit\" after his hilltop religious revelation. Brown redrew many of the earlier drawings to make them consistent with the later ones in the collected edition. He added backgrounds, redrew, added or deleted panels to improve page rhythms or make chapter divisions cleaner, and reshaped or relettered word ballons. Dialogue remained intact for the most part, although the slur \"frog\" for the French-speaking Métis was replaced with \"half-breed\".\n\nIn 2012, Drawn and Quarterly first began offering comics in e-book format, prompted in part by Brown. His \"Louis Riel\" and \"Paying for It\" were the first two books made available, though Brown is a print-lover who professes little interest in e-books, or computers in general. The non-exclusive deal was made with Toronto-based Kobo Inc. A tenth-anniversary edition in 2013 included sketches and other supplemental material.\n\nFrench and Italian editions appeared in 2004—the Italian from Coconino Press and the French from the Belgian publisher Casterman. To appeal to francophones in Europe, where Riel is not well known, Casterman had the book titled \"Louis Riel: l'insurgé\" (\"Louis Riel: Rebel\"). The Montreal-based publisher La Pastèque obtained the rights to the book and re-released it as \"Louis Riel\" with a different cover in 2012.\n\nThough not the first work of biography in comics, Louis Riel was the first completed of its length and depth. The book sold well, and became the first graphic novel to reach Canada's non-fiction bestseller list. A critical and commercial success, it was especially popular with libraries and schools. Comics academic Jeet Heer states that it has perhaps sold more copies in Canada than any other graphic novel. \"Publishers Weekly\" called it \"a strong contender for the best graphic novel ever\", \"Time\" magazine included it in its annual Best Comix list in 2003, and, in 2009, the \"Toronto Star\" placed it on its list of the ten best books of \"The Century So Far\". It is regularly cited as being at the forefront of a trend in historical graphic novels, along with Art Spiegelman's \"Maus\" and Marjane Satrapi's \"Persepolis\".\n\nEspecially in Canada, \"Louis Riel\" brought Brown out of the fringes into the mainstream, and also attracted more serious attention to graphic novels. It was the first work of comics to receive a grant from the Canada Council for the Arts (although Brown's libertarian politics have led him to condemn the government for handing out grants), and helped pave the way for the Council's special category for graphic novels. The book was optioned for a movie by Bruce McDonald and another film director, though the project never started filming.\n\nResearching Riel had a significant impact on Brown's thinking. When he started the book, he considered himself an anarchist. His intention was to write an anti-government book, and had a bias in Riel's favour—despite what Brown considered Riel's own political conservatism—as Riel opposed the government. Over the course of drawing the book, he came to sympathize more with Macdonald. His reading led him in 1998 to \"The Noblest Triumph: Property and Prosperity Through the Ages\" by Tom Bethell, which led him change his own politics to favour libertarianism. He later ran for parliament as representative of the Libertarian Party of Canada, to the dismay of his friends. At one point, after Brown had started drawing the book, he tried to rewrite the script to reflect his changed perspective, but found it too difficult and stayed with the original script. He revealed his new beliefs only in the appendix.\n\nReviewer Dennis Duffy commended Brown's research, but stated Brown \"often cheats\" in assigning forethought to Macdonald's action unattested in historical documents. Critic Rich Kreiner found that Brown's disengaged approach to \"Louis Riel\" invited a reader-response approach to reading it. As an example, it was the impetus for an in-depth, three-part interview conducted by Dave Sim in the pages of his comic book \"Cerebus\", which Sim uses as an opportunity to apply his own idiosyncratic views to an interpretation of events in Brown's book.\n\nThe Montreal-based RustWerk ReFinery adapted the book in 2016 as \"Louis Riel: A Comic-Strip Stage Play\". The bilingual play uses black-and-white cut-out puppets, live actors, and shadow imagery.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43235104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43235104", "title": "MICE in Thailand", "text": "MICE in Thailand\n\nThe meetings, incentives, conferencing, exhibitions (MICE) industry in Thailand is one of the major branches of tourism in Thailand, contributing an estimated 0.58 percent to Thailand's GDP in 2012 (9.4% of all tourism earnings).\n\nThe number of tourists in the MICE sector is around three percent of the overall arrivals to Thailand each year. They are recognized as the most desirable category of visitors, mainly because of their high-spending potential. The average spending of tourists in this sector is three times higher than spending of tourists in other sectors. Thailand benefits from its geographic position between China and India and tops the ASEAN region in terms of exhibition spaces sold and for being the most profitable MICE market.\n\nIn 2012, Thailand hosted more than 7,300 meeting events (a 6.84 percent increase from 2011), totaling 895,000 visitors. The main sources were conventions (33 percent), corporate meetings (25 percent) and incentive travel (24 percent), adding the equivalent of more than US$2.5 billion to the economy of Thailand. Around 65 percent of Thailand’s MICE business came from Asian countries. India was the most frequent MICE customer, with 74,941 meetings visitors in 2012, followed by China (63,955), Japan (45,424) and Korea (37,175). The United States was on the eighth place, sending 21,786 delegates in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, the number of visitors surpassed one million, 72 percent from Asia. China was the main contributor, both by number of travelers (128,437) and revenue (US$360 million).\n\nThailand is a popular destination for Indian weddings that use MICE facilities as reception venues, some wedding groups surpassing 1500 guests. Reasons given for this success have been the incorporation of the Indian culture and the understanding of the Indian guests' requirements, the price–performance ratio compared to India proper and also the visa on arrival regime for Indian citizens. In July 2014, 40 percent of Indian weddings held in Thailand were in Phuket, 30 percent in Hua Hin and 15 percent in Pattaya.\n\nLarge scale events, such as conferences and conventions, can have a significant environmental impact in terms of energy usage, water consumption, waste, and carbon emissions. Thus, the Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) launched the \"Green Meetings\" campaign in 2009. However, the understanding of many event planners and industry players regarding environmentally sustainable events and meetings remains lacking.\n\nIn most Asia/Pacific countries (including Thailand), governments lead the way in the construction of MICE facilities. The private sector is generally leads the development of conference and exhibition centres in countries where governments have few financial resources (Indonesia and Mekong sub-region). In Thailand, in 1984, the government and private sectors jointly established the \"Thailand Incentive and Convention Association\" (TICA), in order to support the growth of the MICE sector. It cooperated with 'Trade Exhibition Association Thailand' (TEA) and some medical associations to draw meetings and seminars to be held in Thailand. These associations had some help from the government, but the government had not yet seen MICE as an opportunity. In 1991, the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center, one of the main convention centers in East Asia, opened.\n\nIn 2002, the Royal Thai Government established the Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) under the Office of the Prime Minister, as the organization to market MICE events in Thailand. One of the bureau's roles is to encourage the inclusion of Thai arts and culture in these events in order to promote the national heritage. TCEB identified five major MICE cities: (Bangkok, Phuket, Khon Kaen, Pattaya, Chiang Mai). Other organizations involved in the development of the MICE sector in Thailand are Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) and Thai Airways.\n\nBangkok is the administrative, education, commercial and transport center of the country, and a regional center for business, finance and communications, many international corporations having offices here. The city is the hub of Thailand's commercial events industry, with 299 hotels in the city center and seven world-standard convention and exhibition centers. Bangkok International Trade and Exhibition Centre (BITEC) focuses on machinery and trade shows. IMPACT, with a 130,000 m exhibition area and a convention center with a 10,000 delegates hosting capacity, mostly takes on consumer shows. Smaller venues such as the Royal Paragon Hall and Queen Sirikit National Convention Center usually host lifestyle events.\n\nWorking together with the TCEB, Chiang Mai devised a five-year master plan (2013–2017) to become a MICE hub. The Chiang Mai International Exhibition and Convention Centre (CMECC), with a total area of 521,600 m and usable space of 60,000 m, is one of the biggest convention and exhibition centres in Southeast Asia. In 2012, the total value of the Chiang Mai MICE industry reached 3.9 billion baht, of which 3.8 billion baht was contributed by 46,826 foreign MICE travellers.\n\nIn 2016, Chiang Mai was ranked 28 among Asia-Pacific and Middle East cities based on the number of meetings that took place, rising from its rank of 34 in 2015.\n\nKhon Kaen is the major commercial and educational center of Isan, Thailand’s northeastern region. It is one of the winners of IBM's Smarter Cities programme for developing MICE promoting strategies. In 2013, the MICE sector generated 600 million baht in revenue.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Pattaya became the first Thai resort destination to attract international incentives, mainly from Europe. By the year 2000, Pattaya Exhibition and Convention Hall (PEACH), the largest local convention centre, secured its position as a venue for major conventions and exhibitions. It has been the venue for numerous large-scale conventions, including the PATA Travel Mart, PATA annual conference and ASEAN Tourism Forum as well as major medical and insurance related congresses. North Pattaya Alliance is a group of seven hotels focused on different identities and features that work together in hosting MICE events and Indian weddings.\n\nThe extended touristic infrastructure in Phuket (over 600 hotels, various venues and an international airport) led to the development of a MICE sector on this island. Most of the venues with MICE facilities are in Laguna Phuket.\n"}
{"id": "39122142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39122142", "title": "Management of domestic violence", "text": "Management of domestic violence\n\nThe management of domestic violence deals with the treatment of victims of domestic violence and preventing repetitions of such violence. The response to domestic violence in Western countries is typically a combined effort between law enforcement, social services and health care. The role of each has evolved as domestic violence has been brought more into public view.\n\nHistorically, domestic violence has been viewed as a private family matter that need not involve the government or criminal justice. Police officers were often reluctant to intervene by making an arrest, and often chose instead to simply counsel the couple and/or ask one of the parties to leave the residence for a period of time. The courts were reluctant to impose any significant sanctions on those convicted of domestic violence, largely because it was viewed as a misdemeanor offense.\n\nThe modern view in industrialized countries is that domestic violence should be viewed as a public matter and all criminal authority should be involved; that once the violence is reported it should be taken seriously. Further, supports need to be put in place to restore the victim's safety and respect, which often includes the efforts of the person who did the harm. \n\nMedical professionals can make a difference in the lives of those who experience abuse. Many cases of spousal abuse are handled solely by physicians and do not involve the police. Sometimes cases of domestic violence are brought into the emergency room, while many other cases are handled by a family physician or other primary care provider. Subspecialist physicians are also increasingly playing an important role. For example, HIV physicians are ideally suited to play an important role in managing abuse given the association between abuse and HIV infection as well as their often lifelong relationships with patients.\n\nMedical professionals are in a position to give advice, and refer them to appropriate services. The health care professional has not always met this role, with uneven quality of care, and in some cases misunderstandings about domestic violence.\n\nCarole Washaw suggests that many doctors prefer not to get involved in people's \"private\" lives. Jenny Clifton, John Jacobs, Jo Tulloch found that training for general practitioners in the United States about domestic violence was very limited or they had no training. Abbott and Williamson found that knowledge and understanding of domestic violence was very limited among health care professionals in a Midlands, United Kingdom county, and that they do not see themselves as being able to play a major role in helping women in regards to domestic violence. Furthermore, in the biomedical model of health care, injuries are often just treated and diagnosed, without regard for the causes. As well, there is substantial reluctance for victims to come forward and broach the issue with their physicians. On average, women experience 35 incidents of domestic violence before seeking treatment.\n\nIn the U. S., the Institute of Medicine recognized the shortcomings of the health care system in its 2002 report entitled Confronting Chronic Neglect and attributed some of the problems cited to a lack of adequate training among health professionals. Health professionals have an ethical responsibility to recognize and address exposure to abuse in their patients, in the health care setting. For example, the American Medical Association's code of medical ethics states that \"Due to the prevalence and medical consequences of family violence, physicians should routinely inquire about physical, sexual, and psychological abuse as part of the medical history. Physicians must also consider abuse in the differential diagnosis for a number of medical complaints, particularly when treating women.\" \n\nIn the 1970s, studies in Europe and North America showed that domestic violence was widespread in many homes, resulting in emotional and physical trauma, and sometimes death. Into the 21st century many countries have taken steps to eradicate domestic violence, such as criminalization of violence against women and other abuses. Organizations have been formed which provide assistance and protection of domestic abuse victims, laws and criminal remedies, and domestic violence courts. In addition, social, legal, psychological, and medical services have been made available for victims of domestic violence.\n\nAlthough acts of domestic violence are criminal and a violation of human rights, safety and dignity, as of 2010 the United Nation has found that it is still often considered a private matter. Some countries with laws against domestic violence may not enforce them and there are many countries that do not criminalize domestic violence. The United Nations published \"Handbook on Effective Responses to Violence against Women\" for police and other first responders to provide guidelines for police intervention.\n\nWhere there are laws against domestic violence, such abuse is often under-reported. The reasons for not reporting may include that the victim does not want to end the relationship, report the violence or pursue legal remedies include:\n\nOf the cases that are reported, they are often under-prosecuted. \nCriminologists suggest that abusers who are employed and have ties to the community may initially fear punishment, though many cases do not make it all the way through the criminal justice process. If the victim is uncooperative during investigation, the prosecutor may choose not to pursue the case. If the case is pursued through the criminal justice system, sometimes the resulting sentence is minor. Subsequently, any fear that the abuser has of punishment may have diminished.\n\nAccording to the United Nations\"'Handbook on effective police responses to violence against women\": \"Without clearly targeted efforts to alter institutional culture and practices and to mainstream the issue of gender in legislation and practice, most legal and political reforms have little positive impact.\" An effective system requires \"cooperative, coordinated and effective\ninvolvement\" of law enforcement, communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), courts, and prisons. Way to manage violence against women is to increase the number of female officers in the police force and to offer training programs for officers. Other ways to prevent and manage domestic include the development and implementation of the following law enforcement practices:\n\n\nCommunity programs include the development of shelters for abuse survivors, programs to create a culture that does not condone domestic violence, creation of prevention and victim services programs, and the development of educational programs for the religious and cultural communities.\n\nDue to the extent and prevalence of violence in relationships, counselors and therapists are encouraged to assess every client for domestic violence (both experienced and perpetrated). If the clinician is seeing a couple for couple's counseling, this assessment should be conducted with each individual privately during the initial interview, in order to increase the victim's sense of safety in disclosing any violence in the relationship. In addition to determining whether violence is present, counselors and therapists should also make the distinction between situations where battering may have been a single, isolated incident or an ongoing pattern of control. The therapist must, however, consider that violence may be present even when there has been only a single physical incident as emotional/verbal, economic, and sexual abuse may be more insidious.\n\nAnother important issue in assessing clients for domestic violence lies in differing definitions of abuse – the therapist's definition may differ from that of the client, and paying close attention to the way the client describes their experiences is crucial in developing effective treatment plans. The therapist must determine if it is in the best interest of the client to explain that some behaviors (such as emotional abuse) are considered domestic violence, even if the client did not previously consider them as such.\n\nIf it becomes apparent to the therapist that domestic violence is taking place in a client's relationship, there are several statements the clinician can make that have been shown to be effective in rapport-building and immediate crisis intervention with clients. Firstly, it is essential that the therapist believe the victim's story and validate their feelings. It is recommended that the therapist acknowledge them for taking a risk in disclosing this information, and assure them that any ambivalent feelings they may be having are normal. The therapist should emphasize that the abuse they have experienced is not their fault, but should keep their feelings of ambivalence in mind and refrain from blaming their partner or telling them what to do. It is unreasonable for the therapist to expect that a victim will leave their perpetrator solely because they disclosed the abuse, and the therapist should respect the victim's autonomy and allow them to make their own decisions regarding termination of the relationship. Finally, the therapist must explore options with the client (such as emergency housing in shelters, police involvement, etc.) in order to uphold their obligation to protect the welfare of the client.\n\nA lethality assessment is a tool that can assist in determining the best course of treatment for a client, as well as helping the client to recognize dangerous behaviors and more subtle abuse in their relationship. In a study of victims of attempted domestic violence-related homicide, only about one-half of the participants recognized that their perpetrator was capable of killing them, as many domestic violence victims minimize the true seriousness of their situation. Thus, lethality assessment is an essential first step in assessing the severity of a victim's situation.\n\nSafety planning allows the victim to plan for dangerous situations they may encounter, and is effective regardless of their decision on whether remain with their perpetrator. Safety planning usually begins with determining a course of action if another acute incident occurs in the home. The victim should be given strategies for their own safety, such as avoiding confrontations in rooms where there is only one exit and avoiding certain rooms that contain many potential weapons (such as kitchens, bathrooms, etc.).\n\nThe main goal for counselling for offenders of domestic violence is to have them stop the violence and repair the harms they have created. Such work needs to restore the victims' safety and respect, not necessarily restoring the intimate relationship. Counselling for offenders emphasizes minimizing risk to the victim, and should be modified depending on the offender's history, risk of reoffending, and criminogenic needs. The majority of offender treatment programs are 24–36 weeks in length and are conducted in a group setting with groups not exceeding 12 participants.\n\nGender specific groups (male offenders only or female offenders only) are common in the field. Groups can be helpful to establish group norms that are contrary to the use of violence that, in turn, create a context where offenders are held accountable to their own values in a respectful manner. Successful completion of groups is generally associated with old age, higher levels of education, lower reported drug use, non-violent criminal histories, and longer intimate relationships. \n\nAlong with offering group conversations, others incorporate individual and conjoint conversations to assist in ending the violence and repairing the harms. One such approach, which focuses on restorative justice, is highlighted in the critically acclaimed documentary A Better Man. \"Maclean's\" reported, “The film manages to be simultaneously agonizing and hopeful… it is revelatory to know these kinds of [restorative] conversations are possible.” Film reviewer Miria Bale of Vulture.com heralds the film is a \"Revolutionary documentary.\"\n\nAnger management alone has not been shown to be effective in treating domestic violence offenders because such an approach seldom addresses the societal influences that are influencing offenders choices to perpetrate violence.\n\nAnger management is recommended as a part of an offender program that is based on accountability, along with topics such as recognizing abusive patterns of behavior and re-framing communication skills. Interventions require not only stopping the violence but developing a plan to repair harms. Any corresponding problems should also be addressed as part of domestic violence offender treatment, such as problems with substance abuse or other mental illness.\n\nVictims of domestic violence may require occupational therapy to be able to participate in work and to address a diminished skill-set caused by a prolonged absence from the workforce. Occupational therapists work with individuals to develop the skills needed to acquire desired roles and satisfactorily perform everyday tasks. Occupational therapists can provide services through direct or indirect treatment, advocacy efforts, consultation, or group sessions. They may work with victims of domestic violence and their families in a variety of settings such as hospitals, inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation centers, long-term care facilities, mental health facilities, schools, homes, and in shelters or other community programs.\n\nWithin any of the practice settings, occupational therapists may encounter victims of domestic violence including individuals who have not reported abuse. Occupational therapists are in a position to uncover information that leads to suspicion of violence or identification of abuse that has occurred. As health care professionals, occupational therapists follow state mandated requirements to report abuse. In treatment sessions, they may encounter individuals who have either chosen to remain in or must move on from an intimate relationship where abuse has occurred. Occupational therapists may see patients for complications directly related to abuse, such as physical injuries. On the other hand, occupational therapy services may be requested for unrelated issues but consequences of violence are addressed after the patient reveals abuse to the therapist.\n\nThe consequences of domestic violence may impact the ability to perform daily occupations. Occupational therapy contributes to recovery by enabling victims to create new roles, develop satisfying and productive routines, and gain the self-efficacy necessary to overcome the effects of domestic violence. Occupational therapy interventions may include:\n\nOT interventions with children who are exposed to domestic violence are focused on promoting age appropriate academic, play, and social skills to facilitate proper development and success in school activities. This may include activities to improve organization, study habits, or attention. Adolescents who have seen or experienced domestic abuse may also benefit from occupational therapy to work on relationship and life skills and learn coping strategies.\n\nThere are many community organizations which work to prevent domestic violence by offering safe shelter, crisis intervention, advocacy, and education and prevention programs. Community screening for domestic violence can be more systematic in cases of animal abuse, healthcare settings, emergency departments, behavioral health settings and court systems. Tools are being developed to facilitate domestic violence screening such as mobile apps.\n\nIn 1981, the Duluth Domestic Abuse Intervention Project became the first multi-disciplinary program designed to address the issue of domestic violence. This experiment, conducted in Duluth, Minnesota, frequently referred to as the \"Duluth Project\" because it is constantly evolving through the help of an entire community. The Domestic Abuse Intervention Program has federal, state and local funders who support them. This funding allows DAIP to explore strategies to end violence to communities throughout the United States and around the world.\n\nThe objectives of the Duluth approach:\n\nA news report from California cites a batterer intervention by \"The Center for Violence-Free Relationships\" based on Nonviolent Communication as having demonstrated zero percent recidivism within 5 years, and contrasts this with 40 percent recidivism within 5 years said to have been reported by DAIP for graduates of programs based on the Duluth Model.\n"}
{"id": "13317094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13317094", "title": "Margravial Opera House", "text": "Margravial Opera House\n\nThe Margravial Opera House () is a Baroque opera house in the town of Bayreuth, Germany, built between 1744 and 1748. It is one of Europe's few surviving theatres of the period and has been extensively restored. On 30 June 2012, the opera house was inscribed in the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\nIt was built according to plans designed by the French architect (ca. 1709 – 1754), court builder of the Hohenzollern margrave Frederick of Brandenburg-Bayreuth and his wife Princess Wilhelmine of Prussia. It was inaugurated on the occasion of the marriage of their daughter Elisabeth Fredericka Sophie with Duke Charles Eugene of Württemberg.\n\nThe wooden interior was designed by Giuseppe Galli Bibiena (1696 – 1757) and his son Carlo from Bologna in an Italian Late Baroque style. The box theatre is completely preserved in its original condition, except for the curtain which was taken by Napoleon's troops on their march to the 1812 Russian campaign. The prince box was seldom used by the art-minded margravial couple, who preferred a front-row seat.\n\nPrincess Wilhelmine, older sister of the Prussian king Frederick the Great, had established the margravial theatre company in 1737. In the new opera house she participated as a composer of opera works and \"Singspiele\", as well as an actor and director. Today she features in a sound-and-light presentation for tourists. After her death in 1758, performances ceased and the building went into disuse, one reason for its good conservation status.\n\nMore than one hundred years later, the stage's great depth of attracted the composer Richard Wagner, who in 1872 chose Bayreuth as festival centre and had the \"Festspielhaus\" built north of the town. The foundation stone ceremony was held on 22 May, Wagner's birthday, and included a performance of Beethoven's Symphony No. 9, directed by the maestro. \n\nParts of the 1994 biopic \"Farinelli\" were filmed in the Opera House. The theatre was the site of the annual Bayreuther Osterfestival until 2009. Each September from the year 2000 to 2009, the theatre also hosted the Bayreuth Baroque festival, with performances of early operatic rarities. The 2009 festival included performances of Andrea Bernasconi's \"festa teatrale\", \"L'Huomo\", to a libretto by the Margravine Wilhelmine.\n\nThe theatre closed between October 2012 for extensive refurbishment and redevelopment and reopened April 12, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "44249333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44249333", "title": "Mattress Performance (Carry That Weight)", "text": "Mattress Performance (Carry That Weight)\n\nMattress Performance (Carry That Weight) (2014–2015) was a work of endurance performance art by Emma Sulkowicz, conducted as their senior thesis during the final year of a visual arts degree at Columbia University in New York City.\n\nBegun in September 2014, the piece involved Sulkowicz carrying a mattress, of the kind that Columbia uses in its dorms, around campus. Sulkowicz, who is non-binary and uses they/them pronouns, said the piece would end when a student Sulkowicz alleged raped them in Sulkowicz's dorm room in 2012 was expelled or otherwise left the university. Sulkowicz carried the mattress until the end of the spring semester as well as to the graduation ceremony in May 2015.\n\nPaul Nungesser, the student who Sulkowicz accused, was found not responsible in 2013 by a university inquiry into the allegations. He called Sulkowicz's accusation \"untrue and unfounded\" and \"Mattress Performance\" an act of bullying. Sulkowicz filed a police complaint in May 2014; the district attorney's office did not pursue criminal charges, citing a lack of reasonable suspicion. In April 2015 Nungesser filed a lawsuit against the university, its trustees, university president Lee Bollinger, and art professor Jon Kessler, Sulkowicz's thesis supervisor, alleging that the school exposed him to gender-based harassment by allowing \"Mattress Performance\" to take place on campus for course credit. The suit was dismissed in March 2016. Nungesser filed an amended complaint on April 25, 2016, which resulted in the university settling for undisclosed terms, and expressing regret about his \"difficult\" time and promising to reform its policies so \"accuser and accused, including those like [the student] who are found not responsible\" are \"treated with respect\" in the future.\n\nThe piece stirred controversy with praise from art critics and criticism from some commentators. Art critic Jerry Saltz called \"Mattress Performance\" \"pure radical vulnerability\" and one of the best art shows of 2014. Journalist Emily Bazelon described the work and events surrounding it as \"an increasingly bitter fight over truth and narrative\", a triumph for the survivor movement and a nightmare for the student Sulkowicz accused. Caught between defending and enabling Sulkowicz's freedom of expression and Nungesser's right to due process and the university's written policies regarding confidentiality, the university was criticized by both parties and their parents for its handling of the issue.\n\nEmma Sulkowicz attended Dalton School on the Upper East Side, and in 2011 began their visual arts degree at Columbia University.\nSulkowicz alleges that they were slapped, choked, and anally raped by Nungesser in Sulkowicz's dorm room, on the first day of their second year in August 2012, during what began as a consensual sexual encounter. Nungesser denies the allegation, insisting that the encounter was entirely consensual. In April 2013, 8 months after the encounter, Sulkowicz filed a complaint with the university. Sulkowicz says they filed their complaint after they encountered two female students who said they had also been victimized by Nungesser. One was a former girlfriend who said she was emotionally abused during their long-term relationship, and stated that she later recognized their sexual relations as having been non-consensual. The other said that on one occasion Nungesser had moved toward her aggressively, grabbed her arms, and attempted to kiss her. Shortly after Sulkowicz filed a complaint, the two other students with whom they were acquainted also filed complaints with the university against the same student. Columbia ultimately cleared him of responsibility in all three cases.\n\nThe case attracted wider attention when the three female students who filed complaints gave interviews to the \"New York Post\", which broke the story on December 11, 2013, without naming those involved. In April 2014 Sulkowicz appeared with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand at a press conference about campus sexual assault.\n\nOn April 24, 2014, 23 students filed a federal complaint against Columbia and Barnard College, alleging violations of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, a law upholding gender equality in federally-funded institutions. Among other issues, the complaint alleged that the institutions discourage students from reporting sexual assault, that alleged perpetrators are not removed from campus, and that sanctions are too lenient. The Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights opened an investigation in January 2015.\n\nOn May 14, 2014, Sulkowicz filed a complaint with the New York Police Department. The district attorney's office interviewed Sulkowicz and Nungesser in August, but did not pursue charges, citing lack of reasonable suspicion.\n\nSulkowicz created \"Mattress Performance (Carry That Weight)\" in the summer of 2014 for their senior thesis while at Yale University Summer School of Art and Music. Their first effort was a video of themself moving a bed out of a room, accompanied by the audio of them filing the police report, which they had recorded on their cellphone. The mattress later became the focus of the piece. Sulkowicz's thesis was supervised by artist Jon Kessler, a professor at Columbia. As the idea for \"Mattress Performance\" developed, Kessler and Sulkowicz discussed the nature of endurance art and the work of Tehching Hsieh, Marina Abramović, Ulay and Chris Burden. Sulkowicz described the work as \"an endurance performance art piece\". They told the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\": \"I do think that nowadays art pieces can include whatever the artist desires and in this performance art piece it utilizes the elements of protest ...\"\n\nPurchased online from Tall Paul's Tall Mall, the 50-lb (23-kg), dark-blue, extra-long twin mattress is of the kind Columbia places in its dorms, similar to the one on which Sulkowicz said that they were raped. They spent the summer of 2014 creating the rules of engagement, which defined the parameters of the project. Written on the walls of their studio in the university's Watson Hall, these included that they had to carry the mattress when on university property; that it had to remain on campus when they were not there; and that they were not allowed to ask for help in carrying it, but if help was offered they could accept.\n\nIn early September 2014 Sulkowicz began carrying the mattress on campus. A homeless man was one of the first to help. Sulkowicz told \"New York\" magazine: \"He was the first person who helped without some sort of preconstructed belief for why they were going to help. He was like, 'Oh, look, a struggling girl—let me help her and be a nice human being.' That was probably the most honest interaction I had.\" They kept a diary throughout, amounting to 59,000 words at the end of the work, recording their experiences as well as the misunderstandings of commentators.\n\nSulkowicz said the work would end when Nungesser was expelled from or otherwise left Columbia, and that they would take the mattress to their graduation ceremony if necessary. In the end Sulkowicz carried it to the graduation ceremony on May 19, 2015, despite a request from the school that students should not bring \"large objects which could interfere with the proceedings\". Several women helped carry the mattress on stage. As they approached, university president Lee Bollinger, who had been shaking other graduates' hands, turned away as if to pick something up, and did not shake their hands; the university said this happened because the mattress was in the way. The next day posters appeared in Morningside Heights near the university calling Sulkowicz a \"pretty little liar\".\n\nAfter graduation Sulkowicz said they had known the university would not expel Nungesser, and had expected to carry the mattress for nine months, the length of a pregnancy, which was an important part of the work: \"To me, the piece has very much represented [the fact that] a guy did a horrible thing to me and I tried to make something beautiful out of it.\"\n\nPaul Nungesser said in a December 2014 interview with \"The New York Times\" that the mattress performance is not an act of artistic expression, but instead one orchestrated to bully him and force him to leave Columbia. He said that on the National Day of Action, protesters followed him around, carrying mattresses to one of his classes and taking his picture. He also said that he was not permitted to use written communications between himself and the alleged victim as evidence, and expressed disbelief that anyone could believe he was guilty even after his accusers failed to meet what he deemed the low burden of proof in the university hearing process. He also stated that since Sulkowicz's protest serves as their senior thesis, it is being supervised and implicitly endorsed by a Columbia faculty member.\nNungesser's parents criticized the university, including its decision to let Sulkowicz take the mattress to the graduation ceremony: \"This has been a deeply humiliating experience. ... A university that bows to a public witch-hunt no longer deserves to be called a place of enlightenment, of intellectual and academic freedom.\" Asked by German \"Süddeutsche Zeitung Magazin\" about her feelings on the treatment of her son at Columbia, the Nungesser's mother said, \"This is a feeling of lawlessness.\" His father said that he sometimes fears his son will leave the school as a \"cynic\" and a \"suspicious man\".\n\nIn April 2015 Nungesser filed a Title IX lawsuit against Columbia University, its trustees, university president Lee Bollinger, and Sulkowicz's senior-thesis supervisor, Jon Kessler, alleging they exposed him to gender-based harassment and a hostile educational environment in allowing the project to go forward. Nungesser said that in so doing they damaged his college experience, emotional well-being, reputation and career prospects. His lawyers argued that Columbia allowed Sulkowicz to create and propose \"performances depicting [the plaintiff] as a rapist\" even though the university cleared him of any wrongdoing. Among examples of what they described as \"public harassment\", they cited Sulkowicz's public display of drawings which the lawyers said depicted Nungesser's genitals as part of the project (Sulkowicz left open the question of whether these drawings were of him or stories about him), as well as depictions of the alleged sexual assault, as violations of Columbia's gender-based misconduct policy, which prohibits \"unwelcome remarks about the private parts of a person's body\" and \"graffiti concerning the sexual activity of another person\". The lawsuit alleged that Columbia was responsible because the university sponsored and supervised the project. The university's lawyers say the university is \"not responsible or liable\" for Sulkowicz's conduct\n\nOn August 28, 2015, Columbia's lawyers asked that the case be dismissed, citing First Amendment protections and arguing that Nungesser's lawsuit suggests Columbia was obligated to prevent Sulkowicz from speaking publicly on an important issue. The case was heard by Judge Gregory H. Woods of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, who dismissed the suit on March 12, 2016. Nungesser filed an amended complaint on April 25, 2016. In July 2017, the university announced that it reached a settlement with him; terms of the settlement were not disclosed. The university said in a statement: \"Columbia recognizes that after the conclusion of the investigation, Paul's remaining time at Columbia became very difficult for him and not what Columbia would want any of its students to experience. Columbia will continue to review and update its policies toward ensuring that every student — accuser and accused, including those like Paul who are found not responsible — is treated respectfully and as a full member of the Columbia community.\"\n\nNumerous art critics responded positively to \"Mattress Performance\". Artnet cited it as \"almost certainly ... one of the most important artworks of the year\", comparing it to Ana Mendieta's \"Untitled (Rape Scene)\" (1973) and Suzanne Lacy and Leslie Labowitz-Starus's \"Three Weeks in May\" (1977). Performance artist Marina Abramović praised it. \"The New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith described it as \"strict and lean, yet inclusive and open ended, symbolically laden yet drastically physical\", writing that comparisons to the Stations of the Cross and Hester Prynne's scarlet letter were apparent. Jerry Saltz, art critic for \"New York\" magazine, included it in his list of the best 19 art shows of 2014, calling \"clear, to the point, insistent, adamant ... pure radical vulnerability\".\n\nThe political response was marked too. Nato Thompson, chief curator of Creative Time, said he could not think of another case where art had triggered a movement in the way \"Mattress Performance\" had. Hillary Clinton told the DNC Women's Leadership Forum in September 2014: \"That image should haunt all of us ...\" In October 2014, Columbia students carried 28 mattresses on campus, one for each student who joined the federal Title IX complaint, then left them outside the home of university president Lee Bollinger; they were fined $471 for the clean-up. A group called \"Carry That Weight\" organized a \"National Day of Action to Carry That Weight\" on October 29, 2014, during which students carried mattresses on 130 US campuses and several elsewhere. Sulkowicz received the National Organization for Women's Susan B. Anthony Award and the Feminist Majority Foundation's Ms. Wonder Award.\n\nIn January 2015, New York's U.S. senator Kirsten Gillibrand invited Sulkowicz to attend the 2015 State of the Union Address. Families Advocating for Campus Equality said the invitation was \"undeserved and violates the principles of confidentiality and gender equality of Title IX\", and that Sulkowicz had \"failed to establish any wrongdoing\" on the part of Nungesser.\n\nIn 2015, Sulkowicz was included in \"The Forward\"s Forward 50 as one of the year's fifty most influential Jewish-Americans.\n\nA number of commentators questioned Sulkowicz's account of the assault and argued that the performance was unfair to Nungesser.\n\nSocial critic Camille Paglia described \"Mattress Performance\" as \"a parody of the worst aspects of that kind of grievance-oriented feminism\", adding that a feminist work \"should empower women, not cripple them\".\n\nIn an editorial in the \"New York Post\"', Naomi Schaefer Riley criticized Sulkowicz's work as \"shaming without proof\" and accused Sulkowicz and their supporters of \"saving themselves from having to answer any questions and destroying men's lives with lies and innuendo\". In his article \"If anything's art, art's nothing\", \"National Post\" columnist Robert Fulford compared Sulkowicz's work to that of Megumi Igarashi and concluded, \"if everything is art, then art can be used for anything. And in the process meaning and value dissolve and art becomes hopelessly debased.\"\n\nIn an editorial for the Federalist, columnist Mona Charen stated that she believed Sulkowicz was likely \"shading the truth\" and argued that, while campus rape was a real problem, advocates did not pay enough attention to the possibility of false allegations. \n\n"}
{"id": "23380987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23380987", "title": "Metropolitan Opera House (39th Street)", "text": "Metropolitan Opera House (39th Street)\n\nThe Metropolitan Opera House was an opera house located at 1411 Broadway in New York City. Opened in 1883 and demolished in 1967, it was the first home of the Metropolitan Opera Company.\n\nSometimes referred to as \"the old Met\", the Metropolitan Opera House opened on October 22, 1883, with a performance of \"Faust\". It was located at 1411 Broadway, occupying the whole block between West 39th Street and West 40th Street on the west side of the street in the Garment District of Midtown Manhattan. Nicknamed \"The Yellow Brick Brewery\" for its industrial looking exterior, the original Metropolitan Opera House was designed by J. Cleaveland Cady. On August 27, 1892, the nine-year-old theater was gutted by fire. The 1892−93 season was canceled while the opera house was rebuilt along its original lines. During that season, the Vaudeville Club, which eventually became the Metropolitan Opera Club, was founded and hosted entertainment in the undamaged portions of the house.\n\nIn 1903, architects Carrère and Hastings extensively redesigned the interior of the opera house. The familiar golden auditorium with its sunburst chandelier, and curved proscenium inscribed with the names of six composers (Gluck, Mozart, Beethoven, Wagner, Gounod and Verdi), dates from this time. The first of the Met's signature gold damask stage curtains was installed in 1906, completing the look that the old Metropolitan Opera House maintained until its closing.\nIn 1940, ownership of the opera house shifted from the wealthy families who occupied the theater's boxes to the non-profit Metropolitan Opera Association. At this time the last major change to the auditorium's interior was completed. The second tier of privately held boxes (the \"grand tier\") was converted into standard row seating. This enlarged the seating capacity and left only the first tier of boxes from the \"golden horseshoe\" of the opera house's origins as a showplace for New York society.\n\nThe Met had a seating capacity of 3,625 with 224 standing room places.\n\nWhile the theater was noted for its excellent acoustics and elegant interior, as early as the 1900s the backstage facilities were deemed to be severely inadequate for a large opera company. Scenery and sets were a regular sight leaning against the building exterior on 39th Street where crews had to shift them between performances. Various plans were put forward over the years to build a new home for the company and designs for new opera houses were created by various architects including Joseph Urban. Proposed new locations included Columbus Circle and what is now Rockefeller Center, but none of these plans came to fruition. Only with the development of Lincoln Center on New York's Upper West Side did the Met finally have the opportunity to build a modern opera house.\n\nThe Metropolitan Opera said goodbye to its old house on April 16, 1966, with a sentimental gala farewell performance featuring nearly all of the company's current leading artists. Long-time Met star soprano Zinka Milanov made her last Met appearance that night, and among the many invited guests was soprano Anna Case, who had made her debut at the house in 1909. The final performance at the opera house was given not by the Met, but by the Bolshoi Ballet, which concluded a short run of appearances on May 8, 1966. The theater was purchased by Jack D. Weiler and despite a campaign to preserve the theater, it failed to obtain landmark status and the old Met was razed in 1967. It was replaced by a 40-story office tower, 1411 Broadway, intended to provide a steady income for the opera company. Designed by Irwin S. Chanin and completed in 1970, the building was later sold by the Metropolitan Opera and today it is owned by 1411 TrizecHahn-Swig LLC, a partnership of the TrizecHahn and Swig real estate companies. Since 1966, the Metropolitan Opera House at Lincoln Center has been home to the Metropolitan Opera.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "56808463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56808463", "title": "Murder of Pamela Mastropietro", "text": "Murder of Pamela Mastropietro\n\nPamela Mastropietro was an 18-year-old Italian girl who was last seen on 29 January 2018 and was murdered soon after in Macerata, Italy. The suspects are three Nigerian immigrants, as of 7 July 2018 these allegations are still being investigated and the accused criminals are in custody. Parts of Mastropieto's body were missing, which sparked allegations of the murder having been a muti killing involving cannibalism.\n\nMastropietro was born and lived in Rome. She was 18 years old and had moved away from the recovery community for drug addiction where she was a guest in Marche, the Pars of Corridonia, on 29 January. Her mother stated that Mastropietro began abusing drugs after dating a Romanian man, and was attending a drug treatment facility at the time of her death. When she left the community she did not take her mobile phone and identification documents. She is believed to have sought drugs in Diaz Gardens, a known gathering place for dealers, addicts and criminals.\n\nMastropietro's body was found severely mutilated, hidden in two suitcases; though believed to be a murder victim her exact cause of death was unclear as of February 2018. Soon after, Italian police said they found her bloodied clothing at the home of Innocent Oseghale, a Nigerian who came to Italy in 2014 but dropped out of a refugee assistance program and began selling drugs. Along with Oseghale, police arrested Desmond Lucky and Lucky Awelima. A fourth suspect, a Ghanese drug dealer, was sought as a fugitive.\n\nInnocent Oseghale, described as \"a 29-year-old Nigerian with an expired residency permit and a criminal record of drug dealing,\" is suspected and was arrested soon after the body was found.\n\nOn 7 June 2018 the magistrate of Macerata, Giovanni Maria Manzoni, has revoked custody in prison, but only for allegations of murder, vilification, destruction and concealment of corpse, against Lucky Awelima and Desmond Lucky initially arrested for competition with Innocent Oseghale for the murder of Pamela Mastropietro and the dismemberment of the corpse in Macerata. Lucky Awelima and Desmond Lucky remain in jail for heroin dealing.\n\nMatteo Salvini, the newly-elected deputy prime minister and interior minister, has often mentioned the Mastropietro murder as part of his hard-on-crime policies and skepticism towards immigration.\n\nAlessandro Meluzzi, a psychiatrist and criminologist, has alleged that the murder was associated with Nigerian organized crime gangs.\n\nOn 3 February 2018, 28 year old Italian shot and injured six African immigrants in a drive-by shooting incident that was described as an act of revenge motivated by the murder of Mastropietro. The suspect, Luca Traini, was arrested wearing the Flag of Italy draped over his shoulders near a WW2 memorial in Macerata. Triani was described as a far-right political sympathizer who locals report was acquainted with Mastropietro and smitten with her but there is no indication they were ever romantically involved.\n\n"}
{"id": "977414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977414", "title": "Nauka (ISS module)", "text": "Nauka (ISS module)\n\nNauka (; lit. \"Science\"), also known as the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM), (Russian: \"Многофункциональный лабораторный модуль\", or \"МЛМ\"), is a component of the International Space Station (ISS) which has not yet been launched into space. The MLM is funded by the Roscosmos State Corporation. In the original ISS plans, \"Nauka\" was to use the location of the Docking and Stowage Module. Later, the DSM was moved to \"Zarya\"s nadir port and named \"Rassvet\". Planners anticipate \"Nauka\" will dock at \"Zvezda\"s nadir port, replacing \"Pirs\".\n\nThe launch of \"Nauka\", initially planned for 2007, has been repeatedly delayed for various reasons. , the launch to the ISS is assigned to November 2019.\n\nIn the 1990s, plans for the Russian segment of the ISS included several research modules that were intended to be adjunct to \"Zarya\" and \"Zvezda\". In these earlier plans, the now-cancelled complex of the Universal Docking Module (UDM) and the two newly developed Russian Research Modules were to be attached \"Zvezda\"s nadir port – the UDM was to be based on the Functional Cargo Block FGB-2. The FGB-2 was originally built as a backup for the original launch of the \"Zarya\" (FGB) module – FGB-2's construction had been halted at 70-percent completeness in the late 1990s.\n\nHowever, the plans changed in the early 2000s. In August 2004, it was decided to build the \"Nauka\" ISS module based on the FGB-2. During that time there was an alternate, rejected proposal for \"Nauka\" from RKK Energia, based on the cancelled Commercial Enterprise Module (entertainment and studio module), which was to be jointly funded by RKK Energia and SPACEHAB.\n\nAt the end of 2005, the European Space Agency (ESA) agreed with the Russians that the European Robotic Arm would be launched together with \"Nauka\", mated on its surface for a later deployment in space. A spare elbow joint for the European Robotic Arm was already launched together with \"Rassvet\".\n\nIn 2004, the Russian Federal Space Agency stated that \"Nauka\" should be ready for launch in 2007 on a Russian Proton rocket. However, the \"Nauka\" project was delayed further, first to 2008 and later to 2009. A November 2006 ESA bulletin mentioned that the RSA was negotiating with the ISS partners to push back the prospective launch date to the end of 2008. In October 2011, it was reported that \"Nauka\" was expected to be launched at the end of 2013. In May 2012, it was reported that the launch date had been pushed back to 2014. The next planned launch date was April 2014, according to Vitaly Lopota, president of RSC Energia.\n\nOn October 25, 2013, Parabolic Arc reported that Nauka was flawed and had failed acceptance testing at RKK Energia. Found problems in the propulsion system included a leaking fueling valve that needed to be replaced and contamination, which would require a lengthy cleaning. The module was to be returned to Khrunichev for repairs which would take another 12 to 18 months. On November 27, 2013, it was reported that the Russian Space Agency had informed NASA that the launch had been postponed until at least 2015. In April 2014, it emerged that the target date for launch was postponed to February 2017: a new propulsion system needed to be manufactured, as the installed had exceeded its warranty.\n\nBy November 2016, the tentative launch date had slipped to mid-2018, aboard a Proton M rocket. It then slipped further with a projected launch date of March 2019, before a December 20, 2018 launch date was confirmed in December 2017. In August 2018, Roscosmos head Dmitry Rogozin set a new launch date of November 2019.\n\n\"Nauka\" will initially be used for experiments, docking and cargo. It will also serve as a crew work and rest area. \"Nauka\" will be equipped with full guidance and navigation control including engines and an attitude control system that can be used as a backup by the ISS. It will be docked onto the \"Zvezda\" module's nadir (Earth facing) docking port. Outfitting equipment launched in 2010 with the \"Rassvet\" (Mini-Research Module 1) on NASA's STS-132 will also be used for \"Nauka\", including the spare elbow joint for the European Robotic Arm, internal hardware and an experimental airlock to be positioned on one of the side-facing ports at the bottom of the module. The new module will contain crew quarters with life support equipment including atmospheric processing, galley and toilet.\n\n\"Nauka\" will be Russia's primary ISS research module. For some time, NASA's official plans included a second research module around the same size as \"Nauka\", listed to be \"under review\", but it was eventually cancelled, leaving \"Nauka\" to be the only Russian research module besides \"Rassvet\" and \"Poisk\" (Mini-Research Module 2).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54406327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54406327", "title": "Petya (malware)", "text": "Petya (malware)\n\nPetya is a family of encrypting ransomware that was first discovered in 2016. The malware targets Microsoft Windows-based systems, infecting the master boot record to execute a payload that encrypts a hard drive's file system table and prevents Windows from booting. It subsequently demands that the user make a payment in Bitcoin in order to regain access to the system.\n\nVariants of Petya were first seen in March 2016, which propagated via infected e-mail attachments. In June 2017, a new variant of Petya was used for a global cyberattack, primarily targeting Ukraine. The new variant propagates via the EternalBlue exploit, which is generally believed to have been developed by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), and was used earlier in the year by the WannaCry ransomware. Kaspersky Lab referred to this new version as NotPetya to distinguish it from the 2016 variants, due to these differences in operation. In addition, although it purports to be ransomware, this variant was modified so that it is unable to actually revert its own changes.\n\nPetya was discovered in March 2016; Check Point noted that while it had achieved fewer infections than other ransomware active in early 2016, such as CryptoWall, it contained notable differences in operation that caused it to be \"immediately flagged as the next step in ransomware evolution\". Another variant of Petya discovered in May 2016 contained a secondary payload used if the malware cannot achieve administrator-level access.\n\nThe name \"Petya\" is a reference to the 1995 \"James Bond\" film \"GoldenEye\", wherein \"Petya\" is one of the two Soviet weapon satellites which carry a \"Goldeneye\" – an atomic bomb detonated in low Earth orbit to produce an electromagnetic pulse. A Twitter account that \"Heise\" suggested may have belonged to the author of the malware, named \"Janus Cybercrime Solutions\" after Alec Trevelyan's crime group in \"GoldenEye\", had an avatar with an image of \"GoldenEye\" character Boris Grishenko, a Russian hacker and antagonist in the film played by Scottish actor Alan Cumming.\n\nOn 30 August 2018, a regional court in Nikopol in the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast of Ukraine convicted an unnamed Ukrainian citizen to one year in prison after pleading guilty to having spread a version of Petya online.\n\nOn 27 June 2017, a major global cyberattack began (Ukrainian companies were among the first to state they were being attacked), utilizing a new variant of Petya. On that day, Kaspersky Lab reported infections in France, Germany, Italy, Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United States, but that the majority of infections targeted Russia and Ukraine, where more than 80 companies were initially attacked, including the National Bank of Ukraine. ESET estimated on 28 June 2017 that 80% of all infections were in Ukraine, with Germany second hardest hit with about 9%. Russian president Vladimir Putin's press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, stated that the attack had caused no serious damage in Russia. Experts believed this was a politically-motivated attack against Ukraine, since it occurred on the eve of the Ukrainian holiday Constitution Day.\n\nKaspersky dubbed this variant \"NotPetya\", as it has major differences in its operations in comparison to earlier variants. McAfee engineer Christiaan Beek stated that this variant was designed to spread quickly, and that it had been targeting \"complete energy companies, the power grid, bus stations, gas stations, the airport, and banks\".\n\nIt was believed that the software update mechanism of — a Ukrainian tax preparation program that, according to F-Secure analyst Mikko Hyppönen, \"appears to be de facto\" among companies doing business in the country—had been compromised to spread the malware. Analysis by ESET found that a backdoor had been present in the update system for at least six weeks prior to the attack, describing it as a \"thoroughly well-planned and well-executed operation\". The developers of M.E.Doc denied that they were entirely responsible for the cyberattack, stating that they too were victims.\n\nOn July 4, 2017, Ukraine's cybercrime unit seized the company's servers after detecting \"new activity\" that it believed would result in \"uncontrolled proliferation\" of malware. Ukraine police advised M.E.Doc users to stop using the software, as it presumed that the backdoor was still present. Analysis of the seized servers showed that software updates had not been applied since 2013, there was evidence of Russian presence, and an employee's account on the servers had been compromised; the head of the units warned that M.E.Doc could be found criminally responsible for enabling the attack because of its negligence in maintaining the security of their servers.\n\nPetya utilizes a payload that infects the computer's master boot record (MBR), overwriting the Windows bootloader, and then triggering a restart. On the next startup, the payload is executed, which encrypts the Master File Table of the NTFS file system, and then displays the ransom message demanding a payment made in Bitcoin. During this process, text purportedly output by chkdsk, Windows' file system scanner, is displayed on-screen, suggesting that the hard drive's sectors are being repaired. The original payload required the user to grant it administrative privileges; one variant of Petya was bundled with an alternate payload known as Mischa, which is used if Petya fails to install. Mischa is a more conventional ransomware payload that encrypts user documents, as well as executable files, and does not require administrative privileges to execute. The earlier versions of Petya disguised its payload as a PDF file, attached to an e-mail. United States Computer Emergency Response Team (US-CERT) and National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) released Malware Initial Findings Report (MIFR) about Petya on 30 June 2017.\n\nThe \"NotPetya\" variant utilized in the 2017 attack uses EternalBlue, an exploit which takes advantage of a vulnerability in Windows' Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. EternalBlue is generally believed to have been developed by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA); it was leaked in April 2017 and was also used by WannaCry. The malware uses multiple techniques to spread to other computers on the same network, including harvesting passwords, and using those passwords in conjunction with PSExec to run code on other local computers. Additionally, although it still purports to be ransomware, the encryption routine was modified so that the malware could not technically revert its changes. This characteristic, along with other unusual signs in comparison to WannaCry (including the relatively low unlock fee of US$300, and using a single, fixed Bitcoin wallet to collect ransom payments rather than generating a unique ID for each specific infection for tracking purposes), prompted researchers to speculate that this attack was not intended to be a profit-generating venture, but to damage devices quickly, and ride off the media attention WannaCry received by claiming to be ransomware.\n\nIt was found that it may be possible to stop the encryption process if an infected computer is immediately shut down when the fictitious chkdsk screen appears, and a security analyst proposed that creating read-only files named codice_1 and/or codice_2 in the Windows installation directory could prevent the payload of the current strain from executing. The email address listed on the ransom screen was suspended by its provider, Posteo, for being a violation of its terms of use. As a result, infected users could not actually send the required payment confirmation to the perpetrator.\n\nMicrosoft had already released patches for supported versions of Windows in March 2017 to address the EternalBlue vulnerability. This was followed by patches for unsupported versions of Windows (such as Windows XP) in May 2017, in the direct wake of WannaCry. \"Wired\" believed that \"based on the extent of damage Petya has caused so far, though, it appears that many companies have put off patching, despite the clear and potentially devastating threat of a similar ransomware spread.\" Some enterprises may consider it too disruptive to install updates on certain systems, either due to possible downtime or compatibility concerns, which can be problematic in some environments.\n\nIn a report published by \"Wired\", a White House assessment pegged the total damages brought about by NotPetya to more than $10 billion. This was confirmed by former Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert, who at the time of the attack was the most senior cybersecurity focused official in the US government.\n\nDuring the attack initiated on 27 June 2017, the radiation monitoring system at Ukraine's Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant went offline. Several Ukrainian ministries, banks and metro systems were also affected. It is said to have been the most destructive cyberattack ever.\n\nAmong those affected elsewhere included British advertising company WPP, Maersk Line, American pharmaceutical company Merck & Co., Russian oil company Rosneft (its oil production was unaffected), multinational law firm DLA Piper, French construction company Saint-Gobain and its retail and subsidiary outlets in Estonia, British consumer goods company Reckitt Benckiser, German personal care company Beiersdorf, German logistics company DHL, United States food company Mondelez International, and American hospital operator Heritage Valley Health System. The Cadbury's Chocolate Factory in Hobart, Tasmania, is the first company in Australia to be affected by Petya. On 28 June 2017, JNPT, India's largest container port, had reportedly been affected, with all operations coming to a standstill. Princeton Community Hospital in rural West Virginia will scrap and replace its entire computer network on its path to recovery.\n\nThe business interruption to Maersk, the world's largest container ship and supply vessel operator, was estimated between $200 and $300m in lost revenues.\n\nJens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary-General, pressed the alliance to strengthen its cyber defenses, saying that a cyberattack could trigger the Article 5 principle of collective defense.\n\nEuropol said it was aware of and urgently responding to reports of a cyber attack in member states of the European Union. The United States Department of Homeland Security was involved and coordinating with its international and local partners. In a letter to the NSA, Democratic Congressman Ted Lieu asked the agency to collaborate more actively with technology companies to notify them of software vulnerabilities and help them prevent future attacks based on malware created by the NSA.\nOn 15 February 2018, the Trump administration blamed Russia for the attack and warned that there would be \"international consequences\". The United Kingdom and the Australian government also issued similar statements.\n\n"}
{"id": "30950985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30950985", "title": "Pine of Tsar Dušan", "text": "Pine of Tsar Dušan\n\nPine of Tsar Dušan (, ) was a giant black pine tree located in the courtyard of the old Serbian Orthodox Monastery of the Holy Archangels, in the village cemetery in Gornje Nerodimlje, Uroševac, Kosovo. The pine tree was planted in 1336 by Emperor Dušan and cut down and burned in a revenge attack by local Albanian villagers returning from exile in 1999.\n\nThe old pine tree () as a relict, endemic tree, was one of the decorations of the Šar Mountains with its huge size. The pine was over 25 meters high, 1.5 meters wide, and had a bark thickness of 10 cm, and it was in good health prior to its destruction. It was visited by various state delegations. King Aleksandar Karađorđević had a memorial plaque placed by it in 1926 with the year of planting. The Monastery of the Holy Archangels in Nerodimlje was, together with the Pine of Tsar Dušan, added on Monuments of Culture of Exceptional Importance-list by the Republic of Serbia in 1961, as a historical monument and natural rarity. Serbian institutions suggested that the Šar Mountains National Park be nominated for World Heritage under UNESCO protection, because of its biological, cultural and historical heritage; the pine tree was included in the proposal.\n\nIn June/July 1999, after the Kosovo War, the Monastery of the Holy Archangels and the cemetery was desecrated, while the pine was cut down and burned, by Albanian villagers returning from exile. Only the stump remained, which was later burned completely. As the entire complex was destroyed, there were no visible traces of Dušan's Pine, until 2014 when new branches started to sprout.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92026", "title": "Price fixing", "text": "Price fixing\n\nPrice fixing is an agreement between participants on the same side in a market to buy or sell a product, service, or commodity only at a fixed price, or maintain the market conditions such that the price is maintained at a given level by controlling supply and demand.\n\nThe intent of price fixing may be to push the price of a product as high as possible, generally leading to profits for all sellers but may also have the goal to fix, peg, discount, or stabilize prices. The defining characteristic of price fixing is any agreement regarding price, whether expressed or implied.\n\nPrice fixing requires a conspiracy between sellers or buyers. The purpose is to coordinate pricing for mutual benefit of the traders. For example, manufacturers and retailers may conspire to sell at a common \"retail\" price; set a common minimum sales price, where sellers agree not to discount the sales price below the agreed-to minimum price; buy the product from a supplier at a specified maximum price; adhere to a price book or list price; engage in cooperative price advertising; standardize financial credit terms offered to purchasers; use uniform trade-in allowances; limit discounts; discontinue a free service or fix the price of one component of an overall service; adhere uniformly to previously-announced prices and terms of sale; establish uniform costs and markups; impose mandatory surcharges; purposefully reduce output or sales in order to charge higher prices; or purposefully share or pool markets, territories, or customers.\n\nPrice fixing is permitted in some markets but not others; where allowed, it is often known as \"resale price maintenance\" or \"retail price maintenance\".\n\nIn neo-classical economics, price fixing is inefficient. The anti-competitive agreement by producers to fix prices above the market price transfers some of the consumer surplus to those producers and also results in a deadweight loss.\n\nInternational price fixing by private entities can be prosecuted under the antitrust laws of many countries. Examples of prosecuted international cartels are those that controlled the prices and output of lysine, citric acid, graphite electrodes, and bulk vitamins.\n\nIn the United States, price fixing can be prosecuted as a criminal federal offense under Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act.\n\nCriminal prosecutions must be handled by the U.S. Department of Justice, but the Federal Trade Commission also has jurisdiction for civil antitrust violations. Many state attorneys general also bring antitrust cases and have antitrust offices, such as Virginia, New York, and California.\n\nPrivate individuals or organizations may file lawsuits for triple damages for antitrust violations and, depending on the law, recover attorneys fees and costs expended on prosecution of a case.\n\nUnder American law, exchanging prices among competitors can also violate the antitrust laws. That includes exchanging prices with the intent to fix prices or the exchange affecting the prices individual competitors set. Proof that competitors have shared prices can be used as part of the evidence of an illegal price fixing agreement. Experts generally advise that competitors avoid even the appearance of agreeing on price.\n\nSince 1997, US courts have divided price fixing into two categories: vertical and horizontal maximum price fixing. Vertical price fixing includes a manufacturer's attempt to control the price of its product at retail. In State Oil Co. v. Khan, the US Supreme Court held that vertical price fixing is no longer considered a \"per se\" violation of the Sherman Act, but horizontal price fixing is still considered a breach of the Sherman Act. Also in 2008, the defendants of \"United States v LG Display Co.\", \"United States v. Chunghwa Picture Tubes\", and \"United States v. Sharp Corporation\", heard in the Northern District of California, agreed to pay a total sum of $585 million to settle their prosecutions for conspiring to fix prices of liquid crystal display panels. That was the second largest amount awarded under the Sherman Act in history.\n\nIn Canada, it is an indictable criminal offense under Section 45 of the Competition Act. Bid rigging is considered a form of price fixing and is illegal in both the United States (s.1 Sherman Act) and Canada (s.47 Competition Act). In the United States, agreements to fix, raise, lower, stabilize, or otherwise set a price are illegal \"per se\". It does not matter if the price agreed upon is reasonable or for a good or altruistic cause or the agreement is unspoken and tacit. In the United States, price-fixing also includes agreements to hold prices the same, discount prices (even if based on financial need or income), set credit terms, agree on a price schedule or scale, adopt a common formula to figure prices, ban price advertising, or agree to adhere to prices that are announced.\n\nAlthough price fixing usually means sellers agreeing on price, it can also include agreements among buyers to fix the price at which they will buy products.\n\nPrice fixing is illegal in Australia under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, with considerably similar prohibitions to the US and Canadian prohibitions. The Act is administered and enforced by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. Section 48 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) explicitly states, \"A corporation shall not engage in the practise of resale price maintenance.\" A broader understanding of the statutory provision is in Section 96(3)of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth), which broadly defines what can be resale price maintenance.\n\nNew Zealand law prohibits price fixing, among most other anti-competitive behaviours under the Commerce Act 1986. The act covers practices similar to that of US and Canadian law, and it is enforced by the Commerce Commission.\n\nUnder the EU commission's leniency programme, whistleblowing firms that co-operate with the antitrust authority see their prospective penalties either wiped out or reduced.\n\nBritish competition law prohibits almost any attempt to fix prices.\n\nThe Net Book Agreement was a public agreement between UK booksellers from 1900 to 1991 to sell new books only at the recommended retail price to protect the revenues of smaller bookshops. The agreement collapsed in 1991, when the large book chain Dillons began discounting books, followed by rival Waterstones.\n\nHowever, price-fixing is still legal in the magazine and newspaper distribution industry. Retailers who sell at below cover price are subject to withdrawal of supply. The Office of Fair Trading has given its approval to the \"status quo\".\n\nWhen the agreement to control price is sanctioned by a multilateral treaty or is entered by sovereign nations as opposed to individual firms, the cartel may be protected from lawsuits and criminal antitrust prosecution. That is why OPEC, the global petroleum cartel, has not been prosecuted or successfully sued under US antitrust law.\n\nInternational airline tickets have their prices fixed by agreement with the IATA, a practice for which there is a specific exemption in antitrust law.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2000 music companies were found to have used illegal marketing agreements such as minimum advertised pricing to artificially inflate prices of compact discs in order to end price wars by discounters such as Best Buy and Target in the early 1990s. It is estimated customers were overcharged by nearly $500 million and up to $5 per album. A settlement in 2002 included the music publishers and distributors; Sony Music, Warner Music, Bertelsmann Music Group, EMI Music, Universal Music as well as retailers Musicland, Trans World Entertainment and Tower Records. In restitution for price fixing they agreed to pay a $67.4 million fine distribute $75.7 million in CDs to public and non-profit groups.\n\nIn October 2005, the Korean company Samsung pleaded guilty to conspiring with other companies, including Infineon and Hynix Semiconductor, to fix the price of dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips. Samsung was the third company to be charged in connection with the international cartel and was fined $300 million, the second largest antitrust penalty in US history.\n\nIn October 2004, four executives from Infineon, a German chip maker, received reduced sentences of 4 to 6 months in federal prison and $250,000 in fines after agreeing to aid the U.S. Department of Justice with their ongoing investigation of the conspiracy.\n\nIn March 2018, the European Commission fined eight firms, mostly Japanese companies, €254 million for operating an illegal price cartel for capacitors. The two largest players were Nippon Chemi-Con which was fined €98 million and Hitachi Chemical which was fined €18 million.\n\nIn 2006, the government of France fined 13 perfume brands and three vendors for price collusion between 1997 and 2000. The brands include L'Oréal (4.1mil euro), \"Pacific Creation Perfumes\" (90,000 euro), Chanel, LVMH's Sephora (9.4mil euro) and Hutchison Whampoa's \"Marionnaud\" (12.8mil euro).\n\nIn 2008 in the US, LG Display Co., Chunghwa Picture Tubes and Sharp Corp., agreed to plead guilty and pay $585 million in criminal fines for conspiring to fix prices of liquid crystal display panels.\n\nSouth Korea–based LG Display would pay $400 million, the second-highest criminal fine that the US Justice Department antitrust division has ever imposed. Chunghwa would pay $65 million for conspiring with LG Display and other unnamed companies and Sharp would pay $120 million, according to the department.\n\nIn 2010, the EU fined LG Display €215 million for its part in the LCD price fixing scheme. Other companies were fined for a combined total of €648.9 million, including Chimei Innolux, AU Optronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd., and HannStar Display Corp.. LG Display said it is considering appealing the fine.\n\nIn late 2005/early 2006, Lufthansa and Virgin Atlantic came forward about their involvement in large price-fixing schemes for cargo and passenger surcharges in which 21 airlines were involved since 2000 (amongst which were British Airways, Korean Air, and Air France-KLM). U.S. Department of Justice fined the airlines a total of $1.7 billion, charged 19 executives with wrongdoing and four received prison terms.\n\nIn December 2008, the New Zealand Commerce Commission filed legal proceedings against 13 airlines in the New Zealand High Court. According to the Commission, the carriers \"colluded to raise the price of [freight] by imposing fuel charges for more than seven years\". In 2013 Air New Zealand was the final airline of the 13 to settle.\n\nThe Commission noted that it might involve up to 60 airlines. In 2009 the Commission said overseas competition authorities were also investigating the air cargo market, including the US and Australia where fines had been imposed.\n\nEconomic liberals believe that price fixing is a voluntary and consensual activity between parties that should be free from government compulsion and government interference. At times price fixing ensures a stable market for both consumers and producers. Any short term benefit of increased price competition will force some producers out of the market and cause product shortages and prices for consumers to rise. In the end price-fixing legislation forces producers out of a market because it can't compete with the biggest discounter and the market winds up a monopoly anyway. \n\n"}
{"id": "39340911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39340911", "title": "Prinsengrachtconcert", "text": "Prinsengrachtconcert\n\nThe Prinsengrachtconcert is an annual open-air concert of classical music held annually in August since 1981 on the Prinsengracht in Amsterdam. The orchestra is situated on a pontoon anchored in front of the Hotel Pulitzer; much of the audience watches and listens from boats. Traditionally the concert is closed with a rendition of one of the city's anthems, \"Aan de Amsterdamse grachten\".\n\nSince 1984 it is televised by the AVRO. Since 1998 it is part of the Grachtenfestival, though still independently organized; the first Prinsengrachtconcert on ice was held in February 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2195977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2195977", "title": "Public intoxication", "text": "Public intoxication\n\nPublic intoxication, also known as \"drunk and disorderly\" and drunk in public, is a summary offense in some countries rated to public cases or displays of drunkenness. Public intoxication laws vary widely from jurisdiction, but usually require some obvious display of intoxicated incompetence or behavior disruptive/obnoxious to public order before the charge is levied.\n\nWhile it is technically illegal in most states and territories of Australia to be drunk and disorderly, most Australian police are relatively lenient about public intoxication. They generally transport the IP (\"Intoxicated Person\") to his or her residence or temporary detention at a police station or other welfare establishment until the person is sober.\n\nIn Victoria being \"drunk in a public place\" and \"drunk and disorderly in a public place\" are separate offences contained in the \"Summary Offences Act 1966\" which have their own power of arrest. Recent changes to legislation allow police to issue an infringement notice for these offences in addition to the traditional method of charging and bailing the offender to the Magistrates' Court. The current fine attached to the infringement notice is $590 for a first offence and $1,100 for a subsequent offence. A person arrested for being drunk or drunk and disorderly is held at the Melbourne Custody Centre or the cells at a police station or placed in the care of a friend or relative. \n\nIn New South Wales police have the discretion to issue \"on the spot\" fines or infringement notices for \"drunk in public\", a fine that costs the individual over $480 (4 penalty units). Community Legal Centres across the state complain about these fines and the impact it has had on various vulnerable members of the community, including young people, the homeless and minority groups.\n\nProsecution (charging) is generally only considered if the person is violent or other offenses have been committed.\n\nAs an example, a \"Drunk and Disorderly\" Fine in the State of New South Wales starts at $550.\n\nAs of February 2009, local councils in the state of New South Wales are not allowed to charge people who drink in alcohol-free zones; they are only permitted to confiscate the alcohol of the intoxicated person.\n\nIn Canada, liquor laws are made by the provinces and not the federal government.\n\nIn British Columbia, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses. If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit.\n\nIn Ontario, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses. Having an open container in public garners a $125 fine. Public drunkenness garners a $65 fine and detainment until sober. If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit.\n\nWhile liquor laws are similar from province to province, the laws in the territories tend to be substantially different. For instance, in the Northwest Territories public intoxication can result in imprisonment or detention in a medical facility for up to 24 hours (NWT Liquor Act).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are a number of offences dealing with intoxication, which vary between the constituent countries.\n\nIn a public place, it is an offence to be:\n\nIt is also an offence to be drunk:\n\nThe police will only get involved if the person is so drunk they are unable to act in a reasonable manner, such as passing out on the street. In that case typically the police will, depending on the circumstances, help the intoxicated person on their way or place the person in a police station cell until sober. Once fit to be dealt with the detained person will normally either be cautioned, be issued with a Penalty Notice for Disorder (PND – £90 fine in ticket form) or bailed to appear at the local court. The court in turn may issue a fine (up to level 1 or level 3 on the standard scale depending on the offence charged).\n\nThere are also many more specific offences, including driving a motor vehicle while drunk (or being found 'drunk in charge') and riding a cycle while unfit through drink. Furthermore, the police have the power (although not the obligation) to confiscate any alcohol which is being consumed in public by those under 18, and local authorities have the power to prohibit alcohol consumption in certain areas.\n\nIn New Zealand, drinking in public is not a crime and instead, local governments must specify that alcohol is banned in an area before it is considered a crime to drink in that location. Being drunk in public is not specifically an offense unless the person who is intoxicated is a public nuisance, in which case they may be dealt with for 'disturbing the peace'. This will usually result in being taken home, or otherwise taken to a police cell until sober.\n\nLaws in the United States regarding drunkenness vary widely from state to state.\n\nIn 1968, in the case of \"Powell v. Texas\", the Texas law against public intoxication was challenged in the Supreme Court of the United States for alleged violation of Eighth Amendment, which forbids cruel and unusual punishment. The court upheld the law, ruling that making a crime of public intoxication was neither cruel nor unusual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "376985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376985", "title": "Roswell UFO incident", "text": "Roswell UFO incident\n\nIn mid-1947, a United States Army Air Forces balloon crashed at a ranch near Roswell, New Mexico. Following wide initial interest in the crashed \"flying disc\", the US military stated that it was merely a conventional weather balloon. Interest subsequently waned until the late 1970s, when ufologists began promoting a variety of increasingly elaborate conspiracy theories, claiming that one or more alien spacecraft had crash-landed and that the extraterrestrial occupants had been recovered by the military, which then engaged in a cover-up.\n\nIn the 1990s, the US military published two reports disclosing the true nature of the crashed object: a nuclear test surveillance balloon from Project Mogul. Nevertheless, the Roswell incident continues to be of interest in popular media, and conspiracy theories surrounding the event persist. Roswell has been described as \"the world's most famous, most exhaustively investigated, and most thoroughly debunked UFO claim\".\n\nThe sequence of events was triggered by the crash of a Project Mogul balloon near Roswell. \n\nOn June 14, 1947, William Brazel, a foreman working on the Foster homestead, noticed clusters of debris approximately north of Roswell, New Mexico. This date—or \"about three weeks\" before July 8—appeared in later stories featuring Brazel, but the initial press release from the Roswell Army Air Field (RAAF) said the find was \"sometime last week\", suggesting Brazel found the debris in early July. Brazel told the \"Roswell Daily Record\" that he and his son saw a \"large area of bright wreckage made up of rubber strips, tinfoil, a rather tough paper and sticks.\" He paid little attention to it but returned on July 4 with his son, wife and daughter to gather up the material. Some accounts have described Brazel as having gathered some of the material earlier, rolling it together and stashing it under some brush. The next day, Brazel heard reports about \"flying discs\" and wondered if that was what he had picked up. On July 7, Brazel saw Sheriff Wilcox and \"whispered kinda confidential like\" that he may have found a flying disc. Another account quotes Wilcox as saying Brazel reported the object on July 6. \n\nWilcox called RAAF Major Jesse Marcel and a \"man in plainclothes\" accompanied Brazel back to the ranch where more pieces were picked up. \"[We] spent a couple of hours Monday afternoon [July 7] looking for any more parts of the weather device\", said Marcel. \"We found a few more patches of tinfoil and rubber.\"\n\nOn July 8, 1947, Roswell Army Air Field (RAAF) public information officer Walter Haut issued a press release stating that personnel from the field's 509th Operations Group had recovered a \"flying disc\", which had crashed on a ranch near Roswell. As described in the July 9, 1947 edition of the \"Roswell Daily Record\",\n\nThe balloon which held it up, if that was how it worked, must have been 12 feet [3.5 m] long, [Brazel] felt, measuring the distance by the size of the room in which he sat. The rubber was smoky gray in color and scattered over an area about 200 yards [180 m] in diameter. When the debris was gathered up, the tinfoil, paper, tape, and sticks made a bundle about three feet [1 m] long and 7 or 8 inches [18 or 20 cm] thick, while the rubber made a bundle about 18 or 20 inches [45 or 50 cm] long and about 8 inches [20 cm] thick. In all, he estimated, the entire lot would have weighed maybe five pounds [2 kg]. There was no sign of any metal in the area which might have been used for an engine, and no sign of any propellers of any kind, although at least one paper fin had been glued onto some of the tinfoil. There were no words to be found anywhere on the instrument, although there were letters on some of the parts. Considerable Scotch tape and some tape with flowers printed upon it had been used in the construction. No strings or wires were to be found but there were some eyelets in the paper to indicate that some sort of attachment may have been used.\n\nA telex sent to a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) office from the Fort Worth, Texas office quoted a Major from the Eighth Air Force (also based in Fort Worth at Carswell Air Force Base) on July 8, 1947 as saying that \"The disc is hexagonal in shape and was suspended from a by cable, which was approximately twenty feet (6 m) in diameter. Major Curtan further advices that the object found resembles a high altitude weather balloon with a radar reflector, but that telephonic conversation between their office and Wright field had not [UNINTELLIGIBLE] borne out this belief.\"\n\nEarly on Tuesday, July 8, the RAAF issued a press release, which was immediately picked up by numerous news outlets:\n\nThe many rumors regarding the flying disc became a reality yesterday when the intelligence office of the 509th Bomb group of the Eighth Air Force, Roswell Army Air Field, was fortunate enough to gain possession of a disc through the cooperation of one of the local ranchers and the sheriff's office of Chaves County. The flying object landed on a ranch near Roswell sometime last week. Not having phone facilities, the rancher stored the disc until such time as he was able to contact the sheriff's office, who in turn notified Maj. Jesse A. Marcel of the 509th Bomb Group Intelligence Office. Action was immediately taken and the disc was picked up at the rancher's home. It was inspected at the Roswell Army Air Field and subsequently loaned by Major Marcel to higher headquarters.\n\nColonel William H. Blanchard, commanding officer of the 509th, contacted General Roger M. Ramey of the Eighth Air Force in Fort Worth, Texas, and Ramey ordered the object be flown to Fort Worth Army Air Field. At the base, Warrant Officer Irving Newton confirmed Ramey’s preliminary opinion, identifying the object as being a weather balloon and its \"kite\", a nickname for a radar reflector used to track the balloons from the ground. Another news release was issued, this time from the Fort Worth base, describing the object as being a \"weather balloon\".\n\nThe military decided to conceal the true purpose of the crashed device – nuclear test monitoring – and instead inform the public that the crash was of a weather balloon. Later that day, the press reported that Commanding General of the Eighth Air Force Roger Ramey had stated that a weather balloon was recovered by the RAAF personnel. A press conference was held, featuring debris (foil, rubber and wood) said to be from the crashed object, which matched the weather balloon description. Historian Robert Goldberg wrote that the intended effect was achieved: \"the story died the next day\".\n\nSubsequently, the incident faded from the attention of UFO enthusiasts for more than 30 years.\n\nBetween 1978 and the early 1990s, UFO researchers such as Stanton T. Friedman, William Moore, Karl T. Pflock, and the team of Kevin D. Randle and Donald R. Schmitt interviewed several hundred people who claimed to have had a connection with the events at Roswell in 1947. Hundreds of documents were obtained via Freedom of Information Act requests, along with other documents such as Majestic 12 that were supposedly leaked by insiders. Their conclusions were at least one alien spacecraft crashed near Roswell, alien bodies had been recovered, and a government cover-up of the incident had taken place.\n\nOver the years, books, articles, and television specials brought the 1947 incident significant notoriety. By the mid-1990s, public polls such as a 1997 CNN/\"Time\" poll, revealed that the majority of people interviewed believed that aliens had indeed visited Earth, and that aliens had landed at Roswell, but that all the relevant information was being kept secret by the US government.\n\nAccording to anthropologists Susan Harding and Kathleen Stewart, the Roswell Story was the prime example of how a discourse moved from the fringes to the mainstream according to the prevailing \"zeitgeist\": public preoccupation in the 1980s with \"conspiracy, cover-up and repression\" aligned well with the Roswell narratives as told in the \"sensational books\" which were being published.\n\nIn 1978, nuclear physicist and author Stanton T. Friedman interviewed Jesse Marcel, the only person known to have accompanied the Roswell debris from where it was recovered to Fort Worth where reporters saw material which was claimed to be part of the recovered object. The accounts given by Friedman and others in the following years elevated Roswell from a forgotten incident to perhaps the most famous UFO case of all time.\n\nThe first conspiracy book about Roswell was \"The Roswell Incident\" (1980) by Charles Berlitz and William Moore, authors who had previously written popular books on the Philadelphia Experiment and on the Bermuda Triangle.\n\nHistorian Kathy Olmsted writes that the material in this book has come to be known as \"version 1\" of the Roswell myth. Berlitz and Moore's narrative holds that an alien craft was flying over the New Mexico desert observing US nuclear weapons activity, but crashed after being hit by lightning, killing the aliens on board; a government cover-up duly followed.\n\nThe authors claimed to have interviewed over ninety witnesses. Though he was uncredited, Friedman carried out some research for the book. \"The Roswell Incident\" featured accounts of debris described by Marcel as \"nothing made on this earth.\" Additional accounts by Bill Brazel, son of Mac Brazel, neighbor Floyd Proctor and Walt Whitman Jr., son of newsman W. E. Whitman who had interviewed Mac Brazel, suggested the material Marcel recovered had super-strength not associated with a weather balloon. The book introduced the contention that debris which was recovered by Marcel at the Foster ranch, visible in photographs showing Marcel posing with the debris, was substituted for debris from a weather device as part of a cover-up. The book also claimed that the debris recovered from the ranch was not permitted a close inspection by the press. The efforts by the military were described as being intended to discredit and \"counteract the growing hysteria towards flying saucers\". Two accounts of witness intimidation were included in the book, including the incarceration of Mac Brazel. The book also introduced the secondhand stories of civil engineer Barney Barnett and a group of archeology students from an unidentified university seeing alien wreckage and bodies while in the desert.\n\nBerlitz and Moore's narrative was dominant until the late 1980s when other authors, attracted by the commercial potential of writing about Roswell, started producing rival accounts.\n\nIn 1991, Kevin Randle and Donald Schmitt published \"UFO Crash at Roswell\". They added 100 new witnesses, altered and tightened the narrative, and included several \"sinister\" new twists.\n\nSome new details were included, including accounts of a \"gouge […] that extended four or five hundred feet [120 or 150 m]\" at the ranch and descriptions of an elaborate cordon and recovery operation. Several witnesses in \"The Roswell Incident\" described being turned back from the Foster ranch by armed military police, but extensive descriptions were not given. The Barnett accounts were mentioned, though the dates and locations were changed from the accounts found in \"The Roswell Incident\". In the new account, Brazel was described as leading the Army to a second crash site on the ranch, at which point the Army personnel were supposedly \"horrified to find civilians [including Barnett] there already.\"\n\nGlenn Dennis was produced as a supposedly important witness in 1989, after calling the hotline when an episode of \"Unsolved Mysteries\" featured the Roswell incident. His descriptions of Roswell alien autopsies were the first account that said there were alien corpses at the Roswell Army Air Base.\n\nRandle and Schmitt's book sold 160,000 copies.\n\nIn 1992, Stanton Friedman re-entered the scene with his own book \"Crash at Corona\", co-authored with Don Berliner – an author of books on space and aviation. Goldberg writes that Friedman too introduced new \"witnesses\", and that he added to the narrative by doubling the number of flying saucers to two, and the number of aliens to eight – two of which were said to have survived and been taken into custody by the government.\n\nRandle and Schmitt responded with another book, updating their previous narrative with several new details, including the claim that alien bodies were taken by cargo plane to be viewed by Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was curious about their appearance.\n\nFormer Lt. Col. Philip J. Corso reported in his autobiographical book that the Roswell Crash did happen and that when he was assigned to Fort Riley (Kansas) in July 1947, 5 trucks of 25 tons and some semi trailers entered the base from Fort Bliss Texas. He claimed while he was patrolling the base he was brought into the medical facilities by Sgt. Brown and shown the remnants of bodies that were from an \"air crash\". Philip Klass analyzed his claims line by line and exposed many inconsistencies and factual errors.\n\nThe existence of so many differing accounts by 1994 led to a schism among ufologists about the events at Roswell. The Center for UFO Studies (CUFOS) and the Mutual UFO Network (MUFON), two leading UFO societies, disagreed in their views of the various scenarios presented by Randle–Schmitt and Friedman–Berliner; several conferences were held to try to resolve the differences. One issue under discussion was where Barnett was when he saw the alien craft he was said to have encountered. A 1992 UFO conference had attempted to achieve a consensus among the various scenarios portrayed in \"Crash at Corona\" and \"UFO Crash at Roswell\", however, the publication of \"The Truth About the UFO Crash at Roswell\" had \"resolved\" the Barnett problem by simply ignoring Barnett and citing a new location for the alien craft recovery, including a new group of archaeologists not connected to the ones the Barnett story cited.\n\nDon Schmitt held that variations in narratives between different writers was not however an essential problem, commenting by way of comparison \"We know Jesus Christ was crucified, we just don't know where.\"\n\nHundreds of people were interviewed by the various researchers, but critics point out that only a few of these people claimed to have seen debris or aliens. Most witnesses were repeating the claims of others, and their testimony would be considered hearsay in an American court of law and therefore inadmissible as evidence. Of the 90 people claimed to have been interviewed for \"The Roswell Incident\", the testimony of only 25 appears in the book, and only seven of these people saw the debris. Of these, five handled the debris. Pflock, in \"Roswell: Inconvenient Facts and the Will to Believe\" (2001), makes a similar point about Randle and Schmitt's \"UFO Crash at Roswell.\" Approximately 271 people are listed in the book who were \"contacted and interviewed\" for the book, and this number does not include those who chose to remain anonymous, meaning more than 300 witnesses were interviewed, a figure Pflock said the authors frequently cited. Of these 300-plus individuals, only 41 can be \"considered genuine first- or second-hand witnesses to the events in and around Roswell or at the Fort Worth Army Air Field,\" and only 23 can be \"reasonably thought to have seen physical evidence, debris recovered from the Foster Ranch.\" Of these, only seven have asserted anything suggestive of otherworldly origins for the debris.\n\nAs for the accounts from those who claimed to have seen aliens, critics identified problems ranging from the reliability of second-hand accounts, to credibility problems with witnesses making demonstrably false claims, or multiple, contradictory accounts, to dubious death-bed confessions or accounts from elderly and easily confused witnesses. Pflock noted that only four people with supposed firsthand knowledge of alien bodies were interviewed and identified by Roswell authors: Frank Kaufmann; Jim Ragsdale; Lt. Col. Albert Lovejoy Duran; Gerald Anderson. Duran is mentioned in a brief footnote in \"The Truth About the UFO Crash at Roswell\" and never again, while the other three all have serious credibility problems. A problem with all the accounts, charge critics, is they all came about a minimum of 31 years after the events in question, and in many cases were recounted more than 40 years after the fact. Not only are memories this old of dubious reliability, they were also subject to contamination from other accounts the interviewees may have been exposed to. The shifting claims of Jesse Marcel, whose suspicion that what he recovered in 1947 was \"not of this world\" sparked interest in the incident in the first place, cast serious doubt on the reliability of what he claimed to be true.\n\nIn \"The Roswell Incident\", Marcel stated, \"Actually, this material may have \"looked\" like tinfoil and balsa wood, but the resemblance ended there […] They took one picture of me on the floor holding up some of the less-interesting metallic debris […] The stuff in that one photo was pieces of the actual stuff we found. It was not a staged photo.\" Timothy Printy points out that the material Marcel positively identified as being part of what he recovered is material that skeptics and UFO advocates agree is debris from a balloon device. After that fact was pointed out to him, Marcel changed his story to say that that material was not what he recovered. Skeptics like Robert Todd argued that Marcel had a history of embellishment and exaggeration, such as claiming to have been a pilot and having received five Air Medals for shooting down enemy planes, claims that were all found to be false, and skeptics feel that his evolving Roswell story was simply another instance of this tendency to fabricate.\n\nIn response to these reports, and after United States congressional inquiries, the General Accounting Office launched an inquiry and directed the Office of the United States Secretary of the Air Force to conduct an internal investigation. The result was summarized in two reports. The first, released in 1994, concluded that the material recovered in 1947 was likely debris from Project Mogul, a military surveillance program employing high-altitude balloons (and classified portion of an unclassified New York University project by atmospheric researchers). The second report, released in 1997, concluded that reports of recovered alien bodies were likely a combination of innocently transformed memories of accidents involving military casualties with memories of the recovery of anthropomorphic dummies in military programs such as the 1950s Operation High Dive, mixed with hoaxes perpetrated by various witnesses and UFO proponents. The psychological effects of time compression and confusion about when events occurred explained the discrepancy with the years in question.\n\nThe Air Force reports were dismissed by UFO proponents as being either disinformation or simply implausible, though skeptical researchers such as Philip J. Klass and Robert Todd, who had been expressing doubts regarding accounts of aliens for several years, used the reports as the basis for skeptical responses to claims by UFO proponents. After the release of the Air Force reports, several books, such as Kal Korff's \"The Roswell UFO Crash: What They Don't Want You To Know\" (1997), built on the evidence presented in the reports to conclude \"there is no credible evidence that the remains of an extraterrestrial spacecraft was involved.\" In the 1990s, skeptics and even some social anthropologists saw the increasingly elaborate accounts of alien crash landings and government cover ups as evidence of a myth being constructed.\n\nAlthough there is no evidence that a UFO crashed at Roswell, believers firmly hold to the belief that one did, and that the truth has been concealed as a result of a government conspiracy. B. D. Gildenberg has called the Roswell incident \"the world's most famous, most exhaustively investigated, and most thoroughly debunked UFO claim\".\n\nPflock said, \"[T]he case for Roswell is a classic example of the triumph of quantity over quality. The advocates of the crashed-saucer tale […] simply shovel everything that seems to support their view into the box marked 'Evidence' and say, 'See? Look at all this stuff. We must be right.' Never mind the contradictions. Never mind the lack of independent supporting fact. Never mind the blatant absurdities.\" Korff suggests there are clear incentives for some people to promote the idea of aliens at Roswell, and that many researchers were not doing competent work: \"[The] UFO field is people who are willing to take advantage of the gullibility of others, especially the paying public. Let's not pull any punches here: The Roswell UFO myth has been very good business for UFO groups, publishers, for Hollywood, the town of Roswell, the media, and UFOlogy […] [The] number of researchers who employ science and its disciplined methodology is appallingly small.\"\n\nB. D. Gildenberg wrote there were as many as 11 reported alien recovery sites and these recoveries bore only a marginal resemblance to the event as initially reported in 1947, or as recounted later by the initial witnesses. Some of these new accounts could have been confused accounts of the several known recoveries of injured and dead servicemen from four military plane crashes that occurred in the area from 1948 to 1950. Other accounts could have been based on memories of recoveries of test dummies, as suggested by the Air Force in their reports. Charles Ziegler argued that the Roswell story has all the hallmarks of a traditional folk narrative. He identified six distinct narratives, and a process of transmission via storytellers with a core story that was created from various witness accounts, and was then shaped and molded by those who carry on the UFO community's tradition. Other \"witnesses\" were then sought out to expand the core narrative, with those who give accounts not in line with the core beliefs being repudiated or simply omitted by the \"gatekeepers.\" Others then retold the narrative in its new form. This whole process would repeat over time.\n\nIn September 2017, UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" reported on Kodachrome slides which some had claimed showed a dead space alien. First presented at a BeWitness event in Mexico, organised by Jaime Maussan and attended by almost 7,000 people, days afterwards it was revealed that the slides were in fact of a mummified Native American child discovered in 1896 and which had been on display at the Chapin Mesa Archeological Museum in Mesa Verde, Colorado for many decades.\n\nProminent skeptics Joe Nickell and co-author James McGaha identified a myth-making process, which they called the \"Roswellian Syndrome\". In this syndrome a myth is proposed to have five distinct stages of development: \"Incident\", \"Debunking\", \"Submergence\", \"Mythologizing\", and \"Reemergence and Media Bandwagon Effect\". The authors predicted that the Roswellian Syndrome would \"play out again and again\", in other UFO and conspiracy-theory stories.\n\nGlenn Dennis, who testified that Roswell alien autopsies were carried out at the Roswell base, and that he and others were the subjects of threats, was deemed one of the \"least credible\" Roswell witnesses by Randle in 1998. In Randle and Schmitt’s 1991 book \"UFO Crash at Roswell\", Dennis's story was featured prominently. Randle said Dennis was not credible \"for changing the name of the nurse once we had proved she didn't exist.\" Dennis's accounts were also doubted by researcher Pflock.\n\nScientific skeptic author Brian Dunning concurs that Dennis cannot be regarded as a reliable witness, considering that he had seemingly waited over forty years before he started recounting a series of unconnected events. Such events, Dunnings argues, were then arbitrarily joined together to form what has become the most popular narrative of the alleged alien crash.\n\nSome prominent UFOlogists including Karl T. Pflock, Kent Jeffrey, and William L. Moore have become convinced that there were no aliens or alien space craft involved in the Roswell crash.\n\nIn 1995, film footage purporting to show an alien autopsy and claimed to have been taken by a US military official shortly after the Roswell incident was released by Ray Santilli, a London-based video entrepreneur. The footage caused an international sensation when it aired on television networks around the world.\n\nIn 2006, Santilli admitted that the film was mostly a reconstruction, but continued to claim it was based on genuine footage now lost, and some original frames that had supposedly survived. A fictionalized version of the creation of the footage and its release was retold in the comedy film \"Alien Autopsy\" (2006).\n\nIn an attempt to produce fresh evidence, some researchers used new technology to try to re-analyze photographs of the telegram held by General Ramey during his 1947 press conference. Goldberg writes that the results proved inconclusive: while some claimed they could discern wording like \"victims of the wreck\", others claimed they saw \"turn out to be weather balloons\". Overall, there was no consensus that anything was legible.\n\nOn October 26, 2007, Bill Richardson (who at the time was a candidate for the Democratic Party nomination for U.S. President) was asked about releasing government files on Roswell. Richardson responded that when he was a Congressman, he attempted to get information on behalf of his New Mexico constituents, but was told by both the Department of Defense and Los Alamos Labs that the information was classified. \"That ticked me off,\" he said \"The government doesn't tell the truth as much as it should on a lot of issues.\" He promised to work on opening the files if he were elected as President.\n\nIn October 2002, before airing its Roswell documentary, the Sci-Fi Channel hosted a Washington UFO news conference. John Podesta, President Clinton's chief of staff, appeared as a member of the public relations firm hired by Sci-Fi to help get the government to open up documents on the subject. Podesta stated, \"It is time for the government to declassify records that are more than 25 years old and to provide scientists with data that will assist in determining the true nature of the phenomena.\"\n\nWhen asked during a 2015 interview with GQ Magazine about whether he'd looked up top secret classified information, President Barack Obama replied \"I gotta tell you, it’s a little disappointing. People always ask me about Roswell and the aliens and UFOs, and it turns out the stuff going on that’s top secret isn’t nearly as exciting as you expect. In this day and age, it’s not as top secret as you’d think.\"\n\nAs time wore on, it became harder for Roswell researchers to find new evidence to publish; there was potential though in the prospect of deathbed confessions from those originally involved in 1947. In 2007 Donald Schmitt and Tom Carey published the book \"Witness to Roswell\", which prominently featured a document said to be a sworn affidavit written by Walter Haut, who had written the first Army press release about the Roswell crash in 1947. The document, apparently kept under seal until Haut's death in 2005, described how the 1947 crash debris had been discussed by high-ranking staff and how Haut had seen alien bodies. The claims, however, drew an unimpressed response even from ufologists: Dennis Balthaser said that the document was not written by Haut, and that by 2000 Haut's mental state was such he could not recall basic details about his past, making the detail contained in the affidavit seem dubious. Physicist and skeptic Dave Thomas commented: \"Is Roswell still the 'best' UFO incident? If it is, UFO proponents should be very, very worried.\"\n\nThe 1948 Aztec, New Mexico, UFO incident was a hoaxed flying saucer crash and subject of the book \"Behind the Flying Saucers\" (1950) by Frank Scully. The incident is sometimes referred to as the \"other Roswell\" and parallels have been drawn between the incidents.\n\nAmerican journalist Annie Jacobsen's \"\" (2011), based on interviews with scientists and engineers who worked in Area 51, dismisses the alien story. She quotes one unnamed source as claiming that Josef Mengele, a German Schutzstaffel officer and a physician in Auschwitz, was recruited by the Soviet leader Joseph Stalin to produce \"grotesque, child-size aviators\" to be remotely piloted and landed in America in order to cause hysteria similar to Orson Welles' \"The War of the Worlds\" (1938). The aircraft, however, crashed and the incident was hushed up by the Americans. Jacobsen wrote that the bodies found at the crash site were children around 12 years old with large heads and abnormally-shaped, oversized eyes. They were neither aliens nor consenting airmen, but human guinea pigs. The book was criticized for extensive errors by scientists from the Federation of American Scientists.\n\n\nBooks, articles\n\nWeb resources\n"}
{"id": "42362886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42362886", "title": "Sahak II Bagratuni", "text": "Sahak II Bagratuni\n\nSahak II Bagratuni (Armenian: Սահակ Բ Բագրատունի), was an Armenian nobleman from the Bagratuni Dynasty. He served as the marzban of Persian Armenia from 481 to 482.\n\nSahak II was the son of Tirots I Bagratuni, an Armenian \"aspet\". When Tirots died in 451, Sahak II was given the aspet title. In 475, the Mamikonian princess Shushanik, was murdered by her husband Prince Varsken, who was a convert to Zoroastrianism, and was related to the Mihran family. The reason for this murder was because she had refused to convert to Zoroastrianism and wanted to stay Christian. Varsken, because of his actions was in 482 executed by Vakhtang I, king of Iberia. The Sasanian shah Peroz I shortly sent an army to punish Vakhtang for intervening. However, Vakhtang was joined by the Armenians, and a revolt broke out in Armenia, led by Vahan I Mamikonian and Sahak II.\n\nVahan and Sahak managed to defeat the marzban Adhur Gushnasp, and Sahak was shortly declared by Vahan and the other Armenians as the marzban of Armenia. However, in 482, Peroz sent an army under Shapur Mihran, which defeated the Armenian rebels, killing Sahak. Vahan then fled to the mountains, while Shapur regained control of Armenia. Sahak hah a son named Spandiat, who was given the title of aspet after his death.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30469091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30469091", "title": "South Korea foot-and-mouth outbreak", "text": "South Korea foot-and-mouth outbreak\n\nA serious outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease occurred in South Korea in 2010–2011, leading to the culling of hundreds of thousands of pigs (as of January 2011) in an effort to contain it. The outbreak began in November 2010 in pig farms in Andong, Gyeongsangbuk-do, and has since spread in the country rapidly. More than 100 cases of foot-and-mouth disease have been confirmed in the country so far, and South Korean officials have started a mass cull of approximately 12 percent of the entire domestic pig population and 107,000 of three million cattle of the country to halt the outbreak.\n\nAs parts of the culling process, it was reported by some sections of the English-language media that the South Korean government had decided to bury approximately 1.4 million pigs alive, which drew complaints from animal activists. The American animal rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals started online campaigns, arguing that the animals should be vaccinated rather than buried alive.\n\nJoyce D'Silva, Director of Public Affairs for Compassion in World Farming, said that they are \"appalled\", and argued that it is contrary to international guidelines on humane culling, which the South Korean government allegedly endorsed. However the local media had only reported that there had been incidents of swine being buried alive, and that a South Korean agriculture ministry official had confirmed some incidents, but that they had been few, explaining that \"officials are rushed to stop the spread, and the number of people involved is too small for the operation,\" and that until a more humane way to cull the infected swine is found, the government will have to resort to burying the infected animals alive because the \"government has temporarily run out of euthanasia drugs.\"\n\nOn 12 January 2011, local officials stated that more than US$1 billion worth of livestock have been lost so far to the disease, including government efforts to halt the spread. According to Kim Jae-hong, a veterinary science professor at Seoul National University, the outbreak is \"the most serious in Korea's history\" and it is difficult to say when the spread of the disease will be stopped, and he said that \"the most important thing right now is to control movement in and out of the farmhouses that are affected, and thoroughly disinfect the cars around the area\".\n\nSouth Korea's Citizens' Institute for Environmental Studies revealed 32 places that had dead livestocks buried around 4 drinking water facilities in Gyeonggi-do.\n\nA ProMED-mail post described the epizootic and subsequent cancellations of festivities as being reminiscent of Britain's February 19, 2001 foot-and-mouth disease outbreak, and even more so of an outbreak in Japan beginning late March 2010, which was caused by the same strain of the virus. In that epizootic cattle herds were found to be 3.9-4.5 times more susceptible to the virus than pig herds, but pig herds had 5.0-13.6 times greater relative infectiousness; thus cattle on infected premises suffered a cumulative incidence of 8.5%, whereas 36.4% of pigs were infected.\n"}
{"id": "40060358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40060358", "title": "Staatstheater Darmstadt", "text": "Staatstheater Darmstadt\n\nThe Staatstheater Darmstadt (Darmstadt State Theatre) is a theatre company and building in Darmstadt, Hesse, Germany, presenting opera, ballet, plays and concerts. It is funded by the state of Hesse and the city of Darmstadt. Its history began in 1711 with a court theatre building. From 1919 it was run as Landestheater Darmstadt. The present theatre was opened in 1972 when the company was named Staatstheater.\n\nThe theatre dates back more than 300 years. It was originally a court theatre at the residence of the county Darmstadt. At a request by a first theatre building in Darmstadt was opened in 1711 with Christoph Graupner's opera \"Telemach\". About a century later, Louis I, Grand Duke of Hesse, built a court theatre open to the citizens. The architect Georg Moller built a theatre with 2000 seats and advanced stage machinery, opened in 1819. It burnt down in 1871 and was restored in seven years.\n\nIn 1919 the theatre became a \"Landestheater\". The former building was made the small stage (\"Kleines Haus\"). Director Gustav Hartung (1920–1924 and 1931–1933) made the theatre famous for premieres of contemporary authors. He was forced to flee by the Nazis. Actress Lilli Palmer, then 20 years old, emigrated to Paris. Both halls of the theatre were destroyed by bombs in the night 11 to 12 September 1944. After the war a provisional stage was found in the Orangerie (), where the company played for almost three decades. It was known for plays during the times of directors Rudolf Sellner (1951–1961) and (1961–1971). The play \"Männersache\" by Franz Xaver Kroetz premiered in 1972. In 1966 Maciej Łukaszczyk arrived and worked as an Répétiteur at the Landestheater Darmstadt. In 1970 he founded the Chopin Organisation.\n\nThe present building was opened in 1972, when the theatre was named \"Staatstheater\". The theatre is funded by the state of Hesse and the city of Darmstadt. The building was designed by the Darmstadt architect Rolf Prange who had won a national competition in 1963. The great hall (\"Großes Haus\") seats 956 people, the small hall (\"Kleines Haus\"), mostly for plays and dance, 482. A chamber theatre (\"Kammerspiele\") seats 120. The \"Großes Haus\" was opened on 6 October 1972 with Beethoven's \"Fidelio\", the \"Kleines Haus\" a day later with Gaston Salvatore's \"Büchners Tod\". Reinhard Febel's opera \"Morels Erfindung\" premiered on 6 November 1994. Jan Müller-Wieland's chamber opera in one act \"Die Nachtigall und die Rose\" was first performed in 1996, \"Die Versicherung\" after a play by Peter Weiss in 1999.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006 the building was restored, with new technical and safety features. It was reopened with Leoš Janáček's \"Schicksal\" and \"Lélio oder die Rückkehr ins Leben\" by Hector Berlioz on 22 September 2006, and a day later Schiller's \"Don Karlos\".\n\nJohn Dew has been director of the theatre from 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "8842656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8842656", "title": "State of Revolution", "text": "State of Revolution\n\nState of Revolution is a play by Robert Bolt, written in 1977. It deals with the Russian Revolution of 1917 and Civil War, the rise to power of Vladimir Lenin, and the struggles of his chief lieutenants – namely Joseph Stalin and Leon Trotsky – to gain power under Lenin in the chaos of the Revolution.\n\nThe play was first staged in the Repertory Theatre in Birmingham, on 3 May 1977 and later moved to the Lyttelton Theatre in London.\n\nDespite the painstaking work put into the show by Bolt (he spent almost three years researching the Revolution and then editing the script), \"State of Revolution\" was at best a modest success. He was particularly criticised for having a play which, many felt, lacked Bolt's usual humour and a clear point (see \"Times\" review below). Others criticised the play for depicting the Russian characters in too much of an Anglicized manner. The play received its share of positive reviews as well, but was ultimately not a box-office success. It would prove to be Bolt's last stage production, though he would write several more film scripts.\n\nBolt himself was never satisfied with the play, feeling that he had failed to create strong and sympathetic lead characters. In the late 1970s (according to Bolt's biographer, Adrian Turner), Charlton Heston attempted to produce a film version, but Bolt himself talked Heston out of it.\n\nAct I\n\nThe play is framed by an address being given by Anatoly Lunacharsky to a group of Young Communists at an unspecified date in the future, on the anniversary of Lenin's death. Lunacharsky gives a speech which solidly toes the Communist Party line about the Revolution and its leaders, Joseph Stalin, Lenin, and Trotsky.\n\nThe narrative begins in Capri in 1910 at a meeting of several exiled Communist leaders – including Lenin, Felix Dzerzhinsky, Alexey Gorky, and Alexandra Kollontai. Lunacharsky's speech dissolves into a speech being given at this meeting, being proposed as a Communist thesis; all present support it except Lenin, who dismisses it as \"shit\". Lenin thinks his beliefs in supporting \"the human ethic\" is ridiculous and \"merits abuse\", and dismisses the majority opinion against him: \"It's not a school for revolutionary activists you're getting ready here – it's a school in parliamentary procedure.\" Lenin continues to draw conflict with his peers and is depicted as being driven purely by ideology rather than any idealism.\n\nThe play cuts ahead to 1917, when Russia's struggles in World War I lead to the collapse of the Czar's government. The Provisional Government of Alexander Kerensky wants to continue the war, but the radical Bolsheviks urge an end to the war at all costs while others in the Party – including Stalin – urge continuation of the fighting on the grounds that Russia's defeat will lead to the re-establishment of the Czar. When Lenin arrives in Finland Station, he is initially greeted warmly – until he calls for the establishment of a socialist regime and an end to the war – even if it means a German victory. Later on, the situation comes to a head as the Russian army finally collapses, and Lenin recruits Zhelnik – commander of the Kronstadt Sailors' Soviet – in his plan to capture Petrograd for the Bolsheviks.\n\nLenin instantly sets about organising his government, placing Trotsky, Stalin, Kollontai, and Lunacharsky in high-ranking positions. The government leaders proclaim a new system of freedoms and reforms, much to the delight of the Russian people. Trotsky is, however, forced to negotiate a peace treaty with the Germans and is unable to bargain on his own terms – apparently under the delusion that the German soldiers will desert and join the Revolution. The first signs of tension appear when Stalin refers to Trotsky – who volunteers to organise the Red Army – as \"our Bonaparte\", greatly insulting Trotsky for this suggestion of counter-revolutionary disloyalty. At this time, Dzerzhinsky is appointed head of the Cheka, the Soviet secret police. At the end of the act, in a private conversation, Lenin tells Stalin that he is \"the most useful Comrade on the whole Committee.\"\n\nAct II\n\nAct II begins as Zhelnik angrily meets with Lenin, his wife Nadezhda Krupskaya, and Kollontai, reporting an incident where he and his men were ordered to massacre a group of peasants who would not turn over their stores of grain. Lenin argues the measure was justified because peasants are likely to be counter-revolutionaries, and Zhelnik's protests – \"We're all – \"peasants\"!\" – fall on deaf ears.\nShortly thereafter, Lenin meets with Fanya Kaplan, a member of the Peasant Revolutionary Party, who protests the exclusion of all non-Bolshevik parties from the Soviets. At the end of the conversation, Kaplan produces a pistol and shoots Lenin, regretting only that she failed in her attempt.\n\nThe assassination coincides with the outbreak of full-scale Civil War and intervention of foreign powers, leading Dzerzhinsky to institute the Red Terror against all Russians suspected of being counter-revolutionary. At this time, Lunacharasky protests to Dzerzhinsky the extravagant production demands of the government – in turn, she is warned by him against protesting.\n\nZhelnik and the other Kronstadt sailors organise a revolt against the Soviet government. Trotsky and Kollontai meet with the sailors and refuse to give in to their demands; Trotsky resorts to violent force to put down the rebellion. Shortly after, Trotsky comes into conflict with Lenin and Stalin for proposing a limited market economy – which Stalin twists into being counter-revolution. At this point, Stalin proposes that the Party must be expunged of its less loyal members, and advocates a purge – which is supported by Lenin. The accusations against Trotsky grow, until even Lenin is almost convinced of his possible treachery. Gorky confronts Lenin over his treatment of Trotsky. Gorky angrily protests the imprisonment of provably innocent individuals by the Cheka, and Lenin accuses him too of being a traitor. Lenin then has a stroke, leaving him incapicitated and Stalin and Trotsky to fill in the void.\n\nStalin and Dzerzhinsky meet with Victor Mdvani, leader of the Georgian Communist Party, and interrogate him over disloyal statements made in a private letter and his alleged refusal to support Lenin's policies of collectivisation and unification in his republic. At the end of this meeting, a Cheka officer – Pratkov – is identified as Captain Draganov, a high-ranking member of the Czar's secret police, and Stalin orders him executed.\n\nA crippled but still strong-willed Lenin speaks with his wife, expressing his dislike and distrust of Stalin. He plans to have Trotsky give a speech denouncing Stalin, but Trotsky is ill and Stalin ends up giving the same speech about Trotsky. Lenin dies shortly thereafter.\n\nAfter Lenin's death, his colleagues organise a vote, hoping to have Trotsky appointed as Lenin's successor. Despite his distaste for Stalin, Trotsky refuses to brand him a counter-revolutionary, and Stalin wins the vote. The play ends with Lunacharsky's speech – discussing Trotsky's fall from grace and saying that the Revolution should not be remembered as a \"pageant of Great Men\", but rather as an inevitable event which was served by Lenin, Stalin, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "3017040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017040", "title": "Sunset Junction Street Fair", "text": "Sunset Junction Street Fair\n\nThe Sunset Junction Street Fair was an event held annually in the Sunset Junction neighborhood of the Silver Lake community in Los Angeles, California. Occurring annually in late August, the two-day neighborhood festival was first held in 1980, as a way to quell tensions between the neighborhood's long-time Latino residents and the newer gay residents, who some felt were causing the neighborhood to become gentrified. (\"Los Angeles Business Journal\", 2002-12-09)\n\nThe festival, put on by the Sunset Junction Neighborhood Alliance, closed off a large portion of Sunset Boulevard and features live music, rides, food and merchandise vendors. Over the years, many noted musicians and musical acts performed, including Beck, Elliott Smith, Sleater-Kinney, X, Camper Van Beethoven, Redd Kross, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, Eels, Chaka Khan, the Ladies of The Supremes, and Nick Name and the Normals among others.\n\nIn 2011, the fair was scheduled to take place on August 27 and 28. After booking the talent the promoters failed to secure permits for the fair and it was canceled. In dispute was $260,000 owed to the city for unpaid fees for the previous couple of years. In a last minute ditch effort, the promoters of Sunset Junction were able to secure a $142,000 backing from Live Nation to at least cover this year’s bills, which would have gone towards cost of police protection, parking enforcement and other city services. The $142,000 did not include any part of the $260,000 that is due for previous years. Despite this, the permits were still denied by members of the Board of Public Works.\n\nIn the previous year, the city issued a permit for the event even though the estimated fees for police, sanitation and traffic crews were not paid in advance. Following the festival, the city sent organizers three invoices for $256,484. The unpaid bill was eventually forwarded to the Office of Finance, which turned it over to a collection agency, and ultimately the matter was referred to the city attorney’s office.\n\nAccording to the \"Los Angeles Times\", “It was the most aggressive stand yet in the city's effort to get tough on the people and organizations who owe money to cash-strapped City Hall.”\n\nOne of the reasons for the denial of the permits was that the festival's original reason for charging admission was that the proceeds would be reinvested in the community. However, several community advocates claimed that said proceeds were, in fact, not being reinvested, and that the committee handling the festival were unwilling to submit themselves to public scrutiny of their finances.\n\nTo date, neither the vendors nor ticketholders have been reimbursed. The fair's official ticket vendor, Flavorus, has suggested that ticketholders contact their credit card providers to dispute the ticket purchases, and that they themselves are unable to provide refunds as they have not been paid either.\n\nIt was the first time in the street fair's thirty-year history that it had been cancelled.\n\nIn February 2012, the Sunset Junction Neighborhood Alliance filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, citing $900,000 in debts and only $500 in assets. Alliance president Michael McKinley is also listed among the creditors owed money. According to the official filing, he claims that he is owed $25,000. The City of Los Angeles is listed as the most prominent creditor, at $250,000.\n\nElliott Smith, Imperial Teen, Beachwood Sparks, Nona Hendryx, Scherrie Payne, Dee Dee Sharp, Little Anthony & the Imperials, Candye Kane, Mike Watt\n\n\"Saturday, August 24 and Sunday, August 25\": Sonic Youth, Chaka Khan, Sleater-Kinney, Mary Wilson, Mudhoney, Juan Atkins, Pansy Division, DJ Irene, Arthur Adams, Mondo Generator, Richard Humpty Vission, tribute to the Gun Club, Radar Bros, DJ Colette, Scherrie Payne, Bluebird, Very Be Careful, The Warlocks, D Fuse, Arkestra Klandestina, Distortion Felix, Tony Watson, Burning Star\n\n\"Saturday, August 23\": Nick Name and The Normals, Glen Meadmore, Guided By Voices, Circle Jerks, The Muffs, The Twilight Singers featuring Greg Dulli, Kennedy, Icarus Line, Brian Jonestown Massacre, Metric, Gwendolyn and the Good Time Gang, Moving Units, Silversun Pickups\n\n\"Sunday, August 24\":\nThe Dandy Warhols, Isaac Hayes, Phantom Planet, Rilo Kiley, Folk Implosion, Earlimart, Alaska, The Tyde, Nervous Return, Midnight Movies, The 88, The Lisa Marr Experiment\n\n\"Saturday, August 21\": The Donnas, Ashford & Simpson, Ben Kweller, Ima Robot, Har Mar Superstar, The Like, The Unicorns, Dengue Fever, Giant Drag, Autolux, The Like, Los Abandoned, The Starlite Desperation, The Unicorns, Bedroom Walls, Christine Ortega, Quinto Sol\n\n\"Sunday, August 22\": X, Camper Van Beethoven, Thelonious Monster, Juliette and The Licks, The scAvengers with Penelope Houston, Arthur Lee & Love, Stephanie Mills, Very Be Careful, Ritmo Flamenco, dios malos, The Vacation, Dirty Little Secret, Your Enemies Friends, The High Speed Scene\n\n\"Saturday, August 27\": Rilo Kiley, John Cale, The Walkmen, Jason Falkner, Black Mountain, Foreign Born, Something for Rockets, Run Run Run, Vagenius, Let's Go Sailing, The Ettes\n\n\"Sunday, August 28\": The New York Dolls, Suicide Girls, Eagles of Death Metal, The Gossip, The Weirdos, Burning Brides, Nebula, The Leaving Trains, Rolling Blackouts, Viva K, The Willowz\n\n\"Saturday, August 26\": Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, The Eels, Redd Kross, The Elected, Ashford & Simpson, Millie Jackson, Arthur Adams, Lavender Diamond, Darker My Love, Monsters Are Waiting, The Little Ones, Great Northern, A Minor Canon\n\n\"Sunday, August 27\": The Cramps, Drive By Truckers, Hank Williams III, Richard Street, Nona Hendryx, Dave Alvin, Candye Kane, Mike Stinson, Cousin Lovers, I See Hawks In LA, Restaurant\n\n\"Saturday, August 18\": Ben Harper, Blonde Redhead, Morris Day & The Time, Autolux, Deniece Williams, Sea Wolf, Broken West, The Pity Party, The Parson Redheads, Division Day, Renee Dawson, Breakestra, Renaissance, Raks Majnoun, Bobby Matos, Ritmo Flamenco\n\n\"Sunday, August 19\": She Wants Revenge, Buzzcocks, Hot Hot Heat, The O'Jays, The Bronx, The Aggrolites, Millie Jackson, The Airborne Toxic Event, The Movies, Eskimohunter, Tawny Ellis, Vilma Diaz, Cheb i Sabbah, Rocky Dawuni, Mesmera, Conjunto Jardin\n\n\"Saturday, August 23\": DJ Alfred Hawkins, Haycock, USA in L.A., Radars to The Sky, DJ Al Jackson, DJ Q-Bwoy, Christopher Yettes & Patti Amelatti, Happy Hollows, DJ Eddie One, Cava, Very Be Careful, Castledoor, Vilma Diaz, Kim Hill, Raks Majnoun, Bodies of Water, Arthur Adams, The Rebirth, Ritmo Flamenco, Jonathan Rice, Michael Henderson, Notch, Jeane Carne, Antibalas Afrobeat Orchestra, Langhorne Slim, Billy Paul, Sam Moore in Tribute to Isaac Hayes, Broken Social Scene, Cold War Kids\n\n\"Sunday, August 24\": DJ Mexican Dubwiser, Azul, USA in L.A., The Henry Clay People, DJ Cid Hernandez, DJ Drez, Christopher Yettes & Patti Amelatti, Voxhaul Broadcast, Charangoa, Chana, Very Be Careful, Oliver Future, Leslie Paula & The Latin Soul Band, J Davey, Mesmera, Gram Rabbit, NK Band, Sister Nancy, Health, Jeffrey Osborne, Kinky, the Germs, Stephanie Mills, Beachwood Sparks, !!!(Chk Chk Chk), The Black Keys\n\n\"Saturday, August 22\": DJ Lady Sha, DJ Wyatt Case, Rose's Pawn Shop, Spencer The Gardener, Sonsoles, Les Nubians, Mary Wilson, DJ Kutmah, DJ Plan 9, Boogaloo Assissins, Dengue Fever, Alex Cuba, SA-RA, Sly and Robbie, Troupe Zaghareet, Ollin, Bobby Matos, DJ Michael Mosley, DJ Score, Villains, DJ Destructo, Jason Bentley, Gran Ronde, Miss Derringer, War Tapes, Warpaint, Rumspringa, Nico Vega, The Submarines, The Delta Spirit, Islands, Conor Oberst & The Mystic Valley Band\n\n\"Sunday, August 23\": DJ Josh One, DJ Nobody, Charangoa, Iliana Rose, Cody Chesnutt and Martin Luther, Chris Clark w/ Arthur Adams, DJ B+, DJ Future P, Orgone, Build An Ark, Nortec Collective: Bostich & Fussible, Arrested Development, Ritmo Flamenco, Balandugu Kan, Very Be Careful, DJ Joe Leyva, DJ Erick Neutron, Bruce Perdew, Adam-12, Love Grenades, Nico Stai, Local Natives, Fool's Gold, Night Horse, Tiny Masters Of Today, Mika Miko, The Sonics, Built To Spill\n\n\"Saturday, August 21\": White Apple Tree, Ferocious Few, Hanni El Khatib, Saint Motel, Chris Pierce, Dam Funk, Miles Davis/Bitches Brew Remix Feat. J Rocc, GhostLand Observatory, Balandugu Kan, Jimmie & Moral Groove, Rhythm Roots All Stars, Orgone, Medusa, Evelyn Champagne King, The Ohio Players, DJ Pelau, DJ Jeremy Sole, Maleco Collective, B-side Players, Big Daddy Kane Feat. Connie Price & The Keystones, Fishbone, Bad Brains, Christopher Yates Circus, Hyphy Crunk, DJ Brent Bolthouse, DJ Eric Cubee-Chee, Speaker Junkies, Party Crashers F/DJ Ruckus & Cory Enemy, Shiny Toy Guns-Hybridigital F/Wild Child, The Silver Lake Chorus, Moses Campbell, Sweaters, Andy Clockwise, Pollyn, East Conference Champions, Chief, Everest, Dawes\n\n\"Sunday, August 22\": Raheem Cohen, Aurum, Rolling Radio, Gringo Star, Girls In A Coma, Insite, Division Minuscula, Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, Spellbound, Ray Ricky Rivera, Permanent Ability, Fitz & The Tantrums, Freddie Poole w/Ellis Hall, Mayer Hawthorne & The County, The Whispers, DJ Wing Ko, DJ Carlos Nino, Palenke Soul Tribe, Bobo Meets Rhettamatu, Meshell Ndegeocello, Lee Scratch Perry, Christopher Yates Circus, The Union Sound, DJ Eric Neutron, DJ Gusto, DJ Dexterous, DJ Splyce, CC Sheffield, Caroline D'Amore, DJ Doc Martin, Gwendolyn and the Good Time Gang, The Janks, Wheel House, Leslie & The Badgers, Red Cortez, The Deadly Syndrome, The Crystal Antlers, Sam Sparro, Infinity\n\n"}
{"id": "55565432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55565432", "title": "Tetyana Terekhova", "text": "Tetyana Terekhova\n\nTetyana Andriivna Terekhova () is a Ukrainian TV, radio presenter and journalist.\n\nShe was born on January 25, 1992 in Dnipro, Ukraine. In 1994, together with her family moved to Kiev, studied in the preparatory class of British International School and received education in secondary school No. 128 (Jewish Lyceum). Since 1998, nine years she was professionally ballroom and Latin American dancer. Tatyana and her partner Dmitry Shumigay became multiple champions of Ukraine, champions of open international competitions in Spain, Germany, Slovenia and Poland. She was interested in piano, vocal and painting for over seven years. In 2007, she entered two universities simultaneously: Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv and the Institute of International Relations (major \"International Business\") and the Kyiv National Economic University (major \"Accounting and Audit\", correspondence course), where in 2013 received a master's degrees.\n\nIn 2012 she completed a master's program in the specialty \"Specialized journalism\" at the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism (USA). In 2013, she received a diploma in \"International Law\" and today she is a post-graduate student of \"International Public Law\" Department at the Institute of International Relations of Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv. In 2011, she took a specialized course in PR and marketing at the Be First (Kyiv). In 2012, she took a course in acting in the New York Film Academy (Los Angeles, Universal Pictures). In the same year, she received a certificate of passing the course \"Business in the Fashion Industry\". She speaks English fluently and knows Spanish and French.\n\nSince childhood, she dreamed of becoming an actress and singer, in 2007 (by the end of school) introduced the song \"Vypusknoy\", written in collaboration with the singer and composer Victoria Vasalatiy. The clip was shot by the filmmaker Alexander Igudin in St. Petersburg. The song became popular not only in Ukraine, but also in Russia (the clip was on the Muz-TV charts and the song was played on various radio stations, including on \"Russkoe Radio\"). In the same year, Tatyana became a radio presenter at in Ukraine.\n\nThe first time Tatyana was the author of fashion program \"Fact Fashion\". In November 2007, the radio station's management suggested Terekhova to conduct her first live broadcast. The air was successful and soon Tatyana began to work as a presenter of leading linear airs and various entertaining music programs, programs upon request \"Quadrille\" and news. In 2009, she began to work for L'Radio, where she was a presenter of an interview program with show business stars and a weekly program on stars’ life \"L Format\". Since 2010, she worked for Radio Dacha in linear airs.\n\nIn 2010, Tatyana Terekhova began to work on|Radio Era of the leading programs \"Forecasts of the Week\", \"Polylogue\", \"Lunch Break\" and other information and analytical broadcasts.\n\nSince 2009, she started working on television as a special correspondent, later – as a presenter of popular analytical economic program \"Credit of Trust\" and national events. Since 2010, she has become a presenter of morning news and evening information-analytical program \"Totals\". Moreover, Tatyana performed as a presenter of the tournament of ballroom and Latin American dances of the international level according to the version of the World Council of Dance, the international Orthodox film festival Pokrov (in 2012 - with Fyodor Bondarchuk, in 2013 - with Andrey Malakhov), a musical television marathon, different concerts and New Year's shows.\n\nIn 2011, she played the role of Snow Maiden in the New Year musical \"New Year's Night\" for and the TRC \"Era\".\n\nIn the same year, Tatyana began to cooperate with the TV channel and received a proposal to conduct broadcasts of international importance. From 2011 to 2017 she was the commentator of the Eurovision Song Contest for Ukraine working in tandem with the presenter Timur Miroshnychenko. In addition, she hosted the project \"Eurovision Diaries\". Since 2014, he has been a national commentator of the opening and closing ceremonies of the Olympic Games. There are series of live broadcasts about the Winter Olympic Games (Sochi, 2014), the Summer Olympic Games (Rio, 2016) and European Games (Baku, 2015) on the account of Tatyana. In August 2016 she became the presenter of the project \"Media Center. Rіо 2016\" on UA: First together with the sports journalist Slava Varda. From September to December 2016 – the presenter of morning information and analytic program (a joint project of the TV channel and TRK \"Era\"). She works in tandem with journalist and presenter .\n\nIn parallel with her career on radio and television, Tatyana develops herself as a documentary filmmaker. In 2013, she released English-language documentaries on presidential elections in the USA and the Los Angeles County Attorney (USA), as well as about the life of Ukrainian singer Mika Newton in the USA. In 2017, she is preparing to present a full-length film about Ukraine's independence.\n\nIn 2017, on the UA channel: First, Tatyana Terekhova has become the presenter of the Opening Ceremony, moderator of the participants’ press conferences, commentator of two semifinals and the final of the Eurovision Song Contest, which took place in Ukraine this time.\n\nIn addition, on the occasion of Independence Day, in conjunction with NewsOne TV, Tatyana has prepared a special project entitled \"Guarantors of Independence\" – a series of interviews with Ukrainian presidents Kravchuk and Yushchenko on the main events in the history of independent Ukraine.\n\nIn November 2017 became a co-host, along with Vlad Voloshyn and Anton Dovlatov, of the morning infotainment show “Good morning, Country!” on the TV Chanel “UA:First”.\n\nIn 2011, she received an award from the State Television and Radio Broadcasting Committee of Ukraine \"For assistance in developing a free and democratic national information environment\". She is recorded in the Guinness World Records in 2012, as the presenter of the longest musical telethon] of a national song in the world. The marathon lasted 6 days (110 hours) and was broadcast on the UA: First and TRC \"Era\".\n\nIn 2013, she founded the all-Ukrainian student platform Studway. Today it includes an online publication on education and student life], a weekly program \"Studway\" on Radio \"Era\", as well as an annual award for talented young people Studway Awards. The project’s goal is to help young people to live more brightly and comfortably, find motivation, plan their professional development and go on trips.\n\nMoreover, special for Studway Tatyana Terekhova conducted a series of interviews with \"Top Education Management\" with key persons of Ukrainian education system, namely, Inna Sovsun, Oleg Derevyanko, Viktor Ognevyuk, Mikhail Zgurovskiy, Ekaterina Amosova, Igor Likarchuk], Andrey Meleshevich, Valeriy Kopiyka.\n\nIn May 2017, she has become a participant] of the \"Alley of Dreams\" – an entertainment and educational project with the support of IOM, USAID, the Embassy of Canada to Ukraine on the Children's Day, which goal was to draw attention to the need for social protection of children.\n\nIn September of the same year, she has become the speaker of \"All-Ukrainian Volunteer School Lesson\"] from Ukrainian Volunteer Service with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine.\n\nIn September 2011, she became a member of the European Party of Ukraine. since 2016 – Member of the Party’s Board. In May 2014 ran for local elections to the Kyiv City Council on the lists of the EPU.\n\nHer husband is Ivan Lytvyn, the son of Ukrainian politician Vladimir Lytvyn. The couple have a daughter Polina and a son Vladimir.\n"}
{"id": "13084787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13084787", "title": "The Diary of Anne Frank (2009 miniseries)", "text": "The Diary of Anne Frank (2009 miniseries)\n\nThe Diary of Anne Frank is a BBC adaptation, in association with France 2, of \"The Diary of a Young Girl\" originally written by Anne Frank and adapted for television by Deborah Moggach.\n\nIt was shown from 5–9 January 2009 in five half-hour episodes. Representatives of the BBC have said that they \"hope [that] this drama will bring Anne [Frank] alive to viewers of all generations.\" A DVD of the series was released on 12 January 2009. It also aired on the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) Public television in the United States on 11 April 2010, as part of its Masterpiece series. The American broadcast was cut from 150 minutes to 100 and broadcast in one evening instead of over five evenings.\n\nThe series begins in June 1942, in wartime and Nazi occupied Amsterdam. Annelies Marie Frank, a teenage Jewish girl, is celebrating her 13th birthday - amongst her birthday presents, she is given a red diary. Days later, call up papers arrive for her 16-year-old sister Margot and her parents, Otto and Edith, decide to hasten their plan to go into hiding to ensure that the family does not get separated.\n\nThe next morning, 6 July 1942, the Franks head to Otto's pectin and spice company. They proceed up to a Secret Annex at the back of the building. Only the trustworthy office staff, such as Miep Gies, know of their existence and have agreed to help them survive. In the annex they must obey strict rules, remaining completely silent during working hours. Otto and Edith sleep in one room, with Margot and Anne next door in another. At the very top of the building is a disused attic for storing food. This soon becomes Anne's getaway, as she is able to gaze outside at a chestnut tree and the tower of the Westerkerk.\n\nAt first, Edith and Margot find the confinement hard to bear, while Otto and Anne sew material together to make black-out curtains. They are soon joined by their Jewish friends Mr and Mrs van Daan and their teenage son Peter. Their arrival liven things up, but also brings tension, especially since Peter brought his pet cat. She continues writing her diary.\n\nIt is now October 1942. In the secret annex, the \"achterhuis\", the toilet is blocked and her father, Otto, is forced to try and unblock by hand. Their helpers in the offices downstairs call a plumber, and the family are terrified that he will need to come up to the annex.\n\nAnne finds Mrs. van Daan increasingly hard to bear, as she orders her around and criticises her in a way that her liberal parents never do. But overall they are getting used to their time together, and the strict routine by which they must live. Otto begins to oversee their school studies so that they won't be behind after the war. During an air raid, Anne is so scared that she runs to her father for comfort.\n\nOne day Anne invites Miep and her husband Jan to dinner and to stay overnight in her room. When they agree, Anne draws up a special menu in their honour, which Mrs van Daan cooks for them. But Miep brings bad news, which she tells only the Franks, that the van Daans' apartment has been ransacked and all their property confiscated. Also another person arrives to stay at the annex, a dentist called Mr Dussel, who will sleep in Margot's bed.\n\nIt is now November 1942. The routine in the rear annex is now well established - as are the squabbles. Otto is shocked to discover that the building has had to be sold. They fear that the new owner will demand access to the annex and they will be discovered. The lease won't be exchanged for months yet, so for now the threat is over.\n\nWhen Miep arrives she tells them their helpful grocer has gone missing. Miep also gives Mr Dussel the latest letter and food parcel from his fiancé - this annoys Anne as she thinks he is putting them at greater risk. Her parents agree but do not want to intervene. That evening Anne helps to wash her mother's hair and for once they are close. Soon it is Hanukkah and everyone in the annex gathers for the ceremony around the dinner table.\n\nFood shortages are getting worse and Bep Voskuijl from the office now comes up to the annex for lunch every day. Anne asks Mr Dussel to let her use their shared bedroom for the agreed time but he isn't ready to give up the desk and they row. Otto talks to Dussel and persuades him how important writing is to Anne. Mr Dussel also begins to learn Spanish for his life post-war.\n\nIt is June 1943 and Anne is dreaming about her fourteenth birthday party. Suddenly she wakes up and remembers she is in the annex. Her family give her whatever they can, but the only present that really excites her is a bar of chocolate.\n\nAlso, the families are wearing out their clothes and don't have the money to replace them. In fact, the van Daans have little money left and argue about whether they should sell Mrs van Daan's fur coat. Otto measures Anne and Margot against the wall and finds that Anne has grown three inches in the last year. They learn on BBC radio of the capitulation of Italy (September 1943).\n\nAnne is growing into a young woman and is amazed by the changes happening to her body and emotions. Her periods have started and she is becoming aware of her feminine sexuality. She has even started to look differently at Peter. When Peter comes up to the attic she tells him that she sees him differently now and apologises for having teased him in the past. He invites her to accompany him down to the warehouse to collect the potatoes. However, one day on his potato run, Peter forgets to unlock the front doors, forcing the employees to break in. Later, in response to her feelings, Anne writes her parents a hurtful letter.\n\nIt is May 1944 and the Franks are woken up by the sound of intruders downstairs. When the noises seem to stop, Otto and Peter go downstairs to lock the front door so as not to attract the police, but they discover that the burglars are still there and flee back to the annex. The next morning Mr Kugler informs them that the burglars took a lot of valuables and that they must be more careful.\n\nThe tension and the summer heat start to get to them and they continually snap at each other. Food shortages are getting worse and the authorities have confiscated all radios. Luckily, Mr Kleiman secretly gives them a replacement. As the bombing raids get worse, Anne takes to running up and down the annex stairs to block out the sound. But they try to keep their spirits up and are thrilled when Miep finds some butter to bake a small cake for Edith's birthday.\n\nFinally, their worst nightmare comes true when the SD and Dutch plain-clothed police raid the warehouse (4 August 1944). As all of the Jews are being led away one by one end title reveal each of their fates. In the final scene, Miep finds Anne's notebooks scattered across the floor and reaches down to pick them up.\n\n\"The Diary of Anne Frank (2009 BBC Series)\" began filming in October 2007, in the UK.\n\n\nOne reviewer, Michael Fox of jweekly.com, wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "57949829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57949829", "title": "The Prohibited and Unlawful Societies and Associations Act", "text": "The Prohibited and Unlawful Societies and Associations Act\n\nThe Prohibited and Unlawful Societies and Associations Act, also known as The Dread Act, was a 1974 Dominica law that was designed to combat Rastafariansim. \n\nRastafariansm was brought to Dominica in the early 1970s by students returning from studying abroad in the United States and Trinidad. The Rasta ideology spread through the ranks of educated young men and then down into the lower classes. Government officials became alarmed by the movement's anti-Catholic stance, use of marijuana and acceptance of socialism. \n\nAccording to the law, adherents of Rastafarianism wearing their hair in dreadlocks (referred to as \"Dreads\") were subject to arrest without a warrant, were not permitted bail and could be held without charges for at least 48 hours. The law also prohibited the prosecution of any individual who killed or injured a \"Dread\" inside a place of residence. \n\nPrime Minister Patrick John and the Dominica Labour Party spearheaded the effort to pass the bill in the House of Assembly of Dominica. The bill was passed unopposed by members of the Dominica Freedom Party.\n\nAs a result of the act, Dominica residents and law enforcement were granted immunity from prosecution for assaulting or murdering Rastafarians. During the years the act was in effect, Rastafarians were arrested, beaten and killed. Some sources also report that adherents had their dreadlocks forcibly cut off during this time, while others cut their own hair and left the movement to avoid persecution. Many Rastafarians fled into the rainforest to escape the effects of the Dread Act. \n\nIn 1975, the government announced an amnesty for \"Dreads\" living in the forests. However, these groups did not trust the government and refused to accept. The government then established an eight-person task force to decide on the matter. The committee, led by Reverend A. Didier, concluded that the majority of Dominica's \"Dread\" population was made up of peaceful activists and that the Dread Act should be annulled and replaced by a new law designed to combat terrorism. However, the government rejected the committee's findings. \nEugenia Charles voiced opposition to the bill shortly after it was passed, but took no steps to repeal it during her tenure as a House representative. When Charles became prime minister in 1980, she initially decided not to repeal the act. However, after \"Dreads\" living in the woods kidnapped a prominent citizen, the government decided to revamp the strict parameters of the Dread Act. \n\nOn February 16, 1981, the House of Assembly passed the Prevention of Terrorism Temporary Provisions Act, finally acting on the recommendation of the Didier Committee. Section 18 of the new legislation repealed the Dread Act. \n"}
{"id": "40383128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40383128", "title": "Thomas Dalton-Morgan", "text": "Thomas Dalton-Morgan\n\nThomas Frederick Dalton-Morgan, (23 March 1917 – 18 September 2004) was a fighter pilot and flying ace of the Royal Air Force during the Second World War. He flew during the Battle of Britain, and is counted amongst the ranks of 'The Few'.\n\nDalton-Morgan was born in Cardiff, Wales, on 23 March 1917 and attended Taunton School.\n\nOn 21 October 1935, he accepted a short service commission with the Royal Air Force (RAF) in the rank of acting pilot officer (on probation), and trained as a pilot, being confirmed as a pilot officer on 26 August 1936. He was promoted to flying officer on 26 April 1938 and was later sent to join No. 22 Squadron RAF, flying the Vickers Vildebeest torpedo bomber. He was later seconded to war at the Air Ministry in London.\n\nIn April 1940 Dalton-Morgan applied to return to flying, and was promoted to flight lieutenant on 26 April. He was then appointed to No. 43 Squadron RAF (\"The Fighting Cocks\") as a flight commander in June 1940. With minimal fighter experience as a fighter pilot he flew Hawker Hurricanes from RAF Tangmere (part of No. 11 Group RAF).\n\nDalton-Morgan's first 'kill' came on 12 July 1940 when he shared in the downing of a Heinkel He 111 bomber.\n\nOn 13 August 1940, the \"Luftwaffe\" began Operation Eagle Attack, which the \"Oberkommando der Luftwaffe\" (\"OKL\") began a major effort to destroy RAF Fighter Command in southern England. At 06:25, Dalton-Morgan was scrambled with 43 Squadron to support 64, 87 and 601 Squadrons. The RAF formations intercepted 20 Junkers Ju 88s from I. and 18 Ju 88s from II./\"Kampfgeschwader\" 54. They were escorted by V.(Z)./\"Lehrgeschwader\" 1. The German objective was to attack RAF Odiham and RAF Farnborough. No. 43 Squadron intercepted the Germans between Guildford and Brighton. Dalton-Morgan attacked a Ju 88 from the \"stab\" \"staffel\", perhaps piloted by \"Oberleutnant\" Kurt Erdmann. He damaged the rudder and engine but was struck by return fire or became the victim of one of the escorting fighters; possibly \"Unteroffizier\" Walter Gerigk. Both the Ju 88 and Hurricane crashed and the German crew were captured by a local policeman. Dalton-Morgan had taken off without properly changing because of the rapid scramble, and he had difficulty and convincing the local constabulary he was not a member of the German crew.\n\nQuickly returning to his squadron, Dalton-Morgan was soon flying combat sorties and shot down four more enemy aircraft over the next three weeks. In early September 1940 he added three Messerschmitt Bf 109s fighters to his tally. On 6 September he again came worse off in combat with Bf 109s and he was wounded in the face and knee and was forced to crash land his Hurricane.\n\nDistinguished Flying Cross (DFC) was gazetted on 6 September 1940:\n\nOnce more returning to No. 43 Squadron on 7 September, Dalton-Morgan now took over command and relocated the squadron to Northumberland to refit with new fighters and to train replacement pilots.\n\nFollowing the end of the Battle of Britain in October 1940, Dalton-Morgan concentrated on passing on his experience to new pilots. He also worked on developing the Hurricane fighter into a night-fighter with great success. He soon accounted for six further 'kills' flying his Hurricane at night. One of his most successful periods was over the nights of the 6 and 7 May 1941 when he shot down three Luftwaffe bombers over Glasgow. He was promoted to temporary squadron leader on 1 June.\n\nOn 8 June he shot down a Junkers Ju 88 and two further 'kills' followed. On 24 July he intercepted another Ju 88 off May Island. Despite his engine starting to fail he pressed home his attack and downed the enemy bomber. His engine then completely quit and he was forced to land on the water, a highly dangerous exercise. He was later picked up by the Royal Navy.\n\nFor this attack he received a Bar to his DFC on 31 May 1941:\n\nOn 2 October 1941 he shot down another bomber, off Berwick-on-Tweed. Finally, in February 1942, Dalton-Morgan was rested with a tally of at least 14 aircraft shot down and several damaged.\n\nAfter a short period working as a fighter controller at RAF Turnhouse, near Edinburgh, he was promoted to temporary wing commander on 1 June 1942, and promoted to squadron leader (war-substantive) on 26 August. He returned to operations in late 1942 to become leader of the Ibsley Wing. Commanding eight fighter squadrons, Dalton-Morgan organised long-range offensive sorties and bomber escort duties over northern France. He damaged an Bf 109 in December 1943, and then shot down a Focke Wulf 190 fighter and damaged another during a sweep over the French port of Brest. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order on 25 May 1943:\n\nDalton-Morgan's bomber escort experience saw him attached to the 4th Fighter Group of the US 8th Air Force and flew over 70 combat sorties with the group. Promoted to wing commander (war-substantive) on 12 December 1943, he served as operations officer with the 2nd Tactical Air Force.\n\nIn the buildup to the Normandy Landings he was part of the planning team organising the roster of ground targets. Shortly before the end of the war, he learned his brother John had been killed after being shot down in a de Havilland Mosquito.\n\nAfter the war he remained in Germany with 2nd Tactical Air Force. He was promoted to the substantive rank of squadron leader on 1 September 1945 and attended the RAF staff College, becoming a senior instructor at the School of Land/Air Warfare. Promoted to wing commander on 1 July 1947, he commanded the Vickers Vampire equipped Gutersloh Wing before taking command of RAF Wunstorf. He resigned from the RAF on 4 April 1952 with the rank of wing commander.\n\nOn leaving the RAF, Dalton-Morgan joined the joint UK/Australian weapons testings facility, at Woomera, which he managed for the next 30 years before retiring in Australia.\n\nIn January 1945 he was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire and mentioned in despatches in 1946, the same year he also received the US Bronze Star Medal.\n\nHe was exposed as committing bigamy ten days after receiving promotion as group captain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63778", "title": "Uncertainty", "text": "Uncertainty\n\nUncertainty is a situation which involves imperfect or unknown information. It applies to predictions of future events, to physical measurements that are already made, or to the unknown. Uncertainty arises in partially observable and/or stochastic environments, as well as due to ignorance, indolence, or both. It arises in any number of fields, including insurance, philosophy, physics, statistics, economics, finance, psychology, sociology, engineering, metrology, meteorology, ecology and information science.\n\nAlthough the terms are used in various ways among the general public, many specialists in decision theory, statistics and other quantitative fields have defined uncertainty, risk, and their measurement as:\n\n\nOther taxonomies of uncertainties and decisions include a broader sense of uncertainty and how it should be approached from an ethics perspective:\n\nFor example, if it is unknown whether or not it will rain tomorrow, then there is a state of uncertainty. If probabilities are applied to the possible outcomes using weather forecasts or even just a calibrated probability assessment, the uncertainty has been quantified. Suppose it is quantified as a 90% chance of sunshine. If there is a major, costly, outdoor event planned for tomorrow then there is a risk since there is a 10% chance of rain, and rain would be undesirable. Furthermore, if this is a business event and $100,000 would be lost if it rains, then the risk has been quantified (a 10% chance of losing $100,000). These situations can be made even more realistic by quantifying light rain vs. heavy rain, the cost of delays vs. outright cancellation, etc.\n\nSome may represent the risk in this example as the \"expected opportunity loss\" (EOL) or the chance of the loss multiplied by the amount of the loss (10% × $100,000 = $10,000). That is useful if the organizer of the event is \"risk neutral\", which most people are not. Most would be willing to pay a premium to avoid the loss. An insurance company, for example, would compute an EOL as a minimum for any insurance coverage, then add onto that other operating costs and profit. Since many people are willing to buy insurance for many reasons, then clearly the EOL alone is not the perceived value of avoiding the risk.\n\nQuantitative uses of the terms uncertainty and risk are fairly consistent from fields such as probability theory, actuarial science, and information theory. Some also create new terms without substantially changing the definitions of uncertainty or risk. For example, surprisal is a variation on uncertainty sometimes used in information theory. But outside of the more mathematical uses of the term, usage may vary widely. In cognitive psychology, uncertainty can be real, or just a matter of perception, such as expectations, threats, etc.\n\nVagueness is a form of uncertainty where the analyst is unable to clearly differentiate between two different classes, such as 'person of average height.' and 'tall person'. This form of vagueness can be modelled by some variation on Zadeh's fuzzy logic or subjective logic. \n\nAmbiguity is a form of uncertainty where even the possible outcomes have unclear meanings and interpretations. The statement \"He returns from the bank\" is ambiguous because its interpretation depends on whether the word 'bank' is meant as \"the side of a river\" or \"a financial institution\". Ambiguity typically arises in situations where multiple analysts or observers have different interpretations of the same statements.\n\nUncertainty may be a consequence of a lack of knowledge of obtainable facts. That is, there may be uncertainty about whether a new rocket design will work, but this uncertainty can be removed with further analysis and experimentation. \n\nAt the subatomic level, uncertainty may be a fundamental and unavoidable property of the universe. In quantum mechanics, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle puts limits on how much an observer can ever know about the position and velocity of a particle. This may not just be ignorance of potentially obtainable facts but that there is no fact to be found. There is some controversy in physics as to whether such uncertainty is an irreducible property of nature or if there are \"hidden variables\" that would describe the state of a particle even more exactly than Heisenberg's uncertainty principle allows.\n\nThe most commonly used procedure for calculating measurement uncertainty is described in the \"Guide to the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement\" (GUM) published by ISO. A derived work is for example the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) Technical Note 1297, \"Guidelines for Evaluating and Expressing the Uncertainty of NIST Measurement Results\", and the Eurachem/Citac publication \"Quantifying Uncertainty in Analytical Measurement\". The uncertainty of the result of a measurement generally consists of several components. The components are regarded as random variables, and may be grouped into two categories according to the method used to estimate their numerical values:\nBy propagating the variances of the components through a function relating the components to the measurement result, the combined measurement uncertainty is given as the square root of the resulting variance. The simplest form is the standard deviation of a repeated observation.\n\nIn metereology, physics, and engineering, the uncertainty or margin of error of a measurement, when explicitly stated, is given by a range of values likely to enclose the true value. This may be denoted by error bars on a graph, or by the following notations:\nIn the last notation, parentheses are the concise notation for the ± notation. For example, applying 10 meters in a scientific or engineering application, it could be written or , by convention meaning accurate to \"within\" one tenth of a meter, or one hundredth. The precision is symmetric around the last digit. In this case it's half a tenth up and half a tenth down, so 10.5 means between 10.45 and 10.55. Thus it is \"understood\" that 10.5 means , and 10.50 means , also written and respectively. But if the accuracy is within two tenths, the uncertainty is ± one tenth, and it is \"required\" to be explicit: and or and . The numbers in parentheses \"apply\" to the numeral left of themselves, and are not part of that number, but part of a notation of uncertainty. They apply to the least significant digits. For instance, stands for , while stands for . This concise notation is used for example by IUPAC in stating the atomic mass of elements.\n\nThe middle notation is used when the error is not symmetrical about the value – for example . This can occur when using a logarithmic scale, for example.\n\nUncertainty of a measurement can be determined by repeating a measurement to arrive at an estimate of the standard deviation of the values. Then, any single value has an uncertainty equal to the standard deviation. However, if the values are averaged, then the mean measurement value has a much smaller uncertainty, equal to the standard error of the mean, which is the standard deviation divided by the square root of the number of measurements. This procedure neglects systematic errors, however.\n\nWhen the uncertainty represents the standard error of the measurement, then about 68.3% of the time, the true value of the measured quantity falls within the stated uncertainty range. For example, it is likely that for 31.7% of the atomic mass values given on the list of elements by atomic mass, the true value lies outside of the stated range. If the width of the interval is doubled, then probably only 4.6% of the true values lie outside the doubled interval, and if the width is tripled, probably only 0.3% lie outside. These values follow from the properties of the normal distribution, and they apply only if the measurement process produces normally distributed errors. In that case, the quoted standard errors are easily converted to 68.3% (\"one sigma\"), 95.4% (\"two sigma\"), or 99.7% (\"three sigma\") confidence intervals.\n\nIn this context, uncertainty depends on both the accuracy and precision of the measurement instrument. The lower the accuracy and precision of an instrument, the larger the measurement uncertainty is. Notice that precision is often determined as the standard deviation of the repeated measures of a given value, namely using the same method described above to assess measurement uncertainty. However, this method is correct only when the instrument is accurate. When it is inaccurate, the uncertainty is larger than the standard deviation of the repeated measures, and it appears evident that the uncertainty does not depend only on instrumental precision.\n\nUncertainty in science, and science in general, may be interpreted differently in the public sphere than in the scientific community. This is due in part to the diversity of the public audience, and the tendency for scientists to misunderstand lay audiences and therefore not communicate ideas clearly and effectively. One example is explained by the information deficit model. Also, in the public realm, there are often many scientific voices giving input on a single topic. For example, depending on how an issue is reported in the public sphere, discrepancies between outcomes of multiple scientific studies due to methodological differences could be interpreted by the public as a lack of consensus in a situation where a consensus does in fact exist. This interpretation may have even been intentionally promoted, as scientific uncertainty may be managed to reach certain goals. For example, global warming contrarian activists took the advice of Frank Luntz to frame global warming as an issue of scientific uncertainty, which was a precursor to the conflict frame used by journalists when reporting the issue.\n\n\"Indeterminacy can be loosely said to apply to situations in which not all the parameters of the system and their interactions are fully known, whereas ignorance refers to situations in which it is not known what is not known.\" These unknowns, indeterminacy and ignorance, that exist in science are often \"transformed\" into uncertainty when reported to the public in order to make issues more manageable, since scientific indeterminacy and ignorance are difficult concepts for scientists to convey without losing credibility. Conversely, uncertainty is often interpreted by the public as ignorance. The transformation of indeterminacy and ignorance into uncertainty may be related to the public's misinterpretation of uncertainty as ignorance.\n\nJournalists may inflate uncertainty (making the science seem more uncertain than it really is) or downplay uncertainty (making the science seem more certain than it really is). One way that journalists inflate uncertainty is by describing new research that contradicts past research without providing context for the change. Journalists may give scientists with minority views equal weight as scientists with majority views, without adequately describing or explaining the state of scientific consensus on the issue. In the same vein, journalists may give non-scientists the same amount of attention and importance as scientists.\n\nJournalists may downplay uncertainty by eliminating \"scientists' carefully chosen tentative wording, and by losing these caveats the information is skewed and presented as more certain and conclusive than it really is\". Also, stories with a single source or without any context of previous research mean that the subject at hand is presented as more definitive and certain than it is in reality. There is often a \"product over process\" approach to science journalism that aids, too, in the downplaying of uncertainty. Finally, and most notably for this investigation, when science is framed by journalists as a triumphant quest, uncertainty is erroneously framed as \"reducible and resolvable\".\n\nSome media routines and organizational factors affect the overstatement of uncertainty; other media routines and organizational factors help inflate the certainty of an issue. Because the general public (in the United States) generally trusts scientists, when science stories are covered without alarm-raising cues from special interest organizations (religious groups, environmental organizations, political factions, etc.) they are often covered in a business related sense, in an economic-development frame or a social progress frame. The nature of these frames is to downplay or eliminate uncertainty, so when economic and scientific promise are focused on early in the issue cycle, as has happened with coverage of plant biotechnology and nanotechnology in the United States, the matter in question seems more definitive and certain.\n\nSometimes, stockholders, owners, or advertising will pressure a media organization to promote the business aspects of a scientific issue, and therefore any uncertainty claims which may compromise the business interests are downplayed or eliminated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32905676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32905676", "title": "Z.C.B.J. Opera House (Verdigre, Nebraska)", "text": "Z.C.B.J. Opera House (Verdigre, Nebraska)\n\nThe Z.C.B.J. Opera House is a building in Verdigre, Nebraska, United States, that was built in 1903. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988. It serves as a meeting hall for the Czech community.\n\n"}
