{"id": "30292739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30292739", "title": "2010 Indian onion crisis", "text": "2010 Indian onion crisis\n\nThe Indian onion crisis of 2010 involved the dramatic rise in the cost of onions across markets in India. The crisis was caused by errant rainfall in the onion producing regions which led to a shortage of onion production. The crisis caused political tension in the country and was described as \"a grave concern\" by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.\n\nOnions are considered an indispensable ingredient of most Indian cooking, providing the pungent foundation for a thousand different curries and other dishes. Onion prices have been an important political issue: they were regarded as the decisive factor in the 1998 state elections in Delhi and Rajasthan, and were responsible for bringing down the central government in 1980. India is the second largest onion producer in the world, after China. \n\nForty-five percent of the onion produce in India comes from the states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. In November 2010, unseasonal and excessive rainfall in onion-producing regions such as Nashik in Maharashtra delayed the arrival of onions in markets. In December, when fresh crop usually begins to arrive, onion shipments were reduced from 2000-3000 tons a day to 700-800 tons a day in New Delhi markets, raising the price of onion from to per kg in the period of one week. The price on some online portals was significantly lower, about 30-40/kg.\n\nWary of historical precedent, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his government responded forcefully by banning onion exports, lowering import taxes and by getting in shipments of onions from neighbouring Pakistan. In late December, following government restrictions on exports, wholesale onion prices went down to per kg in metropolitan markets.\n\nAlong with errant rainfall, hoarding, official incompetence and price-ramping by traders have also been blamed for the crisis. The Times of India, in a back-of-the-envelope calculation alleged that wholesale retailers and speculative traders in New Delhi charged a markup of over 135%, taking in profits of over a day. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party blamed the crisis on policy decision on exports and imports. Responding to a call from the opposition, 20,000 people demonstrated on the streets of New Delhi to protest the price rise and corruption in the government. The protesters included women and children wearing garlands of onions to symbolize inflation in the prices of basic commodities.\n\nIn 2015 the retail prices of onions shot up again to INR 80/kg in Delhi. While in Pakistan onions were retailing for PKR 40-50/kg. So the federal government decided to import onions from Pakistan.\n\nIt was then suggested that there should be free trade in onions all year round.\n\n"}
{"id": "553698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553698", "title": "Al-Saadi Gaddafi", "text": "Al-Saadi Gaddafi\n\nAl-Saadi Muammar Gaddafi (; born 25 May 1973), is the third son of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. He is a Libyan former association football player. In 2011, he was the commander of Libya's Special Forces and was involved in the Libyan Civil War. An Interpol notice was issued against him in 2011. On 5 March 2014, he was arrested in Niger and extradited to Libya, where he faces murder charges. In August 2015, video surfaced allegedly showing Gaddafi being tortured.\n\nGaddafi is known for his involvement in Libyan football. On 6 June 2000, the BBC reported that Gaddafi had signed with Maltese champions Birkirkara F.C. and would play for them in the Champions League. The move failed to materialize.\n\nLibyan football was arranged to favor Gaddafi. One law forbade announcing the name of any football player with the exception of Gaddafi. Only numbers of other players were announced. Referees favored Gaddafi's club and security forces were used to silence protests.\n\nHe signed for Italian Serie A team Perugia in 2003, employing Diego Maradona as his technical consultant and Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson as his personal trainer. He made only one substitute appearance before failing a drug test. An article in \"la Repubblica\" said that \"Even at twice his current speed he would still be twice as slow as slow itself.\"\n\nHe was also captain of the Libya national football team, captain of his home club in Tripoli, and president of the Libyan Football Federation.\n\nGaddafi joined UEFA Champions League qualifiers Udinese Calcio in 2005–06, playing only 10 minutes in an end-of-season league match against Cagliari Calcio.\n\nHe joined U.C. Sampdoria during season 2006–07, without playing a single match.\n\nIn 2006, Al-Saadi Gaddafi and the Jamahiriya government launched a project to create a semi-autonomous city similar to Hong Kong in Libya, stretching 40 km between Tripoli and the Tunisian border. The proposed new city would become a high tech, banking, medical and educational center not requiring visas to enter. The city would have its own international airport and a major seaport. Gaddafi promised religious tolerance with both \"synagogues and churches\" and no discrimination in this new metropolis. The new city would have \"Western-style\" business laws that Saadi thought European and American companies would find welcoming and familiar.\n\nGaddafi used to take great interest in the affairs of many of Libya's other business interests like Tamoil, the oil refining and marketing company owned by the Libyan government, before the overthrow of the regime.\n\nIn July 2010, Gaddafi was ordered by an Italian court to pay €392,000 to a luxurious Ligurian hotel for an unpaid bill dating back to a month-long stay in the summer of 2007.\n\nGaddafi is married to the daughter of al-Khweildi al-Hmeidi, a Libyan military commander.\n\nIn 2009, a U.S. diplomatic cable called Gaddafi \"the black sheep\" of Muammar Gaddafi's family. It mentioned scuffles with European police, \"abuse of drugs and alcohol, excessive partying\" and \"profligate affairs with women and men\". Gaddafi's bisexuality had partly prompted the arrangement of his marriage to the commander's daughter, the cable said.\n\nOn 15 March 2011, there were unconfirmed reports that a pilot by the name of Muhammad Mokhtar Osman had flown his jet into the Gaddafi stronghold of Bab al-Azizia in Tripoli damaging it and injuring him and his brother Khamis.\n\nSpeaking to BBC Panorama, a former Jamahiriya soldier claimed that Gaddafi had personally ordered to shoot unarmed protesters in Benghazi when visiting the city's army barracks at the beginning of the uprising. Gaddafi confirmed that he had been at the barracks but denied giving orders to fire on protesters.\n\nGaddafi was reportedly the driving force behind a change in fighting tactics of the government's forces. Instead of using heavy infantry, tanks and armored cars – which could easily be distinguished from the Free Libyan Army and then destroyed by allied fighter jets – the fight against the rebels was pursued with small, fast and versatile units.\n\nThe rebels claimed that they captured him during the Battle of Tripoli, on 21 August, but later the claim turned out to be false.\n\nOn 24 August, Gaddafi contacted CNN, stating that he had the authority to negotiate on behalf of loyalist forces, and wished to discuss a ceasefire with U.S. and NATO authorities. A week later he contacted Al Arabiya, stating his father was ready to step down, and called for dialogue with the National Transitional Council.\n\nOn 5 September, Gaddafi said in an interview with CNN that an \"aggressive\" speech by his brother Saif al-Islam had led to the breakdown of talks between NTC forces and Gaddafi loyalists in Bani Walid, and said he had not seen his father in two months. Gaddafi also claimed a position of neutrality in the conflict and offered to mediate.\n\nOn 11 September, Gaddafi fled to Niger and was allowed entrance on humanitarian grounds. According to the government of Niger, they plan to detain Gaddafi while determining what to do with him. Gaddafi had also been trying to assemble a team to transport him to Barbados or Venezuela.\n\nOn 29 September, an Interpol red notice was issued for Gaddafi. Brigi Rafini, the prime minister of Niger said he would not allow Gaddafi to be extradited.\n\nOn 11 November, Niger's President Mahamadou Issoufou said his government had decided to grant Gaddafi asylum \"on humanitarian grounds\".\n\nOn 7 December, the Mexican interior secretary said that Mexican intelligence agents broke up a smuggling ring attempting to bring Gaddafi into Mexico under a false name.\n\nOn 5 March 2014, Libya announced that Gaddafi had been extradited by Niger and was in Tripoli. His lawyer, Nick Kaufman, protested the move stating \"extradition suggests that this was a legal process where Saadi Gadhafi was accorded a lawyer, a court hearing, and…it's not even clear to me that that even took place\".\n\nIn May 2015, Gaddafi appeared in a Tripoli court and was formally charged with unlawful imprisonment and murder for the 2005 killing of football player Bashir al-Riani.\n\nIn early August 2015, video surfaced that appeared to show a blindfolded Gaddafi being forced to listen to other men allegedly being tortured in the next room. Then the guards beat the man appearing to be Gaddafi on the feet as he screams, after asking him if preferred to be beaten on the feet or on his buttocks. \"It does appear to be Saadi Gaddafi,\" one of his lawyers, Melinda Taylor, told RT. \"He looks the same in sense [that] his head ... [had been] shaved which happened to him last year.\" No legal team appears to be present.\n\nInternational human rights groups and activists condemned the video, which appeared to take place at al-Hadba prison in Tripoli, and was first released by Arabic network Clear News.\n\n\"This is a shocking video that raises questions about conditions inside the prison,\" said Karim Khan, a British attorney who represents Libya's former prime minister Baghdadi Mahmudi, who is also at al-Hadba. \"The international community needs to demand a full investigation.\"\n\nAn appeals court on 3 April 2018 cleared Saadi from the charge of murdering the footballer Bashir. He was however fined 500 Libyan dinars and a suspended one-year prison term for drinking and possessing alcohol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53145552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145552", "title": "Alexander Kennedy (physician)", "text": "Alexander Kennedy (physician)\n\nDr Alexander Kennedy MD FRSE FSA (1764-1827) was a Scottish surgeon and antiquary.\n\nHe was born on 22 June 1764.\n\nHe qualified as a surgeon at Aberdeen University in 1787. He immediately received an appointment with the East India Company as an assistant surgeon, being promoted to full Surgeon in 1795. This role would have seen him serve in a supportive role to many battles in India in the late 18th and early 19th century. In 1808 he took a more sedate and stationery role as Superintending Surgeon with the Indian Medical Service in Madras, which he continued until 1812.\n\nHis career from 1812 to 1819 is unclear but in 1819 he appears as a practicing physician in Edinburgh. In the same year Aberdeen University awarded him a belated doctorate (MD) and he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Thomas Charles Hope, James Russell and Sir David Brewster. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh in 1820.\n\nHe died at home, 6 Albany Street in Edinburgh’s Second New Town on 27 March 1827. He is buried in St Cuthberts Churchyard at the junction of Princes Street and Lothian Road.\n"}
{"id": "8009370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8009370", "title": "Alexander Litvinenko", "text": "Alexander Litvinenko\n\nAlexander Valterovich Litvinenko (; 30 August 1962 or 4 December 1962 by father's account – 23 November 2006) was a British naturalised Russian defector and former officer of the Russian FSB secret service who specialised in tackling organised crime. According to US diplomats, Litvinenko coined the phrase Mafia state. In November 1998, Litvinenko and several other FSB officers publicly accused their superiors of ordering the assassination of the Russian tycoon and oligarch Boris Berezovsky. Litvinenko was arrested the following March on charges of exceeding the authority of his position. He was acquitted in November 1999 but re-arrested before the charges were again dismissed in 2000. He fled with his family to London and was granted asylum in the United Kingdom, where he worked as a journalist, writer and consultant for the British intelligence services.\n\nDuring his time in London, Litvinenko wrote two books, \"\" and \"Lubyanka Criminal Group\", wherein he accused the Russian secret services of staging the Russian apartment bombings and other terrorism acts in an effort to bring Vladimir Putin to power. He also accused Putin of ordering the murder in October 2006 of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, Litvinenko suddenly fell ill and was hospitalised in what was established as a case of poisoning by radioactive polonium-210; he died from the poisoning on 23 November. He became the first known victim of lethal polonium 210-induced acute radiation syndrome. The events leading up to this are a matter of controversy, spawning numerous theories relating to his poisoning and death. A British murder investigation pointed to Andrey Lugovoy, a former member of Russia's Federal Protective Service, as the prime suspect. The United Kingdom demanded that Lugovoy be extradited, which is against the Constitution of Russia, which directly prohibits extradition of Russian citizens. Russia denied the extradition, leading to the cooling of relations between Russia and the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter Litvinenko's death, Marina Litvinenko, aided by biologist Alexander Goldfarb, pursued a vigorous campaign through the Litvinenko Justice Foundation. In October 2011, she won the right for an inquest into her husband's death to be conducted by a coroner in London; the inquest was repeatedly set back by issues relating to examinable evidence. A public inquiry began on 27 January 2015, and concluded in January 2016 that Litvinenko's murder was an FSB operation that was probably personally approved by Vladimir Putin.\n\nAlexander Litvinenko was born in the Russian city of Voronezh in 1962. After he graduated from a Nalchik secondary school in 1980, he was drafted into the Internal Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a Private. After a year of service, he matriculated in the Kirov Higher Command School in Vladikavkaz. In 1981, Litvinenko married Nataliya, an accountant, with whom he had a son, Alexander, and a daughter, Sonia. This marriage ended in divorce in 1994 and in the same year Litvinenko married Marina, a ballroom dancer and fitness instructor, with whom he had a son, Anatoly. After graduation in 1985, Litvinenko became a platoon commander in the Dzerzhinsky Division of the Soviet Ministry of Internal Affairs. He was assigned to the 4th Company of 4th Regiment, where among his duties was the protection of valuable cargo while in transit. In 1986, he became an informant when he was recruited by the MVD's KGB counterintelligence section and in 1988, he was officially transferred to the Third Chief Directorate of the KGB, Military Counter Intelligence. Later that year, after studying for a year at the Novosibirsk Military Counter Intelligence School, he became an operational officer and served in KGB military counterintelligence until 1991.\n\nIn 1991, Litvinenko was promoted to the Central Staff of the Federal Counterintelligence Service, specialising in counter-terrorist activities and infiltration of organised crime. He was awarded the title of \"MUR veteran\" for operations conducted with the Moscow criminal investigation department, the MUR. Litvinenko also saw active military service in many of the so-called \"hot spots\" of the former USSR and Russia. During the First Chechen War, Litvinenko planted several FSB agents in Chechnya. Although he was often called a \"Russian spy\" by western press, throughout his career he was not an 'intelligence agent' and did not deal with secrets beyond information on operations against organised criminal groups.\n\nLitvinenko met Boris Berezovsky in 1994 when he took part in investigations into an assassination attempt on the oligarch. He later was responsible for the oligarch's security. Litvinenko's employment under Berezovsky and other security services created a conflict of interest, but such practice is usually tolerated by the Russian state.\n\nIn 1997, Litvinenko was promoted to the FSB Directorate of Analysis and Suppression of Criminal Groups, with the title of senior operational officer and deputy head of the Seventh Section.\n\nDuring his work in the FSB Litvinenko discovered numerous connections between top brass of Russian law enforcement agencies and Russian mafia groups, such as Solntsevo gang. He wrote a memorandum about that to Boris Yeltsin. Berezovsky arranged a meeting for him with FSB director Mikhail Barsukov and Deputy Director of Internal affairs Ovchinnikov to discuss the corruption problems; however, this had no effect. Litvinenko gradually realized that the entire system was corrupted from the top to the bottom. He explained: \"If your partner bilked you, or a creditor did not pay, or a supplier did not deliver - where did you turn to complain? ...When force became a commodity, there was always demand for it. \"Roofs\" appeared, people who sheltered and protected your business. First it was provided by the mob, then by police, and soon even our own guys realized what was what, and then the rivalry began among gangsters, cops, and the Agency for market share. As the police and the FSB became more competitive, they squeezed the gangs out of the market. However, in many cases competition gave way to cooperation, and the services became gangsters themselves.\" According to US diplomats, Litvinenko coined the phrase Mafia state.\n\nOn 25 July 1998, Berezovsky introduced Litvinenko to Vladimir Putin. He said: \"Go see Putin. Make yourself known. See what a great guy we have installed, with your help.\" That was very same day when Vladimir Putin replaced Nikolay Kovalyov as the Director of the Federal Security Service, with help from Berezovsky Litvinenko reported to Putin on corruption in the FSB, but Putin was unimpressed. Litvinenko said to his wife after the meeting: \"I could see in his eyes that he hated me.\" Litvinenko said later that he was doing an investigation of Uzbek drug barons who received protection from the FSB, and Putin tried to stall the investigation to save his reputation.\n\nOn 13 November 1998, Berezovsky wrote an open letter to Putin in Kommersant. He accused senior officers of the Directorate of Analysis and Suppression of Criminal Groups Major-General Yevgeny Khokholkov, N. Stepanov, A. Kamyshnikov, N. Yenin of ordering his assassination.\n\nFour days later, on 17 November, Litvinenko and four other officers appeared together in a press conference at the Russian news agency Interfax. All officers worked for both FSB in the Directorate of Analysis and Suppression of Criminal Groups. They repeated the allegation made by Berezovsky. The officers also said they were ordered to kill Mikhail Trepashkin who was also present at the press conference, and to kidnap a brother of the businessman Umar Dzhabrailov. In 2007, Sergey Dorenko provided The Associated Press and \"The Wall Street Journal\" with a complete copy of an interview he conducted in April 1998 for ORT, a television station, with Litvinenko and his fellow employees. The interview, of which only excerpts were shown in 1998, shows the FSB officers, who were disguised in masks or dark glasses, claim that their bosses had ordered them to kill, kidnap or frame prominent Russian politicians and business people.\n\nAfter holding the press conference, Litvinenko was dismissed from the FSB. Later, in an interview with Yelena Tregubova, Putin said that he personally ordered the dismissal of Litvinenko, stating, \"I fired Litvinenko and disbanded his unit ...because FSB officers should not stage press conferences. This is not their job. And they should not make internal scandals public.\" Litvinenko also believed that Putin was behind his arrest. He said, \"Putin had the power to decide whether to pass my file to the prosecutors or not. He always hated me. And there was a bonus for him: by throwing me to the wolves he distanced himself from Boris [Berezovsky] in the eyes of FSB's generals.\"\n\nIn October 2000, in violation of an order not to leave Moscow, Litvinenko and his family travelled to Turkey, possibly via Ukraine. While in Turkey, Litvinenko applied for asylum at the United States Embassy in Ankara, but his application was denied. With the help of Alexander Goldfarb, Litvinenko bought air tickets for the Istanbul-London-Moscow flight, and asked for political asylum at Heathrow Airport during the transit stop on 1 November 2000. Political asylum was granted on 14 May 2001, not because of his knowledge on intelligence matters, according to Litvinenko, but rather on humanitarian grounds. While in London he became a journalist for Chechenpress and an author. He also joined Berezovsky in campaigning against Putin's government. In October 2006, he became a naturalised British citizen with residence in Whitehaven.\n\nIn 2002, Litvinenko was convicted \"in absentia\" in Russia and given a three-and-a-half-year jail sentence for charges of corruption.\n\nAccording to Litvinenko's widow, Marina Litvinenko, her husband co-operated with the British MI6 and MI5, working as a consultant and helping the agencies to combat Russian organised crime in Europe. During the public inquiry started in January 2015, it was confirmed that Litvinenko was recruited by MI6 to provide \"useful information about senior Kremlin figures and their links with Russian organised crime\", primarily related to Russian mafia activities in Spain.\n\nShortly before his death Litvinenko tipped off Spanish authorities on several organised crime bosses with links to Spain. During a meeting in May 2006 he allegedly provided security officials with information on the locations, roles, and activities of several \"Russian\" mafia figures with ties to Spain, including Zahkar Kalashov, Izguilov and Tariel Oniani.\n\nLitvinenko converted to Islam in Britain to show his solidarity with exiled Chechen leaders. Visitors to Litvinenko's deathbed included Boris Berezovsky and Litvinenko's father, Walter, who flew in from Moscow. Litvinenko told his father he had converted to Islam. Mrs Litvinenko said his father commented about it: \"It doesn't matter. At least you're not a communist.\"\n\nMikhail Trepashkin said that in 2002 he had warned Litvinenko that an FSB unit was assigned to assassinate him. In spite of this, Litvinenko often travelled overseas with no security arrangements, and freely mingled with the Russian community in the United Kingdom, and often received journalists at his home.\n\nLitvinenko had published a number of allegations about the Russian government, most of which are related to conducting or sponsoring domestic and foreign terrorism.\n\nLitvinenko stated that \"all the bloodiest terrorists of the world\" were connected to FSB-KGB, including Carlos \"The Jackal\" Ramírez, Yassir Arafat, Saddam Hussein, Abdullah Öcalan, Wadie Haddad of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, George Hawi who led the Communist Party of Lebanon, Ezekias Papaioannou from Cyprus, Sean Garland from Ireland, and many others. He said that all of them were trained, funded, and provided with weapons, explosives and counterfeit documents to carry out terrorist attacks worldwide and that each act of terrorism made by these people was carried out according to the task and under the rigid control of the KGB of the USSR. Litvinenko said that \"the center of global terrorism is not in Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan or the Chechen Republic. The terrorism infection creeps away worldwide from the cabinets of the Lubyanka Square and the Kremlin\".\n\nWhen asked in an interview who he thought the originator of the 2005 bombings in London was, Litvinenko responded saying, \"You know, I have spoken about it earlier and I shall say now, that I know only one organization, which has made terrorism the main tool of solving of political problems. It is the Russian special services.\"\n\nLitvinenko also commented on a new law that \"Russia has the right to carry out preemptive strikes on militant bases abroad\" and explained that these \"preemptive strikes may involve anything except nuclear weapons.\" Litvinenko said, \"You know who they mean when they say 'terrorist bases abroad'? They mean us, Zakayev and Boris and me.\" He also said that \"It was considered in our service that poison is an easier weapon than a pistol.\" He referred to a secret laboratory in Moscow that still continues development of deadly poisons, according to him.\n\nLitvinenko accused the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General-Staff of the Russian armed forces of having organised the 1999 Armenian parliament shooting that killed the Prime Minister of Armenia, Vazgen Sargsyan, and seven members of parliament, ostensibly to derail the peace process which would have resolved the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, but he offered no evidence to support the accusation. The Russian embassy in Armenia denied any such involvement, and described Litvinenko's accusation as an attempt to harm relations between Armenia and Russia by people against the democratic reforms in Russia.\n\nLitvinenko wrote two books, \"Lubyanka Criminal Group\" and \"\" (in co-authorship with historian Yuri Felshtinsky), where he accused the Russian secret services of staging the Russian apartment bombings and other terrorism acts in an effort to bring Vladimir Putin to power.\n\nIn a 2003 interview with the Australian SBS TV network, and aired on \"Dateline\", Litvinenko claimed that two of the Chechen terrorists involved in the 2002 Moscow theatre siege—whom he named \"Abdul the Bloody\" and \"Abu Bakar\"—were working for the FSB, and that the agency manipulated the rebels into staging the attack. Litvinenko said, \"[W]hen they tried to find [Abdul the Bloody and Abu Bakar] among the dead terrorists, they weren't there. The FSB got its agents out. So the FSB agents among Chechens organized the whole thing on FSB orders, and those agents were released.\" This echoed similar claims made by Mikhail Trepashkin. The leading role of an FSB agent, \"Khanpasha Terkibaev\" (\"Abu Bakar\"), was also described by Anna Politkovskaya, Ivan Rybkin and Alexander Khinshtein. In the beginning of April 2003 Litvinenko gave \"the Terkibaev file\" to Sergei Yushenkov when he visited London, who in turn passed it to Anna Politkovskaya. A few days later Yushenkov was assassinated. Terkibaev was later killed in Chechnya. According to Ivan Rybkin, a speaker of the Russian State Duma, \"The authorities failed to keep [the FSB agent] Terkibaev out of public view, and that is why he was killed. I know how angry people were, because they knew Terkibaev had authorization from presidential administration.\"\n\nIn September 2004, Alexander Litvinenko suggested that the Russian secret services must have been aware of the plot beforehand and probably have organised the attack themselves in order to toughen laws on terrorism and expand the powers of law enforcement agencies. His conclusion was based on the fact that several Beslan hostage takers had been released from FSB custody just before the attack in Beslan. He said that they would only have been freed if they were of use to the FSB, and that even in the case that they were freed without being turned into FSB assets, they would be under a strict surveillance that would not have allowed them to carry out the Beslan attack unnoticed.\n\nElla Kesayeva, co-chair of the group Voice of Beslan, supported Litvinenko's argument in a November 2008 article in \"Novaya Gazeta\", noting the large number of hostage takers who were in government custody not long before attacking the school, and coming to the same conclusion.\n\nIn a July 2005 interview with the Polish newspaper \"Rzeczpospolita\", Litvinenko alleged that Ayman al-Zawahiri, a prominent leader of al-Qaeda, was trained for half a year by the FSB in Dagestan in 1997. Litvinenko said that after this training, al-Zawahiri \"was transferred to Afghanistan, where he had never been before and where, following the recommendation of his Lubyanka chiefs, he at once ... penetrated the milieu of Osama bin Laden and soon became his assistant in Al Qaeda.\" Konstantin Preobrazhenskiy, a former KGB officer and writer, supported this claim and said that Litvinenko \"was responsible for securing the secrecy of Al-Zawahiri's arrival in Russia; he was trained by FSB instructors in Dagestan, Northern Caucasus, in 1996–1997.\" He said: \"At that time, Litvinenko was the Head of the Subdivision for Internationally Wanted Terrorists of the First Department of the Operative-Inquiry Directorate of the FSB Anti-Terrorist Department. He was ordered to undertake the delicate mission of securing Al-Zawahiri from unintentional disclosure by the Russian police. Though Al-Zawahiri had been brought to Russia by the FSB using a false passport, it was still possible for the police to learn about his arrival and report to Moscow for verification. Such a process could disclose Al-Zawahiri as an FSB collaborator. In order to prevent this, Litvinenko visited a group of highly placed police officers to notify them in advance.\" According to Sergei Ignatchenko, an FSB spokesman, al-Zawahiri was arrested by Russian authorities in Dagestan in December 1996 and released in May 1997.\n\nTwo weeks before his poisoning, Alexander Litvinenko accused Vladimir Putin of ordering the assassination of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya and stated that a former presidential candidate, Irina Hakamada, warned Politkovskaya about threats to her life coming from the Russian president. Litvinenko advised Politkovskaya to escape from Russia immediately. Hakamada denied her involvement in passing any specific threats, and said that she warned Politkovskaya only in general terms more than a year earlier. It remains unclear if Litvinenko referred to an earlier statement made by Boris Berezovsky, who claimed that Boris Nemtsov, a former Deputy Prime Minister of Russia, received word from Hakamada that Putin threatened her and like-minded colleagues in person. According to Berezovsky, Putin stated that Hakamada and her colleagues \"will take in the head immediately, literally, not figuratively\" if they \"open the mouth\" about the Russian apartment bombings.\n\nAccording to Litvinenko, the FSB deputy chief General Anatoly Trofimov said to him, \"Don't go to Italy, there are many KGB agents among the politicians. Romano Prodi is our man there,\" meaning Romano Prodi, the Italian centre-left leader, former Prime Minister of Italy and former President of the European Commission. The conversation with Trofimov took place in 2000, after the Prodi-KGB scandal broke out in October 1999 due to information about Prodi provided by Vasili Mitrokhin.\n\nIn April 2006, a British Member of the European Parliament for London, Gerard Batten of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), demanded an inquiry into the allegations. According to the Brussels-based newspaper \"The EU Reporter\" on 3 April 2006, \"Another high-level source, a former KGB operative in London, has confirmed the story.\" On 26 April 2006, Batten repeated his call for a parliamentary inquiry, revealing that \"former senior members of the KGB are willing to testify in such an investigation, under the right conditions.\" He added, \"It is not acceptable that this situation is unresolved, given the importance of Russia's relations with the European Union.\" On 22 January 2007, the BBC and ITV News released documents and video footage from February 2006, in which Litvinenko repeated his statements about Prodi.\n\nIn his book \"Gang from Lubyanka\", Litvinenko alleged that Vladimir Putin during his time at the FSB was personally involved in protecting the drug trafficking from Afghanistan organised by Abdul Rashid Dostum. In December 2003, Russian authorities confiscated over 4,000 copies of the book. Shortly before his death, Alexander Litvinenko alleged that Vladimir Putin had cultivated a \"good relationship\" with Semion Mogilevich (head of the Russia mafia) since 1993 or 1994.\n\nIn an article written by Litvinenko in July 2006, and published online on Zakayev's Chechenpress website, he claimed that Vladimir Putin is a paedophile. Litvinenko also claimed that Anatoly Trofimov and Artyom Borovik knew of the alleged paedophilia. Litvinenko made the allegation after Putin kissed a boy on his stomach while stopping to chat with some tourists during a walk in the Kremlin grounds on 28 June 2006. The incident was recalled in a webcast organised by the BBC and Yandex, in which over 11,000 people asked Putin to explain the act, to which he responded, \"He seemed very independent and serious... I wanted to cuddle him like a kitten and it came out in this gesture. He seemed so nice. ... There is nothing behind it.\"\n\nAccording to Litvinenko, the 2005 controversy over the publication in the Danish newspaper \"Jyllands-Posten\" of editorial cartoons depicting the Islamic prophet Muhammad was orchestrated by the FSB to punish Denmark for its refusal to extradite Chechen separatists.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, Litvinenko suddenly fell ill. On 3 November, he was admitted to Barnet General Hospital in London. He was then moved to University College Hospital for intensive care. His illness was later attributed to poisoning with radionuclide polonium-210 after the Health Protection Agency found significant amounts of the rare and highly toxic element in his body.\n\nLitvinenko met with two former KGB agents early on the day he fell ill – Dmitry Kovtun and Andrei Lugovoy. Though both denied any wrongdoing, a leaked US diplomatic cable revealed that Kovtun had left polonium traces in the house and car he had used in Hamburg. The men also introduced Litvinenko to a tall, thin man of central Asian appearance called 'Vladislav Sokolenko' who Lugovoy said was a business partner. Lugovoy is also a former bodyguard of Russian ex-Acting Prime minister Yegor Gaidar (who also suffered from a mysterious illness in November 2006). Later, Litvinenko had lunch at Itsu, a sushi restaurant in Piccadilly in London, with an Italian acquaintance and nuclear waste expert, Mario Scaramella, to whom he made the allegations regarding Italy's Prime Minister Romano Prodi. Scaramella, attached to the Mitrokhin Commission investigating KGB penetration of Italian politics, claimed to have information on the assassination of Anna Politkovskaya, 48, a journalist who was killed at her Moscow apartment building in October 2006.\n\nMarina Litvinenko, his widow, accused Moscow of orchestrating the murder. Though she believes the order did not come from Putin himself, she does believe it was done at the behest of the authorities, and announced that she will refuse to provide evidence to any Russian investigation out of fear that it would be misused or misrepresented. On a court hearing in London in 2015, a Scotland Yard lawyer concluded that \"the evidence suggests that the only credible explanation is in one way or another the Russian state is involved in Litvinenko's murder\".\n\nBefore his death, Litvinenko said: \"You may succeed in silencing one man but the howl of protest from around the world, Mr. Putin, will reverberate in your ears for the rest of your life.\" On 22 November 2006, Litvinenko's medical staff at University College Hospital reported Litvinenko had suffered a \"major setback\" due to either heart failure or an overnight heart attack. He died on 23 November. The following day, Putin publicly stated: “Mr Litvinenko is, unfortunately, not Lazarus”.\n\nScotland Yard stated that inquiries into the circumstances of how Litvinenko became ill would continue.\n\nOn 24 November 2006, a posthumous statement was released, in which Litvinenko named Putin as the man behind his poisoning. Litvinenko's friend Alex Goldfarb, who was also the chairman of Boris Berezovsky's Civil Liberties Fund, claimed Litvinenko had dictated it to him three days earlier. Andrei Nekrasov said his friend Litvinenko and Litvinenko's lawyer had composed the statement in Russian on 21 November and translated it to English.\nPutin disputed the authenticity of this note while attending a Russia-EU summit in Helsinki and claimed it was being used for political purposes. Goldfarb later stated that Litvinenko, on his deathbed, had instructed him to write a note \"in good English\" in which Putin was to be accused of his poisoning. Goldfarb also stated that he read the note to Litvinenko in English and Russian and Litvinenko agreed \"with every word of it\" and signed it.\n\nHis autopsy took place on 1 December at the Royal London Hospital's institute of pathology. It was attended by three physicians, including one chosen by the family and one from the Foreign Office. Litvinenko was buried at Highgate Cemetery (West side) in north London on 7 December. The police treated his death as a murder, although the London coroner's inquest was yet to be completed. On 25 November, two days after Litvinenko's death, an article attributed to him was published by \"The Mail on Sunday\" entitled \"Why I believe Putin wanted me dead\".\n\nIn an interview with the BBC broadcast on 16 December 2006, Yuri Shvets said that Litvinenko had created a 'due diligence' report investigating the activities of an unnamed senior Kremlin official on behalf of a British company looking to invest \"dozens of millions of dollars\" in a project in Russia, and that the dossier contained damaging information about the senior Kremlin official. He said he was interviewed about his allegations by Scotland Yard detectives investigating Litvinenko's murder. British media reported that the poisoning and consequent death of Litvinenko was not widely covered in the Russian news media.\n\nOn 7 December 2006, Litvinenko was buried at Highgate Cemetery with Muslim rites, including a Muslim prayer being said by an imam invited by Akhmed Zakayev, contrary to his wife's wishes of a non-denominational service at the grave. The funeral ceremony was followed by a private memorial at which the ensemble Tonus Peregrinus sang sacred music by Russian composers Igor Stravinsky, Sergei Rachmaninov, Victor Kalinnikov, and three works by British composer Antony Pitts.\n\nOn 20 January 2007, British police announced that they had \"identified the man they believe poisoned Alexander Litvinenko. The suspected killer was captured on cameras at Heathrow as he flew into Britain to carry out the murder.\" The man in question was introduced to Litvinenko as \"Vladislav\".\n\nAs of 26 January 2007, British officials said police had solved the murder of Litvinenko. They discovered \"a 'hot' teapot at London's Millennium Hotel with an off-the-charts reading for polonium-210, the radioactive material used in the killing.\" In addition, a senior official said investigators had concluded the murder of Litvinenko was \"a 'state-sponsored' assassination orchestrated by Russian security services.\" The police want to charge former Russian spy Andrei Lugovoy, who met Litvinenko on 1 November 2006, the day officials believe the lethal dose of polonium-210 was administered.\n\nOn the same day, \"The Guardian\" reported that the British government was preparing an extradition request asking that Andrei Lugovoy be returned to the UK to stand trial for Litvinenko's murder. On 22 May 2007, the Crown Prosecution Service called for the extradition of Russian citizen Andrei Lugovoy to the UK on charges of murder. Lugovoy dismissed the claims against him as \"politically motivated\" and said he did not kill Litvinenko.\n\nA British police investigation resulted in several suspects for the murder, but in May 2007, the British Director of Public Prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, announced that his government would seek to extradite Andrei Lugovoy, the chief suspect in the case, from Russia. On 28 May 2007, the British Foreign Office officially submitted a request to the Government of Russia for the extradition of Lugovoy to face criminal charges in the UK.\n\nOn 2 October 2011, The Sunday Times published an article wherein the chief prosecutor who investigated the murder of Litvinenko, Lord Macdonald of River Glaven, publicly spoke of his suspicion that the murder was a \"state directed execution\" carried out by Russia. Until that time, British public officials had stopped short of directly accusing Russia of involvement in the poisoning. \"It had all the hallmarks of a state directed execution, committed on the streets of London by a foreign government,\" Macdonald added.\n\nIn January 2015, it was reported in the UK media that the National Security Agency had intercepted communications between Russian government agents in Moscow and those who carried out what was called a \"state execution\" in London: the recorded conversations allegedly proved that the Russian government was involved in Litvinenko's murder, and suggested that the motive was Litvinenko's revelations about Vladimir Putin's links with the criminal underworld. On 21 January 2016, the Home Office published \"The Litvinenko Inquiry: Report\" into Litvinenko's death.\n\nMany publications in Russian media suggested that the death of Alexander Litvinenko was connected to Boris Berezovsky. Former FSB chief Nikolay Kovalyov, for whom Litvinenko worked, said that the incident \"looks like the hand of Boris Berezovsky. I am sure that no kind of intelligence services participated.\" This involvement of Berezovsky was alleged by numerous Russian television shows. Kremlin supporters saw it as a conspiracy to smear the Russian government's reputation by engineering a spectacular murder of a Russian dissident abroad.\n\nAfter Litvinenko's death, traces of polonium-210 were found in an office of Berezovsky. Litvinenko had visited Berezovsky's office as well as many other places in the hours after his poisoning. The British Health Protection Agency made extensive efforts to ensure that locations Litvinenko visited and anyone who had contact with Litvinenko after his poisoning, were not at risk.\n\nRussian prosecutors were not allowed to investigate the office. Russian authorities have also been unable to question Berezovsky. The Foreign Ministry complained that Britain was obstructing its attempt to send prosecutors to London to interview more than 100 people, including Berezovsky.\n\nOn 5 July 2007, Russia officially declined to extradite Lugovoy, citing Article 61 of the Constitution of Russia that prohibits extradition of citizens. Russia has said that they could take on the case themselves if Britain provided evidence against Lugovoy but Britain has not handed over any evidence. The head of the investigating committee at the General Prosecutor's Office said Russia has not yet received any evidence from Britain on Lugovoy. \"We have not received any evidence from London of Lugovoy's guilt, and those documents we have are full of blank spaces and contradictions. However the British ambassador to Russia, Anne Pringle, claimed that London has already submitted sufficient evidence to extradite him to Britain.\n\nOn 13 October 2011, Dr. Andrew Reid, the Coroner of St. Pancras, announced that he would hold an inquest into Litvinenko's death, which would include the examination of all existing theories of the murder, including possible complicity of the Russian government. The inquest, held by Sir Robert Owen, a High Court judge acting as the coroner, originally scheduled to start on 1 May 2013, was subject to a series of pre-hearings: firstly, the coroner agreed that a group representing Russian state prosecutors could be accepted as a party to the inquest process; secondly, the British Government submitted a Public Interest Immunity (PII) certificate. Under Public Interest Immunity (PII) claims, the information at the disposal of the UK government relating to Russian state involvement, as well as how much British intelligence services could have done to prevent the death, would be excluded from the inquest.\n\nOn 12 July 2013, Sir Robert, who had previously agreed to exclude certain material from the inquest on the grounds its disclosure could be damaging to national security, announced that the British Government refused the request he had made earlier in June to replace the inquest with a public inquiry, which would have powers to consider secret evidence. After the hearing, Alex Goldfarb said: \"There's some sort of collusion behind the scenes with Her Majesty's government and the Kremlin to obstruct justice\"; Elena Tsirlina, Mrs Litvinenko's solicitor, concurred with him.\n\nOn 22 July 2014, the UK Home Secretary Theresa May, who had previously ruled out an inquiry on the grounds it might damage the country's relations with Moscow, announced a public inquiry into Litvinenko's death. The inquiry was chaired by Sir Robert Owen who was the Coroner in the inquest into Litvinenko's death; its remit stipulated that \"the inquiry will not address the question of whether the UK authorities could or should have taken steps which would have prevented the death\". The inquiry started on 27 January 2015. New evidence emerged at first hearings held at the end of January 2015. The last day of hearings was on 31 July 2015.\n\nThe inquiry report was released on 21 January 2016. The report found that Litvinenko was killed by two Russian agents, Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitry Kovtun and that there was a \"strong probability\" they were acting on behalf of the Russian FSB secret service. Paragraph 10.6 of the report stated: \"The FSB operation to kill Mr Litvinenko was probably approved by Mr Patrushev and also by President Putin.\"\n\nThe Report outlined five possible motives for the murder: a belief Litvinenko had betrayed the FSB through public disclosures about its work; a belief that he was working for British intelligence; because he was a prominent associate of leading opponents of Mr Putin and his regime, including Mr Boris Berezovsky and Akhmed Zakayev; because his claims about the FSB were \"areas of particular sensitivity to the Putin administration\", including a plot to murder dissident Boris Berezovsky; and because there was “undoubtedly a personal dimension to the antagonism\" between Litvinenko and Putin, culminating in his allegation that Putin was a paedophile.\n\nOn the release of the report, British Prime Minister David Cameron condemned Putin for presiding over \"state sponsored murder\". British Labour MP Ian Austin said: \"Putin is an unreconstructed KGB thug and gangster who murders his opponents in Russia and, as we know, on the streets of London—and nothing announced today is going to make the blindest bit of difference.\" The Kremlin dismissed the Inquiry as \"a joke\" and \"whitewash\".\n\nThe same day, British Home Secretary Theresa May announced that assets belonging to both Lugovoi and Kovtun would be immediately frozen and that the Metropolitan Police were seeking their extradition. The Russian Ambassador was also summoned by the British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond and demands were made that Russia cooperate with the investigation into Mr Litvinenko's murder with Foreign Office minister David Liddington asserting that Russia had demonstrated \"a flagrant disregard for UK law, international law and standards of conduct, and the safety of UK citizens\" However, the government's response to the inquiry's results has been described by \"The Economist\" as consisting of \"tough talk and little action\".\n\nIn May 2007, Marina Litvinenko registered a complaint against the Russian Federation in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, accusing the Russian state of violating her husband's right to life, and failing to conduct a full investigation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634823", "title": "Batak Reservoir", "text": "Batak Reservoir\n\nThe Batak Dam () is located in the Rhodope Mountains and is the third largest in Bulgaria. It attracts many tourists and fishermen, and the resort Tsigov Chark was built on its shore. The lake is situated just above the historic town of the same name.\n\nThere is a hydro-electric power plant at Batak, and it is close to Pazardzhik and Plovdiv.\n"}
{"id": "43015770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43015770", "title": "CALYM", "text": "CALYM\n\nThe CALYM Carnot Institute (The Consortium for the Acceleration of Innovation and its Transfer in the LYMphoma Field) is an academic research consortium focusing in lymphoma treatments and diagnosis spanning from new target identification to large international Phase III clinical trials and beyond. CALYM brings together 15 entities with complementary expertise in preclinical, translational and clinical lymphoma research: the Lymphoma Study Association (LYSA), the Lymphoma Academic Research Organisation (LYSARC), and 13 public preclinical research teams in lymphoma based at universities and hospitals across France. The consortium aims at accelerating innovation and its transfer in the lymphoma field, particularly in the translational phase and in the areas of therapeutic, diagnosis and imaging.\n\nThe CALYM Carnot institute is managed by Bertrand Nadel. The steering committee of CALYM consortium is led by Gilles Salles.\n\n\"Carnot Institute\" is a label of excellence awarded by the French Ministry of Research to public-parapublic research institutes with a strong track record of partnering research.\n\nCALYM is a network of 15 entities: the Lymphoma Study Association (LYSA), the Lymphoma Academic Research Organisation (LYSARC), and 13 laboratories and clinical research groups focused on lymphoma studies in France. Its headquarters are located in Lyon area, France; its steering committee is led by Gilles Salles.\n\nCALYM covers all stages of lymphoma research and development (R&D), from fundamental and preclinical research (including new biological targets) to clinical research (up to international phase III registration trials) and also carries out biological studies associated with clinical trials: diagnostics, genetics, immunomonitoring, and pharmacogenomics.\n\nCALYM is working within the following research areas:\n\nCALYM has a history of R&D partnerships, that have led to new indications and new drug registration: rituximab, alpha-interferon, etc. Currently CALYM manages more that 150 R&D projects with pharmaceutical groups, biotechnology or \"in vitro\" diagnostics companies but also with government agencies, other academic groups, hospitals, universities and foundations.\n\n"}
{"id": "33952075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33952075", "title": "CHDI Foundation", "text": "CHDI Foundation\n\nThe CHDI Foundation, Inc., is a United States-based non-profit biomedical foundation that aims to \"rapidly discover and develop drugs that delay or slow the progression of Huntington's disease\", a neurodegenerative genetic disorder that affects muscle coordination and leads to cognitive decline.\n\nCHDI's predecessor, the High Q Foundation, was established in 2002 by a group of private donors. It was officially incorporated in New Jersey on October 17, 2003. Originally, the High Q foundation aimed to identify targets for treatments, while CHDI - the 'Cure Huntington's Disease Initiative' - was a sister organization allied to the Hereditary Disease Foundation, that focused on developing drugs to hit those targets. 'CHDI', which is officially no longer an abbreviation for anything, now refers to the foundation as a whole.\n\nIn 2012 CHDI adopted a new logo, depicting a tree composed of interconnected circles. According to Simon Noble, CHDI's Director of Scientific Communication, the logo represents the groundedness of the Foundation, the hereditary nature of HD, the interconnectedness of biological pathways and the medicinal chemistry of drug development.\n\nCHDI collaborates with a large number of academic and commercial research groups worldwide. It operates through a \"virtual\" biotechnology model, funding third party research organizations as opposed to having a physical research infrastructure of its own. Rather than supplying grants, CHDI enters into research contracts with its collaborators, and exerts a managerial role in addition to providing financial support. In a 2007 \"Nature\" news feature, CHDI's then senior scientific advisor Allan Tobin stated, \"Ninety-five per cent of science works on the principle that the best thing to do is to let good scientists follow their noses ... But this is a different attitude. We think we can direct the science.\"\n\nCHDI's annual spend is unknown, but it is the largest single funder of Huntington's disease research: according to a \"Nature\" news feature, it spent $60 million in 2006. The identity of CHDI's donors is not public.\n\n"}
{"id": "14992127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14992127", "title": "Capital punishment in Latvia", "text": "Capital punishment in Latvia\n\nLatvia was the last European Union country to retain capital punishment for murder, but only for wartime murder.\n\nLatvia regained independence in 1991 after the fall of the Soviet Union. Subsequently, the death penalty in civilian cases was reserved for murder and the only method of execution, as during Soviet times, was shooting with a single bullet to the back of the head. The last executions took place in January 1996.\n\nIn October 1996, President Guntis Ulmanis claimed that he would commute any death sentence to a term of imprisonment.\n\nLatvia continued to hand down death sentences until 1998. On April 15, 1999 the death penalty in peacetime was abolished by ratifying Protocol No. 6 to the European Convention on Human Rights. In 2002, Latvia signed Protocol No. 13 to ECHR, concerning the abolition of the death penalty under all circumstances. The law on the ratification of Protocol 13 was adopted on 13 October 2011 and the protocol was ratified on 26 January 2012. Protocol 13 was entered into force on 1 May 2012.\n\nLatvia acceded to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "51885500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51885500", "title": "Catheter-associated urinary tract infection", "text": "Catheter-associated urinary tract infection\n\nCatheter-associated urinary tract Infection, or CAUTI, is a urinary tract infection associated with urinary catheter use.\n\nA number of combined practices such as improved hand hygiene, enhanced barrier protection and reduced catheter use when managing incontinence appear to reduce CAUTI. Urinary catheters should be inserted using aseptic technique and sterile equipment (including sterile gloves, drape, sponges, antiseptic and sterile solution), particularly in an acute care setting. Although catheter use should be minimized in all patients, particularly those at higher risk of CAUTI and mortality (e.g. the elderly or those with impaired immunity), a meta analysis suggests there is insufficient evidence to determine the value of different policies for replacing long term urinary catheters on patient outcomes.\nBacteria and yeast, including those naturally occurring as part of the human microbiome, can grow within biofilm that forms along the surface of urinary catheters. This leads to infection in the bladder, kidneys, and other organs connected to the urinary tract.\n\nCAUTI can lead to complications such as prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis in men, and cystitis, pyelonephritis, gram-negative bacteremia, endocarditis, vertebral osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, endophthalmitis, and meningitis in all patients. Complications associated with CAUTI cause discomfort to the patient, prolonged hospital stay, and increased cost and mortality. \n"}
{"id": "27955633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27955633", "title": "Centre for Ageing Research and Development in Ireland", "text": "Centre for Ageing Research and Development in Ireland\n\nThe Centre for Ageing Research and Development in Ireland (CARDI) is a non-profit organisation developed by leaders from the gerontology field across Ireland with support from The Atlantic Philanthropies.\n\nCARDI was founded to help promote research into ageing and to encourage cooperation across sectors and disciplines on the topic of ageing and older people in Ireland. It communicates and disseminates ageing research as well as running a research project grants programme. To date it has funded 25 grants projects across Ireland, North and South. Research published includes reports on inappropriate prescribing for older people in long term care and pensions and the recession, ageing in rural areas, the use of video technology for falls prevention.\n\nAccording to the latest data from the CSO there are just over 535,000 people aged 65 or over living in the Republic of Ireland. In Northern Ireland there are 249,000 people this age and older. Looking to the future a large increase is expected in the number of older people on both parts of the island. It is now predicted that by 2041 there will be 1.89 million people over 65 living on the island This means that ageing is becoming a major issue for all of use and especially for those who make policy and provide services for older people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22104594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22104594", "title": "Child migration", "text": "Child migration\n\nChild migration or \"children in migration or mobility\" (sometimes more generally \"children on the move\") is the movement of people ages 3–18 within or across political borders, with or without their parents or a legal guardian, to another country or region. They may travel with or without legal travel documents. They may arrive to the destination country as refugees, asylum seekers, or economic migrants.\n\nThe motivations for children to migrate are as diverse as the individuals who migrate. They include economic reasons, educational aspirations, reasons related to gender or culture, personal motivations as well as emergencies, natural disasters, persecution and humanitarian crises. Some children leave in search of better opportunities while others escape violence, exploitation, abuse or conflict. Multiple reasons often coincide. When parents migrate or separate, children may move to another place or country with one or both parents, or they might be left behind by their parents and are then indirectly affected by migration.\n\nThe right to be heard is a child rights principle as defined by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. According to Article 12 of the Convention, children have the right to express their views in all matters affecting them, and their views have to be given due weight in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. This right applies equally to children’s participation in social and political matters as well as in judicial and administrative proceedings. As a general principle, the child’s right to be heard reflects the concept of children's ‘agency’, viewing children not only as vulnerable persons in need of special protection, but also as informed decision makers, rights holders and active members of society.\n\nMany children are reluctant to share information with the authorities in the country of destination due to fears that disclosing information might not be in their interest and that telling their story might lead to being returned to their country of origin. Children might have been instructed by third persons to reveal only certain parts of their story, there might be threats and fears of reprisals involved, and the child might not trust the police and local authorities will be able to protect them. A reception system that demonstrates respect and upholds the dignity of the child can achieve to foster a sense of trust in the child towards the officials and professionals whom she or he meets with. Interpreters might influence the information gathering process in asylum procedures and criminal investigations as they affect how the child’s story is being understood and perceived. Inaccurate translation might compromise the child’s statement, leading to decisions on the basis of incorrect information. This relates not only to the content translated but also to the style and semantic choices made by the child and how the interpreters convey the message.\n\nBest interests is defined in Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that “in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration”. Assessing the best interests of a child means to evaluate and balance “all the elements necessary to make a decision in a specific situation for a specific individual child or group of children”. The right of the child to have her or his best interests taken as a primary consideration means that the child’s interests have high priority and are not just one of several considerations. The assessment is specific to the child as an individual, making it important to establish a trust-based relationship with the child and to communicate effectively in a language that the girl or boy understands. The assessments ideally involves a multi-disciplinary team of qualified professionals.\n\nRisk and resilience assessments are a central component of the best interests’ determination process because they consider the context of the countries of destination and origin and also how the risks and resiliency of the child will change on the basis of any decision taken.\n\nIn transnational cases, a comprehensive best interests’ assessment and determination process considers the following:\n\n\nIn the country of Ghana, there is a topic focused on the education comparison between migrant and non-migrant students. It is shown that the non-migrant students received more attention, and therefore, scored higher than the migrant students. More attention needs to be shown to the migrants just as much as its shown to all the other students. \nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child affords a broad protection from discrimination and the essential and equal inalienable rights afforded to all human beings. It stipulates that States Parties shall respect and ensure the rights set forth in the Convention to each child within their jurisdiction without discrimination of any kind, irrespective of the child’s or his or her parent’s or legal guardian’s race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national, ethnic or social origin, property, disability, birth or other status.\n\nThe rights afforded under the Convention apply to non-national children, regardless of their immigration status or the migration status of their parents. This includes children who are visiting, refugees, children of migrant workers and undocumented children. The right to non-discrimination entitles each child to immediate assistance and support while the situation of the child and her or his best interests are being assessed. Non-discrimination does not imply that a child is granted an automatic permit of stay, but that a decision is taken on the basis of the best interests’ determination, whether a child shall be returned or whether the country of destination assumes jurisdiction over the child.\n\nWhile assessing the child’s case and situation, state authorities have a responsibility to clarify which state has the jurisdiction over a child and, if required and appropriate, transfer or establish jurisdiction in the country of destination. When jurisdiction over a non-national child remains unclear, the child risks staying in a state of uncertainty and might benefit only from temporary services and protection measures, until the child’s status is fully regularised or the child returns to the country holding jurisdiction. Common factors that affect jurisdiction include: \n\nThe rights of the child to life, survival and development is afforded under Article 6 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. These rights are recognized by\n\nStates and are related to survival, security and health as a precondition for physical development as well as the mental, spiritual, moral, intellectual, cognitive, emotional and sociology-cultural development of the child. This is in effort to ensure the maximum survival, growth and potential of the child.\n\nThe quality of care has a direct effect on a child's development. Promoting the child’s developmental rights and needs means enabling her to grow up in her family of origin or in a family-based or family-like alternative care placement, wherever this is in the best interests of the child. The care arrangements and access to quality services for health and education are important when assessing the child’s developmental needs.\n\nThe following factors are relevant when assessing the development needs of a child (with reference to the relevant articles under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child):\n\nChildren on the move sometimes are affected by or are in conflict with the law, including with cross-border family disputes and matters of parental responsibility and contact, as asylum seekers or victims of crime and, in some cases, as children who are in conflict with the law for immigration matters or for illegal and criminal matters. Some children in conflict with the law are actually victims of crime. International and European law provide for clear standards regulating the treatment, rights and entitlement of children in contact with the judiciary, as victims, defendants or perpetrators of crime.\n\nThe UN Convention on the Rights of the Child prohibits the exploitation of children in any form and in any context (Articles 19, 32-36). Any child who is exposed to violence, exploitation or abuse can be considered a victim of crime and enjoys the correlated rights and entitlements, including access to assistance, protection and support, services for recovery and rehabilitation, access to justice, with due procedural safeguards in any related legal or administrative proceedings. Children at risk of exploitation should be identified as being at risk and referred to assistance and support in order to prevent their exploitation or any other harm.\n\nAn important safeguard for child victims of crime is the ‘non-punishment clause’. It means that child victims of criminal offences, including human trafficking, are to be protected from sanctions or prosecution for acts that they committed in relation to their situation as victims. The non-punishment clause protects children who are exploited in illegal or criminal activities and child victims of exploitation and/or trafficking who were forced to enter a country without valid travel documents.\n\nThe UN Guidelines on Justice in Matters involving Child Victims and Witnesses of Crime emphasis that “children who are victims and witnesses may suffer additional hardship if mistakenly viewed as offenders when they are in fact victims and witnesses.” The Guidelines say child victims should be protected from prosecution irrespective of any form of ‘consent’ or their active involvement in an offence and irrespective of the child’s age in relation to national laws defining the age of criminal liability. A child victim should be considered and treated as such “... regardless of their role in the offence or in the prosecution of the alleged offender or groups of offenders”.\n\nThe Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Recommended Principles and Guidelines on Human Rights and Human Trafficking and the UNICEF Guidelines on the Protection of Child Victims of Trafficking reiterate the right to non-criminalisation specifically in relation to the situation of victims of trafficking who are to be protected from criminal liability for “any criminal offence that was a direct result from being trafficked”. This provision is further strengthened by the non-punishment clause of the 2011 EU Anti-trafficking Directive and the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, and is therefore made binding upon States Parties: “Each Party shall, in accordance with the basic principles of its legal system, provide for the possibility of not imposing penalties on victims for their involvement in unlawful activities, to the extent that they have been compelled to do so.” (Article 26).\n\nWhen a non-national child is in conflict with the law and there are no indications that the child has been exploited in illegal activities or has otherwise been victimized, the same standards of juvenile justice applies to national children.\n\nChildren who are outside of their country of residence have a right to assistance by embassies and consular offices representing their country. Consular staff can play an important role in supporting and assisting children abroad, establishing supportive contacts and referral, and mobilizing help. Consular staff may contact central authorities or national contact points for technical advice in cases involving children. Under the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of the United Nations, consular functions include helping and assisting nationals of the sending state. This could involve measures to safeguard the interests of children who are nationals of the sending State within the limits imposed by the laws and regulations of the receiving State, particularly when a guardian needs to be appointed. The authorities of the country of destination must inform the competent consular office without delay when the appointment of a guardian for a child is considered. The laws and regulations of the receiving State concerning the appointment of a guardian apply and are not affected by the information sharing with the relevant consular offices.\n\nAll individuals, including parents, families with children and unaccompanied children, enjoy freedom of movement within the European area. In the European area of freedom of movement, citizens of EU Member States and the EFTA States Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland are entitled to enter and reside in other EU Member States for a period of up to three months without registration and are granted a permit to stay when they can demonstrate an income. The rights of children as unaccompanied migrants in the European area of freedom of movement are not explicitly defined and the related institutional responsibilities remain unclear. The way that national governments interpret and regulate the rules of freedom of movement for unaccompanied children under 18 years of age differs among the countries.\n\nThe UN UN Refugee Convention and its Protocol regulate the right of persons to seek international protection. Children enjoy special safeguards and have a right to have their asylum application examined individually. Child-specific grounds of persecution need to be considered irrespective of whether the child applies alone or together with a parent or caregiver. The European Union Member States have re-elaborated these standards for the EU context and have adopted a series of Directives regulating the qualification and reception conditions of asylum seekers in the EU as well as asylum procedures and matters of return.\n\nChildren on the move are routinely referred to as ‘vulnerable’ although the meaning of the term has not been defined or clarified for the child protection context. Vulnerability is often understood as a deficit and equated with weakness and a need of protection. From a child rights-based approach, vulnerability refers to the limited chances of a child to fully exercise her or his rights as afforded under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Existing definitions of vulnerability that are in use in the context of poverty reduction, health and nutrition can be useful in the child protection context.\n\nSome children migrate well-protected and cared for and some succeed to achieve the goals that motivated their journeys. When migration is safe and successful, children have opportunities to increase their well-being, to access higher-quality services and to benefit from better education. Safe migration opportunities can support children significantly in their transition into adulthood and an independent life. They will have improved life chances, including in their transition into adulthood and the labor market, with better working conditions, higher salaries and an increased potential to contribute proactively to their communities and societies, in countries of origin and destination. Children and young adults might support their families through remittances and support the development of their communities of origin.\n\nFor children who migrate to escape difficult living situations, violence or conflict, migration can constitute an opportunity to reduce risks. Others encounter more severe risks during migration or at the place of destination. Some groups of children are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse, including trafficking, because of weak social safety nets. The risks a child is exposed to are often closely intertwined and are considered cumulative. A child who is already living in a vulnerable situation, such as poverty, abuse or school-drop out, is considered even more vulnerable when additional risks come in, such as exploitative relationships or risky migration.\n\nMany child migrants are exposed to harm during the journey and at destination. Children face violence, exploitation and abuse at the hands of people they encounter in transit and at destination, including employers, transporters, smugglers and traffickers. They might experience significant levels of indifference or abuse by state officials, including police, border guards, immigration officials and staff in reception or detention facilities. Some migrants die on the journey from dehydration, malnourishment, suffocation or transportation accidents or drown at sea.\n\nUnsafe migration conditions, by their nature, create risks for children. In addition to experiencing acts of violence, children risk to come into conflict with the law if they travel without the required documents, if they engage in illegal or criminal activities to make a living, or if they are persuaded or forced by others to do so. In situations of habitual mobility or circular migration, such conditions can influence the well-being, safety and development significantly of the child.\n\nChildren on the move are at risk of different forms of exploitation. They include sexual exploitation in prostitution and pornography, traveling sex offenders through web-cams, child abuse images and illegal content on the internet. Exploitation takes place in child labour and domestic work, as au-pairs, in factories, construction, asphalt laying, restaurants and cleaning industries, agriculture and berry picking and in begging. There are also transnational cases of early and forced marriage of children. The exploitation of children could be organised by families, small groups or large-scale criminal networks. Children are exploited also in illegal and criminal activities, including in drug production and drug trafficking, pick-pocketing or burglary. Child victims of trafficking are also increasingly used by traffickers for purposes such as begging, benefit fraud, identity fraud, credit fraud and insurance fraud.\n\nChild trafficking is defined in the UN Trafficking Protocol of 2000 as the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of a child for the purpose of exploitation. While this definition applies only to transnational cases and/or cases involving organized criminal groups, child trafficking is now typically recognized well outside these parameters. The International Labour Organization expands definition to include movement and exploitation as key aspects of child trafficking.\n\nVictims of transnational trafficking might cross borders with or without legal travel documents and with or without the assistance of smugglers. Persons are often recruited into trafficking only after they have crossed an international border. In many cases, trafficking takes place within countries and there are no border crossings involved. The UN Trafficking Protocol of 2000 considers the means of trafficking and the consent of the child to any of the trafficking acts as irrelevant in the identification of a trafficking victim. Forms of exploitation that could constitute trafficking include, “at a minimum, the exploitation of the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude or the removal of organs”.\n\nChild trafficking can be prosecuted when it is possible to prove the intent to exploit the child, even when exploitation has not yet taken place. Varying interpretations sometimes make it difficult to distinguish child trafficking from other types of exploitation.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on Action Against Trafficking in Human Beings (2005) adopted the international definition, identical in wording, underlining however that victims shall be protected also in cases where trafficking takes place within countries and without the involvement of large-scale organised crime groups.\n\nThe EU Anti-Trafficking Directive (2011) broadened the notion of exploitation in the trafficking concept. It explicitly includes the purpose of exploitation in criminal activities as part of the definition of human trafficking. Article 2.3 clarifies that the “‘exploitation of criminal activities’ should be understood as the exploitation of a person to commit, inter alia, pick-pocketing, shop-lifting, drug trafficking and other similar activities which are subject to penalties and imply financial gain”. The Directive states that “the exploitation of begging, including the use of a trafficked dependent person for begging, falls within the scope of the definition of trafficking in human beings only when all the elements of forced labour or services occur”.\n\nThe United Nations Protocol Against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air defines human smuggling as the “procurement, in order to obtain, directly or indirectly, a financial or other material benefit of the illegal entry of a person into a State Party of which the person is not a national or a permanent resident”. A smuggler facilitates the border crossing of others without the required travel documents and for financial or other gain. Once a smuggler has facilitated the border crossing or ensured the migrant’s arrival at the agreed destination, the contact between the smuggler and the smuggled migrants usually ceases. The smuggling of persons across international borders can be part of the act of trafficking when it is done for the purpose of exploiting the persons in the country of destination. Although smuggling is considered a crime against the state, persons who are using the services of smugglers might be victimised by acts of violence while being smuggled or they might die due to unsafe transportation conditions.\n\nThe sale of children means any act or transaction whereby a child is transferred by any person or group of persons to another for remuneration or any other consideration. While trafficking could involve the purchase and sale of persons, the sale of children may lead to exploitation but does not necessarily have to. Children are sometimes sold in illegal adoptions, for instance. Children are also sold for sexual exploitation or labour. In these cases, there may be an overlap between trafficking and sale as two criminal acts within a single case.\n\nThe link between migration and development have been widely recognised. Migration is directly relevant to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. According to current demographic trends, the populations in richer countries will continue to age disproportionately while the younger generations are overrepresented in lower income countries, causing strain on the labour market, social security, education and nutrition.\n\nMigration can mitigate these population imbalances on both ends. It has a potential to increase the work force and strengthen the younger generations in numbers where needed. This would mean increased contributions to the social welfare systems in higher income countries of destination and a reduced strain on the social welfare systems in countries of origin with high poverty and unemployment rates. Migration and mobility policies should ideally facilitate a mutual exchange of knowledge, capacity and human resources while preventing one directional movements and brain drain. Seen from this point of view, migration holds potential benefits for poverty reduction and for fostering more equitable and sustainable global development. The linkages between migration and development have implications for policy and practice in these areas and relevant measures need to be coordinated in countries of destination and origin.\n\nFrom a human rights-based and development oriented perspective, countries of origin and destination share the responsibility for managing migration. Maximising the good developments and minimising the risks from migration could include developing the human capital of migrants and investing in migration management cooperation between countries of origin and destination in social, economic and political terms.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many Aboriginal Australian children were removed from their families and placed in institutions and foster homes, in what became known as the Stolen Generations.\n\n130,000 children were migrated to Australia under assisted child migration schemes from Great Britain alone, with a small number from Malta. Child migrants were adopted or brought up in children's homes, institutions, orphanages or foster care. A large portion of these children were used in slave labour by the churches in Australia. Many of these children experienced neglect and abuse while in institutional care.\n\nIn November 2009 Australian Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd formally apologized to \"Forgotten Australians\" and child migrants on behalf of the nation. \"Forgotten Australians\" is a term the Australian Senate has used to describe children who were brought up in orphanages, children's homes, institutions or foster care in Australia. Child migrants are a specific group of \"Forgotten Australians\".\n\nChild migration was a phenomenon associated with the migration of Bulgarian market-gardeners to Austria-Hungary in the second half of 19th and early 20th Century, due to the use of child labor (mostly boys) in market-gardening. Child labor brought master gardeners the biggest profit since children did not get paid but worked as apprentices for their keep only. Younger children helped in the gardens and learned gardening skills, while those who were already physically strong performed specialized gardening activities. Different patterns of child migration can be distinguished based on the autobiographies and personal life stories of market-gardeners: children who migrated with their market-gardening parents as a family or those of market-gardeners who were born abroad; children who migrated with one of the parents (usually the market-gardening father) or with relatives of the market-gardening father so as to “learn the craft”; children who migrated with their market-gardening parents as a family, then the parents returned to their homeland with the younger children, while the older child was left abroad to work “on a garden” and make his own living, thus supporting his family financially.\n\nThe Canadian Indian residential school system, founded in the 19th century, was intended to force the assimilation of the Aboriginal peoples in Canada into European-Canadian society. The last residential school was closed in 1996. On June 11, 2008, Prime Minister Stephen Harper apologized, on behalf of the sitting Cabinet, in front of an audience of Aboriginal delegates, and in an address that was broadcast nationally on the CBC, for the past governments' policies of assimilation.\nIn 2009, Pope Benedict XVI expressed his sorrow at \"the anguish caused by the deplorable conduct of some members of the Church\" and offered his \"sympathy and prayerful solidarity\".\n\n310 children were emigrated from Malta to Australia between 1950 and 1965 under the ‘Child Migration to Australia Scheme’ following an agreement between the Australian Catholic Immigration committee and the Emigration and Labour Minister on 9 December 1949. Most of the Maltese children sent to Australia under this scheme came either from government orphanages or Church children’s homes and all were said to have left with their parents’ consent. The Australian government had offered to welcome Maltese boys, aged between eight and 11, and girls aged between five and 10 years into Catholic institutions and promised to offer them employment supervised by the responsible Catholic authorities. One of these children became a priest and many others embarked on a career though many grew up hurt knowing that their parents had consented to their departure from home. The Maltese emigrants were included in the Australian Prime Minister's 2009 public apology to those who suffered abuse at the hands of their carers in institutions, orphanages and foster care.\n\nDuring World War II, thousands of unaccompanied minors from Jewish families in Nazi-occupied Europe were transported to relative safety in Mandatory Palestine (now Israel).\n\nThe practice of sending poor or orphaned children to the English settler colonies, to help alleviate the shortage of labour, began in England in 1618, with the rounding-up and transportation of 100 vagrant children to the Virginia Colony. Prior to the second half of the twentieth century, the Home Children programme was seen as a way to move impoverished children to a \"better life\" in Australia, Canada and elsewhere, also providing good \"white stock\" to former colonies. The children and parents were not consulted, and often siblings were separated. In total 130,000 children were sent from the United Kingdom to Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and Australia. Often children were lied to about their parents being dead and many faced abuse in their new homes. In February 2010 British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown issued an official apology for the 'shameful' child resettlement programme and announced a £6 million fund designed to compensate the families affected by the \"misguided\" programme. The Child Migrants Trust has since set up the Family Restoration Fund in order to use this money to help reunite former child migrants with their families as part of the British government's package of support to former child migrants and their families.\n\nDuring the Second World War, some 3.5 million children were evacuated from areas at risk of aerial bombing to rural locations. (see Evacuations of civilians in Britain during World War II.)\n\nAlso during World War II, nearly 10,000 unaccompanied minors from Jewish families in Nazi-occupied Europe were transported to safety in the UK.\n\nA study completed in 2012 by the University of Oxford's Centre on Migration, Policy and Society (COMPAS) led by Dr Nando Sigona has shed light on the situation of children with no right to live in the United Kingdom. The study, 'No way out, no way in: Irregular migrant children and families in the UK', estimates a population of 120,000 children without status, of whom 65,000 were born in the UK to parents with no right to live in the country.\n\nDuring the 19th century there were a number of attempts to move children from crowded east coast cities to midwestern and western rural families & orphanages. Most famous was the orphan train movement. Additionally Native American children were separated from their families & sent to boarding schools to force them into assimilating western culture.\n\nDuring the Second World War, when Finland was at war with Russia, about 70 000 Finnish children were transported by train and boat mainly to Sweden, but also to Norway and Denmark. These children are commonly referred to as war children. By the end of the war, thousands of children were adopted by their \"new\" parents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303118", "title": "Dental sealant", "text": "Dental sealant\n\nDental sealants (also termed pit and fissure sealants, or simply fissure sealants) are a dental treatment intended to prevent tooth decay. Teeth have recesses on their biting surfaces; the back teeth have fissures (grooves) and some front teeth have cingulum pits. It is these pits and fissures which are most vulnerable to tooth decay because food and bacteria stick in them and because they are hard-to-clean areas. Dental sealants are materials placed in these pits and fissures to fill them in, creating a smooth surface which is easy to clean. Dental sealants are mainly used in children who are at higher risk of tooth decay, and are usually placed as soon as the adult molar teeth come through.\n\nDental caries is an upset of the balance between loss and gain of minerals from a tooth surface. The loss of minerals from the teeth occurs from the bacteria within the mouth, fermenting foods and producing acids, whereas the tooth gains minerals from our saliva and fluoride that is present within the mouth. When this balance is skewed due to frequent intake of fermentable carbohydrates, poor oral hygiene, and lack of fluoride consumption, there is a continuous loss and little gain of minerals over a long period of time, which can ultimately cause what is known as tooth decay.\n\nDental sealants are a preventive treatment that is part of the minimal intervention dentistry approach to dental care. These sealants are a plastic material placed in the pits and fissures (the recesses on the chewing surfaces) of primary (baby) or permanent (adult) molar and premolar teeth at the back of the mouth. These molar teeth are considered the most susceptible teeth to dental caries due to the anatomy of the chewing surfaces of these teeth, which inhibits protection from saliva and fluoride and instead favours plaque accumulation. This approach facilitates prevention and early intervention, in order to prevent or stop the dental caries process before it reaches the ends stage of the disease, which is also known as the \"hole\" or cavitation of a tooth. Once the tooth is cavitated, it requires a dental restoration in order to repair the damage, which emphasizes the importance of prevention in preserving teeth for a lifetime of chewing.\n\nPreventing tooth decay from the pits and fissures of the teeth is achieved by dental sealants providing a physical barricade to protect natural tooth surfaces and grooves, inhibiting build-up of bacteria and food trapped within such fissures and grooves. Dental sealants also provide a smooth surface that is easily accessible for both our natural protective factor, saliva and the toothbrush bristles when cleaning our teeth. Multiple oral health care professionals including dentists, dental therapists, dental hygienists, oral health therapists and dental assistants (in some states in the USA) are able to apply dental sealants to teeth.\n\nPreventive treatment options for dental caries besides dental sealants, involve promoting and education on toothbrushing technique with fluoride toothpaste, use of fluoride supplements and application of topical fluorides onto tooth surfaces.\n\nThere have been many attempts made within past decades to prevent the development of caries, in particular occlusal caries as it was once generally accepted that pits and fissures of teeth would become infected with bacteria within 10 years of erupting into the mouth. G.V. Black, the creator of modern dentistry, informed that more than 40% of caries incidences in permanent teeth occurred in pits and fissures due to being able to retain food and plaque.\n\nOne of the first attempts to prevent occlusal caries occurred as early as 1905 by Willoughby D. Miller. Miller, a pioneer of dentistry, was applying silver nitrate to surfaces of teeth, chemically treating the biofilm with its antibacterial functions against both Streptococcus mutans and Actinomyces naeslundii, which are both carious pathogens. Silver nitrate, which was also being practiced by H. Klein and J.W. Knutson in the 1940s, was being used in attempt to prevent and arrest occlusal caries.\n\nIn 1921, T.P. Hyatt, a pioneer researcher, was the first person to recommend prophylactic odontotomy (preventive operation). This procedure involved creating Class 1 cavity preps of teeth that were considered at risk of developing occlusal caries, which included all pits and fissures. The widening of the pits and fissures were then filled with amalgam.\nC.F Bödecker, a dentist and researcher, also made attempts to prevent occlusal caries. Initially, in 1926 Bödecker would use a large round bur to smooth out the fissures. 1929, Bödecker attempted to prevent occlusal caries by cleaning the pit and fissures with an explorer and then sealing the pits and fissures with dental cement, such as oxyphosphate cement. Bödecker then later became an advocator for prophylactic odontotomy procedures (preventive operations).\n\nIt was in 1955, that M.G. Buonocore gave insight to the benefits of etching enamel with phosphoric acid. His studies demonstrated that resin could be bonded to enamel through acid etching, increasing adhesion whilst also creating an improved marginal integrity of resin restorative material. It was this bonding system that lead to the future successful creation of fissure sealants.\n\nIn 1966, E.I. Cueto created the first sealant material, which was methyl cyanoacrylate. However, this material was susceptible to bacterial breakdown over time, therefore was not an acceptable sealing material. Bunonocore made further advances in 1970 by developing bisphenol-a glycidyl dimethacrylate, which is a viscous resin commonly known as BIS-GMA. This material was used as the basis for many resin-based sealant/composite material developments in dentistry, as it is resistant to bacterial breakdown and forms a steady bond with etched enamel.\n\nIn 1974, glass ionomer cement fissure seals (GIC) were introduced by J.W. McLean and A.D. Wilson.\n\nModern dental sealants generally are either resin based or glass ionomer based.\n\nIt is customary to refer to the development of resin based sealants in generations:\n\n\nAs part of the wider debate over the safety of bisphenol A (BPA), concerns have been raised over the use of resin based sealants. BPA is a xenoestrogen, i.e. it mimics the relative bioactivity of estrogen, a female sex hormone. Pure BPA is rarely present in dental sealants, however they may contain BPA derivatives. There is very little research about the potential estrogen-like effects of BPA derivatives. A transient presence of BPA in saliva has been reported immediately following placement of some resin based sealants. The longest duration of salivary BPA was 3 hours after placement, so there is little risk of chronic low-dose BPA exposure. The currently available evidence suggests that there is no risk of estrogen-like side effects with resin based sealants. Several national dental organizations have published position statements regarding the safety of resin based dental materials, e.g. the American Dental Association, the Australian Dental Association, the British Dental Association, and the Canadian Dental Association.\n\nGIC materials bond both to enamel and dentine after being cleaned with polyacrylic acid conditioner. Some other advantages GICs have is that they contain fluoride and are less moisture sensitive, with suggestions being made that despite having poor retention, they may prevent occlusal caries even after the sealant has fallen out due to their ability to release fluoride.\n\nIt was shown that GIC materials were more effective in prevention of development of caries despite the higher non-successful rate compared to resin based sealants. This may be accounted for due to the fluoride-releasing property of GIC which increases salivary fluoride level that may aid in preventing dental caries.\n\nResin-based sealants are normally the preferred choice of material for denture sealants. GIC material may be used as a provisional protective material when there are concerns regarding adequate moisture control.\n\nDental sealants are accepted as an effective preventive method for cavities and as long as the sealant remains adhered to the tooth, cavities can be prevented. It is for this reason that sealant success is now measured by the length of time a sealant remains on the tooth, rather than the decay experienced in sealed and unsealed teeth. The ability of a pit and fissure sealant to prevent dental caries is highly dependent on its ability to retain on the tooth surface.\n\nIt has been demonstrated that the use of adhesive systems before applying dental sealants improves retention. Traditional retention of a sealant on tooth surface is through acid etching.\n\nThe most common reason for sealant failure is salivary contamination during sealing placement. Other factors include clinician inexperience, lack of client co-operation, and less effective sealant material used.\n\nSealants may be in conjunction with fluoride varnish as a preventive method which is shown to be significantly more successful than fluoride varnish alone.\n\nVarious factors can help contribute to the retention of fissure sealants. These include:\n\nAlthough dental sealants do wear naturally and may become damaged over time, they usually last for around five to ten years, despite the heavy pressures endured by teeth during chewing each day. Longevity of dental sealants is also dependent on the type of material used. It is not uncommon for dental sealants to be retained well into adulthood. It is believed that bacteria and food particles may eventually become entrapped under dental sealants, and can thus cause decay in the very teeth intended to be protected. Dental sealants are inspected during routine dental visits to ensure that they are retained in the fissures of the teeth. Damaged sealants can simply be repaired by adding new sealant material. One of the major causes of the loss of sealants in the first year is salivary contamination.\n\nOn the basis of limited evidence both GIC and resin materials are equally acceptable in caries prevention, however retention rates between GIC and Resin have been shown to differ. Resin has been shown to be the superior product for retention. A 2-year clinical trial comparing GIC and Resin for dental sealants demonstrated that the GIC had a total loss rate of 31.78%, in contrast to the resin which had a total loss rate of 5.96% The study did acknowledge that GIC had its therapeutic advantages other than retention, this included the benefit of fluoride release and its use on partially erupted teeth. Though GIC has poorer retention rates, the fact that they release active fluoride in the surrounding enamel is very important. They can exert a cariostatic effect and increased release of fluoride, and for these reasons GIC is more of a fluoride vehicle rather than a traditional fissure sealant. All three materials are as effective as each other if the correct techniques are used to complete the procedure.\n\nIndications for the use of dental sealants are individual patients or teeth that are at high risk of dental caries.\n\nThis includes patients with:\nContraindications for the use of dental sealants are individual patients or teeth that are at a low risk of dental caries:\n\nThis includes patients with:\n\nThe exact technique depends on the material used and a good application technique will increase retention, which means sealants can last longer on the teeth. Generally, each quadrant is treated separately by using four-handed technique with an assistant and to follow the manufacturer’s recommendations. The patient should wear safety glasses for protection from chemicals and curing light. Once the patient is prepared, the surface of the tooth must be cleaned to allow maximum contact of the etch and the dental sealant with the enamel surface. A rubber dam may be used to prevent saliva from contaminating the intended site to be sealed, although often these are not used, especially for younger children. Moisture control is more of an issue with resin based sealants than with glass ionomer sealants. The surface is cleaned and dried.\n\nResin sealants require an phosphoric acid solution (\"etch\") to create microscopic porosity into which the sealant material can flow thereby increasing retention, increasing surface area and improving the strength of the bond between the sealant and the tooth surface. Etching time varies from 15 to 60 seconds, depending on the product. After that, the tooth must be rinsed and dried thoroughly for 15 to 20 seconds. Chalky appearance on the dried tooth means the tooth has been properly etched. If the tooth does not have this chalky appearance, the etching process must be repeated. The sealant is then applied to the tooth by carefully placing the sealant material into the prepared pits and fissures by using a disposable instrument provided by the manufacturer. Overfilling on the tooth should be prevented to minimize occlusal adjustment. The material is left for 10 seconds after the placement prior to curing to allow optimum penetration of the sealant material into the pores created by the etching procedure. Finally, the sealant is hardened by a curing light, which usually takes 20 to 30 seconds. Glass ionomer does not require light curing, however it will set faster with the usage of a curing light.\n\nResin-based sealants require an absolutely dry surface until polymerization is complete, so it is essential to avoid salivary contamination of the sealant site. A rubber dam or cotton roll isolation technique can be used to isolate the sealant site from saliva which is the common reason for sealant failure. Glass ionomer sealants have the advantage of not needing a dry field to be effective. In fact, the application procedure for glass ionomers can involve pressing a saliva-moistened finger onto the occlusal surface to push the sealant material into the pits and fissures.\n\nCompared to a typical dental filling, where an injection of local anesthetic and the use of a dental drill may be involved, the application of dental sealants is significantly less invasive and generally considered quick and easy. The procedure is entirely painless, although a minor level of discomfort may be experienced by the patient. \n"}
{"id": "36837571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36837571", "title": "Drug courts in the United States", "text": "Drug courts in the United States\n\nThe first drug court in the United States took shape in Miami-Dade County, Florida, in 1989, as a response to the growing crack-cocaine problem plaguing the city. All 50 states now have working drug courts, with a total of more than 2,400 courts. About 120,000 people treated annually in drug courts, though an estimated 1.5 million eligible people are currently before the courts.\n\nThe first drug court, in Miami-Dade County, was designed by Chief Judge Gerald Wetherington, Judge Herbert Klein, then State Attorney Janet Reno, and public defender Bennett Brummer for nonviolent offenders to receive treatment. This model of court system quickly became a popular method for dealing with an ever increasing number of drug offenders. Between 1984 and 1999, the number of defendants charged with a drug offense in the federal courts increased 3% annually, from 11,854 to 29,306. By 1999 there were 472 drug courts in the nation and by 2005 that number had increased to 1262 with another 575 drug courts in the planning stages.\n\nDrug courts operate under a model that combines intensive judicial supervision, mandatory drug testing, escalating sanctions and treatment to help substance abusing offenders break the cycle of addiction and the crime that accompanies it. In 1997 the National Association of Drug Court Professionals published \"Defining Drug Courts: The Key Components\" designed to provide courts with a model which can be adapted to fit the specific needs of the community.\n\n\nSome studies, largely those produced by drug court professional associations, show that recidivism rates for drug court clients are lower than those of standard dockets. The average recidivism rate for those who complete drug court is between 4% and 29%, in contrast to 48% for those who do not participate in a drug court program. A 2003 recidivism report by the Urban Institute and Caliber Associates called \"Recidivism Rates For Drug Court Graduates: National Based Estimates\", representative of over 17,000 annual drug court graduates nationwide, found that recidivism rates for Drug Court participants one year after graduation is a mere 16.5% and only 27.5% after two years. In a nationally representative sample of more than 2,000 graduates from 95 different drug courts, the average re-arrest rate was only about 16% in the first year after leaving the program and 27% after the second year. This compares highly favorably to typical recidivism rates on conventional probation, in which roughly 46% of offenders commit a new offense and over 60% commit a probation violation. A recent study of nine courts in California found that re-arrest rates over a four-year period were 29% for drug court participants (and only 17% for drug court graduates) as compared to 41% for similar drug offenders who did not participate in drug court. Another study of four adult drug courts in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, found that drug court participants were 13% less likely to be re-arrested, 34% less likely to be re-convicted and 24% less likely to be re-incarcerated than probationers who had been carefully matched to the drug court participants using \"propensity score\" analyses.\n\nThere is mixed evidence on whether drug courts save money, or cost more per participant, than traditional dockets. Studies in the mid-2000s computed the average cost savings per participant. Results revealed average cost savings ranging from nearly $3,000 to over $12,000 per client. Depending upon the size of a given program, in some counties the aggregate cost savings exceeded $7 to $9 million per year. There are about 120,000 individuals treated annually in drug courts, which creates more than $1 billion in annual savings. Overall, it is estimated that the current adult drug court treatment program produces about $2.21 in benefit for every $1 in costs, for a net benefit to society of about $624 million. Studies have shown that 1.5 million arrestees who are probably guilty (the population most likely to participate in court monitored substance abuse treatment) are at risk of abuse or dependence. Treating that 1.5 million at-risk arrestees through drug court would cost more than $13.7 billion and return benefits of about $46 billion.\n\nOn the other hand, there are a number of studies by non-partisan research institutions which show that drug courts are cost positive. In a meta-analysis of 86 drug courts, which includes the full cost of rehabs and wrap around services and drug court externalities, the Brookings Institution concluded in 2012 that the benefits of drug court \"probably [do] not\" outweigh its costs, noting that \"on average, drug court will cost $5,000 more per participant than is yielded in benefits, and there is only an 14% chance that benefits will exceed costs\". Similarly, the UK Ministry of Justice concludes that drug courts are cost-positive by 4,633 British pounds per participant.\n\nDrug courts not only apply to adults but to juveniles as well. The need for a juvenile drug court can be indicated by the extent of a drug being associated with delinquency, the ability of the juvenile justice system to use treatment, supervision, and other services, as the accountability that the juvenile and the service providers are given by the juvenile justice system.\n\nThe National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP) is a non-profit organization founded in 1994 to reduce the negative social impact of substance abuse, crime, and recidivism. The NADCP advocates for the establishment, growth and funding of drug courts and provides for the collection and dissemination of information. In 1997 the National Drug Court Institute (NDCI) was established by the Office of National Drug Control Policy as part of NADCP. NDCI is funded through the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) within the U.S. Department of Justice, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) within the U.S. Department of Transportation. NDCI provides comprehensive drug court training series for practitioners, and disseminates important research, evaluations, and relevant commentary. NDCI stages over 130 training events each year.\n\nIn recent years, drug courts and drug court research have become the subject of significant criticism. Academic research questions both the constitutionality of drug courts and the potential denial or limitation of defendant’s rights caused by the drug court model. Others, such as former drug court Judge Morris Hoffman, have theorized that drug courts cause net widening due to the increased willingness by police to arrest offenders should they receive treatment versus jail time and an increased willingness by offenders to try drugs when facing less serious legal consequences.\n\nSimilarly, while the majority of drug court research supports the concepts of reduced recidivism rates and cost savings, the methodologies of these studies have come under fire. The opportunity costs associated with wraparound services—rehabs, transitional living facilities, etc.—which may promote reductions in recidivism rates are rarely included in cost analyses of drug courts, nor are the externalities associated with crimes committed by offenders who are free through drug court dockets, versus incarcerated under the traditional model. A preliminary study conducted by the Brookings Institution called \"A Bayesian Meta-Analysis of Drug Court Cost-Effectiveness\", which analyzed 86 existing drug court studies concluded that drug courts are probably cost positive, not cost negative. Other works, including a 2007 white paper released by Yale Law School Fellow and titled \"Drug Court Fraud\" concluded that selection bias invalidated many of the studies suggesting drug courts reduce recidivism rates. The Justice Policy Institute and Drug Policy Alliance released papers in 2011 which were harshly critical of the drug court model.\n\nSeveral recent drug court scandals made national news, including that of 17-year-old Lindsey Dills who was sentenced to 14 months in jail and 5.5 years of probation for two forged checks of $20 and $40. In another controversial case, Judge Richard Baumgartner, an ex-addict and Knox County, Tennessee's Drug Court Judge, pleaded guilty to criminal misconduct for hearing cases while using drugs, purchasing drugs from defendants in his courtroom, and having sex in his chambers with defendants. In St. Clair County, Illinois, Drug Court Judge Joseph Christ died of a drug overdose. Christ and another judge purchased their drugs from a drug court probation officer. Christ also released a defendant in his court who was another of his alleged drug dealers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57670566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57670566", "title": "Dushyant Mahendrabhai Patel", "text": "Dushyant Mahendrabhai Patel\n\nDushyant Mahendrabhai Patel (born 1958) is an Indian-American businessman served as president of the company called AM2PAT Inc. based in Raleigh, North Carolina. Under his presidency, the company sold untested syringes of heparin that were tied to the deaths of at least 5 people and the hospitalizations of hundreds.\n\nPatel is among the top ten fugitives sought by the United States Food and Drug Administration's Office of Criminal Investigations (OCI).\n"}
{"id": "12283723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12283723", "title": "Fiji School of Medicine", "text": "Fiji School of Medicine\n\nThe Fiji School of Medicine is a tertiary institution based in Suva, Fiji. Originally established in 1885 as the \"Suva Medical School\". FSM became the College of Medicine, Nursing & Health Sciences as part of Fiji National University in 2010. It is located on the main island of Viti Levu in the Fiji Islands.\n\nFSM has been educating Health Care Professionals since its establishment in 1885 as Suva Medical School.\n\nThe school now provides training in most health science disciplines including medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, physiotherapy, radiography, laboratory technology, public health, health services management, dietetics and environmental health.\n\nDean: Dr William May\n\nVice Chancellor: Professor Nigel Healey\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3939149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3939149", "title": "Gate (hydraulic engineering)", "text": "Gate (hydraulic engineering)\n\nIn hydraulic engineering, a gate is a rotating or sliding structure, supported by hinges or by a rotating horizontal or vertical axis, that can be located at an extreme of a large pipe or canal in order to control the flow of water or any fluid from one side to the other. It is usually placed at the mouth of irrigation channels to avoid water loss or at the end of drainage channels to elude water entrance.\n\n"}
{"id": "33292706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33292706", "title": "Health 3.0", "text": "Health 3.0\n\nHealth 3.0 is a health-related extension of the concept of Web 3.0 whereby the users' interface with the data and information available on the web is personalized to optimize their experience. This is based on the concept of the Semantic Web, wherein websites' data is accessible for sorting in order to tailor the presentation of information based on user preferences. Health 3.0 will use such data access to enable individuals to better retrieve and contribute to personalized health-related information within networked electronic health records, and social networking resources.\n\nHealth 3.0 has also been described as the idea of semantically organizing electronic health records to create an Open Healthcare Information Architecture. Health care could also make use of social media, and incorporate virtual tools for enhanced interactions between health care providers and consumers/patients.\n\n\nSocial networking is a popular and powerful tool for engaging patients in their health care. These virtual communities provide a real-time resource for obtaining health-related knowledge and counselling. Pew Internet and American Life Project report that greater than 90% of young adults and nearly three quarters of all Americans access the internet on a regular basis. Greater than 60% of online adults regularly access social networking resources. In addition, 80% of internet users search for health-related information. Definitive evidence of health benefit from interaction with health-related virtual communities is currently lacking as further research needs to be performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "10858517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10858517", "title": "Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990", "text": "Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990\n\nThe Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It created the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority which is in charge of human embryo research, along with monitoring and licensing fertility clinics in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Authority is composed of a chairman, a deputy chairman, and however many members are appointed by the UK Secretary of State. They are in charge of reviewing information about human embryos and subsequent development, provision of treatment services, and activities governed by the Act of 1990. The Authority also offers information and advice to people seeking treatment, and to those who have donated gametes or embryos for purposes or activities covered in the Act of 1990. Some of the subjects under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act of 1990 are prohibitions in connection with gametes, embryos, and germ cells. It also addresses licensing conditions, code of practice, and procedure of approval involving human embryos. This only concerns human embryos which have reached the two cell zygote stage, at which they are considered “fertilised” in the act. It also governs the keeping and using of human embryos, but only outside the woman’s body. The act contains amendments to UK law regarding termination of pregnancy, surrogacy and parental rights.\n\nThe Human Fertilization and Embryology Act 1990 regulates ex-vivo human embryo creation and the research involving them. This act established the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) to regulate treatment and research in the UK involving human embryos. In 2001, an extension of the Act legalized embryo research for the purposes of “increasing knowledge about the development of embryos,” “increasing knowledge about serious disease,” and “enabling any such knowledge to be applied in developing treatments for serious disease.” The HFEA grants licenses and research permission for up to three years, based on approval of five steps by the Research License Committee.\n\nHFEA policies are reviewed by specialists in the field regularly. After research and literature are reviewed, and open public meetings are held, the summarized information is presented to the Human Fertilisation Embryology Authority.\n\nDonors must meet certain criteria in order to be eligible for sperm, egg, or embryo donation. The donor can donate for research purposes or fertility treatment. Donors should find a HFEA licensed clinic, or can go through the National Gamete Donation Trust.\nThe HFEA is carrying out a detailed review to determine the best way to reduce the risk of multiple pregnancies with in vitro fertilization (IVF). For example, Nadya Suleman (or \"Octomom\") is publicly known for giving birth to octuplets after IVF treatment.\nThis policy allows for the use of techniques which alter the mitochondrial DNA of the egg or an embryo used in IVF, to prevent serious mitochondrial diseases from being inherited.\n\nThe policies reviewed by HFEA cover everything from human reproductive cloning to the creation of human-animal hybrids, and include subjects such as ethics with scientific and social significance.\n\nSperm, eggs and embryos received in the donation process are currently tested for many medical conditions, and also quarantined for six months to reduce the risk of complications to the mother and child. Other than a screening for genetic disorders, donors are tested for HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C.\n\nEmbryos must be donated by a woman between the ages of 18-35 years old, who has also undergone a medical screening and given informed consent (which can be revoked at any point up until the embryo is used).\n\n\n\"Welfare of the Child\" review (multiple pregnancy), for people seeking IVF treatment. While there is always a risk of having a multiples pregnancy after receiving IVF treatment, HFEA is reviewing policies which will reduce this dangerous possibility. No more than two eggs or embryos can be legally implanted in a woman in an IVF treatment. There is a 25% success rate of this procedure per treatment cycle.\n\nIncludes safety procedure regulations at fertility clinics; includes safe cryopreservation of eggs and embryos. Eggs and embryos are stored for ten years after the initial treatment. If the patient decides not to pursue another pregnancy, the eggs and embryos can be donated for research or to another couple for fertility treatments.\n\nIn donor-assisted conception, the donor may not receive any monetary compensation (in the UK), although they may have related expenses covered.\n\nSperm, eggs and embryos are stored in liquid nitrogen using cryopreservation (defined as the freezing of cells or whole tissues to sub-zero temperatures—the boiling point of liquid nitrogen). \nThis method preserves living organisms in a state where they can be restored to how they were before freezing.\n\nA cryoprotective compound (a liquid called cryopreservation medium), along with carefully controlled cooling and warming cycles ensure that minimal damage is done to the cells.\n\nHowever, the freezing process is still somewhat damaging. Therefore, men wishing to donate sperm or have it stored for future use must make six sperm deposits for every one child they wish to have, due to the 50% survival rate of the sperm in each deposit. The sperm is then put into straw shaped vials, and placed in a storage tank of either liquid nitrogen, or liquid nitrogen vapor. The sub-zero temperatures of the liquid generally range from -150 degrees Celsius, to -196 degrees Celsius.\n\nAccording to HFEA, the storage period for both human gametes and embryos cannot exceed ten years. HFEA requires a full informed consent from each party that has any relation to the egg, gametes, or embryo, all of which must be stored in accordance with their consents.\n\nExceptions to the informed consent of gamete storage:\n\n\nThe act states that it is legal to \"take\" gametes or accept those provided, and store them without a person's consent, if the person is considered incapable, or until they \"acquire such capacity.\"\n\nHowever, under paragraphs 9 and 10 of HFEA 1990, a person's gametes cannot be legally stored in the UK after their death.\n\nIn July 1982 the Warnock Committee Inquiry was established. It was \"to consider recent and potential developments in medicine and science related to human fertilisation and embryology; to consider what policies and safeguards should be applied, including consideration of the social, ethical, and legal implications of these developments; and to make recommendations.\"\n\nThe Warnock Report was published on July 18, 1984. The report stated that a regulator was needed due to the 'special status' of embryos.\n\nIn 1985 the Interim Licensing Authority was created. It was supposed to regulate work and research regarding human in vitro fertilisation until a permanent government legislation was passed. It remained the only authority until 1990.\n\nThe Unborn Children Protection Bill was also created in 1985. It was written by Enoch Powell and prohibited embryonic research. The Health Secretary would only have been allowed an embryo to be kept and implanted if it was for the sole purpose of assisting a named woman to bear a child. No other reason was allowed. This bill was not passed. It was reintroduced in 1986, where it again failed to pass. This was repeated again 1989.\n\nThe Surrogacy Arrangements Act 1985 was the first law that governed surrogacy arrangements. It criminalized commercial surrogacy arrangements.\n\nIn 1987 the framework for human fertilisation and embryology was created. A white paper was published in regards to the recommendations of the Warnock Report.\n\nIn 1990 the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 was passed. The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, HFEA, officially started work August 1, 1991.\n\nThe act covers several areas:\n\nWithin the act an embryo is defined as a live human embryo where fertilisation is complete, complete is defined as the appearance of a two cell zygote.\n\nThe act states that eggs, sperm, and embryo can only be stored for a finite amount of time in very specific conditions that are regulated by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority.\n\nResearch on human embryos can only be performed for specifically defined purposes that must be considered 'necessary and desirable' by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority. Research can only be performed on an embryo for a maximum of fourteen days or until the primitive streak appears. The genetic composition of any cell within the embryo cannot be altered during the embryo's formation for research.\n\nThe act defined several purposes: \n\nSection 37 of the Act amends the Abortion Act 1967. The section specifies and broadens the conditions where abortion is legal.\n\nWomen who consider abortion are referred to two doctors. Each doctor then advises her whether abortion is a suitable decision based on the conditions listed below. An abortion is granted only when the doctors reach a unanimous decision that the woman may terminate her pregnancy. An abortion that is performed without this decision or under any other circumstances is considered unlawful.\n\nAbortion may be granted under one of the following circumstances:\n\nThe registered medical practitioner that performs the abortion will continue to act in accordance with the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929.\n\nIn 1991 the statutory storage period and special expeditions sections were revisited. Regulations were extended storage periods for eggs and sperm. Licensing rules for egg and sperm storage were also clarified.\n\nA Disclosure of Information Act was created in 1992. This allowed the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority to disclose information to others with the patient's consent. for example, information could be shared with their general practitioner.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 added section 156. This prohibited the treatment of cells from aborted embryos. During the same year the Parental Orders regulations allowed parental orders to be made in surrogacy cases.\n\nIn 1996 the permitted storage period for embryos was extended.\n\nThe Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Deceased Fathers) Act 2003 amended section 28 in 2000.\n\nSperm may be taken from a deceased male to fertilize an egg if the corresponding man and woman were:\n\nIn 2001 the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Regulations were added. These regulations extended the purposes that an embryo can be created for in regards to research.\nIn addition, the Human Reproductive Cloning Act 2001 was passed. This essential made human reproductive cloning illegal by outlawing the implantation of research embryos.\n\nAs of 2004 the Disclosure of Donor Information Regulations were formed. Any sperm or egg donors registered after April 1, 2005 were required to pass on name and last address given to the offspring. During this time Parliament began reviewing the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990.\n\nLicensing of all establishments handling gametes for treatment was required as of 2007 in the Quality and Safety Regulations.\n\nIn 2006 a white paper was published regarding a revised legislation for fertility. This led to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008, HFE, being passed. This was a major review of fertility legislation, updating and amending the act of 1990. In 2009 the HFE act was passed. This is the current law in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "789862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789862", "title": "Infant respiratory distress syndrome", "text": "Infant respiratory distress syndrome\n\nInfant respiratory distress syndrome (IRDS), also called neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS), respiratory distress syndrome of newborn, or increasingly surfactant deficiency disorder (SDD), and previously called hyaline membrane disease (HMD), is a syndrome in premature infants caused by developmental insufficiency of pulmonary surfactant production and structural immaturity in the lungs. It can also be a consequence of neonatal infection. It can also result from a genetic problem with the production of surfactant associated proteins. IRDS affects about 1% of newborn infants and is the leading cause of death in preterm infants. The incidence decreases with advancing gestational age, from about 50% in babies born at 26–28 weeks, to about 25% at 30–31 weeks. The syndrome is more frequent in males, Caucasians, infants of diabetic mothers, and the second born of premature twins.\n\nIRDS is distinct from pulmonary hypoplasia, another leading cause of neonatal death that involves respiratory distress.\n\nIRDS begins shortly after birth and is manifest by fast breathing, more than 60 per minute, a fast heart rate, chest wall retractions (recession), expiratory grunting, nasal flaring and blue discoloration of the skin during breathing efforts.\n\nAs the disease progresses, the baby may develop ventilatory failure (rising carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood), and prolonged cessations of breathing (\"apnea\"). Whether treated or not, the clinical course for the acute disease lasts about 2 to 3 days. During the first day the patient worsens and requires more support. During the second day the baby may be remarkably stable on adequate support and resolution is noted during the third day, heralded by a prompt diuresis. Despite huge advances in care, IRDS remains the most common single cause of death in the first month of life in the developed world. Complications include metabolic disorders (acidosis, low blood sugar), patent ductus arteriosus, low blood pressure, chronic lung changes, and bleeding in the brain. The disease is frequently complicated by prematurity and its additional defects in other organ function.\n\nThe characteristic histopathology seen in babies who die from RDS was the source of the name \"hyaline membrane disease\". Waxy-appearing layers of hyaline membrane line the collapsed alveoli of the lung. In addition, the lungs show bleeding, over-distention of airways and damage to the lining cells.\n\nThe lungs of infants with respiratory distress syndrome are developmentally deficient in a material called surfactant, which helps prevent collapse of the terminal air-spaces (the future site of alveolar development) throughout the normal cycle of inhalation and exhalation. This deficiency of surfactant is related to an inhibition from the insulin that is produced in the newborn especially in diabetic mothers.\n\nPulmonary surfactant is a complex system of lipids, proteins and glycoproteins that are produced in specialized lung cells called Type II cells or Type II pneumocytes. The surfactant is packaged by the cell in structures called lamellar bodies, and extruded into the air-spaces. The lamellar bodies then unfold into a complex lining of the air-space. This layer reduces the surface tension of the fluid that lines the alveolar air-space. Surface tension is responsible for approximately 2/3 of the inward elastic recoil forces. In the same way that a bubble will contract to give the smallest surface area for a given volume, so the air/water interface means that the liquid surface will tend toward being as small as possible, thereby causing the air-space to contract. By reducing surface tension, surfactant prevents the air-spaces from completely collapsing on exhalation. In addition, the decreased surface tension allows re-opening of the air-space with a lower amount of force. Therefore, without adequate amounts of surfactant, the air-spaces collapse and are very difficult to expand.\n\nMicroscopically, a pulmonary surfactant deficient lung is characterized by collapsed air-spaces alternating with hyper-expanded areas, vascular congestion and, in time, hyaline membranes. Hyaline membranes are composed of fibrin, cellular debris, red blood cells, rare neutrophils and macrophages. They appear as an eosinophilic, amorphous material, lining or filling the air spaces and blocking gas exchange. As a result, blood passing through the lungs is unable to pick up oxygen and unload carbon dioxide. Blood oxygen levels fall and carbon dioxide rises, resulting in rising blood acid levels and hypoxia. Structural immaturity, as manifest by decreased number of gas-exchange units and thicker walls, also contributes to the disease process. Therapeutic oxygen and positive-pressure ventilation, while potentially life-saving, can damage the lung.\n\nThe diagnosis is made by the clinical picture and the chest xray, which demonstrates decreased lung volumes (bell-shaped chest), absence of the thymus (after about 6 hours), a small (0.5–1 mm), discrete, uniform infiltrate (sometimes described as a \"ground glass\" appearance or as of recently described as \"diffuse airspace and interstitial opacities\") that involves all lobes of the lung, and air-bronchograms (i.e. the infiltrate will outline the larger airways passages which remain air-filled). In severe cases, this becomes exaggerated until the cardiac borders become inapparent (a 'white-out' appearance).\n\nGiving the mother glucocorticoids speeds the production of surfactant. For very premature deliveries, a glucocorticoid is given without testing the fetal lung maturity. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Royal College of Medicine, and other major organizations have recommended antenatal glucocorticoid treatment for women at risk for preterm delivery prior to 34 weeks of gestation. Multiple courses of glucocorticoid administration, compared with a single course, does not seem to increase or decrease the risk of death or neurodevelopmental disorders of the child.\n\nIn pregnancies of greater than 30 weeks, the fetal lung maturity may be tested by sampling the amount of surfactant in the amniotic fluid by amniocentesis, wherein a needle is inserted through the mother's abdomen and uterus. Several tests are available that correlate with the production of surfactant. These include the lecithin-sphingomyelin ratio (\"L/S ratio\"), the presence of phosphatidylglycerol (PG), and more recently, the surfactant/albumin (S/A) ratio. For the L/S ratio, if the result is less than 2:1, the fetal lungs may be surfactant deficient. The presence of PG usually indicates fetal lung maturity. For the S/A ratio, the result is given as mg of surfactant per gm of protein. An S/A ratio <35 indicates immature lungs, between 35-55 is indeterminate, and >55 indicates mature surfactant production(correlates with an L/S ratio of 2.2 or greater).\n\nOxygen is given with a small amount of continuous positive airway pressure (\"CPAP\"), and intravenous fluids are administered to stabilize the blood sugar, blood salts, and blood pressure. If the baby's condition worsens, an endotracheal tube (breathing tube) is inserted into the trachea and intermittent breaths are given by a mechanical device. An exogenous preparation of surfactant, either synthetic or extracted from animal lungs, is given through the breathing tube into the lungs. Some of the most commonly used surfactants are Survanta or its generic form Beraksurf, derived from cow lungs, which can decrease the risk of death in hospitalized very-low-birth-weight infants by 30%. Such small premature infants may remain ventilated for months. A study shows that an aerosol of a perfluorocarbon such as perfluoromethyldecalin can reduce inflammation in swine model of IRDS. Chronic lung disease including bronchopulmonary dysplasia are common in severe RDS. The etiology of BPD is problematic and may be due to oxygen, overventilation or underventilation. The mortality rate for babies greater than 27 weeks gestation is less than 20%\n\nExtracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a potential treatment, providing oxygenation through an apparatus that imitates the gas exchange process of the lungs. However, newborns cannot be placed on ECMO if they are under 4.5 pounds (2 kg), because they have extremely small vessels for cannulation, thus hindering adequate flow because of limitations from cannula size and subsequent higher resistance to blood flow (compare with vascular resistance). Furthermore, in infants aged less than 34 weeks of gestation several physiologic systems are not well-developed, specially the cerebral vasculature and germinal matrix, resulting in high sensitivity to slight changes in pH, PaO, and intracranial pressure. Subsequently, preterm infants are at unacceptably high risk for intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) if administered ECMO at a gestational age less than 32 weeks.\n\nHenrik Verder is the inventor and pioneer of the INSURE method, a very effective approach to managing preterm neonates with respiratory distress. The method itself has been shown, through meta-analysis; to successfully decrease the use of mechanical ventilation and lower the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Since its conception in 1989 the INSURE method has been academically cited in more than 500 papers. The first randomised study about the INSURE method was published in 1994 and a second randomised study in infants less than 30 weeks gestation was published by the group in 1999. In the last 15 years Henrik has worked with lung maturity diagnostics on gastric aspirates obtained at birth. By combining this diagnostic method with INSURE, Henrik has worked to further improve the clinical outcome of RDS. The lung maturity tests used have been the microbubble test, lamellar body counts (LBC) and measurements of lecithin-sphingomyelin ratio (L/S) with chemometrics, which involved a collaboration with Agnar Höskuldsson.\n\nAcute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) has some similarities to IRDS. Transient tachypnea of the newborn presents with respiratory distress syndrome in the preterm newborn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39341780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39341780", "title": "Janice Kent", "text": "Janice Kent\n\nJanice Kent is an American actress, director and life coach. She has appeared in roles on stage and television and in films. She has appeared in over 150 television commercials.\n\n"}
{"id": "22033122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22033122", "title": "Jejunostomy", "text": "Jejunostomy\n\nJejunostomy is the surgical creation of an opening (stoma) through the skin at the front of the abdomen and the wall of the jejunum (part of the small intestine). It can be performed either endoscopically, or with formal surgery.\n\nA jejunostomy may be formed following bowel resection in cases where there is a need for bypassing the distal small bowel and/or colon due to a bowel leak or perforation. Depending on the length of jejunum resected or bypassed the patient may have resultant short bowel syndrome and require parenteral nutrition.\n\nA jejunostomy is different from a jejunal feeding tube which is an alternative to a gastrostomy feeding tube commonly used when gastric enteral feeding is contraindicated or carries significant risks. The advantage over a gastrostomy is its low risk of aspiration due to its distal placement. Disadvantages include small bowel obstruction, ischemia, and requirement for continuous feeding.\n\nThe Witzel jejunostomy is the most common method of jejunostomy creation. It is an open technique where the jejunosotomy is sited 30 cm distal to the Ligament of Treitz on the antimesenteric border, with the catheter tunneled in a seromuscular groove.\n\n"}
{"id": "9536561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9536561", "title": "John C. Taschner", "text": "John C. Taschner\n\nJohn Carroll Taschner (born 1929/1930) was a radiation biophysicist. He was a member of the technical staff in the Environment, Safety and Health Division of Los Alamos National Laboratory where he was involved in radiological transportation accident exercise planning.\n\nPrior to coming to Los Alamos, Taschner was Deputy Director of the US Navy's Radiological Controls Program Office in Washington, DC, and has held numerous key health physics management positions with the US Navy, where he retired as a GM-15, he served as a part of the team responding to the accident at Three Mile Island while a staff member with the Bureau of Radiological Health, and served as an Air Force Health Physicist, where he retired as a lieutenant colonel. Since the 1970s, Taschner has served on several radiation protection standards committees. Since 1992, Taschner has been the Vice Chairman of the American National Standards Institute's N43 Committee, which writes radiation safety standards for non-medical radiation producing equipment.\n\nAs of March 2007, Taschner resided in Albuquerque, New Mexico. On September 1, 2017, Taschner died at the age of 87. \n\nTaschner has been a member of the Health Physics Society since 1958 and was an emeritus member of the American Academy of Health Physics. Taschner earned his M.S. in radiation biophysics from the University of Kansas in 1966 and, in 1973, received his certification in Health Physics by the American Board of Health Physics. After a career in the nuclear weapons business spanning 40 years, Taschner served as a member of the federal government's elite DOE/NNSA Accident Response Group. Taschner has been elected a Fellow in the Health Physics Society to honor his scientific contributions to the profession of health physics.\n"}
{"id": "1177951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177951", "title": "Kraut juice", "text": "Kraut juice\n\nKraut juice (called Sauerkrautsaft in German, Zeamă de varză in Romanian or Rasol in Serbian and Bulgarian) is a beverage that consists of the liquid in which sauerkraut is cured. It is the juice of the vegetable itself and the pickling brine.\n\nIt is widely available in many central and eastern European countries, such as Germany and Serbia, and in the parts of the U.S. Northeast and Midwest where German immigrants settled, such as central and western Pennsylvania. \n\nIt may be taken as a dietary supplement, as it is a source of vitamin C, B vitamins, Vitamin E, Vitamin K, potassium (475 mg), calcium, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, copper, zinc, magnesium and lactic acid. \n\nKraut juice may be drunk alone or used as a component in mixed drinks.\n\n"}
{"id": "37101752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37101752", "title": "Lebanese Civil Defense", "text": "Lebanese Civil Defense\n\nThe Lebanese Civil Defense or General Directorate of the Lebanese Civil Defense is a public emergency medical service of Lebanon that carries out patient transportation, search and rescue activities and fire-fighting response.\n\nIt is funded and administered by the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (Lebanon). The directorate works in conjunction with the Lebanese Red Cross along with other pre-hospital service organizations in the country. The current Director General of the Lebanese Civil Defence is General Khattar.\n\nLebanese Defense forces related topics:\n\nCivil Defence related topics:\n\n"}
{"id": "34339275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34339275", "title": "Liechtenstein health insurance referendum, 1999", "text": "Liechtenstein health insurance referendum, 1999\n\nA referendum on health insurance was held in Liechtenstein on 31 January 1999. The proposal was rejected by 66% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "38940982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38940982", "title": "Marijuana Business Daily", "text": "Marijuana Business Daily\n\nMarijuana Business Daily (formerly knows as \"MMJ Business Daily\") is a Denver, CO-based business news outlet for professionals in the recreational and medical cannabis industry in the United States. The publication was founded in 2011 by Marijuana Business Media (FKA CannaBusiness Media), a division of Anne Holland Ventures Inc. It is edited by Chris Walsh, the CEO is Cassandra Farrington. The publication is a member of the Associated Press.\n\nIn November 2012, the publication launched The Marijuana Business Conference & Expo (MJBizCon), a national trade show for the legal marijuana industry. The Marijuana Business Conference & Expo is held annually in Las Vegas in the fall and is widely recognized as the largest professional trade show for legal Cannabis markets and ancillary products in the world. That show is complemented by MJBizConNeXT each Spring. The spring show focuses on emerging markets, methods, and technology in the Cannabis industry. The newest annual show is MJBizCon INT'L, first held in Toronto in August 2018, which focuses on international legalization and commercialization. \n\nIn March 2013, the publication held a seminar in New York City for cannabis entrepreneurs and investors . In April 2014, the publication produced the CannaBusiness Money Show in Boston, Chicago and San Francisco.\n\nIn March 2013, the publication also released the first edition of its Marijuana Business Factbook and also publishes the Marijuana Business License Directory. The Marijuana Business Factbook projected that US legalized marijuana sales, estimated at roughly $1.2 billion in 2012 would reach $1.5 billion in 2013. The most recent edition of the Factbook was published in May 2017 and predicts annual U.S. domestic Cannabis sales at $4.5 billion.\n\nIn September 2013, the publication launched CannaBusiness Magazine, now called Marijuana Business Magazine, the first print trade magazine for US marijuana professionals and is currently published ten times per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2382246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2382246", "title": "Medical Scientist Training Program", "text": "Medical Scientist Training Program\n\nThe Medical Scientist Training Programs (MSTPs) are MD-PhD training programs that streamline the education towards MD and PhD graduate degrees. MSTPs are offered by a small number of United States medical schools with financial support from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS), a branch of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The goal of these training programs is to produce physician scientists who can translate laboratory discoveries into effective treatments for patients. In 2018, there were 48 MSTP programs in the US, supporting about 900 students at all stages of the program.\n\nThe program has its origins in the non-NIH funded MD-PhD training offered at the nation's research-centric medical schools. The first dual-degree program began at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in 1956. Other prominent medical schools quickly followed this example and developed integrated MD-PhD training structures. In 1964 the NIH created Medical Scientist Training Program to begin funding this medical and research education.\n\nAdmission to MSTPs is the most competitive of all graduate medical education programs in the country, with only 170 NIH-funded positions available nationwide each year for a total of 1,936 applicants (an 8.8% acceptance rate), as of 2016. In comparison, MD-only programs had 20,176 positions for a total of 43,915 applicants (a 46% acceptance rate). At each institution, these acceptance rates are varied and are often far more competitive than the national data. Every year, the number of MSTP applicants rapidly increases, as the benefits of such well-structured combined training have become more appreciated. Applicants must have very strong MCAT scores and GPAs to be considered for positions in MSTP. Reflecting this fact, from 2017 to 2018 the average GPA and MCAT for matriculants to MSTPs were 3.84 and 515.4, respectively, and these numbers continue to rise every year. MSTP applicants will often have very strong research experience as well, in addition to the typical qualifications required from MD-only applicants.\n\nInterviews for admissions at MSTPs tend to focus on the applicant's career goals and past experiences in scientific research. These may include short research talks or presentations followed by rigorous questioning by an interviewer or interviewing committee. MSTP applicants are often required to demonstrate a deep understanding of their past research projects. Multiple interview sessions conducted by different interviewers that last for 2 days are very common. At some MSTPs, applicants may also be required (or be offered the chance) to interview with the MD-only program.\n\nMSTP matriculants receive substantial financial awards that make them financially competitive to their MD-only counterparts even with the longer training periods. These allowances cover all tuition expenses, provide travel and supply allowances, and accommodate living expenses through an annual stipend (ranging from $26,000 to $38,000). Overall grants typically range from $600,000 - $1,000,000. These monetary awards compare to approximately $250,000 of pre-tax income.\n\nSince MSTP grants are a type of National Research Service Award, students must be nationals (citizens or noncitizens) of the United States or possess a I-151 or I-551 alien registration receipt. However many MSTPs offer non-MSTP grant funded positions, allowing for non-citizens and non-legalized nationals to be accepted into the MD-PhD program at that particular school. These programs are indistinguishable between the students besides the funding source. Furthermore, many non-MSTP medical schools have MD-PhD programs that are not supported by the NIH but offer similar training opportunities and grant money.\n\nSeveral MSTPs allow for the PhD portion of the MSTP to be completed outside the home university at an allied institution. These relationships provide additional and sometimes stronger research opportunities to students in these MSTPs.\n\nAccording to a 2010 report of students from the 1970s-2010s, 95% of MSTP graduates entered a residency program after graduation. \n\nApplicants for NIH research grants that completed an MSTP program were three times more likely to be successfully funded than graduates with an MD/PhD that did not participate in an MSTP program.\n\nA number of medical schools without funded NIH MSTP grant slots maintain their own non-MSTP MD-PhD combined degree programs, sometimes offering full or partial student financial support funded by the schools themselves. Currently, 75 institutions provide a means for non-MSTP MD-PhD education in the United States. Internationally, there are 34 institutions that provide MD–PhD training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50412586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50412586", "title": "Michael Anestis", "text": "Michael Anestis\n\nMichael David \"Mike\" Anestis (born November 18, 1979) is an American clinical psychologist and associate professor of psychology at the University of Southern Mississippi. He is also the Chair of Clinical Admissions and director of the Suicide and Emotion Dysregulation Lab there.\n\nAnestis received his B.A. from Yale University in 2002 and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Florida State University in 2007 and 2011, respectively. His Ph.D. thesis was entitled \"Affective and behavioral dysregulation: An analysis of individual difference variables in the acquired capability for suicide.\"\n\nAnestis' research pertains to multiple topics in the field of clinical psychology, including suicide and emotional dysregulation in people with psychiatric disorders, as well as suicide more generally. For example, he has published studies questioning the effectiveness of equine-assisted therapy. He has also researched various issues related to suicide prevention, including the relationship between gun control laws and suicide rates. For example, in a 2015 study, he found that laws prohibiting open carrying of guns in Oklahoma and California reduced suicide rates in the year after each was passed. In 2017, he led another study showing that suicide rates declined in states with universal background check and waiting period laws compared to states without such laws. He has also co-authored research showing that military personnel who have undergone basic training have more suicide capability than those who have not, in line with his belief that impulsivity and capability are both important to the risk of completed suicide.\n\nIn January 2018, his book \"Guns and Suicide: An American Epidemic\" was published by Oxford University Press.\n\nAnestis is married to Joye Anestis, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Southern Mississippi. They have a son and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "15151281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15151281", "title": "Most probable number", "text": "Most probable number\n\nThe most probable number method, otherwise known as the method of Poisson zeroes, is a method of getting quantitative data on concentrations of discrete items from positive/negative (incidence) data.\n\nThere are many discrete entities that are easily detected but difficult to count. Any sort of amplification reaction or catalysis reaction obliterates easy quantification but allows presence to be detected very sensitively. Common examples include microorganism growth, enzyme action, or catalytic chemistry. The MPN method involves taking the original solution or sample, and subdividing it by orders of magnitude (frequently 10× or 2×), and assessing presence/absence in multiple subdivisions. \n\nThe degree of dilution at which absence begins to appear indicates that the items have been diluted so much that there are many subsamples in which none appear. A suite of replicates at any given concentration allow finer resolution, to use the number of positive and negative samples to estimate the original concentration within the appropriate order of magnitude.\n\nIn microbiology, the cultures are incubated and assessed by eye, bypassing tedious colony counting or expensive and tedious microscopic counts. Presumptive, Confirmative and Completed tests are a part of MPN\n\nIn molecular biology, a common application involves DNA templates diluted into polymerase chain reactions (PCR). Reactions only proceed when a template is present, allowing for a form of quantitative PCR, to assess the original concentration of template molecules. Another application involves diluting enzyme stocks into solution containing a chromogenic substrate, or diluting antigens into solutions for ELISA (Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay) or some other antibody cascade detection reaction, to measure the original concentration of the enzyme or antigen.\n\nThe major weakness of MPN methods is the need for large numbers of replicates at the appropriate dilution to narrow the confidence intervals. However, it is a very important method for counts when the appropriate order of magnitude is unknown \"a priori\" and sampling is necessarily destructive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44716986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716986", "title": "Mummification in the Philippines", "text": "Mummification in the Philippines\n\nMummification was practiced in the Philippines until the arrival of the Spanish. The caves containing the mummies were untouched until the 19th century.\n\nThe heat and humidity of the islands made mummification difficult to perform in much of the Philippines. However, widespread practice of the mummification existed in Benguet and in the higher and cooler altitudes of the Cordilleras.\n\nStudying the mummies reveals information about the rituals, beliefs, and social structure of the tribes that practiced mummification. For instance, mummification was intended for leaders and individuals that are from the higher social ranks of the tribe.\n\nIn Northern Luzon, mummification is prevalent in Cordillera, specifically in Benguet, Ifugao, and Mountain Province. The most well known is the Fire Mummies in Kabayan, Benguet. There are over 200 remains located in Timbak cave and these were made by the Ibaloi tribe between 1200 CE and 1500 CE.\n\nThe process of mummification makes the Fire Mummies unique and popular. Tribe members would administer salty water to the dying member. Ingestion of the saline solution results in a shift in extracellular water into the intestinal lumen that triggers peristalsis. The laxative effect expels water and any remaining feces in the colon. This result in a substantial depletion of intestinal bacteria, delaying onset of tissue-destructive enzymatic processes. The process was identified as being parallel to the Egyptians who placed their corpse in a tub of salt to dehydrate the body. After death, the corpse will be cleansed, rubbed with herbs, and tobacco smoke was then smoked into the mouth of the corpse, with a low fire lit beside the body to enhance dehydration and prevent insect infestation. The body was positioned as though seated on a “death chair” and a scarf or blanket was used to secure the position. The epidermis are peeled off by the community elders and juice from the leaves of local plants were applied. The process would take from months to years then after that, the mummy would be placed in wood coffins and buried in caves. \n\nA much more intricate account of the process is from an unpublished doctoral thesis by Dr. Ursula Cariño Perez.\n\n\"A large quantity of salt is dissolved in water and poured into the mouth of the deceased to prevent the early decomposition of the internal organs. The corpse is stripped and bathed with cold water. With the Kolebao (death blanket), the corpse in a sitting position is I-asal (tied to the death chair, that has high stilts and that is set in front of and beside the stairs of the house). Soon, the ends of a piece of cloth ban across the mouth is knotted at the back of the chair - further measure to keep the corpse stay on the chair for at least a week or for until such time fluid oozes from the swollen body; in this condition, the corpse is brought down and placed on the floor in a lying position. Close relatives peel off the epidermis or the outer skin all over the body - the process is called Duduan. After being peeled of its skin, the corpse is washed with cold water, covered with the same blanket, and then returned to the death chair. The process is followed by Begisan (deworming), that is removing the worms that infest the skin. The peeled off skin is placed in an earthen jar which is afterwards buried in the yard - this is dug later and placed beside the coffin during the burial. Beginning to dry, the corpse is applied allover with the juice of pounded guava and patani leaves. The process is repeated everyday until the body is totally dry. Regulated heat from a fire built below the death chair smokes the dead. When the body begins to shrink, the position of the corpse is changed by tying the legs and hands up to the chest in a crouched position. The legs and hands are tied. The string is removed only when both hands and legs are in their desired position. When dried, the corpse is placed under the sun during the day and smoked during the night. The juice of patani and guava leaves is applied twice a day until the body is hardened, intact and smoothly dried. For as long as two months or even one year, the body is alternately sun dried and smoked - interment time is decided by the nearest kin and after he has decided, carried to its final resting place in the cave of his ancestors or in another cave...\n\nIn an excerpt from a book\n\n\"Dr. Perez adds that the technique of mummification through salting of the internal organs and application of the juice of guava and patani leaves and smoking and sun-drying lasted up to the 1850's, although it is said to have continued to the end of the century. The practice of mummification was slowly relegated to the past during the last decade of the nineteenth century because the process of mummification was very expensive and time consuming. According to Dr. Perez, the process primarily depended on the social status of the dead, his wealth and most especially on his number of relatives in neighboring villages who could help shoulder the expenses during the rituals for months or years.\"\n\n\"Dr. Perez writes further that the early ancestors of the Ibaloys used a herb called atab to rub on the corpse's body. The leaves of said herb was pounded and extracted of its juice which was wiped on the body to harden it. Patani juice was likewise wiped all over the body to protect it from flies and other insects. Discoverers of the mummies found that the mummies had pieces of cloth plugged in their ears, mouths and nostrils to prevent flies from entering the body.\"\n\n\"Informants of Dr. Perez said the practice of mummification among their ancestors during the seventeenth century has not been recorded but orally divulged from one generation to another. They claim that up to now, no scientific research has been made to determine the age of the mummies found in the caves of Kabayan, although most foreign anthropologists presume that the mummies are between 500 to 1000 years old.\"\n\nDue to the mummification process of the dead, features, such as the Tatars, were preserved excellently. Appo Annu, one of the mummies found, had remarkably preserved tattoo details. Studies on the tattoos have been done, and one suggestion was that aside from being a tribal leader, he must have been a hunter. Dr. Analyn Salvador-Amores, from the University of the Philippines-Baguio, states that the patterns were “kin-based and had social and collective meanings among the Ibaloy”.\n\nOf the many caves identified to contain fire mummies, only a few had been found with human remains and it is suspected that the locals are unwilling to disclose the actual locations of other mummies because of widespread looting by private collectors and some locals who use the nails and fingers as talismans of which one of the victims is Apo Annu. Orlando Abinion a chemical engineer and conservation project coordinator of the National Museum said the mummy was stolen from the cave in 1906 by a Christian pastor which wound up as part of the Manila circus. By 1984, it was in the hands of an antique collector, and then was donated to the National Museum, and was recently returned to his burial cave in Benguet.\n\nThe Kabayan Mummy Cave is proclaimed under Presidential Decree No. 327 (PD 327) as part of the Philippine National Cultural Treasures, which states that preservation, protection, and maintenance of the site be ensured for the future generation as a manifestation and ingenuity associated with the religious belief of the Ibaloi culture and tradition.\n\nHow To Make A Mummy\n\nThere is no written record explaining the process of mummification in Kabayan, save for oral traditions. Legends have it that when a person died, upon his last breath, he was forced to take in good quantity of salt water. The elders of Kabayan claim that some four liters of this liquid were prepared and set aside, awaiting use at the final moment. The person was laid flat on the floor while his relatives and friends prepared materials to be made into a long-legged chair constructed beside the stairs of stilt house. This chair was then fastened to one of the stilts. Stilt houses were very common in Kabayan during those times. They were elevated to prevent from rodents from entering the house and for security reasons. At night the retractable stair was pulled up to the porch, to be lowered again the following morning.\n\n10. \"The Earlies Filipinos.\" Fr. Gabriel S. Casal. pp. 252-253\n"}
{"id": "22382972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22382972", "title": "Narrenturm (hospital)", "text": "Narrenturm (hospital)\n\nThe Narrenturm (\"Fool's Tower\") in Vienna is continental Europe's oldest building for the accommodation of mental patients. Built in 1784, it is next to the site of the old Vienna General Hospital (today a university campus), and is now home to the Federal Pathologic-Anatomical Museum Vienna ().\n\nThe Narrenturm was constructed in 1784, under Emperor Joseph II, by Isidore Canevale. It consisted of a five-storey, fortress-like circular building with 28 rooms and a ring of slit windows, plus a central chamber aligned north-south. There were in total 139 individual cells for the inmates. The building of the Narrenturm was prompted by the discovery of underground dungeons used by the Capuchin monks of Vienna for housing their mentally ill brethren; another factor was that Joseph II had learned about similar institutions in France during his travels there. The construction of the Narrenturm points to a new attitude towards the mentally ill – they began to be distinguished from the rest of society, and not simply classified among the general category of \"the poor\".\n\nEach cell had strong, barred doors as well as chains for restraining inmates. With its barracks-like appearance, the tower was a visible expression of the segregation, stigmatisation and criminalisation of socially deviant forms of behaviour.\n\nBy the late 1790s the tower had already been made fully obsolete by innovations in the treatment of mental patients. Despite appearances, the Narrenturm was not an implementation of Jeremy Bentham's hypothetical panopticon, as the cells could not be monitored from a central post.\n\nThe tower's round shape is the source of the Viennese slang word \"Gugelhupf\" (a type of round cake) for mental asylums and psychiatric clinics.\n\nWhen it was first built, the Narrenturm had a lightning rod or \"lightning catcher\" installed on the roof ridge. Two of the supporting fixtures can still be seen in the inner chamber. In that time Václav Prokop Diviš, a clergyman in Přímětice near Znojmo, had studied plant growth and healing with electrical currents present, publishing his findings to the medical community. He was not the only person who believed electricity to have health benefits – however, it is not known whether the lightning rod in the Narrenturm, whose remnants are probably the oldest surviving pieces of such a device in the world, was used in the treatment of patients.\n\nThe tower is currently home to the Federal Pathologic-Anatomical Museum, founded by Emperor Francis II in 1796 as the \"Museum of the Pathologic-Anatomical Institute\". It has been a national museum (\"Bundesmuseum\") since 1974.\n\nElectro-Pathological Museum\n\nParts of the former Electro-Pathological Museum, founded in 1936 by Stefan Jellinek, are housed here. Jellinek was forced to leave the country in 1939, but regained his old collection after the war. A new exhibition was created after Jellinek's death in 1968 by his colleague Franz Maresch. In the 1980s the Technisches Museum Wien took over a large part of the collection, while its preserved human and animal exhibits were transferred to the Pathologic-Anatomical Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25739229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25739229", "title": "Oligophagy", "text": "Oligophagy\n\nOligophagy refers to the eating of only a few specific foods. The term is usually associated with insect dietary behaviour. Organisms may exhibit narrow or specific oligophagy where the diet is restricted to a very few foods or broad oligophagy where the organism feeds on a wide variety of specific foods but none other.\n\nPolyphagy, on the contrary, refers to eating a broad spectrum of foods. In the insect world it refers usually to insects that feed on plants belonging to different families.\n\nThe diet of the yucca moths is restricted to the developing fruits of species of yucca while the sea hare, \"Aplysia juliana\" (Quoy & Gaimard), is found on and feeds only on a single alga, \"Ulva lactuca\" (Linnaeus) in east Australian waters. These are both narrow oligophages. Conversely the migratory locust may be said to be broadly oligophagous or even polyphagous.\n\n"}
{"id": "56401169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401169", "title": "Pattern glare", "text": "Pattern glare\n\nPattern glare is a form of visual discomfort, arising from viewing repetitively striped patterns, such as those of op art. Instead of the patterns' appearing as they are, they may appear to move, to shimmer, or to vary in shape over time.\n"}
{"id": "48951616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48951616", "title": "Primary Care Progress", "text": "Primary Care Progress\n\nPrimary Care Progress (PCP) is a national non-profit organization advocating for and facilitating the revitalization of primary care in the United States health care system. It trains and organizes an interprofessional network of care providers and trainees - doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, pharmacists, physician assistants and others - and is inspired by what a 2009 report by the Network for Excellence in Health Innovation (NEHI) described as a crisis in primary care delivery: an increased demand on primary care by older, sicker patients and decreased supply of primary care practitioners.\n\nEvidence shows primary care provides better care at lower cost, yet when compared to medical specialty disciplines it is funded less in the United States than any other developed country. Primary care providers are generally overworked and underpaid compared to specialists, and many are disillusioned. This has resulted in fewer and fewer students choosing primary care training, and many providers retiring early or switching careers.\n\nIn response, PCP offers a community for primary care providers, trainees and faculty to connect and support each other. It provides relational leadership development training and coaching for building health care teams, improving primary care delivery and organizing for change. PCP focuses on students and trainees through its network of over 50 chapters at health professions institutions around the country. Chapters initiatives range from launching student-run free clinics, to changing curriculums, to organizing their local primary care community.\n\nPCP partners with Jeffrey Brenner’s Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers and the Association of American Medical Colleges on the Interprofessional Student Hotspotting Project, an initiative providing teams of health professions students with the knowledge and opportunity to work with high-risk patients to improve their care.\n\nIn 2010, PCP president and co-founder Dr. Andrew Morris-Singer discussed on CNN the crisis in primary care and what is being done to address it. PCP’s role in the creation of Harvard Medical School’s Center for Primary Care - which included a series of town hall meetings with hundreds of attendees - was described in a \"Harvard Gazette\" article.\n\nIn 2011, PCP was featured in the American College of Physicians’ IMpact Newsletter as a “new national organization dedicated to engaging local communities to promote primary care, innovate in care delivery and prepare the next generation of leaders in primary care” by “building a grassroots network of advocates who share the vision of a health care system built on a robust foundation of primary care.”\n\nIn 2012, President Morris-Singer wrote a blog post for KevinMD.com calling for a primary care “workforce surge,” and another for the Health Care Blog on revitalizing the primary care training “pipeline” through a multifaceted approach to overcome the financial, academic, cultural and political challenges. He was also featured in a \"New York Times\" article on initiatives encouraging students to consider primary care careers.\n\nRepresenting PCP, in 2013 Dr. Morris-Singer was a panelist for a Congressional briefing on primary care. PCP was also featured in 2013 articles on the primary care crisis by the Associated Press and the Association of Health Care Journalists.\n\nIn 2014, MedPage Today published a piece about Primary Care Progress’ grassroots efforts, while the Atlantic’s story “Why I’m Becoming a Primary Care Doctor” included insight from President Morris-Singer on the stigmatization of primary care careers.\n\nNew England Public Radio highlighted the work of PCP in two 2015 pieces about the future of primary care.\n\n"}
{"id": "269927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269927", "title": "Questionnaire construction", "text": "Questionnaire construction\n\nQuestionnaire construction refers to the design of a questionnaire to gather statistically useful information about a given topic. When properly constructed and responsibly administered, questionnaires can provide valuable data about any given subject.\n\nQuestionnaires are frequently used in quantitative marketing research and social research. They are a valuable method of collecting a wide range of information from a large number of individuals, often referred to as respondents.\n\nWhat is often referred to as \"adequate questionnaire construction\" is critical to the success of a survey. Inappropriate questions, incorrect ordering of questions, incorrect scaling, or a bad questionnaire format can make the survey results valueless, as they may not accurately reflect the views and opinions of the participants.\n\nDifferent methods can be useful for checking a questionnaire and making sure it is accurately capturing the intended information. Initial advice may include:\n\nEmpirical tests also provide insight into the quality of the questionnaire. This can be done by:\n\n\nWithin social science research and practice, questionnaires are most frequently used to collect quantitative data using multi-item scales with the following characteristics:\n\nBefore constructing a questionnaire survey, it is advisable to consider how the results of the research will be used. If the results won't influence the decision-making process, budgets won't allow implementing the findings, or the cost of research outweighs its usefulness, then there is little purpose in conducting the research.\n\nThe research objective(s) and frame-of-reference should be defined beforehand, including the questionnaire's context of time, budget, manpower, intrusion and privacy. The types of questions (e.g.: closed, multiple-choice, open) should fit the data analysis techniques available and the goals of the survey.\n\nThe manner (random or not) and location (sampling frame) for selecting respondents will determine whether the findings will be representative of the larger population.\n\nThe level of measurement – known as the scale, index, or typology – will determine what can be concluded from the data. A yes/no question will only reveal how many of the sample group answered yes or no, lacking the resolution to determine an average response. The nature of the expected responses should be defined and retained for interpretation.\n\nA common method is to \"research backwards\" in building a questionnaire by first determining the information sought (i.e., Brand A is more/less preferred by \"x%\" of the sample vs. Brand B, and \"y%\" vs. Brand C), then being certain to ask all the needed questions to obtain the metrics for the report. Unneeded questions should be avoided, as they are an expense to the researcher and an unwelcome imposition on the respondents. All questions should contribute to the objective(s) of the research.\n\nTopics should fit the respondents' frame of reference, as their background may affect their interpretation of the questions. Respondents should have enough information or expertise to answer the questions truthfully. Writing style should be conversational, yet concise and accurate and appropriate to the target audience and subject matter. The wording should be kept simple, without technical or specialized vocabulary. Ambiguous words, equivocal sentence structures and negatives may cause misunderstanding, possibly invalidating questionnaire results. Double negatives should be reworded as positives.\n\nIf a survey question actually contains more than one issue, the researcher will not know which one the respondent is answering. Care should be taken to ask one question at a time.\n\nQuestions and prepared responses (for multiple-choice) should be neutral as to intended outcome. A biased question or questionnaire encourages respondents to answer one way rather than another. Even questions without bias may leave respondents with expectations. The order or grouping of questions is also relevant; early questions may bias later questions. Loaded questions evoke emotional responses and may skew results.\n\nThe list of prepared responses should be collectively exhaustive; one solution is to use a final write-in category for \"other ________\". The possible responses should also be mutually exclusive, without overlap. Respondents should not find themselves in more than one category, for example in both the \"married\" category and the \"single\" category (in such a case there may be need for separate questions on marital status and living situation).\n\nMany people will not answer personal or intimate questions. For this reason, questions about age, income, marital status, etc. are generally placed at the end of the survey. This way, even if the respondent refuses to answer these questions, he/she will have already answered the research questions.\n\nPresentation of the questions on the page (or computer screen) and use of white space, colors, pictures, charts, or other graphics may affect respondent's interest – or distract from the questions. Numbering of questions may be helpful.\n\nQuestionnaires can be administered by research staff, by volunteers or self-administered by the respondents. Clear, detailed instructions are needed in either case, matching the needs of each audience\n\nThere are a number of channels, or modes, that can be used to administer a questionnaire. Each has strengths and weaknesses, and therefore a researcher will generally need to tailor their questionnaire to the modes they will be using. For example, a questionnaire designed to be filled-out on paper may not operate in the same way when administered by telephone. These mode effects may be substantial enough that they threaten the validity of the research.\n\nUsing multiple modes can improve access to the population of interest when some members have different access, or have particular preferences.\n\nThe way that a question is phrased can have a large impact on how a research participant will answer the question. Thus, survey researchers must be conscious of their wording when writing survey questions. It is important for researchers to keep in mind that different individuals, cultures, and subcultures can interpret certain words and phrases differently from one another.\n\nThere are two different types of questions that survey researchers use when writing a questionnaire: free-response questions and closed questions. Free-response questions are open-ended, whereas closed questions are usually multiple-choice. Free-response questions are beneficial because they allow the responder greater flexibility, but they are also very difficult to record and score, requiring extensive coding. Contrastingly, closed questions can be scored and coded more easily, but they diminish expressivity and spontaneity of the responder.\n\nIn general, the vocabulary of a question should be very simple and direct, and preferably under twenty words. Each question should be edited for readability and should avoid leading or loaded questions. If multiple questions are being used to measure one construct, some of the questions should be worded in the opposite direction to evade response bias.\n\nA respondent's answer to an open-ended question can be coded into a response scale afterwards, or analysed using more qualitative methods.\n\nQuestions should flow logically, from the general to the specific, from least to most sensitive, from factual and behavioral matters to attitudes and opinions. When semi-automated, they should flow from unaided to aided questions. The researcher should ensure that the answer to a question is not influenced by previous questions.\n\nAccording to the three-stage theory (also called the sandwich theory), questions should be asked in three stages:\n"}
{"id": "4946744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946744", "title": "Rosskreppfjorden", "text": "Rosskreppfjorden\n\nRosskreppfjorden is a lake in Norway. The lake lies on the border between the municipalities of Valle (in Aust-Agder county) and Sirdal (in Vest-Agder county). The lake is part of the Kvina river system and has a hydroelectric power plant in a dam on the south end of the lake. The dam keeps the lake at an elevation of about above sea level.\nThe lake flows south into the Øyarvatnet lake. Rosskreppfjorden is located about southwest of the village of Valle and about east of the village of Lysebotn. The lakes Kolsvatnet and Botnsvatnet are located just to the northeast of Rosskreppfjorden, and the mountains Bergeheii and Urddalsknuten both lie just to the north of the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "19492917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19492917", "title": "Rudolph Hass", "text": "Rudolph Hass\n\nRudolph \"Rudie\" Gustav Hass (June 5, 1892 - October 24, 1952) was an amateur horticulturist who first grew the Hass avocado, the source of 95% of California avocados grown commercially today.\n\nRudolph Gustav Hass was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on June 5, 1892 to Henry C. Hass and Alma F. Hass (née Zergman). Known as Rudie, Hass quit school after finishing 10th grade at age 15 and went to work. \n\nHass met Elizabeth Schuette in 1918 at a July church picnic. He was involved in a mission working with children on weekends and asked Elizabeth if she could play the piano for his ministry at the mission. She agreed and thus their courtship began. They were married about a year later on 8/2/1919 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The family moved to Pasadena, California in 1923.\n\nHass got a job as a door-to-door salesman in 1923, first selling \"Real Silk Hose\" (socks and ties for men), then selling Maytag washing machines. In 1925 Hass got a job with the Pasadena Post Office making 25 cents per hour. That was before mail truck routes, so Hass carried the heavy mail sack every day on his route for ten years until he was given a car route due to his failing heart.\n\nAfter reading a magazine article illustrating an avocado tree with dollar bills hanging from it in 1925, Hass used all the money he had, plus a loan from his sister, Ida Hass, to buy a small acre and a half avocado grove at 430 West Road La Habra Heights, California. The trees were old Fuerte avocados with 2 or 3 Lyon as well as a few Pueblas and Nabals. The Fuerte was the best avocado available at that time, but Hass could not afford to buy more trees, so he decided to cut down many of the old trees and have them grafted over to Fuerte with new bud wood.\n\nHass hired a professional grafter named Mr. Caulkins, who advised Mr. Hass to buy avocado seeds from a nursery owned by Mr. Rideout and grow his own seedlings and then have them grafted to the Fuerte variety. Hass agreed and followed his advice. He planted the rest of the grove on centers with three seeds in each hole. Cuttings from existing Fuerte trees were grafted onto the strongest of the three newly planted trees from each hole. All but three of the grafts 'took' and new Fuerte trees grew out of the new seedlings. Mr. Caulkins re-grafted those three trees. Then he re-grafted the one tree that had rejected the second graft. Again it did not take. Hass was ready to give up and asked Mr. Caulkins to chop it down, but he told him it was a good strong tree, and advised Hass to \"just leave it alone and see what happens.\" So Hass did.\n\nMr. Hass was not a botanist like Luther Burbank (1849 - 1926) who purposely cross pollinated plants to produce over 800 better varieties. The seed that produced the Hass Avocado had already been cross pollinated by nature before Mr Rideout sold it, along with a hundred other seeds, to Mr. Hass.\n\nWhen that seedling was 14\" tall and the trunk only 1/2\" thick, it had three walnut size fruit on it. Fuertes rarely produced fruit in less than five years. Hass had his wife Elizabeth take his picture kneeling by the seedling and showing one of the tiny avocados hanging over his hand. This was in July, 1932<calculated>. That picture has been immortalized in a portrait painted by Rudolph Hass's grandson, Thomas Wilkes. That seedling grew more rapidly and produced more fruit than the Fuerte grafts. It also grew straight up and was not as spread out as the Fuerte trees making more trees to the acre possible. When the fruit grew large enough and mature, Hass picked them to ripen. The family agreed that this avocado tasted as good, if not better than the Fuerte.\n\nAs the tree grew and produced more fruit than the family could use, Hass took some to his co-workers at the Pasadena Post Office. They liked the avocados and asked if they could buy more from him. He agreed to sell them a bag of 4 or 5 avocados for $1. He sold all he brought to work and took orders for more. The Hass family began to work harvesting and selling avocados from a roadside stand by the grove at 430 West Road in La Habra, California.\n\nRudie also contacted the 'Model Grocery Store' on Colorado St. in Pasadena and found it to be a ready market. He left them a few sample avocados and they agreed to sell the fruit and did so for many years. The chefs of wealthy people who lived on South Orange Grove Street shopped there, and once they sampled the Hass variety, they insisted upon it. At $1.00 each, Avocados were only available to the rich. A dollar a day was a typical food budget for a family of four or five in those days.\n\nIn August 1935 Hass patented his 'Hass' avocado tree. Hass signed an agreement with Harold Brokaw, a Whittier nurseryman, to grow and sell the Hass Avocados. Hass was to receive 25% of the proceeds.\n\nHowever, the patent was widely violated. Growers would buy one tree from Mr. Brokaw who had the exclusive right to produce the nursery trees. They would then re-graft their whole grove with the bud wood from that one tree.\nFor that reason, Rudolph Hass made less than $5,000 in royalties over the life of the patent. (Patents expire after 17 years.) However, Rudolph Hass was the first person to have a producing grove of Hass Avocados, though it was a very small grove.\n\nRudolph Hass expanded to Fallbrook, planting an orchard in 1948 which bore its first crop in 1952, just as his 17-year patent expired.\n\nRudolph Hass and Elizabeth Schuette were married on August 2, 1919 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. They had five children.\n\nOne month after the patent expired in August 1952, at the age of 60, Rudolph Hass suffered a heart attack on September 24, 1952. He died of heart failure in the Fallbrook Hospital a month later on October 24, 1952. He was buried on his wife's 53rd birthday, October 28, 1952.\n\nHis wife Elizabeth lived to the age of 98. She lived in California the rest of her life on the pension from her husband's mailman job.\n\n"}
{"id": "4764510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4764510", "title": "Ruth Wilkinson", "text": "Ruth Wilkinson\n\nRuth Martin (also Wilkinson and Hails) is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\", played by Ailsa Piper. She made her first on-screen appearance on 3 October 1996. Ruth was a divorced single mother, who came to Erinsborough as Helen Daniels' new physiotherapist. Ruth began a relationship with Philip Martin, which attracted some opposition from their children. Ruth and Philip also had to cope with Ruth's long lost son, Ben, arriving to meet his mother. Philip and Ruth married in 1998, amid a breast cancer scare for Ruth. Producers decided to write the Martin family out of \"Neighbours\" and they departed on 20 October 1999. In 2005, Piper reprised her role for the show's 20th anniversary.\n\nPiper was an established theatre actress and had not acted in television until she joined the cast of \"Neighbours\" in 1996. Piper was considered for the role of Susan Kennedy before she was cast as Ruth, a new love interest for Philip Martin (Ian Rawlings). \n\nIn September 1999, \"Inside Soap\" reported that the Martin family had been written out of \"Neighbours\" and that they had already filmed their final scenes. Piper revealed that she had expected to leave after her first two-year contract ended and the extra time had been a bonus. Piper added that filming her final scenes was very emotional. In April 2005, Piper reprised her role as Ruth for \"Neighbours\"' 20th anniversary episode, which aired in July 2005.\n\nRuth was a Physiotherapist who arrives in Ramsay Street to care for Helen Daniels (Anne Haddy). Ruth was a single mother to Lance (Andrew Bibby) and Anne (Brooke Satchwell) and the \"Illawarra Mercury\" said Piper's role allowed her to \"portray the non-traditional family unit in a positive light.\" When asked in what ways she was similar to her character, Piper told \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"We share the same legs and the same quick temper.\" Ruth gets on well with Helen, but not with her grandson-in-law, Philip (Ian Rawlings). However, when her ex-husband, Bill Hails (Ian Stanley Pearce), appeared, Philip becomes a \"useful ally.\" Phil becomes nervous about asking Ruth out and he is \"egged on\" by Helen who plays matchmaker. The \"Daily Record\" said \"the makers of \"Neighbours\" can stretch out this relationship for several episodes before we have a clear idea if it's actually going anywhere.\" Lance later catches Ruth and Philip sharing a secret kiss and they begin a relationship. The BBC said Ruth and Philip's relationship was \"no picnic\" and their children took time getting used to it. Philip's youngest daughter, Hannah (Rebecca Ritters), resents Ruth until they have a heart to heart talk.\n\nRuth and Philip also had to cope with her long lost son, Ben (Brett Cousins) and his father, Geoff (Andrew McKaige), arriving in town. Piper told the \"Illawarra Mercury\" that she would never forget the moment producers told her that she was going to have a 21-year-old son and that her character had been pregnant at 16, which she had kept hidden. Ben comes to Ramsay Street to meet Ruth and Piper said it was \"the first time we ever saw Ruth's character as anything but a bright and sunny person.\" Piper also revealed that uncovering new things about her character led to \"really meaty scenes.\" Ben's arrival won an AFI Award and Piper said the episode was \"beautifully written\" and she and Cousins were allowed to feed the characters and not just the plot. Ben is later involved in a major car accident and he is left in a coma, which is a testing time for Ruth. Ben goes on to recover.\n\nRuth and Philip get engaged and Piper said while it was an exciting change for her character, she loved being a single parent. Ruth and Philip marry, whilst Ruth anxiously waits for results of tests for breast cancer. Ruth is determined to go ahead with the wedding and Piper said \"This is her big day and she wants it to be just right. However, as she doesn't have her results, there is the thought at the back of her mind that the news might not be good. She's doing her best not to think about it.\" Ruth arrives at the ceremony on the back of a classic Harley Davidson motorbike and she is \"thrilled\" to see Ben and Philip's son, Michael (Troy Beckwith), have returned for the wedding. Piper said that there is an atmosphere of madness, happiness and excitement to the day. Ruth later discovers that she does not have cancer. After Philip has a mid-life crisis, he decides to move the family to Darwin. Ruth initially considers commuting thousands of miles, but ultimately chooses to follow her husband when she gets a top job at a Darwin hospital.\n\nRuth became pregnant to her boyfriend Geoff Burke when she was sixteen. She gave birth to a son, who she named Christopher. Ruth's parents advised her to give up Christopher and he was adopted by the Atkins family and renamed Ben. Ruth went on to marry Bill Hails and they had twins, Anne and Lance. Bill and Ruth later divorce and Lance chooses to live with Ruth, while Anne stays with Bill.\n\nRuth comes to Erinsborough to work as Helen Daniels' physiotherapist. Ruth clashes with Philip Martin and after an argument, Ruth is fired. Philip changes his mind, after seeing how her departure affects Helen. Philip accompanies Ruth to retrieve her car from Bill and he offers to rent Number 32 to her. Ruth and Philip discover Lance and Hannah are dating and it causes friction between them. The tension between Ruth and Philip comes to a head on Christmas Day when they kiss. Ruth and Philip become a couple, despite opposition from their children. When Ben arrives in Ramsay Street, and moves in next door to Ruth, she becomes worried about the amount of time he is spending with Lance and Anne, who had since move to Ramsay Street. Ben confesses to Ruth that he is the son she gave up and after an emotional conversation, Ruth builds up a relationship with Ben.\n\nRuth and Philip break up and Ruth decides to leave Erinsborough. Anne and Lance try to convince her to stay and Ruth relents. She takes a job at Karl Kennedy's (Alan Fletcher) surgery and has a short-lived relationship with Alistair O'Connor (Michael O'Neill). Helen dies and Ruth and Philip become close again. Philip suggests that Ruth, Lance and Anne move in with him and Hannah, but she is not keen on living together out of wedlock. During Ben's race at Calder Park Raceway, Philip proposes to Ruth, but before she can accept, Ben has a car crash. He is rushed to hospital and is left in a coma, he later recovers. Geoff arrives, which shocks Ruth and she warns him that his presence could set Ben's recovery back. Ben decides to move away with Geoff, which devastates Ruth.\n\nRuth accepts Philip's proposal, but before the wedding, she finds a lump in her breast. She and Philip bring the wedding forward and Ben and Philip's son, Michael, return. On the day of the wedding, Ruth is brought to Lassiter's Lake on the back of a motorcycle. At the reception, Ruth receives a phone call giving her the all clear. Ruth, Lance and Anne then move in with Philip and Hannah. Ruth and Hannah clash constantly, but after talking things through, they start to get on better. Ruth starts exhibiting strange behaviour and when Hannah spots her hugging Bill, she think she is having an affair. Ruth reveals that Bill has been left bankrupt by his new wife and she has been lending him money. Lance develops a gambling addiction and sells Ruth's fob watch, Ruth supports her son when he agrees to attend Gamblers Anonymous.\n\nPhilip gets a job in Darwin, but Ruth is reluctant to leave. They eventually decide on moving to Darwin, but have a hard time convincing Hannah to go with them. Hannah eventually agrees to go and the Martin's say goodbye to their friends. A few years later, Ruth appears in Annalise Hartman's (Kimberly Davies) documentary about Ramsay Street.\n\nMarion McMullen of the \"Coventry Telegraph\" said Piper had some \"meaty\" storylines during her three years on \"Neighbours\". She also said Ruth had \"certainly been through the mill\" with \"a messy divorce, a cancer scare, a resentful rebellious daughter and the reappearance of a long-lost son that she'd given up for adoption when he was just a baby.\" McMullen added that Ruth was a \"super-mum.\" The BBC said Ruth's most notable moment was \"Sharing a secret Christmas kiss with Philip.\" Tina Baker said Ruth was a \"much loved\" character. In 1999, viewers voted Ruth the third \"Best female over 30\" in the \"Neighbours\".com Awards. Brian Courtis and Andrew Ryan of \"The Age\" said there would be \"some sad faces around the box\" when Ruth, Philip and Hannah departed.\n\n"}
{"id": "4047312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4047312", "title": "Sheshatshiu", "text": "Sheshatshiu\n\nSheshatshiu () is an Innu Federal Reserve in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador, located approximately 30 kilometres north of Goose Bay. (Some references may spell the community's name as Sheshatshit, the is more traditional in the Innu-aimun language, but the u is used more commonly in English to avoid inappropriate connotations. The name means \"a narrow place in the river\".)\n\nThe community is inhabited by the Sheshatshiu Innu First Nation, whose current chief is Eugene Hart.\n\nSheshatshiu is located adjacent to Inuit community of North West River. Sheshatshiu is connected to Happy Valley-Goose Bay by a 40 km paved road. The roads in Sheshatshiu and North West River are the most northern paved roads in Atlantic Canada.\n\nIn 1836 the Hudson's Bay Company established a trading post at North West River and the traders provided the Innu with European tools.\n\nDuring the First World War, some Innu from Sheshatshiu fought overseas in the Royal Newfoundland Regiment. In 1915 the International Grenfell Association established a hospital in North West River to serve the European settlers and indigenous people of the region. This hospital was closed in 1983 and residents of Sheshatshiu and North West River now rely on Happy Valley-Goose Bay for medical services.\n\nIn 1946 elections were held to send delegates to the Newfoundland National Convention. This was the first time an election was held in Labrador. Lester Burry was elected to the convention and he supported future premier Joey Smallwood and his proposal of confederation with Canada.\n\nIn 1949 when Newfoundland and Labrador joined Canada the Indian Act did not include the First Nations of the province. This was done to preserve their right to vote however it also prevented the Innu from protecting their land and culture.\n\nThe Innu of Labrador settled into permanent villages in the 1960s and were one of the last Aboriginal groups in Canada to do so. Previously, Sheshatshiu had only been used by the Innu as a coastal settlement and for trading with Europeans.\n\nIn November 2000, the community, along with Davis Inlet, took the unprecedented step of asking the Canadian federal government to step in and assist with a local addiction crisis. Due to a variety of factors, including economic adversity, alcoholism and gas sniffing were both rampant in the community, in some cases affecting children as young as five years old.\n\nLabrador's Innu became status Indians under the Indian Act in 2002 and \"Sheshatshiu 3\" became a reserve.\n\nSheshatshiu has a population of 1,285 and over half of the population is below the age of 25. The median age is 21.7\n\n96% of Sheshatshiu's residents are Innu. The community has notable minorities of Europeans and Inuit. The largest religion in the community is Catholicism. Most of Sheshatshiu's residents speak a dialect of the Cree language. English is commonly spoken in Sheshatshiu as well.\n\nSheshatshiu is the fifth-largest community in Labrador after Labrador City, Happy Valley-Goose Bay, Wabush and Nain.\n\n"}
{"id": "16308082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16308082", "title": "Simulated presence therapy", "text": "Simulated presence therapy\n\nSimulated presence therapy is an emotion-oriented non-pharmacological intervention for people with dementia. It is based in psychological attachment theories and is normally carried out playing a recording with voices of the closest relatives of the patient. There are preliminary evidences indicating that SPT may reduce anxiety and challenging behaviors.\n"}
{"id": "1925150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925150", "title": "Smoking in Jewish law", "text": "Smoking in Jewish law\n\nHalakha (Jewish law) addresses three main topics applicable to tobacco and cigarette smoking from the early modern period to the present day: the regulation of smoking on days of special Jewish significance, the debate over prohibition of smoking, per se, with regard to individual Jews, and the general environmental concerns (e.g. second-hand smoking).\n\nUntil the late 20th century, the use of tobacco for smoking and in the form of snuff was common among Jews. It is asserted that a Jew named Luis de Torres, who accompanied Christopher Columbus on his expedition in 1492, settled in Cuba, learned the use of tobacco, and introduced it into Europe. From this time Jews were connected with the trade in tobacco, one of the most important in early American history (M. J. Kohler, in \"Publ. Am. Jew. Hist. Soc.\" x. 52)\n\nRecently, some rabbis considered smoking an improper, lightheaded activity for students (Stone 302).\n\nRabbis also debated the use of tobacco under traditional Jewish law, including varying aspects of its permissibility on the Sabbath, chagim (Jewish holy days), fast-days, and whether a special \"smoking\" berakhah (blessing) might be needed. Among the early sources are the \"Keneset ha-Gedolah\" (\"Men of the Great Assembly\") of Rabbi Hayyim Benveniste (1603–73) and the \"Magen Avraham\" (\"Shield of Abraham\") of Avraham Gombiner (1635–83). Gombiner referred to the \"drinking of \"tabak\" [tobacco] through a pipe by drawing the smoke into the mouth and discharging it,\" and said that a smoker should first make a blessing over smoking as a type of refreshment. Believing that tobacco was soaked in beer — a source of \"chametz\", or leaven — he banned smoking during Passover. (ib. 343). Benveniste expressed himself very forcibly against smoking \"tutun\" (tobacco) on the Ninth of Av, and reportedly excommunicated a Jew who smoked on that solemn fast-day (\"Keneset ha-Gedolah\", to Orach Chayim, 551, 21). Benveniste “points out the inconsistency of those authorities who permit smoking on holy days because it is a 'necessity,' a 'means of sustaining life,' and who allow it on fast-days because smoke has no 'substance' like food. In Benveniste's opinion, smoking was prohibited on holy days; he quoted Rabbi Joseph Escapa as coinciding in this view, though he thought it unwise to enforce a generally accepted law.”\n\nWriting in Turkey, an Islamic country, Benveniste further argued that smoking is \"Chillul Hashem\" (a defamation of God), because Muslims refraining from smoking on fast-days would see Jews smoking on theirs (\"Keneset ha-Gedolah\", ib. 567 [ed. Constantinople, 1729, pp. 101 \"et seq\".]). Despite such concerns, some Jews did smoke on the Sabbath, and visited Muslim neighbors in order to smoke hookas there. Rabbinic authorities banned this practise on the grounds that Gentiles would consider Judaism as ridiculous (Alkalai, \"Zekor le-Abraham,\" i. 142-143, Salonica, 1798).\n\nRabbi Yisrael Meir Kagan (1838–1933), known as the \"Chofetz Chaim\" (\"Desirer of Life\"), also sought to dissuade practitioners from smoking. He considered it a waste of time, and saw the practice of people borrowing cigarettes from each other as morally questionable. (Cp. Stone (296f., 299) and Eliezer Waldenberg).\n\nThere is a custom still practiced today by Hasidic and some Haredi grooms who hand out free cigarettes to their friends at their \"vort\" (engagement). Recent rulings against smoking by great rabbis do not have seem to have stopped the tradition. Early on in the Hasidic movement, the Baal Shem Tov taught that smoking tobacco can be used as a religious devotion, and can even help bring the Messianic Era. Rabbi Levi Yitchak of Berditchev is quoted as saying that \"a Jew smokes on the weekdays and sniffs tobacco on the Sabbath\". Rabbi Dovid of Lelov taught that it is a good religious practice to smoke on Saturday nights after the Sabbath, and this practice is followed by the Rebbes of Lelov and Skulen, however the current Rebbe of Skulen discourages people from following his example, in light of current views opposing smoking, and he himself only takes a few brief puffs of a cigarette after Havdalah. Many Hasidic Jews smoke, and many who do not smoke regularly will smoke on the holiday of Purim, even if they do not do so any other time of the year, and some consider it to be a spiritual practice, similar to the smoke of the altar in the ancient Temple. However, many Hasidic Rabbis oppose smoking.\n\nEarly modern Jewish law also addresses the Turkish \"narghile\", or water pipe, which filters the smoke through water. Benveniste rules that the \"narghile\" violates even holy-day regulations because it may extinguish fire (which is not permitted to be extinguished on a Jewish holy day). Gombiner forbids the \"naghile's\" use because its tobacco is analogous to the \"mugmar\" (spice incense) banned by Talmudic law. \n\nUnlike smoking, the use of snuff was allowed on the Sabbath, holy days, fast-days, and Yom Kippur (\"Leket ha-Kemah\", p. 51b, Amsterdam, 1707). Jacob Haziz (1620-74) quotes a responsum of Isaiah Pinto permitting the use of snuff on the Sabbath, even though it cures catarrh; for everybody, even healthy people, snuff, and it can not therefore be considered a drug (\"Halakot Ketannot,\" No. 101).\n\nSome Jewish women also used tobacco (see Elijah of Lublin, \"Yad Eliyahu\", responsum No. 65, Amsterdam, 1712).\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia also cites Hebrew poetry on tobacco: “Solomon Wilder of Amsterdam composed one in acceptance of a tobacco-pipe as a birthday present (\"Ha-Karmel\", 1862, vol. ii., No. 20). Another poem characterizes the cigar and cigarette as \"the two tails of these smoking firebrands\" (Isa. vii. 4; see \"Ha-Boker Or,\" i. 123).”\n\nThere has been extensive controversy regarding the question of smoking. The debate about the acceptability of smoking according to \"halacha\" is centered primarily around the prohibition for a person to damage his body, or bring about his death. Opponents of smoking argue that since there is a clear link between smoking and cancer, smoking should be prohibited. However, Rabbi Moses Feinstein wrote a responsum stating that while inadvisable, smoking was permitted for one who had already started. Feinstein explained that since the risk of illness or death due to smoking is considered small, and it is a widespread practice, it is therefore permitted under the rabbinical principle: \"The Lord protects the simple.\" However, starting to smoke would be prohibited because of the transgression of v'lo sasuru. According to students, when informed of the dangers of smoking, Rabbi Aaron Kotler ruled that smoking was a biblical transgression. Many Haredi rabbis have called on people not to smoke and called smoking an 'evil habit'. These rabbis include Rabbi Yosef Sholom Eliashiv, Rabbi Aharon Leib Shteinman, Rabbi Moshe Shmuel Shapiro, Rabbi Michel Yehuda Lefkowitz, Rabbi Nissim Karelitz, and Rabbi Shmuel Auerbach. Rabbi Shmuel HaLevi Wosner forbade people from starting to smoke and said that those who smoke are obligated to do everything they can to stop. All of these rabbis also said that it is forbidden to smoke in a public place, where others might be bothered by it.\n\nAmong important Sephardi Haredi rabbis, Rabbi Ben Tzion Abba Shaul and Rabbi Moshe Tzedaka called on youth not to start smoking.\n\nOther major Ashkenazi rabbis who explicitly forbade smoking include Rabbi Eliezer Waldenberg, Rabbi Moshe Stern, and Rabbi Chaim Pinchas Sheinberg.\n\nSmoking is specifically prohibited by Solomon Freehof, other Reform rabbis, as well as rabbis in the Conservative movement in the U.S. and Israel. \n\nThe early modern responsa literature shows that Jewish students smoked in their \"batei midrash\" – or study halls – and synagogues. Some rabbis sought to outlaw smoking and the use of snuff in places of worship (\"Pahad Yitzkhak\", 9, p. 62a) and posted notices for study halls. (\"Ha-Maggid\", 1859, vol. iii., No. 16). While smoking had been extremely prevalent in Orthodox \"yeshivot\", rabbinic opinions have led to a major decrease in cigarette use in Israeli and (especially) American \"yeshivot\". \n\nIn tandem with secular campaigns to restrict indoor tobacco-smoking as harmful to non-smokers, Orthodox rabbinical authorities began to make it virtually prohibited a priori to smoke in synagogues and study halls. Rabbi Moses Feinstein ruled against indoor smoking based on \"halakha\" covering nuisance and pollution, while most other rabbis have based a similar ruling on the halakha concerning health. In Israel, Jewish doctors and rabbis work collaboratively on anti-smoking efforts. \n\nOn June 30, 2006, the \"Vaad Halacha\" (Jewish law committee), sponsored by the Rabbinical Council of America, ruled that the use of tobacco is forbidden to Jews, and the committee specifically cited and reversed precedents that permitted smoking.\n\n"}
{"id": "54909889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54909889", "title": "South African Permanent Representative to the United Nations", "text": "South African Permanent Representative to the United Nations\n\nThe South African Permanent Representative in New York City is the official representative of the Government in Pretoria next the Headquarters of the United Nations. \n\n"}
{"id": "10094937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10094937", "title": "Special Projects of National Significance", "text": "Special Projects of National Significance\n\nThe Special Projects of National Significance (often abbreviated to SPNS) program is a United States Department of Health program that helps to \"advance knowledge and skills in the health and support services to underserved populations diagnosed with HIV infection.\" The current SPNS effort began in 1991 with several federal grants; portfolio of 72 grants currently address issues in HIV care.\n"}
{"id": "42671553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42671553", "title": "Traveling Spoon", "text": "Traveling Spoon\n\nTraveling Spoon is a San Francisco, California-based food tourism startup company that connects travelers with local hosts who prepare homemade local cuisine in their homes. Travelers can also purchase cooking classes and visit marketplaces for cooking ingredients with their hosts. The company offers home dining packages in 38 cities in 15 countries located throughout South and Southeast Asia and Japan.\n\nTraveling Spoon was founded by Stephanie Lawrence and Aashi Vel and its beta site launched in July 2013. The bootstrapped company is a graduate of the Venture Lab Program at the University of California, Berkeley's Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology. The Venture Lab program also awarded the company $12,000 in prize money.\n\nStephanie Lawrence and Aashi Vel founded Traveling Spoon shortly after they met in 2011 at the Haas School of Business, where they were students in the school's Master of Business Administration program. The two connected over a similar desire to eat indigenous cuisine prepared by locals and learn about native cultures they encountered when traveling abroad. Traveling Spoon started a pilot program in December 2011 and had its first customers in January 2012. The company launched its beta website in July 2013. In May 2014, Traveling Spoon raised funding from Erik Blachford, the former CEO of Expedia and The Chennai Angels. In 2015, Traveling Spoon launched programs in the Philippines and India, which includes 12 cities within the country.\n\nTraveling Spoon offers homemade meals from 200 local hosts in 18 countries. Traveling Spoon has hosts in Mexico, South and Southeast Asia and Japan, including Turkey, China, Vietnam, India and the Philippines. Aside from in-home meals, Traveling Spoon also offers cooking experiences and local market tours.\n\nTraveling Spoon pairs a traveler's food restrictions and preferences, group size and budget with a host. When a traveler registers, they are able to specify dietary restrictions including vegetarian and vegan. In the case a host is unable to meet dietary restrictions, Traveling Spoon ensures meals are tailored to the traveler's profile.\n\nAll hosts are personally vetted by the company, which conducts interviews, in-house visits, and taste tests. Hosts must have some proficiency in English and have Internet access. The majority of hosts are women. Hosts determine the price of meals and many offer special packages that include cooking classes or market trips.\n\n"}
{"id": "382970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382970", "title": "Trichophagia", "text": "Trichophagia\n\nTrichophagia () is the compulsive eating of hair associated with trichotillomania (hair pulling). In trichophagia, people with trichotillomania also ingest the hair that they pull; in extreme (and rare) cases this can lead to a hair ball (trichobezoar).\n\nTrichophagia is characterized by the person eating hair, usually their own; primarily after pulling it out. Most often, hair is pulled out and then the ends of the root bulb are eaten, or occasionally the hair shaft itself. The hair eventually collects in the gastrointestinal tract (on occasion, and depending upon severity of symptoms) causing indigestion and stomach pain. Ritual is a strong factor, and may involve touching the root bulb to the lips, tasting the hair, and occasionally chewing it. Sometimes those with the disorder may even eat the hair of others. In the psychiatric field it is considered a compulsive psychological disorder.\n\nRapunzel syndrome, an extreme form of trichobezoar in which the \"tail\" of the hair ball extends into the intestines, can be fatal if misdiagnosed. In some cases, surgery may be required to remove the mass; a trichobezoar weighing was removed from the stomach of an 18-year-old woman with trichophagia.\n\nTrichophagia is most often covered in the medical literature only \"as a rare symptom of trichotillomania.\" In the 18th century French doctor M. Baudamant described the condition in a 16-year-old boy.\n\nTrichophagia is mentioned in the \"1000 Ways to Die\" episode \"Stupid Is As Stupid Dies\" featuring a young woman who died from it. It is also mentioned in \"Grey's Anatomy\" season 9 episode 11 \"The End Is the Beginning Is the End\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4091341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4091341", "title": "Water Authority of Western Australia", "text": "Water Authority of Western Australia\n\nThe Water Authority of Western Australia was also known as WAWA from its establishment in 1985 under the \"Water Authority Act 1984\" until it was corporatised and renamed Water Corporation in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19339153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19339153", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Israel", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Israel\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Israel are intricately linked to the historical development of Israel. Because rain falls only in the winter, and largely in the northern part of the country, irrigation and water engineering are considered vital to the country's economic survival and growth. Large scale projects to desalinate seawater, direct water from rivers and reservoirs in the north, make optimal use of groundwater, and reclaim flood overflow and sewage have been undertaken. Among them is the National Water Carrier, carrying water from the country's biggest freshwater lake, the Sea of Galilee, to the northern Negev desert through channels, pipes and tunnels. Israel's water demand today outstrips available conventional water resources. Thus, in an average year, Israel relies for about half of its water supply on unconventional water resources, including reclaimed water and desalination. A particularly long drought in 1998–2002 had prompted the government to promote large-scale seawater desalination.\n\nThe history of the development of water supply and sanitation in modern Israel can be divided into distinct phases, beginning with the unilateral development of conventional water resources. This was followed by a period that emphasized the use of reclaimed water, the signing of an agreement to share water resources with Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, and the development of seawater desalination.\n\nBecause the coastal plain of Judea and Samaria had few water resources, Theodor Herzl already envisioned the transfer of water from the Jordan River to the coast for irrigation and drinking water supply. In 1937 the national water company Mekorot was created, more than a decade before the creation of the state of Israel. Among its achievements was the Shiloach Pipeline along the Burma Road to Jerusalem built during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War and a first pipeline to the Negev in 1955. Between 1953 and 1955 the United States Special Representative for Water in the Middle East, Eric Johnston, had negotiated the Jordan Valley Unified Water Plan to jointly develop the water resources of the Jordan River Basin between Israel, Lebanon, Syria and Jordan. The Johnston Plan was rejected by the Arab League, but Israel nevertheless abided by its water allocation under the plan. Mekorot began a Rain Enhancement program in 1961, increasing rainfall by 13–18%. A Brackish Water Pipeline to divert brackish ground water from the Sea of Galilee to the Lower Jordan was completed in 1965. The main water resources project at the time, however, was the transfer of water from the Sea of Galilee to the coast through the National Water Carrier in 1965. As a reaction to the construction of the pipeline, Lebanon, Syria and Jordan tried to divert the headwaters of the Jordan River. This was one of the events that increased tensions leading to the Six-Day War of 1967 during which Israel captured the West Bank and the Golan Heights.\n\nIn 1969 the Shafdan wastewater treatment plant south of Tel Aviv was completed to treat approximately 130 million cubic meters of wastewater per year for reuse in agriculture. However, wastewater from other cities and towns remained largely untreated. In 1970 there was a cholera outbreak because of illegal irrigation of salad with untreated wastewater. This gave rise to major investments in wastewater treatment under the National Sewerage Plan, which emphasized the reuse of treated wastewater. In 1984 the Kishon wastewater treatment plant was completed in Northern Israel. It provides 20 million cubic meters of treated wastewater per year for agricultural use in the fertile Jezreel Valley, maximizing distribution potential during high-demand periods.\n\nThe 1995 Interim Agreement as part of the Oslo Peace Process provided certain quantities of water to the Palestinians, but prevents them from drilling any new wells in the Mountain Aquifer. The surface water of the Jordan River remains disputed with Syria, Lebanon and the Palestinians. Only with Jordan was Israel able to reach an agreement on the sharing of water resources in 1995 as part of the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty.\n\nIn 1997, the first reverse osmosis desalination plant in Israel opened in Eilat. In 2002, under the impact of drought, the Government approved the construction of large seawater desalination plants along the Mediterranean coast. These installations would supply 305 million m/yr of desalinated water by the year 2010 and 500 million m³/yr by 2015. By mid-2008 two of the new plants with a capacity of 130 million m/yr were in operation. In parallel to the desalination program the cabinet also decided to promote water savings activities that could reduce household water use by at least 10 percent. In 2012, the Ashkelon Desalination Plant was converting 15,000 to 16,000 cubic meters of seawater to fresh water every hour, supplying 15 percent of Israel's annual water supply.\n\nIn July 2007 Water Commissioner Uri Shani warned about a decline in rainfall, exacerbating Israel's water crisis. \"The drop in water supply derives from atmospheric contamination, which affects cloud composition and causes a drop in rainfall levels. Every year we record less water entering Lake Kinneret in the winter. Another factor in the drop in water supply is contamination of the coastal aquifer, which reduces the amount of water that can be pumped out.\"\n\nIn 2007 Mekorot inaugurated its advanced Central Filtration Plant at the company's Eshkol facility. Built at a cost of more than $100 million, the sophisticated plant has annual filtering capacity in excess of 500 million cubic meters per year. It is the largest plant of its type in Israel and one of the largest in the world. In 2008 Mekorot lay a fifth pipeline to Jerusalem to double the quantity of water and provide 150 million cubic meters annually, including desalinated water. In March 2008 National Infrastructures Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer and Water Authority head Uri Shani began to explore options for new wastewater treatment plants and reservoirs. Another alternative considered was more expensive but less land-intensive membrane bioreactors. In 2006 the Dan Regional Wastewater Board was criticized for plans to incinerate sludge to replace the practice of dumping it into the sea. Critics said the sludge should be used as fertilizer in agriculture.\n\nIn July 2008, in the middle of another drought, the Knesset established a state commission of inquiry into the slow progress of desalination. Desalination capacity was less than a third of the amount set by the cabinet, mostly due to a slowdown in tenders after a few years of relatively high rainfall. The planned water-saving activities were stopped completely and were resumed only in 2006, but at a slow pace. However, a vigorous water savings campaign was then started featuring videos by famous Israelis such as singer Ninet Tayeb, model Bar Refaeli and actor Moshe Ivgy. The campaign resulted in reducing water use by more than 10 percent, saving the construction of a desalination plant. In its final report in March 2010 the commission of inquiry, headed by former judge Dan Bein, concluded that changes were needed in the Water Law of 1959. The Finance Ministry was accused of having delayed desalination plans arguing that conservation and wastewater reuse should have been implemented first. Only years later, the ministry endorsed large-scale desalination. The Water Authority was said to have been slow, non-transparent and that it failed to coordinate with various ministries. Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau endorsed the report and announced that his Ministry would submit a bill to curtail the Water Authority's powers and to put it more firmly under the control of his Ministry.\n\nIn January 2009 Mekorot said it would invest more than NIS 2 billion (US$500 million) in a new National Water System with several east-west arteries relying on pumping, complementing and partly substituting for the National Water Carrier running from north to south that relied on gravity. The new pipelines would connect the five new desalination plants along the coast with water users. The project would include the construction of 100-kilometer water channels, advanced quality control and command systems, and water reservoirs. When completed, most drinking water supplied to Israel’s residents from Hadera southwards – in other words, most of the country’s population – would come from desalinated seawater.\n\nBy 2014, Israel's desalination programs provided roughly 35% of Israel's drinking water and it is expected to supply 40% by 2015 and 70% by 2050.\n\nWater resources in Israel consist of conventional water resources (surface water, groundwater) and non-conventional water resources including the reuse of treated wastewater (reclaimed water), seawater desalination and the desalination of brackish water.\n\nHistorically, Israel had about 1,780 million cubic meters of conventional freshwater and brackish water resources at its disposal in an average year. More than half of these resources consisted of inflows from the Golan Heights (275 million), Lebanon (310 million) and the West Bank (345 million). 92 percent of the conventional water resources were considered economically exploitable, the rest being excess floodwaters. The usable amount consisted of about 1.1 billion cubic meters of groundwater and springs and 0.6 billion from surface water. About 80% of the water resources are located in the North of the country and only 20% in the South. However, average rainfall has declined, possibly as a result of climate change, so that conventional water resources are now estimated at less than 1,336 million cubic meters in an average year (arithmetic mean) over the period 1975–2011. The median was even lower at 1,202 million cubic meters per year.\n\nThe security of these resources is impacted by riparian conflicts. Several hundred million cubic meters of groundwater in the West Bank Mountain Aquifer are disputed between Israel and the Palestinians. Under the 1995 Interim Agreement as part of the Oslo Peace Process Israel provided 52 million cubic meters of water to the Palestinians in 2011, but prevents them from drilling new wells in the Mountain Aquifer. The surface water of the Jordan River remains disputed with Syria, Lebanon and the Palestinians. Only with Jordan was Israel able to reach an agreement on the sharing of water resources in 1995 as part of the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty. 48 million cubic meters of water per year were provided to Israel under the Peace Treaty in 2011.\n\nSuccessive years of drought from 1998–2002 had dramatically lowered water levels in all of the main reservoirs. 1998–1999 was the worst drought year in Israel for the past 100 years. The following years were also characterized by less than average rainfall which led to a shortfall of some half a billion cubic meters in Israel's water balance each year, in comparison to an average year. The winters of 2002–03 and 2003–04 were characterized by average and higher than average rainfall which led to a significant rise in the water level of the Sea of Galilee and in the collection of floodwater in catchment reservoirs. However, the country's aquifers have remained depleted. It was estimated in 2003 that increased water demand and decreased water availability has led to a cumulative deficit of nearly 2 billion cubic metres. In 2008 another drought occurred.\n\nThe Sea of Galilee and the Coastal Aquifer are Israel's main water storage facilities, with a combined storage capacity of about 2 billion cubic meters. The coastal aquifer is used for artificial groundwater recharge.\n\nArtificial groundwater recharge is practiced extensively in Israel from flood water, potable water from the National Water Carrier and treated wastewater. Artificial recharge has increased groundwater levels in the Coastal Aquifer and counteracted further seawater intrusion. Groundwater recharge from flood water is done by collecting runoff from winter rains in a drainage basin and directing it into recharge ponds. The groundwater is then pumped back up during summer through wells around the recharge ponds. The cost of the recharge process is limited to maintenance, with pumping costs amounting to only $0.02–0.03 per cubic meter. About 40–50% more water than the average recharge is pumped from the aquifer in order to create a temporary hydrological depression that creates space for artificial recharge the following winter.\n\nThe largest recharge plant in Israel is the Menashe plant in the Northern coastal plain, which is operated by Mekorot. The drainage basin of the Menashe plant is 189 square kilometers, capturing about 12 million cubic meters in an average year.\n\nIsrael is considered a global leader in terms of the reuse of treated wastewater (reclaimed water). For example, in 2012 the Dan Region Wastewater Treatment Plant was cited as a global model by the United Nations. The plant, known locally as Shafdan, was lauded for its unique method of using the natural filtration qualities of sand to improve the quality of sewage. In 2010, about 400 million cubic metres/year of treated wastewater was reused, primarily in agriculture. This constitutes about 40% of water use in agriculture.\n\nIsrael has a modern sanitation system that includes 120 wastewater treatment plants in Israel. The three largest plants are: \n\nMany of the smaller wastewater treatment plants are waste stabilization ponds, a low-cost and low-energy treatment that eliminates pathogens while conserving nutrients. An example is the Arab village of Kafr Manda in the Western Galilee, whose wastewater is being treated and reused for irrigation in the neighboring Jewish community of Yodfat.\n\nHowever, a report released by the Israel Union for Environmental Defense in 2010 found that 500,000 homes in Israel are not linked to a central sewage system. The vast majority of these homes are in 150 Arab communities which have no sewage hook-up and whose waste is therefore discharged into cesspits or the local environment. Jerusalem and Ariel were reported as dumping some of their refuse into streams. Overall, only 2.7% of raw sewage flows into streams and none into the sea.\n\nAs of 2010, Israel leads the world in the proportion of water it recycles. Israel treats 80% of its sewage (400 billion liters a year), and 100% of the sewage from the Tel Aviv metropolitan area is treated and reused as irrigation water for agriculture and public works. The remaining sludge is currently pumped into the Mediterranean, however a new bill has passed stating a conversion to treating the sludge to be used as manure.\nOnly 20% of the treated water is lost (due to evaporation, leaks, overflows and seeping). The recycled water allows farmers to plan ahead and not be limited by water shortages.\nThere are many levels of treatment, and many different ways of treating the water—which leads to a big difference in the quality of the end product. The best quality of reclaimed sewage water comes from adding a gravitational filtering step, after the chemical and biological cleansing. This method uses small ponds in which the water seeps through the sand into the aquifer in about 400 days, then is pumped out as clear purified water. This is nearly the same process used in the space station water recycling system, which turns urine and feces into purified drinking water, oxygen and manure.\n\nTo add to the efficiency of the Israeli system - the reclaimed sewage water may be mixed with reclaimed sea water (Plans are in action to increase the desalinization program up to 50% of the country's usage by 2013 - 600 billion liters of drinkable sea water a year), along with aquifer water and fresh sweet lake water - monitored by computer to account for the nationwide needs and input. This action reduced the outdated risk of salt and mineral percentages in the water. Plans to implement this overall usage of reclaimed water for drinking are discouraged by the psychological preconception of the public for the quality of reclaimed water, and the fear of its origin.\nAs of today, all the reclaimed sewage water in Israel is used for agricultural and land improvement purposes.\n\nIn early 2002, under the impact of drought, the government approved the construction of large seawater desalination plants along the Mediterranean coast. These installations would supply 500 million m/yr by 2015. The government's goal is to reach a capacity of 750 million m/year by 2020. All projects were to be executed by the private sector, through international tenders. At the end of 2013 four plants, with a total capacity of almost 500 million m/year per year, were operational. All plants use reverse osmosis, utilizing self-generated power.\n\nThe Ashkelon seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) desalination plant was the largest in the world when it was commissioned. The project was developed as a BOT (Build-Operate-Transfer) by a consortium of three international companies: Veolia water, IDE Technologies and Elran. In March 2006, it was voted 'Desalination Plant of the Year' in the Global Water Awards.\n\nThe NIS 1.5 billion (US$375 million) financing of the Hadera plant was led by a consortium of foreign banks with 50% financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB), 25% by the French Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank and 25% by Banco Espirito Santo (BES), a Portuguese investment bank.\n\nThe construction of the plant in Ashdod by Mekorot had been delayed by an injunction in court from the private company IDE which had built the Ashkelon plant. It alleged that the contract had been awarded to Mekorot without a tender. In June 2008, the Tel Aviv District Court decided that IDE was right. In February 2009 Mekorot Development and Initiatives Ltd, a subsidiary of Mekorot, published an international tender for the planning and construction of the plant. The tender foresees an option for the winner to become a partner in the special project company controlled by Mekorot that will carry out the project, and in the project operating and maintenance company, with a stake of up to 40%.\n\nIn 2004, a representative of the Israeli Water Commission had suggested at an international conference to use 50 million m/year from the desalination plant in Hadera for the exclusive supply of up to one million Palestinians in the Northern West Bank.\n\nEnvironmental groups, such as the Israel Union for Environmental Defense, have called for a moratorium on new desalination plants, beyond the ones already in the advanced bidding stages. \"We believe that even in 2020, we can make do with desalination 315 million cubic meters\", a report says. It calls for water conservation, the treatment of wastewater and the recycling of greywater, as well as using construction techniques that allow rainwater to percolate into underground water reservoirs. The authors of the report claim that this would reduce the need for massive desalination of seawater and the environmental damage it causes, including the emission of greenhouse gases. In October 2011 the Water Authority published a Master Plan for Desalination in Israel.\n\nIn addition to these large plants, there are around 30 small mostly brackish water desalination plants that desalinate about 30 million m/year. Most of these installations are in the Arava and the Negev. The largest of them (~11 million m/year) is located in Eilat and desalinates brackish water and Red Sea water for use of the city's inhabitants. The first desalination installations were established in Israel in 1965.\n\nAccording to other reports Israel desalinated only around 16,500 cubic meter/day (m/d) of brackish water in 2008, corresponding to 6 million m/year. In 2008 the government planned to increase this capacity more than 13-fold to somewhere between 220,000 m/d and 274,000 m/d by 2012. Some plants are intended to help to rehabilitate the southern part of the coastal aquifer, which has been adversely affected by salinity due to overextraction. As of 2014, twelve such installations were operational, desalinating 66 million m.\n\nIn addition, a desalination facility with a capacity of 54,800 m/d–82,200 m/d is planned in the Western Galilee. In Nitzanim in southern Israel, a plan is being studied for increasing the size of the 9,600 m/d desalination plant.\n\nWater use in 2009 was 1.91 billion cubic meters of which fresh water use was 1.26 billion cubic meters. Water use was 100 million cubic meters (5.2%) to Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, 1016 million cubic meters for agriculture(53.2%), 684 million cubic meters (35.8%) for domestic and public uses and 110 million cubic meters (5.7%) for industrial use. According to one estimate, average domestic water consumption in Israel is 137 litres per person per day on average, about half of indoor water use in the United States. However, according to another estimate water use per person per year is 90 cubic meter, corresponding to 247 litres per day. The latter estimate includes losses and probably also water use by offices that may not have been included in the former figures.\n\nAccording to the Ministry of Environment, 97.9% of the tests complied with drinking water quality standards. An analysis of results since 1989, when disinfection of groundwater was first introduced, has shown a constant improvement in the quality of drinking water, with the percentage of violations decreasing from 8.4% in 1989 to 2.1% in 1999. In 2000, the Minister of Health signed an amended version of public health regulations which raise chemical standards for water quality to very stringent standards. Maximum levels for 38 new chemical substances—including pesticides, organic solvents and petroleum products—were set for the first time while existing standards for nitrates, lead, cadmium and zinc were tightened.\n\nThe salinity of supplied water in Israel varies from very low salinity water (10 mg/l of chlorides) from the Upper Jordan River, 200 mg/l from the Sea of Galilee, and more than 1500 mg/l from groundwater sources in the south.\n\nResponsibilities for the water and sanitation sector in Israel are defined in two key laws: The Water Law of 1959, amended most recently in 2006, and the Water and Sewerage Corporations Law of 2001.\n\nThe Minister of Energy and Water Resources (until 2012 the Minister of Infrastructures) is the Cabinet member responsible to the Parliament (the Knesset) for the management of water resources, proposing the national water policy for Cabinet approval and subsequently implementing it, as well as for Israel's external water relations. Since some aspects of the management, protection and allocation of water resources fall into the spheres of other Ministries, the exercise of certain powers requires their consent. The principal Ministries in that category are the Ministries of Agriculture (agricultural allocations and pricing), Environmental Protection (water quality standards), Health (drinking water quality), Finance (tariffs and investments) and the Interior (urban water supply). The Administration for the Development of Sewage Infrastructures, a unit in the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources, implements government policy in the field of development of sanitation. Long-term planning for the supply and sanitation is included in the National Outline Plan.\n\nWith the 2006 amendment to the Water Law the Governmental Authority of Water and Sewerage (the \"Water Authority\") was created. The Water Authority is an inter-agency body overseen by a council composed of senior representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Energy and Water, Environmental Protection and Interior. The Director of the Authority (formerly the \"Water Commissioner\") is a cabinet-appointed civil servant reporting to the Minister of Energy and Water and to the Knesset. He is nominated by the Cabinet for a period of five years. There also is a Water Board, which is composed of representatives of the Government and the public (producers, suppliers and consumers), whose consent/advice must be obtained for certain measures. Past and present water commissioners or Directors of the Water Authority include Meir Ben Meir (1996–2000), Shimon Tal (2001–2006), Uri Shani (2006-2011) and Alexander Kushnir (since 2011).\n\nThe state-owned National Water Company (Mekorot) is responsible for bulk water supply through the National Water Carrier, transferring water from the Sea of Galilee and other sources mainly to the coastal plain. Mekorot supplies 1.5 billion cubic meters of water in an average year, 70% of Israel's entire water supply and 80% of its drinking water. It supplies water to about 4,800 intermediary water providers, including municipalities, regional associations, agricultural settlements and industrial consumers. It also operates 31 desalination plants treating nearly a million cubic meters of seawater and brackish water every day. The company's eight wastewater treatment plants, including the Dan Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant, treat 40% of all Israel's wastewater. Its nine reclamation plants enable 70% of the treated effluent to be reused for agriculture. In 2007 the structure of Mekorot has been changed. The parent company, \"Mekorot Water\", continues to produce, transport and supply water. One of its subsidiaries, \"Mekorot Ventures and Development\", concentrates, among other things, on the desalination of seawater, wastewater treatment, projects for the municipal sector and projects abroad. Another subsidiary focuses on building and maintaining water infrastructures, primarily for the parent company. Mekorot also serves in some cases also as a Regional Water Authority. A Regional Water Authority does not have to be owned or controlled by the Government and may be owned either privately or by municipalities.\n\nWater distribution and sanitation is the responsibility of 52 regional water and sewer corporations that serve 132 local authorities with 5.5 million inhabitants. Outside their service area local authorities provide services directly to customers.\n\nLocal authorities consist of 76 cities (with a population ranging from 2,500 to 750,000 inhabitants), 144 local councils in small towns and 53 regional councils in rural areas. The Water and Sewerage Corporations Law of 2001 provides for the creation of regional companies to which local authorities would gradually transfer their water and sewerage services. The 2001 Law aims at, \"inter alia,\" full cost recovery and the promotion of private sector investments for infrastructure. The transfer of service provision from municipalities to public service entities (called \"Water and Sewerage Corporations\") is initially voluntary, but at a later stage it will become compulsory. It had been initially envisaged that by 2010 all municipal water and sewerage services would have been transferred to Water and Sewerage Corporations. The Corporations may serve the area of one or more municipality, although in the latter case all municipalities in the service coverage area have to agree. The Corporations have quality of service obligations and are required to obtain a permit from the Ministry of the Interior. The Corporations may be owned either by the municipality (ies) in whose service area they operate or by private investors. The Government may intervene in the operation of the Corporation, including transferring the provision of the services to another entity in case of failure in service provision, including in case of bankruptcy. The aim was to have only about 15 large regional water and sanitation companies. However, 52 companies had been established as of 2010 because mayors resisted the establishment of larger regional companies.\n\nAn example of a multi-municipal utility that precedes the 2001 law is the Dan Regional Sewerage Board (Shafdan), which includes seven municipalities in and around Tel Aviv. It owns the Dan wastewater treatment plant, the largest wastewater treatment plant in the country which treats about 130 million cubic meters of wastewater annually for reuse in agriculture (see under reclaimed water). Mekorot operates the plant on behalf of Shafdan.\n\nIn Israel water tariffs are levied for all uses and at all stages of production, from groundwater abstraction, to bulk water sales to final users. Investments are financed both through self-financing from water sales revenues, through commercial debt and through various subsidies paid to municipalities and to Mekorot. From 2010-12 regional water companies distributed the equivalent of $55 million in profits to their municipal shareholders. As of mid-2014, the Ministry of Energy and Water planned to present a law to Parliament that would allow utilities to return profits to their customers in the form of refunds.\n\nDomestic water tariffs charged by local authorities are set by the Ministers of Interior and Finance. They are progressive (increasing-block) tariffs. The first block is for the initial 3.5 cubic meters per month for each housing unit and was set at NIS 9.09 ($2.43) in 2013, with higher consumption charged at NIS 14.60 per cubic meter. In condominiums apartments usually have their own meters. In 2005 the average household expenditures on water stood at 0.9% of total household consumption expenditures. In June 2013 the Finance Ministry and the Council of Local Authorities reached agreement that the base water tariff will be reduced by 5% by the end of 2015. Water tariffs had gone up by over 30% in previous years.\n\nAbstraction Fees In 1999, during a severe drought, it was decided that all those extracting water from water sources would be charged with an extraction levy. The obligation for payment of the extraction levy falls on the extractor who can pass the costs on to the consumers.\n\nMekorot bulk water tariffs The prices Mekorot is entitled to charge are the rates set by the Ministers of Energy and Water and Finance, approved by the Knesset's Finance Committee, and updated from time to time according to the changes in the Consumer Price Index, electricity rates and the average wage index. The rates are categorized by the different uses: domestic, consumption and services, industry and agriculture. The rates for industrial and agriculture uses are lower than those for domestic consumption and services. Water for agriculture is supplied on a less reliable basis and is of poorer quality. Subsidies are provided for agriculture and for remote and elevated localities. The bulk water tariff for a specific use is the same throughout the country, irrespective of the difference in costs of supplying water to a specific locality. Mekorot bulk water tariffs were increased by 25% in January 2010, to a large extent to absorb increases in electricity prices. Energy accounts for an ever-larger share of water supply costs because of the increasing share of seawater desalination.\n\nThe total investment in the sector consists of investments by Mekorot in bulk water supply (including water supply for domestic uses, industry and agriculture), as well as investments by municipalities in drinking water distribution, sewerage and wastewater treatment. If half of the Mekorot investments of US$240 million in 2006 can be attributed to domestic water supply (US$120 million), and US$125 million were invested by municipalities in sanitation (see below), total investments in drinking water supply and sanitation stood at least US$245 million per year, excluding investments in desalination plants under BOO schemes and excluding investments in drinking water distribution by municipalities.\n\nMunicipalities receive grants and soft loans in order to finance investments, particularly in wastewater treatment. These subsidies are channeled through various funds, such as the Water Networks Rehabilitation Fund, the National Sewage Program and the Wastewater Renovation and Reuse Program. The State invests about NIS 450 million per year (about US$125 million) in sanitation through these funds, mostly in the form of long term subsidized loans (20 years, 5% interest), and some in the form of grants.\n\nMekorot receives a subsidy from the Ministry of Finance to cover the difference between its supply costs and the tariffs it is allowed to charge to its customers. Between 1993 and 1999 government support to Mekorot declined from 40% to 23% of its turnover, to a large extent because of an increase in the efficiency of Mekorot. This has been induced by a change introduced in 1994, whereby Mekorot's tariffs were not set any more under a cost-plus formula, but a 2.5% annual factor for efficiency increases was built into the tariff formula.\n\nMost large-scale seawater desalination plants are being privately financed as BOT projects. The Hadera plant, for example, is led, for the first time, by a consortium of foreign banks, and amounts to NIS 1.5 billion according to the following breakdown: 50% The European Investment Bank (EIB); 25% the French Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank, which specializes in long term projects; 25% Banco Espirito Santo (BES), a Portuguese investment bank.\n\nThroughout its history, the Mekorot has been financially stable according to information published on its website. In 2006, Mekorot's turnover was over $700 million, shareholders' equity was $500 million and total assets were in excess of $2.8 billion. In 2006, Mekorot invested over $240 million in developing water facilities, including a new central filtration plant, compared with $180 million in investments in 2005. For a number of years Mekorot's fundraising instruments (primarily, bond offerings) have been awarded the highest AAA rating by the credit rating agency based on the following factors: Because tariffs established by the government are low and do not cover Mekorot's operating costs, the company receives compensation for the difference between what it costs to produce a unit of water and what it is allowed to charge. The level of subsidies is fixed in multi-annual agreements, the first one having covered the period 1993–98, the second one 1998–2006 and the third one for a much shorter period, 2007–08.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45437843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437843", "title": "Watusi (firework)", "text": "Watusi (firework)\n\nA watusi is a type of firecracker that is popular in the Philippines.\n\nIts ingredients are yellow phosphorus, potassium chlorate, potassium nitrate, and trinitrotoluene. The ingredients in the firework are highly toxic, and ingestion can lead to painful death. In particular, children are killed by watusi fireworks after sucking on them or mistaking them for sweets. The yellow phosphorus, the most dangerous component of the watusi, may explode and rip apart the esophagus when ingested. The Philippine Department of Health is attempting to have the sale of watusi fireworks to children banned to prevent these deaths.\n\n"}
{"id": "3594714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3594714", "title": "Wootton Report", "text": "Wootton Report\n\nThe Wootton Report on \"cannabis\" (dated 1968 and published in January 1969) was compiled by the Sub-committee on Hallucinogens of the United Kingdom Home Office Advisory Committee on Drug Dependence. The sub-committee was chaired by Baroness Wootton of Abinger. Originally intended to be a report on both cannabis and LSD, the panel members decided to limit their report to cannabis.\n\nThe second paragraph of the Report reads:\"Our first enquiries were proceeding — without publicity — into the pharmacological and medical aspects, when other developments gave our study new and increased significance. An advertisement in \"The Times\" on 24th July, 1967 represented that the long-asserted dangers of cannabis were exaggerated and that the related law was socially damaging, if not unworkable. This was followed by a wave of debate about these issues in Parliament, the Press and elsewhere, and reports of enquiries, e.g. by the National Council for Civil Liberties. This publicity made more explicit the nature of some current ‘protest’ about official policy on drugs; defined more clearly some of the main issues in our study; and led us to give greater attention to the legal aspects of the problem. Government spokesmen made it clear that any future development of policy on cannabis would have to take account of the Advisory Committee’s Report. Accordingly, we decided to give first priority to presenting our views on cannabis.\"\n\nThe Report seemed to give cannabis something resembling a clean bill of health. It said:\"The long term consumption of cannabis in \"moderate\" doses has no harmful effects (…) Cannabis is less dangerous than the opiates, amphetamines and barbiturates, and also less dangerous than alcohol. (…) An increasing number of people, mainly young, in all classes of society are experimenting with this drug, and substantial numbers use it regularly for social pleasure. There is no evidence that this activity is causing violent crime, or is producing in otherwise normal people conditions of dependence or psychosis requiring medical treatment (…) there are indications that (cannabis) may become a functional equivalent of alcohol.\"\n\nThe Advisory Committee appeared also to accept the principle of decriminalisation. The main proposal in the report was that \"possession of a small amount of cannabis should not normally be regarded as a serious crime to be punished by imprisonment\". The accompanying letter of submission to the Home Secretary said: \"The committee is generally of the view that imprisonment is no longer an appropriate punishment for those who are unlawfully in possession of a small amount\".\n\nThe Home Secretary at the time, James Callaghan, suggested he would reject the report. He told Parliament that on his reading, the committee had been \"over-influenced\" by the\n\"lobby\" for \"legalisation\" responsible for \"that notorious advertisement\", adding, \"it was wrong for the committee to report on one drug in isolation in the way that it did\". However, a year later he introduced comprehensive new consolidating legislation that had the effect of implementing Wootton’s proposal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14092544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14092544", "title": "Youden's J statistic", "text": "Youden's J statistic\n\nYouden's J statistic (also called Youden's index) is a single statistic that captures the performance of a dichotomous diagnostic test. Informedness is its generalization to the multiclass case and estimates the probability of an informed decision.\n\nYouden's \"J\" statistic is\n\nwith the two right-hand quantities being sensitivity and specificity. Thus the expanded formula is:\n\nThe index was suggested by W.J. Youden in 1950 as a way of summarising the performance of a diagnostic test. Its value ranges from 0 through 1 (inclusive), and has a zero value when a diagnostic test gives the same proportion of positive results for groups with and without the disease, i.e the test is useless. A value of 1 indicates that there are no false positives or false negatives, i.e. the test is perfect. The index gives equal weight to false positive and false negative values, so all tests with the same value of the index give the same proportion of total misclassified results.\n\nYouden's index is often used in conjunction with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The index is defined for all points of an ROC curve, and the maximum value of the index may be used as a criterion for selecting the optimum cut-off point when a diagnostic test gives a numeric rather than a dichotomous result. The index is represented graphically as the height above the chance line, and it is also equivalent to the area under the curve subtended by a single operating point.\n\nYouden's index is also known as deltap' and generalizes from the dichotomous to the multiclass case as Informedness.\n\nThe use of a single index is \"not generally to be recommended\", but Informedness or Youden's index is the probability of an informed decision (as opposed to a random guess) and takes into account all predictions.\n\nAn unrelated but commonly used combination of basic statistics from Information Retrieval is the F-score, being a (possibly weighted) harmonic mean of recall and precision where recall = sensitivity = true positive rate, but specificity and precision are totally different measures. F-score, like recall and precision, only considers the so-called positive predictions, with recall being the probability of predicting just the positive class, precision being the probability of a positive prediction being correct, and F-score equating these probabilities under the effective assumption that the positive labels and the positive predictions should have the same distribution and prevalence, similar to the assumption underlying of Fleiss' kappa. Youden's J, Informedness, Recall, Precision and F-score are intrinsically undirectional, aiming to assess the deductive effectiveness of predictions in the direction proposed by a rule, theory or classifier. Markedness (deltap) is Youden's J used to assess the reverse or abductive direction, and matches well human learning of associations; rules and, superstitions as we model possible causation; while correlation and kappa evaluate bidirectionally.\n\nMatthews correlation coefficient is the geometric mean of the regression coefficient of the problem and its dual, where the component regression coefficients of the Matthews correlation coefficient are Markedness (inverse of Youden's J or deltap) and Informedness (Youden's J or deltap'). Kappa statistics such as Fleiss' kappa and Cohen's kappa are methods for calculating inter-rater reliability based on different assumptions about the marginal or prior distributions, and are increasingly used as \"chance corrected\" alternatives to accuracy in other contexts. Fleiss' kappa, like F-score, assumes that both variables are drawn from the same distribution and thus have the same expected prevalence, while Cohen's kappa assumes that the variables are drawn from distinct distributions and referenced to a model of expectation that assumes prevalences are independent.\n\nWhen the true prevalences for the two positive variables are equal as assumed in Fleiss kappa and F-score, that is the number of positive predictions matches the number of positive classes in the dichotomous (two class) case, the different kappa and correlation measure collapse to identity with Youden's J, and recall, precision and F-score are similarly identical with accuracy.\n"}
