{"id": "33276452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33276452", "title": "Anti-Japanese sentiment in the United States", "text": "Anti-Japanese sentiment in the United States\n\nAnti-Japanese sentiment in the United States has existed since the late 19th century, during the Yellow Peril. Anti-Japanese sentiment peaked during the Second World War and again in the 1970s-1980s with the rise of Japan as a major economic power.\n\nIn the United States, anti-Japanese sentiment had its beginnings well before World War II. Racial prejudice against Asian immigrants began building soon after Chinese workers started arriving in the country in the mid-19th century, and set the tone for the resistance Japanese would face in the decades to come. Although Chinese were heavily recruited in the mining and railroad industries initially, whites in Western states and territories came to view the immigrants as a source of economic competition and a threat to racial \"purity\" as their population increased. A network of anti-Chinese groups (many of which would reemerge in the anti-Japanese movement) worked to pass laws that limited Asian immigrants' access to legal and economic equality with whites. Most important of these discriminatory laws was the exclusion of Asians from citizenship rights. The Naturalization Act of 1870 revised the previous law, under which only white immigrants could become U.S. citizens, to extend eligibility to people of African descent. By designating Asians as permanent aliens, the law prohibited them from voting and serving on juries, which, combined with laws that prevented people of color from testifying against whites in court, made it virtually impossible for Asian Americans to participate in the country's legal and political systems. Also significant were alien land laws, which relied on coded language barring \"aliens ineligible for citizenship\" from owning land or real estate, and in some cases from even entering into a temporary lease, to discourage Asian immigrants from establishing homes and businesses in over a dozen states. These laws were greatly detrimental to the newly arrived immigrants, since many of them were farmers and had little choice but to become migrant workers.\n\nAfter the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 stopped immigration from China, American labor recruiters began targeting Japanese workers, triggering a rapid increase in the country's Japanese population, which in turn triggered the movement to decrease their number and restrict their economic and political power. Some cite the formation of the Asiatic Exclusion League as the start of the anti-Japanese movement in California, where, along with the Japanese American population, the exclusion movement was centered. Their efforts focused on ending Japanese immigration and, as with the previous anti-Chinese movement, nativist groups like the Asiatic Exclusion League lobbied to limit and finally, with the Immigration Act of 1924, ban Japanese and other East Asians from entering the U.S. However, in the process they created an atmosphere of systematic hostility and discrimination that would later contribute to the push to incarcerate 120,000 Japanese Americans during World War II.\n\nWith its anti-Japanese organizations, state authorities and legislation, California may have been to the Japanese what the South was to blacks.\n\n\nThe California Alien Land Law of 1913 was specifically created to prevent land ownership among Japanese citizens residing in the state of California.\n\nIn \"State of California v. Jukichi Harada\" (1918), Judge Hugh H. Craig sided with the defendant and ruled that American children - who happened to be born to Japanese parents - had the right to own land.\n\nIn 1942, with the Japanese incarcerated in ten American concentration camps, California Attorney General Earl Warren saw his chance and approved the state takeover of twenty parcels of land held in the name of American children of Japanese parents, \"in absentia\". In 1943, Governor Warren signed a bill that expanded the Alien Land Law by denying the Japanese the opportunity to farm as they had before World War II. In 1945, he followed up by signing two bills that facilitated the seizure of land owned by American descendants of the Japanese.\n\nIn \"State of California v. Oyama\" (1948), the Supreme Court ruled that California's Alien Land Law was anti-Japanese in concept, and deemed unfit to stand in America's law books. Justices Murphy and Rutledge wrote:\n\nIt took four years for California's Supreme Court to concede that the law was unconstitutional, in \"State of California v. Fujii\" (1952). Finally, in 1956, California voters repealed the law.\n\nAnti-Japanese racism and Yellow Peril in California had become increasingly xenophobic after the Japanese victory over the Russian Empire in the Russo-Japanese War. On October 11, 1906, the San Francisco, California Board of Education had passed a regulation whereby children of Japanese descent would be required to attend racially segregated separate schools. At the time, Japanese immigrants made up approximately 1% of the population of California; many of them had come under the treaty in 1894 which had assured free immigration from Japan.\n\nThe Japanese invasion of China in 1931 and the annexation of Manchuria was roundly criticized in the US. In addition, efforts by citizens outraged at Japanese atrocities, such as the Nanking Massacre, led to calls for American economic intervention to encourage Japan to leave China; these calls played a role in shaping American foreign policy. As more and more unfavorable reports of Japanese actions came to the attention of the American government, embargoes on oil and other supplies were placed on Japan, out of concern for the Chinese populace and for American interests in the Pacific. Furthermore, the European American population became very pro-China and anti-Japan, an example being a grass-roots campaign for women to stop buying silk stockings, because the material was procured from Japan through its colonies. European traders sought access to Chinese markets and resources. Chinese Americans were again distressed when an estimated 150,000 Taishanese locals died after starving to death in Taishan County by the Japanese blockade, as Taishan County was the homeland of most Chinese Americans at that time.\n\nWhen the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937, Western public opinion was decidedly pro-China, with eyewitness reports by Western journalists on atrocities committed against Chinese civilians further strengthening anti-Japanese sentiments. African American sentiments at the time could be quite different than the mainstream, with organizations like the Pacific Movement of the Eastern World (PMEW) which promised equality and land distribution under Japanese rule. The PMEW had thousands of members hopefully preparing for liberation from white supremacy with the arrival of the Japanese Imperial Army.\n\nThe most profound cause of anti-Japanese sentiment outside of Asia had its beginning in the attack on Pearl Harbor. The Japanese attack propelled the United States into World War II. The Americans were unified by the attack to fight against the Empire of Japan and its allies, the German Reich and the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nThe surprise attack at Pearl Harbor prior to a declaration of war was presented to the American populace as an act of treachery and cowardice. Following the attack many non-governmental \"Jap hunting licenses\" were circulated around the country. \"Life\" magazine published an article on how to distinguish a Japanese person from a Chinese person by the shape of the nose and the stature of the body. Japanese conduct during the war did little to quell anti-Japanese sentiment. Fanning the flames of outrage were the treatment of American and other prisoners of war. Military-related outrages included the murder of POWs, the use of POWs as slave labor for Japanese industries, the Bataan Death March, the kamikaze attacks on Allied ships, and atrocities committed on Wake Island and elsewhere.\n\nU.S. historian James J. Weingartner attributes the very low number of Japanese in U.S. POW compounds to two key factors: a Japanese reluctance to surrender and a widespread American \"conviction that the Japanese were 'animals' or 'subhuman' and unworthy of the normal treatment accorded to POWs.\" The latter reasoning is supported by Niall Ferguson, who says that \"Allied troops often saw the Japanese in the same way that Germans regarded Russians [sic] — as Untermenschen.\" Weingartner believes this explains the fact that a mere 604 Japanese captives were alive in Allied POW camps by October 1944.\nUlrich Straus, a U.S. Japanologist, believes that front line troops intensely hated Japanese military personnel and were \"not easily persuaded\" to take or protect prisoners. They believed that Allied personnel who surrendered got \"no mercy\" from the Japanese. Allied soldiers believed that Japanese soldiers were inclined to feign surrender, in order to make surprise attacks. Therefore, according to Straus, \"[s]enior officers opposed the taking of prisoners[,] on the grounds that it needlessly exposed American troops to risks...\"\n\nAn estimated 112,000 to 120,000 Japanese migrants and Japanese Americans from the West Coast were interned regardless of their attitude to the US or Japan. They were held for the duration of the war in the inner US. The large Japanese population of Hawaii was not massively relocated in spite of their proximity to vital military areas.\n\nA December 1944 opinion poll found that 13% of the U.S. public were in favor of the extermination of all Japanese.\n\nImperial Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, plunged the United States into war and planted the notion of Japanese treachery in the minds of Americans. The hysteria that enveloped the West Coast during the early months of the war, combined with long standing anti-Asian prejudices, set the stage for what was to come.\n\nExecutive Order 9066 authorized the military to exclude any person from any area of the country where national security was considered threatened. It gave the military broad authority over the civilian population without the imposition of martial law. Although the order did not mention any specific group or recommend detention, its language implied that any citizen might be removed. In practice, the order was applied almost exclusively to Japanese Americans and Japanese nationals, with only few Italian and German Americans suffering similar fates. Ultimately, approximately 110,000 Japanese nationals and Japanese Americans were interned in housing facilities called \"War Relocation Camps\".\n\nAfter the Pearl Harbor attacks, much anti-Japanese paraphernalia and propaganda surfaced in the United States. An example of this was the so-called \"Jap hunting license\", a faux-official document, button or medallion that purported to authorize \"open season\" on \"hunting\" the Japanese, despite the fact that over a quarter of a million Americans at that time were of Japanese origin. Some reminded holders that there was \"no limit\" on the number of \"Japs\" they could \"hunt or trap\". These \"licenses\" often characterized Japanese people as sub-human. Many of the \"Jap Hunting Licenses\", for example, depicted the Japanese in animalistic fashion.\n\nEdmund Russell writes that, whereas in Europe Americans perceived themselves to be struggling against \"great individual monsters\", such as Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, and Joseph Goebbels, Americans often saw themselves fighting against a \"nameless mass of vermin\", in regards to Japan. Russell attributes this to the outrage of Americans in regards to the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Bataan Death March, American politicians decrying the killing of American POWs in the hands of Imperial Japanese forces, and the perceived \"inhuman tenacity\" demonstrated in the refusal of Imperial forces to surrender. Kamikaze suicide bombings, according to John Morton Blum, were instrumental in confirming this stereotype of the \"insane martial spirit\" of Imperial Japan, and the bigoted picture it would engender of the Japanese people as a whole.\n\nTo understand where the word \"Jap\" comes from a comparison to the \"Nazis\" as it left space for the recognition of the \"good German\", but scant comparable place for \"good Japanese\". Magazines like \"Time\" hammered this home even further by frequently referring to \"the Jap\" rather than \"Japs\", thereby denying the enemy even the merest semblance of pluralism.\n\nCommonwealth troops also employed rhetoric of \"hunting\", in regards to their doing battle with Imperial Japanese forces. According to T. R. Moreman, the demonization of the Japanese served \"to improve morale, foster belief that the war in the Far East was worthwhile and build the moral component of fighting power\". Training instruction issued by the headquarters of 5th Indian Division suggested, \"The JAP is a fanatic and therefore a menace until he is dead!... It will be our fanatical aim to KILL JAPS. Hunt him and kill him like any other wild beast!\"\n\nWeingartner argues that there is a common cause between the mutilation of Japanese war dead and the decision to bomb Hiroshima and Nagasaki. According to Weingartner both were partially the result of a dehumanization of the enemy, saying, \"[T]he widespread image of the Japanese as sub-human constituted an emotional context which provided another justification for decisions which resulted in the death of hundreds of thousands.\" On the second day after the Nagasaki bomb, Truman stated: \"The only language they seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them. When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him like a beast. It is most regrettable but nevertheless true\".\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, the waning fortunes of heavy industry in the United States prompted layoffs and hiring slowdowns just as counterpart businesses in Japan were making major inroads into U.S. markets. Nowhere was this more visible than in the automobile industry, where the then-lethargic Big Three automobile manufacturers (General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler) watched as their former customers bought Japanese imports from Honda, Toyota and Nissan, a consequence of the 1973 oil crisis. The anti-Japanese sentiment manifested itself in occasional public destruction of Japanese cars, and in the 1982 murder of Vincent Chin, a Chinese American beaten to death when he was mistaken to be Japanese.\n\nOther highly symbolic deals—including the sale of famous American commercial and cultural symbols such as Columbia Records, Columbia Pictures, and the Rockefeller Center building to Japanese firms—further fanned anti-Japanese sentiment.\n\nPopular culture of the period reflected American's growing distrust of Japan. Futuristic period pieces such as \"Back to the Future Part II\" and \"RoboCop 3\" frequently showed Americans as working precariously under Japanese superiors. Criticism was also lobbied in many novels of the day. Author Michael Crichton took a break from science fiction to write \"Rising Sun\", a murder mystery (later made into a feature film) involving Japanese businessmen in the U.S. Likewise, in Tom Clancy's book \"Debt of Honor\", Clancy implies that Japan's prosperity is due primarily to unequal trading terms, and portrays Japan's business leaders acting in a power hungry cabal.\n\nAs argued by Marie Thorsten, however, Japanophobia mixed with Japanophilia during Japan's peak moments of economic dominance during the 1980s. The fear of Japan became a rallying point for techno-nationalism, the imperative to be first in the world in mathematics, science and other quantifiable measures of national strength necessary to boost technological and economic supremacy. Notorious \"Japan bashing\" took place alongside the image of Japan as superhuman, mimicking in some ways the image of the Soviet Union after it launched the first Sputnik satellite in 1957: both events turned the spotlight on American education. American bureaucrats purposely pushed this analogy. In 1982, Ernest Boyer, a former U.S. Commissioner of Education, publicly declared that, \"What we need is another Sputnik\" to re-boot American education, and that \"maybe what we should do is get the Japanese to put a Toyota into orbit\". Japan was both a threat and a model for human resource development in education and the workforce, merging with the image of Asian-Americans as the \"model minority\".\n\nBoth the animosity and super-humanizing which peaked in the 1980s, when the term \"Japan bashing\" became popular, had largely faded by the late 1990s. Japan's waning economic fortunes in the 1990s, known today as the Lost Decade, coupled with an upsurge in the U.S. economy as the Internet took off largely crowded anti-Japanese sentiment out of the popular media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1176034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176034", "title": "Bauzi people", "text": "Bauzi people\n\nThe Bauzi or Baudi tribe consists of a group of 2,000 people living in the north-central part of the Indonesian province of Papua (formerly Irian Jaya). The Bauzi area consists of much of the west side of lower Mamberamo River area in northern Papua. The Bauzi people lived on hunting and gathering in the jungle. While the Bauzi people were historically an animistic people group, they are now 65% Christian. For the most part, tribal warfare is no longer a large part of Bauzi culture and all Bauzi people speak the same language. In recent years, linguists have been studying the language and translating various literature, including the Bible, into the Bauzi language.\n"}
{"id": "35851527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35851527", "title": "Beezen language", "text": "Beezen language\n\nBeezen is a Plateau language of Cameroon. The Baazem variety is divergent.\n"}
{"id": "7654172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7654172", "title": "Bhutanese refugees", "text": "Bhutanese refugees\n\nBhutanese refugees are Lhotshampas (\"southerners\"), a group of Nepali language-speaking Bhutanese people, including the Kirat, Tamang, Magar, Brahman, Chhetri and Gurung peoples. These refugees registered in refugee camps in eastern Nepal during the 1990s as Bhutanese citizens deported from Bhutan during the ethnic cleansing carried out by King Jigme Singye Wangchuk of Bhutan. As Nepal and Bhutan have yet to implement any agreement on repatriation, many Bhutanese refugees have since resettled to North America, Oceania and Europe under the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Many Lhotshampa also migrated to areas of West Bengal and Assam in India independently of the UNHCR.\n\nThe earliest surviving records of Bhutan's history show that Tibetan influence already existed from the 6th century. King Songtsen Gampo, who ruled Tibet from the years 627 to 649, was responsible for the construction of Bhutan's oldest surviving Buddhist temples, the Kyichu Lhakhang in Paro and the Jambay Lhakhang in Bumthang. Settlement in Bhutan by people of Tibetan origin happened by this time.\n\nThe first reports of people of Nepalese origin in Bhutan was around 1620, when Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal commissioned a few Newar craftsmen from the Kathmandu valley in Nepal to make a silver stupa to contain the ashes of his father Tempa Nima. Since then, people of Nepalese origin started to settle in uninhabited areas of southern Bhutan. The south soon became the country's main supplier of food. Bhutanese of Nepalese origin, Lhotshampas, were flourishing along with the economy of Bhutan. By 1930, according to British colonial officials, much of the south was under cultivation by a population of Nepali origin that amounted to some 60,000 people.\n\nSettlement in Bhutan of a large number of people from Nepal happened in the early 20th century. This settlement was encouraged by the Bhutan House in Kalimpong for the purpose of collecting taxes for the government. In the 1930s, the Bhutan House settled 5,000 families of Nepali workers in Tsirang alone. In the 1940s, the British Political Officer Sir Basil Gould was quoted as saying that when he warned Sir Raja Sonam Topgay Dorji of Bhutan House of the potential danger of allowing so many ethnic Nepalese to settle in southern Bhutan, he replied that \"since they were not registered subjects they could be evicted whenever the need arose.\" Furthermore, Lhotshampa were forbidden from settling north of the subtropical foothills.\n\nExpatriate Nepalese, who resettled in West Bengal and Assam after leaving Bhutan, formed the Bhutan State Congress in 1952 to represent the interests of other expatriates in India as well as the communities they had left behind. An effort to expand their operations into Bhutan with a \"satyagraha\" (non-violent resistance) movement in 1954 failed in the face of the mobilization of Bhutan's militia and a lack of enthusiasm among those Nepalese in Bhutan, who did not want to risk their already tenuous status. The Bhutanese government further diffused the Bhutan State Congress movement by granting concessions to the minority and allowing Nepalese representation in the National Assembly. The Bhutan State Congress continued to operate in exile until its decline and gradual disappearance in the early 1960s. The leaders in exile were pardoned in 1969 and permitted to return.\n\nToward the end of the reign of the second King Jigme Wangchuck in the 1950s, the numbers of new immigrants had swelled causing tension between the King and the Dorji family in the Bhutan House. Amnesty was given through the Citizenship Act of 1958 for all those who could prove their presence in Bhutan for at least 10 years prior to 1958. On the other hand, the government also banned further immigration in 1958.\n\nFrom 1961 onward however, with Indian support, the government began planned developmental activities consisting of significant infrastructure development works. Uncomfortable with India's desire to bring in workers in large numbers from India, the government initially tried to prove its own capacity by insisting that the planned Thimphu-Phuntsholing highway be done with its own workforce. The government also attempted to rein in immigration. While the project was a success, completing the 182-kilometer highway in just two years, the import of workers from India was inevitable. With most Bhutanese self-employed as farmers, Bhutan lacked a ready supply of workers willing to take up the major infrastructure projects. This led eventually to the large-scale immigration of skilled and unskilled construction workers from India. These people were mostly of Nepali origin and settled in the south, as required, among legal and illegal residents alike. With the pressures of the developmental activities, this trend remained unchecked or inadequately checked for many years. Immigration check posts and immigration offices were in fact established for the first time only after 1990.\n\nBy the 1980s, the government had become acutely conscious not just of widespread illegal immigration of people of Nepali origin into Bhutan, but also of the total lack of integration even of long-term immigrants into the political and cultural mainstream of the country. Most Lhotshampa remained culturally Nepalese. For its part, the government had largely ignored illegal settlement, but had encouraged intermarriage with cash payments as a means of assimilation. However, this was met with negligible success as far as actual assimilation. There was also a perception of a Greater Nepal movement emerging from the Nepali-dominated areas in Nepal, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and West Bengal which the Bhutanese feared as Nepali chauvinism.\n\nPerceiving this growing dichotomy as a threat to national unity, the government promulgated directives in the 1980s that sought to preserve Bhutan's cultural identity as well as to formally embrace the citizens of other ethnic groups in a \"One Nation, One People\" policy. The government implied that the \"culture\" to be preserved would be that of the various northern Bhutanese groups. To reinforce this movement, the government forced the use of the \"Driglam Namzha\", the Bhutanese national dress and etiquette code. This policy required citizens to wear the attire of the northern Bhutanese in public places under penalty of fines, and reinforced the status of Dzongkha as the national language. Nepali was discontinued as a subject in the schools, thus bringing it at par with the status of the other languages of Bhutan, none of which are taught. Such policies were criticized at first by human rights groups as well as Bhutan's Nepalese economic migrant community, who perceived the policy to be directed against them. The government, for its part, perceived that free Nepali-language education had encouraged illegal immigration into southern Bhutan.\n\nThe Citizenship Act of 1985 clarified and attempted to enforce the Citizenship Act of 1958 in order to control the flood of illegal immigration. In 1980, the government conducted its first real census exercise. The basis for census citizenship classifications was the 1958 \"cut off\" year, the year that the Nepali population had first received Bhutanese citizenship. Those individuals who could not provide proof of residency prior to 1958 were adjudged to be illegal immigrants.\n\nThe issue was brought to the fore when the government of Bhutan discovered in its first census the magnitude of the Lhotsampa population. Lhotsampa of Nepali descent who had been living in southern Bhutan since the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were induced to leave Bhutan after the country carried out its first census in 1988. The government, however, failed to properly train the census officials and this led to some tension among the public. Placement in the census categories which ranged from \"Genuine Bhutanese\" to \"Non-nationals: Migrants and Illegal Settlers\" was often arbitrary, and could be arbitrarily changed. In some cases members of the same family have been, and still are, placed in different categories; some admittedly genuine Bhutanese have been forced to flee with family members the government found to be illegal immigrants. Other Lhotshampa who considered their own citizenship secure were prevented by government officials from obtaining proper documentation, losing their property.\n\nThe government also attempted to enforce the Bhutanese driglam namzha dress and language code at the same time, in order to have the Lhotshampa population assimilate into Ngalop society. The government explained its cultural identity programs as a defense against the first political problems since the Wangchuck Dynasty was established in 1907 and the greatest threat to the nation's survival since the seventeenth century. Its major concern was to avoid a repeat of events that had occurred in 1975 when the monarchy in Sikkim was ousted by a Nepalese majority in a plebiscite and Sikkim was absorbed into India. In an effort to resolve the interethnic strife, the Druk Gyalpo made frequent visits to the troubled southern districts, and he ordered the release of hundreds of arrested \"antinationals.\" He also expressed the fear that the large influx of Nepalese might lead to their demand for a separate state in the next ten to twenty years, in much the same way as happened in the once-independent monarchy of Sikkim in the 1970s.\n\nHowever, these measures combined to alienate even bona fide citizens of Nepali descent. Some ethnic Nepalese began protesting perceived discrimination, demanding exemption from the government decrees aimed at enhancing Bhutanese national identity. The reaction to the royal decrees in Nepalese majority communities surfaced as ethnic strife directed against non-Lhotshampa. Reactions also took form as protest movements in Nepal and India among Nepalese who had left Bhutan. The Druk Gyalpo was accused of \"cultural suppression,\" and his government was charged by antigovernment leaders with human rights violations, including the torture of prisoners; arbitrary arrest and detention; denial of due process; and restrictions of freedoms of speech and press, peaceful organization and assembly, and workers' rights. Antigovernment protest marches involved more than 20,000 participants, including some from a movement that had succeeded in coercing India into accepting local autonomy for ethnic Nepalese in West Bengal, who crossed the border from West Bengal and Assam into six districts across Bhutan. As the census exercise came to an end, the southern border of Bhutan became a hotbed of militancy for several years.\n\nSupporting the anti-government activities were expatriate Nepalese political groups and supporters in Nepal and India. Between 2,000 and 12,000 Nepalese were reported to have fled Bhutan in the late 1980s, and according to a 1991 report, even high-level Bhutanese government officials of Nepalese origin had resigned their positions and moved to Nepal. Some 5 million Nepalese were living in settlements in India along the Bhutan border in 1990. Nepalese were not necessarily welcome in India, where ethnic strife conspired to push them back through the largely unguarded Bhutanese frontier. The Bhutan Peoples' Party operated among the large Nepalese community in northern India. A second group, the Bhutan People's Forum for Human Rights (a counterpart of the Nepal People's Forum for Human Rights), was established in 1998 in Nepal by Tek Nath Rizal, a Lhotshampa and former trusted official of the Royal Advisory Council who acted as a chief liaison between the government and the Lhotshampa in the south, as well as a former member of the National Assembly of Bhutan. The Bhutan Students Union and the Bhutan Aid Group-Nepal also were involved in political activism.\n\nIn November 1989, Tek Nath Rizal was allegedly abducted in eastern Nepal by Bhutanese police and returned to Thimphu, where he was imprisoned on charges of conspiracy and treason. He was also accused of instigating the racial riots in southern Bhutan. Rizal was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1993.\n\nInterethnic conflict generally escalated during the 1990s. In February 1990, antigovernment activists detonated a remote-control bomb on a bridge near Phuntsholing and set fire to a seven-vehicle convoy.\n\nIn September 1990, clashes occurred with the Royal Bhutan Army, which was ordered not to fire on protesters. The men and women marchers were organized by S.K. Neupane and other members of the illegal Bhutan Peoples' Party, which reportedly urged the marchers to demand democracy and human rights for all Bhutanese citizens. Some villagers willingly joined the protests; others did so under duress. The government branded the party, reportedly established by anti-monarchists and backed by the Nepali Congress Party and the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist), as a terrorist organization. The party allegedly led its members – said to be armed with rifles, muzzle-loading guns, knives, and homemade grenades – in raids on villages in southern Bhutan, disrobing people wearing traditional Bhutanese garb; extorting money; and robbing, kidnapping, and killing people. Reportedly, there were hundreds of casualties, although the government admitted to only two deaths among security forces. Other sources indicated that more than 300 persons were killed, 500 wounded, and 2,000 arrested in clashes with security forces. Along with the above-mentioned violence, vehicle hijackings, kidnappings, extortions, ambushes, and bombings took place, schools were closed (some were destroyed), and post offices, police, health, forest, customs, and agricultural posts were destroyed. For their part, security forces were charged by the Bhutan Peoples' Party, in protests made to Amnesty International and the International Human Rights Commission, with murder and rape and carrying out a \"reign of terror\". In support of the expatriate Nepalese, the general secretary of the Nepali Congress Party, the ruling party in Nepal, called on the Druk Gyalpo to establish a multiparty democracy. Some of the organizers of the marches were arrested and detained. The Bhutanese government admitted only to the arrest of 42 people involved in \"anti-national\" activities in late 1989, plus 3 additional individuals who had been extradited from Nepal. All but 6 were reportedly later released; those remaining in jail were charged with treason. By September 1990, more than 300 additional prisoners held in the south were released following the Druk Gyalpo's tour of southern districts.\n\nIn the face of government resistance to demands that would institutionalize separate identities within the nation, protesters in the south insisted that the Bhutan Peoples' Party flag be flown in front of administrative headquarters and that party members be allowed to carry the \"kukri\", a traditional Nepalese curved knife, at all times. They also called for the right not to wear the Bhutanese national dress, and insisted that schools and government offices stay closed until their demands were met. The unmet demands were accompanied by additional violence and deaths in October 1990. At the same time, India pledged \"all possible assistance that the royal government might seek in dealing with this problem\" and assured that it would protect the frontier against groups seeking illegal entry to Bhutan.\n\nBy early 1991, the press in Nepal was referring to insurgents in southern Bhutan as \"freedom fighters\". The Bhutan Peoples' Party claimed that more than 4,000 advocates of democracy had been arrested by the Royal Bhutan Army. Charges were made that some of those arrested had been murdered outside Bhutanese police stations and that some 4,200 persons had been deported.\n\nTo deter and regulate Nepalese migration into Bhutan from India, the Druk Gyalpo ordered more regular censuses, improved border checks, and better government administration in the southern districts. The more immediate action of forming citizens' militias took place in October 1990 as a backlash to the demonstrations. Internal travel regulations were made more strict with the issue of new multipurpose identification cards by the Ministry of Home Affairs in January 1990. By the end of 1990, the government admitted the serious effects of the anti-government violence. It was announced that foreign- exchange earnings had dropped and that the GDP had decreased significantly because of terrorist activities.\n\nIn 1992 interethnic conflict again flared, prompting a peak in Lhotshampa departures, totaling over 100,000 by 1996. Many Lhotshampa claim to have been forcibly evicted by the military, who forced them to sign \"Voluntary Migration Form\" documents stating they had left willingly.\n\nIn 1998, Tek Nath Rizal was granted a royal pardon and left for Nepal to form the \"People's Forum for Human Rights\".\n\nDuring the 1990s several thousand Lhotshampa settled in the refugee camps that were set up by the UNHCR in Nepal. The UNHCR recognized most of the arrivals between 1990 and 1993 on a \"prima facie\" basis. By 1996, the camp populations had exploded to 100,000 and peaked at more than 107,000 persons.\n\nThe government of Nepal and the UNHCR have managed the below seven refugee camps since the arrival of the Bhutanese refugees in the 1990s.\n\nCamp conditions were initially rife with malnutrition and disease including measles, scurvy, tuberculosis, malaria, cholera, and beriberi, although camp conditions improved markedly between 1995 and 2005. Education was among the best services provided within the camps, generally better than in the surrounding countryside of Nepal. Camps, however, remained significantly overpopulated through 2006. Malnourishment, due to age-based food rationing, violence against women and children, as well as marginalization and radicalization remained serious issues.\nBhutanese refugees in Nepal live under conditions of restricted or controlled movement, restricted ability to work, and limited access to the local justice system. The Danish humanitarian organization, Global Medical Aid has aided Bhutanese refugees in Nepal.\n\nSince 2009 the population of the camps shrunk as can be seen in the table above. Due to this reduction the Goldhap and Timai camps have been merged with the Beldangi II camp. The offices are preparing to close or merge other camps and predicted to complete the refugee resettlement operation within 10 years. By 2016, only the Beldangi and Sanischare camps remained, with a combined total of 11,762 residents. However, there are around 10,000 refugees left in the camps, who are either not eligible or do not want to be resettled. Remaining are mainly elderly people who have lost their support network – through resettlement – and are affected by increasing rates of depression, substance misuse and suicide.\n\nThe government of Bhutan claims that among them are local Nepalese people who were attracted to the camps by their resources. Whether the refugees deserve the label of \"Bhutanese refugees\" is questioned based on the fact that no proper screening was done by the UNHCR when they opened the camps. Alexander Casella, a one-time Director in UNHCR, writes \"Normally, the UNHCR, before intervening, would have undertaken a survey of the caseload to determine exactly their nationality and reasons for departure. Had this been undertaken, the inescapable conclusion would have been that the overwhelming majority were actually Nepalese and hence, by the fact that they were in their own country, did not qualifying for refugee status\".\n\nIn 2000, after years of discussion, Bhutan and Nepal reached an agreement about the voluntary return of certain Bhutanese refugees living in Nepalese camps. However, points of contention included that some camp inhabitants have never been citizens, or some not even residents, of Bhutan before attaining refugee status. Furthermore, the Bhutanese government regarded many political groups among the Nepalese Lhotshampa community, such as the Bhutan Peoples' Party (BPP) and Bhutan National Democratic Party (BNDP), as terrorist or anti-national groups. Further complicating repatriation, the land and other property formerly held by Lhotshampa refugees have been repopulated and taken over by Ngalop settlers – including government and military members – under government encouragement.\n\nIn March 2001, the first verification of Bhutanese refugees eligible for repatriation commenced in Nepalese refugee camps. Actual repatriation was then estimated to occur within one year. However, progress stalled for over a decade. In 2003, a Bhutanese verification team was attacked and injured in Jhapa, resulting in further delay. As of 2011, over 200 refugees in the Khudunabari refugee camp alone had been certified. However, no Bhutanese refugees had been repatriated. In April 2011, Bhutan and Nepal again opened talks on repatriation, however the UNHCR remains committed to third country resettlement in light of Bhutan's refusal to guarantee full citizenship and other human rights for returnees. As of July 2011, the governments of Bhutan and Nepal had held at least 15 rounds of bilateral talks with no practical solution reached; although Bhutanese state media echoed Bhutan's insistence on continued talks with Nepal, it has signaled its preference for third country resettlement. Nepal, for its part, has not accepted the refugees into its own population.\n\nThe United States Department of State identified leaders within refugee camps intent on repatriation as hampering some resettlement efforts with disinformation and intimidation, despite generally poor prospects for repatriation.\n\nFor many years the government of Nepal did not allow resettlement for Bhutanese refugees. This only changed in the second half of the 2000s after lengthy negotiations. Bhutanese refugees were an attractive group for receiving countries as they posed much less of a security risk as for example Iraqi, Somali or Afghan refugees.\n\nThe UNHCR and different partners that formed the \"Core Group on Bhutanese Refugees in Nepal\" announced in 2007 to resettle the majority of the 108,000 registered Bhutanese refugees. The U.S. offered to take 60,000 and began receiving them in 2008. Australia, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark offered to resettle 10,000 each and New Zealand offered to resettle 600 refugees over a period of five years starting in 2008. By January 2009, more than 8,000 and by November 2010, more than 40,000 Bhutanese refugees were resettled in various countries. Canada offered to accept additional 6,500 Bhutanese refugees by the end of 2014. Norway has already resettled 200 Bhutanese refugees and Canada has agreed to accept up to 5000 through to 2012.\n\nIn November 2015 it was announced that 100,000 refugees have been resettled abroad (85 percent of them to the USA) and in February 2017 the number rose to a total of 108,513.\n\nAccording to Raj Khadka resettlement has provided the opportunity of starting a new life to these refugees, but the challenges that they are facing in the labour market are a big hurdle in establishing themselves in the new countries that are quite different from their own.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32613780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32613780", "title": "Biphasic disease", "text": "Biphasic disease\n\nA biphasic disease is a disease which has two distinct phases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34787640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34787640", "title": "Canadians in China", "text": "Canadians in China\n\nCanadians in China consist mainly of expatriates and students from Canada to the People's Republic of China. there are about 300,000 Canadians living in China.\n\nIn February 2011, research from the Asia Pacific Foundation, conducted with Hong Kong Baptist University, suggests there are at least 295,000 Canadians in Hong Kong. Near 85% of Canadians in Hong Kong are Canadian-born, a figure higher than Canada itself (80.2%). This represents the third largest community of Canadians, after Canada itself and the United States. A large portion of Canadians in Hong Kong are ethnic Chinese.\n\nAbout 10% of Beijing's foreign population of 200,000 are from Canada (20,000). The Canadian diaspora in Beijing is a young and well-educated community and is economically active. A significant number of them include Chinese Canadian returnees who emigrated to Canada in the early 1990s and later returned to China.\n\nAccording to local official statistics, the numbers of Canadian citizens residing in Shanghai have increased significantly over the past ten years. In 2000, the city reported 1,361 Canadian citizens living there, representing 2.3% of all foreign residents in the city. By the end of 2009, there are about 6,121 Canadian citizens living in Shanghai.\n\nShanghai's Canadian community consist mainly of English teachers, media workers, engineers, senior executives, small business owners and house wives as well as international students.\n\nCanadian schools in Mainland China:\n\nCanadian International School of Hong Kong is a Canadian school in Hong Kong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7637149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637149", "title": "Chinese people in Spain", "text": "Chinese people in Spain\n\nChinese people in Spain form the ninth-largest non-European Union foreign community in Spain. , official figures showed 145,425 Chinese citizens residing in Spain; however, this figure does not include people with origins in other Overseas Chinese communities, nor Spanish citizens of Chinese origin or descent.\n\nThe first recorded arrivals of Chinese people to Spain date from the late 16th century. Bernardino de Escalante in his \"Discurso de la navegación...\" (one of the first European books on China, published in 1577) says that among his sources of information were \"Chinese themselves, who came to Spain\" (\"los mesmos naturales Chinas que an venido à España\"). Juan González de Mendoza in his \"History of the great and mighty kingdom of China\", wrote that in 1585 \"three merchants of China\" arrived in Mexico \"and neuer staied till they came into Spaine and into other kingdomes further off.\" \n\nA legal case was brought before the Council of the Indies involving two Chinese men in Seville, one a freeman, Esteban Cabrera, and the other a slave, Diego Indio, against Juan de Morales, Diego's owner. Diego called on Esteban to give evidence as a witness on his behalf. Diego recalled that he was taken as a slave by Francisco de Casteñeda from Mexico, to Nicaragua, then to Lima in Peru, then to Panama, and eventually to Spain via Lisbon, while he was still a boy. Esteban testified that he knew Diego as a boy in Limpoa (Liampó, the Portuguese name of Ningbo, a Chinese city in Zhejiang), which he claimed to be part of the Spanish colonial indies. This was a false claim since Liampo was not under Spanish rule, and it is speculated that Esteban and Diego lied about it in order to help Diego win his freedom, playing on the fact that the Spanish conducting the case were ignorant of Spain's Asian affairs. It worked in their favor and in July 1575 the Council issued a ruling siding with Diego. Juana de Castañeda also testified on behalf of Diego, claiming that she knew Diego in Lima and she also married Esteban during the ordeal. Juana was a native woman from Lima. Juana was around 40 years old when she testified on behalf of Diego in 1572. Another native woman from Panama, Isabel García also testified in favor of Diego, saying she knew him while he was in Panama. Esteban's will dated 15 March 1599 left his property to his daughter Francisca de Altamirana and her husband Miguel de la Cruz who was a tailor and probably Chinese like Esteban. A family of tailors was started by Esteban. Tristán de la China was taken as a slave by the Portuguese, while he was still a boy and in the 1520s was obtained by Cristobál de Haro in Lisbon, and taken to live in Seville and Valladolid. He was paid for his service as a translator on the 1525 Loaísa expedition., during which he was still an adolescent. The survivors, including Tristan, were shipwrecked for a decade until 1537 when they were returned to Lisbon by a Portuguese ship. Records from 7 May 1618 show that Hernando de los Ríos Coronel was permitted to bring from the Philippines to Spain two Chinese slaves, named Cosme and Juan de Terrenate, who was married to a woman named Manuela. Several Asians took advantage of laws requiring that the Spanish state pay for their return to their homeland after being trafficked to Spain illegally. A Chinese named Juan Castelindala Moreno petitioned to be sent home in 1632.\n\nAsian slaves who were shipped from the Spanish Philippines in the Manila-Acapulco galleons to Acapulco in New Spain (Mexico) were all called \"Chino\" which meant Chinese, although in reality they were of diverse origins, including Japanese, Malays, Javanese, Timorese, and people from Bengal, India, Ceylon, Makassar, Tidore, Terenate, and Chinese.- The people in this community of diverse Asians in Mexico were called \"los indios chinos\" by the Spanish. Most of these slaves were male and were obtained from Portuguese slave traders who obtained them from Portuguese colonial possessions and outposts of the Estado da India, which included parts of India, Bengal, Malacca, Indonesia, Nagasaki in Japan, and Macau. Some Spanish temporarily brought some of these Chino slaves to Spain itself from Mexico, where owning and showing off a Chino slave showed high class since Spanish aristocrats viewed their Chino slaves as fascinating trendy symbols of class. A Spanish woman, Doña María de Quesada y Figueroa, in New Spain owned a China born Chinese man called Manuel who before being enslaved to her was taken from New Spain to be shown off in Seville until he was transferred to her ownership to be used by her as a slave by the woman's son Doctor D. Juan de Quesada in 1621. Records of three Japanese slaves dating from the 16th century, named Gaspar Fernandes, Miguel and Ventura who ended up in Mexico showed that they were purchased by Portuguese slave traders in Japan, brought to Manila from where they were shipped to Mexico by their owner Perez. Some of these Asian slaves were also brought to Lima in Peru, where there was a small community of Asians including Chinese, Japanese, and Malays.\n\nThe first large wave of Chinese immigrants came to Spain in the 1920s and 1930s, working as itinerant peddlers. After World War II, they branched out into the restaurant industry, and later into textiles and trade. However, the vast majority of Chinese residents in Spain started arriving in the country around the 1980s. According to Xu Songhua, president of the Association of Chinese in Spain (\"Asociación de Chinos en España\"), established in 1985, there are 13,000 Chinese-owned businesses in Spain, including 4,000 restaurants, 3,200 \"dollar shops\", 1,500 fruit shops, 600 wholesale warehouses, 80 Chinese groceries, 200 textile factories, and 120 photo processing shops. Nowadays, Madrid, Barcelona, and the Canary Islands are home to the largest Chinese communities of Spain. Unlike earlier waves of Chinese immigrants in other countries, over 80% of the Chinese in Spain come from Zhejiang's Qingtian County, with smaller numbers from Guangdong and Fujian. Others have come from Hong Kong, Macau, and Chinese communities of Southeast Asia, Latin America, and Europe.\n\nThe age structure of Chinese in Spain is skewed very young; 2003 figures showed only 1.8% aged 65 or older, as compared to 7% of the population of the People's Republic of China and 17.5% of that of Spain, while over 17% were under the age of 15. As a result of the small proportion of elderly, combined with long working hours and the illegal status of some, Chinese are reported to use medical services at a far lower rate than other ethnic groups in Spain.\n\nA was opened in 2014 by the Chinese community of Barcelona, led by Taoist priest Liu Zemin, a 21st-generation descendant of poet, soldier and prophet Liu Bo Wen (1311-1375). The temple, located in the district of Sant Martí and inaugurated with the presence of the People's Republic of China consul Qu Chengwu, enshrines 28 deities of the province of China where most of the Chinese in Barcelona come from.\n\nIn September 2004, protests in Elche over cheap imported shoes from China undercutting local shoe markets resulted in the burning of a Chinese-owned shoe warehouse. Crime is a problem in the Chinese community due to the Triads, which are involved in human trafficking and extortion of Chinese business owners. However, the Triads have not established themselves as drug distributors due to competition from other groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29870854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29870854", "title": "Climate Vulnerability Monitor", "text": "Climate Vulnerability Monitor\n\nThe Climate Vulnerability Monitor (CVM) is an independent global assessment of the effect of climate change on the world’s populations brought together by panels of key international authorities. The Monitor was launched in December 2010 in London and Cancun to coincide with the UN Cancun Summit on climate change (COP-16).\n\nDeveloped by DARA and the Climate Vulnerable Forum, the report is meant to serve as a new tool to assess global vulnerability to various effects of climate change within different nations.\n\nThe report distills leading science and research for a clearer explanation of how and where populations are being affected by climate change today (2010) and in the near future (2030), while pointing to key actions that reduce these impacts.\n\nDARA and the Climate Vulnerable Forum launched the 2nd edition of the Climate Vulnerability Monitor on 26 September 2012 at the Asia Society, New York.\n\nThe Climate Vulnerability Monitor attempts to demonstrate how each country is vulnerable to climate change (due to health reasons, extreme weather patterns, economic factors, land loss from expanding deserts or rising sea levels). It lists over 50 measures that the authors claim are readily available to limit virtually all harm caused by climate change.\n\nThe Climate Vulnerability Monitor reportedly takes a new approach to assessing the climate vulnerability of the world and its regions, countries and communities. The Monitor looks at pre-existing characteristics of society that are affected by climate change and maps the level of vulnerability and expected impact as implied by the effect that real or projected changes in the climate. The analysis is built around 4 \"impact areas\", and 5 \"levels of vulnerability\", focusing on the years 2010 and 2030.\n\nAccording to the report, the estimated figures of impacts are yielded from the Monitor’s specific methodology and represent additional impacts due to climate change. They give a \"snapshot\" of what is expected to already be taking place and what might occur in the near future. According to the authors, the Monitor represents just one possible way of measuring climate vulnerability that they expect can be improved upon.\n\n4 Climate Impact Areas Addressed\n\n5 Climate Vulnerability Factors\n\nThe report claims that climate change fuelled by human activities is already interfering with the climate, leading to effects that are dangerous for people and the planet. According to the report, the rate of change and effects of heat, wind, rain, deserts, sea level, and other impacts result in 350,000 deaths per year. The report states that the effects of climate change could contribute to the deaths of 5 million people by 2020 and cause as many as 1 million deaths per year by 2030 if global warming isn't slowed. Heat, wind, and water shortages put pressure on the habitat of approximately 2.5 million people. Storms, floods, and wildfires are estimated to leave an additional $5 billion in damage each year, while rising seas cost 1% of GDP to the lowest-income countries – 4% in the Pacific – with 65 billion dollars annually lost from the world economy.\n\nThe report further states that most impacts are highly concentrated on children and the poor with the majority of the death toll is concentrated on children living in Sub-Saharan Africa or South Asia, and that gradual, not sudden, impacts from climate change causes more than 90% of all damage. Over 80% of people at risk from climate-caused desertification reside in high-growth emerging economies such as China and India.\n\nThe report also states that half of the economic impacts of climate change are felt in industrialized countries. However, developing countries suffer much greater relative stresses to their economies, mainly due to larger, less robust agricultural sectors. Just 15 countries are considered acutely vulnerable to climate change today, collectively suffering nearly half of all climate impacts. Recognized fragile states or failed states like Afghanistan, Haiti, Myanmar, Sierra Leone, and Somalia are among the worst affected. An average of just 24 countries are assessed as having the most severe factor of vulnerability for each main impact area of health, extreme weather, habitat loss, and economic stress. In every case, some two thirds of the total global impact falls on just 10 countries.\n\nThe report states that 20 more years of inaction could lead to nearly 1 million climate-related deaths each year by 2030. The number of acutely vulnerable countries could more than triple over that period. Economic costs could increase to $100 billion of stress on the world’s coastlines, $150 billion worth of primary-sector and natural resource losses, and $10 billion in storm, flood, and wildfire damages—a third of a trillion dollar annual economic crisis.\n\nDARA and the Climate Vulnerable Forum created the Climate Vulnerability Monitor to advance understanding of the growing negative effects of climate change on society and to identify a variety of key options to meet this new challenge.\n\nThe Climate Vulnerable Forum is a global partnership of leaders of countries most vulnerable to climate change actively seeking a firm and urgent resolution to the growing climate crisis. It was founded by President Mohamed Nasheed of the Maldives and first met in November 2009. The Declaration of the Climate Vulnerable Forum adopted then expressed alarm at the rate of changes and danger witnessed around the planet due to the effects of anthropogenic global warming and called for urgent international cooperation to tackle the challenge. The countries include Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Kiribati, Ghana, Kenya, Nepal, Rwanda, Tanzania, Vietnam and Maldives.\n\nDARA is an international organization based in Madrid, Spain, and founded in 2003 by Silvia Hidalgo. According to its website, the organization aims to improve the quality and effectiveness of aid for vulnerable populations suffering from conflict, disasters, and climate change.\n\n\nClimate Vulnerability Monitor 2010: The State of the Climate Crisis\n\n"}
{"id": "43929661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43929661", "title": "Corruption in Liberia", "text": "Corruption in Liberia\n\nCorruption is endemic at every level of the Liberian government. Corruption is not specifically a punishable crime under Liberian law. When President Sirleaf took office in 2006, she announced that corruption was “the major public enemy.”\n\nIn 2014, the US ambassador to Liberia stated that corruption there was harming people through \"unnecessary costs to products and services that are already difficult for many Liberians to afford\".\n\nIn the US State Department's 2013 Human Rights Report on Liberia, it was highlighted that Liberia's laws do not provide criminal penalties for official corruption. There were criminal penalties for economic sabotage, mismanagement of funds, and other corruption-related acts. According to a 2013 report published by the US State Department, low pay levels for the Liberian civil service, minimal job training, and few court convictions have exacerbated official corruption and have helped to foster a culture of impunity.\n\nIn 2012, the Liberian central government dismissed or suspended a number of officials for corruption. Auditor General Robert L. Kilby and General Services Agency Director General Pealrine Davis-Parkinson were dismissed for conflicts of interest.\n\nDeputy Justice Minister Freddie Taylor, Deputy Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization (BIN) Commissioner Robert Buddy, former solicitor general Micah Wright, and BIN Border Patrol Chief Wilson Garpeh were dismissed for alleged involvement in human trafficking.\n\nDeputy Public Works Minister Victor B. Smith was suspended for allegedly violating the law but was reinstated a week later following an investigation. President Sirleaf dismissed the chairman and other board members of the Liberia Airports Authority amid corruption allegations. An assistant labor minister was also dismissed for issuing work permits to foreigners after allegedly taking bribes.\n\nThe 2013 US State Department report said that: \"Judges were susceptible to bribes to award damages in civil cases. Judges sometimes requested bribes to try cases, release detainees from prison, or find defendants not guilty in criminal cases. Defense attorneys and prosecutors sometimes suggested defendants pay bribes to secure favorable rulings from or to appease judges, prosecutors, jurors, and police officers.\"\n\nIn 2012, the Liberia National Police (LNP) \"investigated reports of police misconduct or corruption, and authorities suspended or dismissed several LNP officers.\"\n\nIn 2013, Human Rights Watch released a report specifically about police corruption in Liberia. They interviewed more than 120 people who had said they had been victimized in their dealings with the police. They said that \"police officers typically ask crime victims to pay to register their cases, for transport to the crime scene, and for pens and other items used in the investigation. Criminal suspects routinely pay bribes for release from police detention.\"\n\nStreet vendors said they were often the victim of police raids, especially in Monrovia. Vendors said that police routinely steal goods, arrest vendors, and then require them to pay for their release from detention. Motorcycle and taxi drivers throughout the country described harassment and extortion along roads. Those who refuse to meet officers’ demands face violence and arrest. Elite armed units, such as the Police Support Unit, were frequently cited for violent abuses.\n\nHuman Rights Watch also interviewed 35 police officers of varying ranks for their study. The police described being given inadequate supplies, living on low salaries, and pressure to pay their superiors to obtain desirable posts and promotions.\n\nIn Liberia's education system, patronage and bribery by administrators, professors, and students are widely reported. Abuse of resources, teacher absenteeism, and sex for grades are common. A culture of silence prevents reporting of problems and hence any constructive reform.\n\nIn 2013, a confidential anonymous SMS suggestions box for students and educators began to operate in elements of Liberia's education system, in order to report systemic abuses.\n\nIn 2014, the head of Liberia's National Commission on Higher Education was under investigation by Liberia's Anti Corruption Commission for a second time, over allegations of the embezzlement of funds supposedly spent upon official travel which never occurred. The National Commission on Higher Education coordinates, monitors, evaluates and accredits all higher institutions of learning.\n\nAmidst Liberia's Ebola epidemic in 2014, some body-collection teams dispatched to collect the Ebola dead accepted bribes to issue falsified death certificates to family members, stating that their dead relative died from something other than Ebola. The body of the Ebola victim could also be left with relatives. Ebola carries a stigma in Liberia, and some families do not want to admit that their relative died of Ebola. Another factor is that families wish to give their relative a traditional burial.\n\nThe Liberian Anti-Corruption Commission (LACC) and the Ministry of Justice are responsible for exposing and combating official corruption.\n\nThere exists an underfunded and understaffed Liberian Anti-Corruption Commission, created in 2008, that is supposedly empowered to prosecute crimes that effectively amount to corruption. Human Rights Watch (HRW) noted in 2011 that though there had been a multiplicity of high-level corruption scandals during the previous year, they had resulted in “few investigations and only two convictions.” In 2013 the LACC received 25 cases, investigated 23 cases, and recommended four for prosecution, resulting in no convictions.\n\nThe Anti-Corruption Commission, HRW complained, is “hampered by insufficient funds [and] personnel” and does not actually have the “authority to independently prosecute cases.” The failure of Sirleaf to deal with this issue has led to “the perception that the president lacks the will to address the problem,” they said.\n\nIn her final state of the nation address in 2017, President Sirleaf stated the corruption in Liberia was too great for her administration to eliminate it.\n\n2013 US State Department report noted that President Sirleaf issued Executive Order 38 in January 2012 requesting officials of the executive branch to make financial disclosures and declare their assets to the LACC. Many officials only did so after the president threatened dismissal if they did not comply. All officials of the executive branch declared their assets by year’s end.\n\nThe LACC initiated an asset verification process to review these declarations and in October summarized the results of the process, highlighting some discrepancies and instances of unexplained wealth accumulation. The LACC was not required to release the contents of the declarations, but it released aggregate information about officials’ cooperation and the overall results of the asset verification process.\n\nThe 2010 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) provides that the government should release government information not involving national security or military issues upon request. Some transparency advocates, including the head of the LACC have suggested that the FOIA law needs to be improved to ensure that citizens can access information to verify that government funds were properly spent and accounted for.\n"}
{"id": "74117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74117", "title": "Dauphin of France", "text": "Dauphin of France\n\nDauphin of France ( ), originally Dauphin of Viennois (\"Dauphin de Viennois\"), was the title given to the heir apparent to the throne of France from 1350 to 1791 and 1824 to 1830. The word \"dauphin\" is French for dolphin. At first the heirs were granted the County of Viennois (Dauphiné) to rule, but eventually only the title was granted.\n\nGuigues IV, Count of Vienne, had a dolphin on his coat of arms and was nicknamed \"le Dauphin\". The title of Dauphin de Viennois descended in his family until 1349, when Humbert II sold his seigneury, called the Dauphiné, to King Philippe VI on condition that the heir of France assume the title of \"le Dauphin\". The wife of the Dauphin was known as \"la Dauphine\".\n\nThe first French prince called \"le Dauphin\" was Charles the Wise, later to become Charles V of France. The title was roughly equivalent to the English (thence British) \"Prince of Wales\", the Scottish \"Duke of Rothesay\", the Portuguese \"Prince of Brazil\", the Brazilian \"Prince of Grão-Pará\" and the Spanish \"Prince of Asturias\". The official style of a Dauphin of France, prior to 1461, was \"par la grâce de Dieu, dauphin de Viennois, comte de Valentinois et de Diois\" (\"By the Grace of God, Dauphin of Viennois, Count of Valentinois and of Diois\"). A Dauphin of France united the coat of arms of the Dauphiné, which featured Dolphins, with the French fleurs-de-lis, and might, where appropriate, further unite that with other arms (e.g. Francis, son of Francis I, was ruling Duke of Brittany, so united the arms of that province with the typical arms of a Dauphin; Francis II, while Dauphin, was also King of Scots by marriage to Mary I, and added the arms of the Kingdom of Scotland to those of the Dauphin).\n\nOriginally the Dauphin was personally responsible for the rule of the Dauphiné, which was legally part of the Holy Roman Empire, and which the Emperors, in giving the rule of the province to the French heirs, had stipulated must never be united with France. Because of this, the Dauphiné suffered from anarchy in the 14th and 15th centuries, since the Dauphins were frequently minors or concerned with other matters.\n\nDuring his period as Dauphin, Louis, son of Charles VII, defied his father by remaining in the province longer than the King permitted and by engaging in personal politics more beneficial to the Dauphiné than to France. For example, he married Charlotte of Savoy against his father's wishes. Savoy was a traditional ally of the Dauphiné, and Louis wished to reaffirm that alliance to stamp out rebels and robbers in the province. Louis was driven out of the Dauphiné by Charles VII's soldiers in 1456, leaving the region to fall back into disorder. After his succession as Louis XI of France in 1461, Louis united the Dauphiné with France, bringing it under royal control.\n\nThe title was automatically conferred upon the next heir apparent to the throne in the direct line upon birth, accession of the parent to the throne or death of the previous Dauphin, unlike the British title \"Prince of Wales\", which has always been in the gift of the monarch.\n\nThe sons of the King of France hold the style and rank of \"fils de France\" (son of France), while male-line grandsons hold the style and rank of \"petits-enfants de France\" (Grandson of France). The sons and grandsons of the Dauphin ranked higher than their cousins, being treated as the king's children and grandchildren respectively. The sons of the Dauphin, though grandsons of the king, are ranked as Sons of France, and the grandsons of the Dauphin ranked as Grandsons of France; other great-grandsons of the king ranked merely as Princes of the Blood.\n\nThe title was abolished by the Constitution of 1791, which made France a constitutional monarchy. Under the constitution the heir-apparent to the throne (Dauphin Louis-Charles at that time) was restyled \"Prince Royal\" (a \"Prince of the Blood\" retitled \"prince français\"), taking effect from the inception of the Legislative Assembly on 1 October 1791. The title was restored \"in potentia\" under the Bourbon Restoration of Louis XVIII, but there would not be another Dauphin until after his death. With the accession of his brother Charles X, Charles' son and heir Louis-Antoine, Duke of Angoulême automatically became Dauphin.\n\nWith the removal of the Bourbons the title fell into disuse, the heirs of Louis-Philippe being titled \"Prince Royal\". After the death of Henri, comte de Chambord, Carlos, Duke of Madrid, the heir of the legitimist claimant, Juan, Count of Montizón, made use of the title in pretense, as have the Spanish legitimist claimants since.\n\nIn Mark Twain's \"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\", Huck encounters two odd characters who turn out to be professional con men. One of them claims that he should be treated with deference, since he is \"really\" an impoverished English duke, and the other, not to be outdone, reveals that he is \"really\" the Dauphin (\"Looey the Seventeen, son of Looey the Sixteen and Marry Antonet\").\n\nIs a character in Shakespeare's \"Henry V\".\n\nIn Baronness Emma Orczy's \"Eldorado\", the Scarlet Pimpernel rescues the Dauphin from prison and helps spirit him from France.\n\nAlphonse Daudet wrote a short story called \"The Death of the Dauphin\", about a young Dauphin who wants to stop Death from approaching him.\n\nIt is also mentioned in Cormac McCarthy's \"Blood Meridian\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34383772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34383772", "title": "Definition of marriage", "text": "Definition of marriage\n\nThe definition of marriage varies widely by culture, region and jurisdiction.\n\nThe stimulus for differentiating married and non-married individuals is sometimes based upon how the companions refer to themselves. In the English language, terms used may be \"husband\" or \"wife\" or a gender-neutral term such as \"spouse\". In third person, demographics of married people may be referred to by terms sch as \"wedders\", as well as by more obscure and nonstandard terms such as \"wedlockers\" and \"gamists\".\n\nWhen there are social contentions regarding the definition of marriage a concerted effort to delineate the definition may occur. For example, in response to movements in favor of same-sex marriage, Robert H. Knight wrote:\n\nThere may also be a distinction between a formal and an informal marriage. The latter may incur various socioeconomic factors such as custody rights, pension rights, spousal support and distribution of property while the former may not. A prevailing theme within definitions of marriage tends to be that it is at one's discretion, and that unlike wedleases, it is meant to be enduring and lasting.\n\n"}
{"id": "17764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17764", "title": "Demographics of Latvia", "text": "Demographics of Latvia\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of the historical territory of Latvia, including population density, ethnic background, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nLatvia was settled by the Baltic tribes some three millennia ago. The territories along the eastern Baltic first came under foreign domination at the beginning of the 13th century, with the formal establishment of Riga in 1201 under the German Teutonic Knights.\n\nLatvia, in whole or in parts, remained under foreign rule for the next eight centuries, finding itself at the cross-roads of all the regional superpowers of their day, including Denmark (the Danes held on lands around the Gulf of Riga), Sweden, and Russia, with southern (Courland) Latvia being at one time a vassal to Poland-Lithuania as well as Latgale falling directly under Poland-Lithuania rule. Through all this time, Latvia remained largely under Baltic German hegemony, with Baltic Germans comprising the largest land-owners, a situation which did not change until Latvia's independence.\n\nHistorically, Latvia has had significant German, Russian, Jewish, Polish and Lithuanian minorities. The majority (roughly two thirds) of Latvians, under Swedish influences, adopted Lutheranism, while the minority (the remaining third) of Latvians under Poland-Lithuania, Latgale in particular, retained their Catholicism. Aglona, in Latgale, has been the site of annual Catholic pilgrimage for centuries, even through to today.\n\nRecently introduced immigration law in Latvia provides framework for immigration through investment in various financial areas or real estate. In 2012, solely 2,435 applications for residence permit by investment in real estate were received by Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs. Main immigrant countries are Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and Lithuania (Lithuania is in the European Union, thus no investment is needed). Moreover, Latvia receives residence permit applications from people of nationalities such as Afghans, Chinese, Libyans and people from various other distant countries.\n\nLatvia's indigenous population has been ravaged numerous times throughout history. The earliest such event occurred during the conquest of Latvia by Peter the Great in the Great Northern War with Sweden.\n\nIn 1897, the first official census in this area indicated that Latvians formed 68.3% of the total population of 1.93 million; Russians accounted for 12%, Jews for 7.4%, Germans for 6.2%, and Poles for 3.4%. The remainder were Lithuanians, Estonians, Gypsies, and various other nationalities.\n\nThe demographics shifted greatly in the 20th century due to the world wars, the expulsion of the Baltic Germans, the Holocaust, and occupation by the Soviet Union. Today, only the Russian minority, which has tripled in numbers since 1935, remains important. The share of ethnic Latvians grew from 77% (1,467,035) in 1935 to 80% (1,508,800), after human loss in World War II and human deportation and other repressive measures, fell strongly to 52% (1,387,757) in 1989.\n\nIn 2005, there were even fewer Latvians than in 1989, though their share of the population was larger - 1,357,099 (58.8% of the inhabitants). People who arrived in Latvia during the Soviet era, and their descendants born before 21 August 1991, have to pass a naturalisation process to receive Latvian citizenship. Their children born after the restoration of independence in 1991 are registered as citizens, if one of the parents requests it.\n\nEthnic Latvians have been one of the world's slowest-growing ethnic groups for a century. The number of Latvians today is actually less than it was in the 1920s.\n\nOver 130,000 persons have been naturalized as Latvian citizens since 1995, but 290,660 persons, as of March 2011, live in Latvia with non-citizen's passports. Large numbers of Russians, as well as some Ukrainians and Belarusians remained in Latvia after the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nAccording to the provisional results of the Population and Housing Census 2011, the total population of Latvia on 1 March 2011 was 2,067,887. Since the previous census in 2000 the country's population decreased by 309 thousand or 13%. The proportion of ethnic Latvians increased to 62.1% of the population. Livonians are the other indigenous ethnic group, with about 100 of them remaining. Latgalians are a distinctive subgroup of Latvians inhabiting or coming from Eastern Latvia.\n\nAccording to rankings provided by the United States Census Bureau—International Data Base (IDB)—Country Rankings, Latvia is estimated to have a population of 1,249,812 in the year 2050.\n\nIllegal immigration in Latvia has traditionally been from neighboring countries such as Russia but now migrants also come from other areas such as Latin America, Southeast Asia and Africa. The Latvian government have sought to work with Russia to stem the problem. The Latvian government has been criticized for its treatment of illegal immigrants.\n\nFor an immigrant not to become an illegal resident, a permit is required for a foreign national or a stateless person wishing to reside in the Republic of Latvia for more than 90 days within a 6-month period, thus if the person does not acquire himself a residence permit, he will be considered an illegal immigrant.\n\nOn 1 January 2011 the average age was 41.6 years—6 months more than the average age published earlier.\n\n\n\n\n\nLatvians have always been the largest ethnic group in Latvia during the past century, but minority peoples have always been numerous. Before WW II the proportion of non-Latvians was approximately 25%, the Russians being the largest minority (app. 10%), followed by Jews (approx. 5%), Germans and Poles (2–3%). After World War 2 only small numbers of Jews and Germans remained and following a massive immigration of Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians, Latvians almost became a minority. In 1989, the proportion of Latvians had decreased to only 52% (from 75.5% in 1935). Despite the decreasing number of Latvians due to low fertility rates, the proportion of Latvians has considerably increased during the past two decades and reached 62.1% in 2011 (slightly higher than the 62.0% in 1959). This is due to large scale emigration of Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians. The number of these peoples almost halved between 1989 and 2011.\n\n\nIn the 2011 census, 1,164,894 persons in Latvia reported Latvian as their main language spoken at home; 698,757 respondents listed Russian as their main language spoken at home, representing 37.2% of the total population, whereas Latvian was recorded as the main language spoken at home for 62.1%. Latvian was spoken as a second language by 20.8% of the population, and 43.7% spoke Russian as a second language. In total, 71% of ethnic Latvians said they could speak Russian, and 52% of Russians could speak Latvian in census 2000.\n\nThe largest religion in Latvia is Christianity (79%), though only about 7% of the population attends religious services regularly. The largest groups were:\n\nIn the Eurobarometer Poll 2010, 38% of Latvian citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\", while 48% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 11% stated that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force\".\n\nLutheranism was more prominent before the Soviet occupation, when it was a majority religion of ~60% due to strong historical links with the Nordic countries and influence of the Hansa, and Germany in general. Since then, Lutheranism has declined to a slightly greater extent than Roman Catholicism in all three Baltic states. The Evangelical Lutheran Church, with an estimated 600,000 members in 1956, was affected most adversely. An internal document of 18 March 1987, near the end of communist rule, spoke of an active membership that had shrunk to only 25,000 in Latvia, but the faith has since experienced a revival. Moreover, modern Evangelical Protestant denominations are spreading worldwide, including Latvia. The country's Orthodox Christians belong to the Latvian Orthodox Church, a semi-autonomous body within the Russian Orthodox Church. In 2011, there were 416 Jews and 319 Muslims living in Latvia.\n\nThere are more than 600 Latvian neopagans, \"Dievturi\" (The Godskeepers), whose religion is based on Latvian mythology. About 21% of the total population is not affiliated with a specific religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1364118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364118", "title": "Dominican Republic immigration to Puerto Rico", "text": "Dominican Republic immigration to Puerto Rico\n\nDominican immigration to Puerto Rico dates back to the beginning of European colonization of the Americas. Immigrants have moved from the territory of the Dominican Republic to its eastern neighbor, Puerto Rico, and vice versa for centuries. Dominican immigrants have come from various segments of Dominican society, with varying levels of contribution at different times. \n\nIn recent years, the rate of Dominican immigration has declined due to the unemployment and economic crisis in Puerto Rico, and there's been increasing immigration in the opposite direction, from Puerto Rico to the Dominican Republic. Haitian nationals now make the majority of persons trying to reach the commonwealth nation from the island of Hispaniola, usually with the aid of Dominican smugglers.\n\nMany residents of clColonial Santo Domingo, now the Dominican Republic, left for Puerto Rico because of the cession of Santo Domingo to France in 1795, the Haitian invasions from 1801 to 1803, and the occupation from 1822 to 1844. Immigration continued over the next 86 years although at a comparatively low rate.\n\nThe dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo from 1930 and 1961 greatly constrained foreign travel by Dominicans. In 1960, there were 1,812 Dominicans in Puerto Rico, some of whom were \"returning\" descendants of Puerto Ricans who had themselves migrated to the Dominican Republic.\n\nDominican migration increased sharply after 1961 as a result of political events, of which the first was the assassination of Trujillo that year. Many politicians and other members of the conservative former regime, as well as government employees, left the country, many of them for Puerto Rico. The next major political event to drive emigration was the coup d'état against the elected, leftist president Juan Bosch in 1963. Then followed the Dominican Civil War in 1965 after a revolt to restore Bosch. The United States invaded the Dominican Republic a few days into the conflict, and one of its policies was to prevent renewed civil war by issuing visas to opponents or potential opponents of the newly-elected US-backed conservative regime of Joaquín Balaguer (who was incidentally, like Bosch, of Puerto Rican ancestry). Many of the visaholders traveled to Puerto Rico.\n\nPolitics continued to play a role in emigration in succeeding decades, as presidential election years produced emigration peaks whenever Balaguer, a member of the former Trujillo regime, won the presidency, as happened in 1966, 1970, 1974, 1986, and 1990. As a result, most of the Dominican emigration was middle-class and skilled, including many managers and professionals.\n\nAlthough there are substantial upper class and middle class segments in the Dominican Republic, the country also has a high poverty rate. Since the 1970s, the poor economy of the Dominican Republic has rampantly driven emigration. Overall, between 1966 and 2002 119,000 Dominicans were legally admitted to Puerto Rico, while many thousands arrived illegally. Most emigrants, however, are far from destitute, as they tend to be jobholders in the Dominican Republic, many in skilled occupations such as mechanic, mason, seamstress, and nurse. Such migrants have been attracted by the economy of Puerto Rico's higher wages, which have generally tended to rise in relation to Dominican wages since the early 1980s, when an era of frequent devaluation of the Dominican peso began. Economic crises that beset the Dominican Republic in the 1980s further increased emigration. Despite strong economic growth, the 1990s marked the peak in Dominican emigration>because of the high income inequality. Another severe economic crisis hit in 2003 to 2004, again causing a surge in emigration.\n\nThe illegal or undocumented component of the Dominican immigration to Puerto Rico has increased over recent decades, becoming large enough to attract great attention, both in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. The first recorded illegal trip took place in 1972, and perhaps 28% of all Dominicans in Puerto Rico were undocumented in 1996, during the peak decade of Dominican immigration to the Commonwealth; many of the documented residents had regularized their originally undocumented status. Illegal immigration has been one of the most recurrent themes in Puerto Rican news media during the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nIllegal trips usually take place in \"yolas\" (small wooden boats), usually overcrowded, as trip planners and boat captains seek to realize the greatest profit from the ventures. A trip on a \"yola\" takes 26–28 hours and takes place over the Puerto Rico Trench (an underwater crater area) or through the Mona Passage. Accounts by survivors include people being either eaten alive by sharks or forced to jump into the sea when there is a danger of sinking. Others tell of seeing their loved ones left behind to drown after a heavy wave has overturned one of these \"yolas\", and many others tell of corpses left on board. Travelers sometimes die of starvation or dehydration since the \"yolas\" can get lost out at sea for days, and many have no type of navigation equipment on board to steer them in the right direction.\n\nNoted tragedies on such trips include a 1989 sinking near Mona Island where as many as 500 perished, and other, comparatively small tragedies where groups of 30 or more passengers have died. Perhaps the most famous of these tragic trips was the Nagua Tragedy, named so because the yola heading to Puerto Rico that time sunk while trying to make its way out of a beach in Nagua. More than one hundred died, including the boat's captain and the trip planner.\n\nIn November 2008, a group of 33 illegal Dominican migrants who were en route to Puerto Rico were forced to resort to cannibalism after they were lost at sea for over 15 days before being rescued by a U.S. Coast Guard patrol boat.\n\nIt should be pointed out that not all illegal trips to Puerto Rico from the Dominican Republic end in tragedy. These trips are massively scheduled by traffickers, who sometimes travel up to three times each week from Puerto Rico to illegally bring Dominicans. But, because of the large amount of lives that have been lost in many of these trips, both the governments of Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic have launched mass media campaigns to try to reduce them. In the Dominican Republic, videos of dead bodies on the water are shown on television to try to deter people from travelling to Puerto Rico on \"yolas\". The traffickers face long periods in jail if caught, whereas the travelers are deported to the Dominican Republic, where they do not face criminal charges. \n\nIn 2009 an order was given by Governor Luis Fortuño to shut off essential services, such as water and electricity, to Villas del Sol, a shantytown within the municipality of Toa Baja. The shantytown consisted mainly of homes built illegally on flood-prone government-owned land. The Federal Emergency Management Agency bought these homes from the Puerto Rican Government in order to keep them from being used further. In January 2010 the island government began demolishing some of the homes whose residents are both U.S. citizens and undocumented aliens, mainly of Dominican origin.\n\nDominicans in Puerto Rico are largely disadvantaged politically, in great part because so many are not citizens. They are also disadvantaged economically, and possess on average much lower levels of education than the mainstream of Puerto Ricans on the island. That is in contrast to their situation in the 1970s, when a demographic study considered Dominican immigrants to be \"privileged\" and an \"elite,\" as a large percentage of Dominican immigrants were professionals and managers. Their present characteristics have made them easy victims for ethnic discrimination, which include accusations of excessive use of government programs. They are often targets of prejudice and racism as well. In response, dozens of organizations have sprouted to increase the group's political participation, although these efforts' full effectiveness is hampered by inadequate coordination.\n\nThe group is not ignored by Dominican politicians, however. The main Dominican parties campaign in Puerto Rico during presidential elections and raise important amounts of funds from the Dominican residents. Dominicans in Puerto Rico send millions of dollars per month to their relatives in the Dominican Republic, and are thus also important as a source of foreign currency for the D.R.\n\nThe 2010 census estimated a population of 68,036 Dominicans in Puerto Rico, equal to 1.8% of the Commonwealth's population. Data from the 2000 census shows that 55% of this group lived in San Juan municipality, 11% in Carolina, and 7% in Bayamón. San Juan is about 9% Dominican, with a moderate concentration in the Rio Piedras district, in the southern part of the municipality. The vast majority of Dominican immigrants in Puerto Rico, are black or mulatto/mixed, with very few Dominicans in Puerto Rico self-identifying as white. Most Dominicans that settle in Puerto Rico, have lived in the Dominican Republic for generations prior to immigrating to Puerto Rico. Women form a fairly large majority of the Dominicans in Puerto Rico. Intermarriage rates with Puerto Ricans are also high. Although the Dominican community has largely assimilated into the mainstream Puerto Rican population, due to very similar culture, they still retain traditions that uniquely Dominican. About 67% of Dominicans in Puerto Rico are legal citizens.\n\nEconomically, Dominicans contribute most as unskilled and low-paid service workers, as operators, laborers and craftspeople, and they are well represented as small business owners. Their ratio of managers and professionals — 24% in 1970, higher than for mainstream Puerto Ricans at that time — is now much lower. However, Dominicans are employed in all occupations and industrial sectors of Puerto Rico's economy. Many members of the group have attained prominence and fame as entertainers, including musicians, singers, actors, and presenters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5428342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5428342", "title": "Environmental Media Awards", "text": "Environmental Media Awards\n\nThe Environmental Media Awards have been awarded by the Environmental Media Association since 1991 to the best television episode or film with an environmental message.\n\nThe Environmental Media Association (EMA) is a non-profit organization created in 1989 which believes \"that through television, film and music, the entertainment community has the power to influence the environmental awareness of millions of people.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46536040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46536040", "title": "Fan activism", "text": "Fan activism\n\nFan activism is a “forms of civic engagement and political participation that emerge from within fan culture itself, often in response to the shared interests of fans, often conducted through the infrastructure of existing fan practices and relationships, and often framed through metaphors drawn from popular and participatory culture”. It utilizes the enthusiasm and empathy of the fan community to raise awareness of social concerns or otherwise support the ideals expressed by object(s) of the fandom. The rise of fan activism has been attributed to the emergence of new media.\n\nExamples of fan activism include campaigns for social equality including representation of minorities in entertainment media, fund raising for organisations with common values, campaigning for the continuation of a television program or sporting team and defending fan works from commercial exploitation and allegations of copyright infringement.\n\nNotable groups that are associated with fan activism include the Harry Potter Alliance, Fans4Writers, Nerdfighteria and the Organization for Transformative Works.\n"}
{"id": "7446896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7446896", "title": "Fiestas Patrias (Chile)", "text": "Fiestas Patrias (Chile)\n\nThe Fiestas Patrias (literally Native Land Holidays) of Chile consist of two days, with a third one added on some years:\n\nWithin Chile the Fiestas Patrias are often referred to as the Dieciocho, or \"18th\" because the celebration occurs on September 18. Unofficially, the celebration can last for around a week, depending on when it falls. For example, if the 18th is a Wednesday, public holidays are from Wednesday the 18th to Friday the 20th and celebrations begin the afternoon of Tuesday the 17th and continue until Sunday the 22nd. It is held close to the spring equinox of the Southern Hemisphere so it doubles as a spring festival. Chile's Declaration of Independence happened on February 12. Most schools and jobs declare a week-long vacation for the holiday. This day is very important to the Chilean people because they are celebrating their freedom from Spanish rule.\n\nThe celebration of Fiestas Patrias is an expression of Chilean culture. Traditional activities associated with the Dieciocho include Chilean rodeo, dancing the cueca, going to fondas, and barbecue.\nOfficially, activities on September eighteen are centered on a religious celebration \"Te Deum Ecuménico de Fiestas Patrias\". This ceremony, which is organized by the Catholic Church and led by the Archbishop of Santiago, has taken place since 1811 when it was started by José Miguel Carrera. In 1971, President Salvador Allende asked that the celebration become more ecumenical, encompassing the diverse religious beliefs throughout the country. The ceremony itself begins at 11:00am in the Plaza de Armas.\nMilitary parades and civil school parades are held on this day in major cities and towns nationwide. Many Chileans travel during the Fiestas Patrias to visit family, friends and relatives in other parts of the country and join the celebrations there. In Santiago, many people travel to resorts on the Pacific coast, especially Viña del Mar and the Litoral Central region. It is estimated that 2 million Chileans—nearly one-eighth of the country's population—travel during this holiday.\n\nSeptember 19, the anniversary of the installation of the First Government Council and the very first military parade in Chilean history, marks the grand finale: the Great Military Parade of Chile commemorating the glories of the Chilean Army, on Santiago's O'Higgins Park and overseen by the President of Chile in his/her performance of his/her constitutional mandate as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Attracting millions of people, and simulcast live on radio, television and on the Internet, the parade, led by the Chilean Armed Forces (Chilean Army, Chilean Navy and Chilean Air Force) and the Carabineros de Chile, takes place in the afternoon, and (when September 19th is a Sunday, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday) marks the end of the holiday.\n\nConsumption of traditional Chilean foods is one of the principal displays of the Fiestas Patrias. Chileans prepare these foods in their homes, or they go to fondas. Fondas are venues, often tents, prepared and decorated for the Fiestas Patrias where traditional Chilean dishes and beverages are served. The largest fondas are found in Parque O'Higgins. Each year the Chilean President kicks off the Fiestas Patrias celebrations at one of these locales. For many years, the selected fonda was La Grandiosa Bertita.\nThe predominant food associated with the Fiestas Patrias are Chilean empanadas, which are a sort of bread pastry. The filling of these empanadas consist of \"pino\", a mixture of chopped beef and onion, as well as half of a hard-boiled egg, raisins, and an olive. Many Chileans also throw a barbecue for the Fiestas Patrias. During this time sales of meat products exceed $50 million.\n\nDuring the Fiestas Patrias the preferred drink is chicha, a lightly alcoholic beverage typically made from grapes, although apple chicha is popular in southern Chile. Red wine enjoys popularity during the holiday, while pisco, the so-called \"national liquor\", becomes secondary.\n\nAlfajores are a typical dessert. They consist of two lightly breaded cookies joined with manjar, a sweet filling made from caramelized condensed milk.\n\nIn Chile, it is mandatory to hang the Chilean flag from every building in the country on 18 and 19 September (and 21 May as well). The flag should be in perfect condition, hung from a white pole or from the front of every building, horizontally or vertically. If hung vertically, the star should always be in the upper left corner, visible from the front of the building. Violation of this rule is punishable with fines in local currency of up to 40,000 pesos (about US$80), although it is not strictly enforced.\n"}
{"id": "11970827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11970827", "title": "Ganeriwals", "text": "Ganeriwals\n\nGaneriwala family are a business family from Rajasthan, India. They are an aristocratic Marwari family, connected with the social and cultural history of India, holding the prefix of '\"Sethji's\"'. The family rose in dominance and fame in the 1800s after founding one of India's largest banking dynasties, often referred to as '\"The Great Ganeriwala Firm\"'. The firm provided loans, credit services, insurance and currency exchange services at 22 branch offices spawned across the princely states of India. Members of the family have been credited for the construction of various Hindu temples across India during the British Raj of India, and opulent \"haveli's\" in Rajasthan.\n\nShobharam Birla, the grandfather of Raja Baldeo Das Birla, was a munim (accountant) at the Great Ganeriwala firm, before the Birlas emerged as the leading industrialists of India. The Great Ganeriwala Firm, the Great Tarachand Ghanshyamdas, (founders of Ambuja Cement) and Great Sevaram Ramrikhdas were the largest trading firms and traditional banking firms in India for centuries till 1900s Grandfather of Lakshmi Mittal worked at the Tarachand, Shobharam Birla at the Ganeriwala's and Gautam Singhania's grandfather at Sevaram Rakrishdas.\n\nChhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was a visitor of the Ganeriwala haveli. In 1800's they became treasurers and bankers of the Nizams of Hyderabad, namely Osman Ali Khan, Asaf Jah VII, the worlds richest man at a point.\n\nThe Great prefix was the result of the Great firm theory applied to the Marwari family businesses like the Geat Ganeriwala firm, Great Tarachand (promoted by Neotia's, patriarchs of Ambuja Cement Ltd) and Great Sevaram Ramnikhdas Neotia's became leading agents of Burma Shell before forming Ambuja Cements Ltd.\n\nGaneriwala family trusts consist of temples, schools, wells and dharmashalas since the 1800s. The Sitaram Bagh temple at Hyderabad was built by Seth Puranmal Ganeriwala, in 1830s who had also built the noted Rangji temple in Pushkar in 1850. Mody University of Laxhmangarh is built on land donated by the Ganeriwala family. Sitaram Bagh temple is spread over 25 acres and classified as a heritage property. Shree Raghunathji Mandir in Nashik was donated by mother of Seth Ram Dutt Ganeriwala over a 120-acre land. Geeta Vatika also known as Geeta Garden in Gorkahpur was built on the land donated by Seth Jaydayal Ganeriwala. Haveli's belonging to the descendants include ones in Fatehpur, Mukundgarh, Lakshmangarh, Ratnagarh.The Char Chauk Ki Haveli is the largest haveli of Shekhawati, owned by several branches of the Ganeriwala family. Other temples near Jaipur include ones in Ratnagarth, Mukundgarh, Fatehpur, Sirsa, Ganeri etc.\n"}
{"id": "24154088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154088", "title": "German Future Prize", "text": "German Future Prize\n\nThe German Future Prize award is considered one of the most prestigious conferred for science and innovation within Germany. The award is worth 250,000 euros and is more than a scientific prize, it helps to identify projects which not only are of high scientific value, but which have concrete applications and are mature for commercial markets.\n\nThis prize has been awarded to various exceptional individuals since 1997.\n"}
{"id": "5020586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5020586", "title": "German military administration in occupied France during World War II", "text": "German military administration in occupied France during World War II\n\nThe Military Administration in France (; ) was an interim occupation authority established by Nazi Germany during World War II to administer the occupied zone in areas of northern and western France. This so-called ' was renamed ' (\"north zone\") in November 1942, when the previously unoccupied zone in the south known as ' (\"free zone\") was also occupied and renamed ' (\"south zone\").\n\nIts role in France was partly governed by the conditions set by the Second Armistice at after the success of the leading to the Fall of France; at the time both French and Germans thought the occupation would be temporary and last only until Britain came to terms, which was believed to be imminent. For instance, France agreed that its soldiers would remain prisoners of war until the cessation of all hostilities.\n\nReplacing the French Third Republic that had dissolved during France's defeat was the \"French State\" (\"\"), with its sovereignty and authority limited to the free zone. As Paris was located in the occupied zone, its government was seated in the spa town of Vichy in , and therefore it was more commonly known as Vichy France.\n\nWhile the Vichy government was nominally in charge of all of France, the military administration in the occupied zone was a ' Nazi dictatorship. Its rule was extended to the free zone when it was invaded by Germany and Italy during ' on 11 November 1942 in response to Operation Torch, the Allied landings in French North Africa on 8 November 1942. The Vichy government remained in existence, even though its authority was now severely curtailed.\n\nThe military administration in France ended with the Liberation of France after the Normandy and Provence landings. It formally existed from May 1940 to December 1944, though most of its territory had been liberated by the Allies by the end of summer 1944.\n\nAlsace-Lorraine, which had been annexed after the Franco-Prussian war in 1871 by the German Empire and returned to France after the First World War, was re-annexed by the Third Reich (thus subjecting their male population to German military conscription.) The departments of Nord and Pas-de-Calais were attached to the military administration in Belgium and Northern France, which was also responsible for civilian affairs in the wide \"zone interdite\" along the Atlantic coast. Another \"forbidden zone\" were areas in north-eastern France, corresponding to Lorraine and roughly about half each of Franche-Comté, Champagne and Picardie. War refugees were prohibited from returning to their homes, and it was intended for German settlers and annexation in the coming Nazi New Order (\"Neue Ordnung\").\n\nThe occupied zone (, , ) consisted of the rest of northern and western France, including the two forbidden zones.\n\nThe southern part of France, except for the western half of Aquitaine along the Atlantic coast, became the \"zone libre\" (\"free zone\"), where the Vichy regime remained sovereign as an independent state, though under heavy German influence due to the restrictions of the Armistice (including a heavy tribute) and economical dependency on Germany. It constituted a land area of 246,618 square kilometres, approximately 45 percent of France, and included approximately 33 percent of the total French labor force. The demarcation line between the free zone and the occupied zone was a de facto border, necessitating special authorisation and a laissez-passer from the German authorities to cross.\n\nThese restrictions remained in place after Vichy was occupied and the zone renamed \"zone sud\" (\"south zone\"), and also placed under military administration in November 1942.\n\nThe Italian occupation zone consisted of small areas along the Alps border, and a demilitarised zone along the same. It was expanded to all territory on the left bank of the Rhône river after its invasion together with Germany of Vichy France on 11 November 1942, except for areas around Lyon and Marseille, which were added to Germany's \"zone sud\", and Corsica.\n\nThe Italian occupation zone was also occupied by Germany and added to the \"zone sud\" after Italy's surrender in September 1943, except for Corsica, which was liberated by the landings of Free French forces and local Italian troops that had switched sides to the Allies.\n\nAfter Germany and France agreed on an armistice following the defeats of May and June, Marshal Wilhelm Keitel and General Charles Huntzinger, representatives of the Third Reich and of the French government of Marshal Philippe Pétain respectively, signed it on 22 June 1940 at the Rethondes clearing in Compiègne Forest. As it was done at the same place and in the same railroad carriage where the armistice ending the First World War when Germany surrendered, it is known as the Second Compiègne armistice.\n\nFrance was roughly divided into an occupied northern zone and an unoccupied southern zone, according to the armistice convention \"in order to protect the interests of the German Reich\". The French colonial empire remained under the authority of Marshall Pétain's Vichy regime. French sovereignty was to be exercised over the whole of French territory, including the occupied zone, Alsace and Moselle, but the third article of the armistice stipulated that French authorities in the occupied zone would have to obey the military administration and that Germany would exercise rights of an occupying power within it:\n\nIn the occupied region of France, the German Reich exercises all of the rights of an occupying power. The French government undertakes to facilitate in every way possible the implementation of these rights, and to provide the assistance of the French administrative services to that end. The French government will immediately direct all officials and administrators of the occupied territory to comply with the regulations of, and to collaborate fully with, the German military authorities.\n\nThe military administration was responsible for civil affairs in occupied France. It was divided into \"Kommandanturen\" (singular \"Kommandantur\"), in decreasing hierarchical order \"Oberfeldkommandanturen\", \"Feldkommandanturen\", \"Kreiskommandanturen\", and \"Ortskommandanturen\". German naval affairs in France were coordinated through a central office known as the \"Höheres Kommando der Marinedienststellen in Groß-Paris\" (Supreme Command for Naval Services in the Greater Paris Area) who in turn answered to a senior commander for all of France known as the \"Admiral Frankreich\". After Case Anton, the \"Admiral Frankreich\" naval command was broken apart into smaller offices which answered directly to the operational command of Navy Group West.\n\nIn order to suppress partisans and resistance fighters, the military administration cooperated closely with the Gestapo, the \"Sicherheitsdienst\", the intelligence service of the SS, and the \"Sicherheitspolizei\", its security police. It also had at its disposal the support of the French authorities and police forces, who had to cooperate per the conditions set in the armistice, to round up Jews, anti-fascists and other dissidents, and vanish them into \"Nacht und Nebel\", \"Night and Fog\". It also had the help of collaborationists auxiliaries like the \"Milice\", the \"Franc-Gardes\" and the Legionary Order Service. The two main collaborationist political parties were the French Popular Party (PPF) and the National Popular Rally (RNP), each with 20,000 to 30,000 members.\n\nThe \"Milice\" participated with Lyon Gestapo head Klaus Barbie in seizing members of the resistance and minorities including Jews for shipment to detention centres, such as the Drancy deportation camp, en route to Auschwitz, and other German concentration camps, including Dachau and Buchenwald.\n\nSome Frenchmen also volunteered directly in German forces to fight for Germany and/or against Bolsheviks, such as the Legion of French Volunteers Against Bolshevism. Volunteers from this and other outfits later constituted the cadre of the 33rd Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS \"Charlemagne\" (1st French).\n\nStanley Hoffmann in 1974, and after him, other historians such as Robert Paxton and Jean-Pierre Azéma have used the term \"collaborationnistes\" to refer to fascists and Nazi sympathisers who, for ideological reasons, wished a reinforced collaboration with Hitler's Germany, in contrast to \"collaborators\", people who merely cooperated out of self-interest. Examples of these are PPF leader Jacques Doriot, writer Robert Brasillach or Marcel Déat. A principal motivation and ideological foundation among \"collaborationnistes\" was anti-communism.\n\nThe Wehrmacht maintained a varying number of divisions in France. 100,000 Germans were in the whole of the German-zone in France in December 1941. When the bulk of the Wehrmacht was fighting on the eastern front, German units were rotated to France to rest and refit. The number of troops increased when the threat of Allied invasion began looming large, with the Dieppe raid marking its real beginning. The actions of British Commandos against German troops brought Hitler to condemn them as irregular warfare. In his Commando Order he denied them lawful combatant status, and ordered them to be handed over to the SS security service when captured and liable to be summarily executed. As the war went on, garrisoning the Atlantic Wall and suppressing the resistance became heavier and heavier duties.\n\nSome notable units and formations stationed in France during the occupation:\n\n\nThe \"Appeal of 18 June\" by de Gaulle's Free France government in exile in London had little immediate effect, and few joined its French Forces of the Interior beyond those that had already gone into exile to join the Free French. After the invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, the French communist party, hitherto under orders from the Comintern to remain passive against the German occupiers, began to mount actions against them. De Gaulle sent Jean Moulin back to France as his formal link to the irregulars throughout the occupied country to coordinate the eight major \"Résistance\" groups into one organisation. Moulin got their agreement to form the \"National Council of the Resistance\" (\"Conseil National de la Résistance\").\n\nMoulin was eventually captured, and died under brutal torture by the Gestapo, possibly by Klaus Barbie himself. The resistance intensified after it became clear the tide of war had shifted after the Reich's defeat at Stalingrad in early 1943 and, by 1944, large remote areas were out of the German military's control and free zones for the \"maquisards\", so-called after the maquis shrubland that provided ideal terrain for guerrilla warfare.\n\nThe most important anti-partisan action was the Battle of Vercors. The most infamous one Oradour-sur-Glane massacre. Other notable atrocities committed were the Tulle massacre, the Le Paradis massacre, the Maillé massacre, and the Ascq massacre. Large maquis where significant military operations were conducted included the maquis du Vercors, the maquis du Limousin, the maquis des Glières, the maquis du Mont Mouchet, and the maquis de Saint-Marcel. Major round-up operations included the battle of Marseille and the Vel' d'Hiv Roundup.\n\nAlthough the majority of the French population did not take part in active resistance, many resisted passively through acts such as listening to the banned BBC's \"Radio Londres\", or giving collateral or material aid to Resistance members. Others assisted in the escape of downed US or British airmen who eventually found their way back to Britain, often through Spain.\n\nBy the eve of the liberation, numerous factions of nationalists, anarchists, communists, socialists and others, counting between 100,000 and up to 400,000 combatants, were actively fighting the occupation forces. Supported by the Special Operations Executive and the Office of Strategic Services that air-dropped weapons and supplies, as well as infiltrating agents like Nancy Wake who provided tactical advice and specialist skills like radio operation and demolition, they systematically sabotaged railway lines, destroyed bridges, cut German supply lines, and provided general intelligence to the allied forces. German anti-partisan operations claimed around 13,000-16,000 French victims, including 4,000 to 5,000 innocent civilians.\n\nAt the end of the war, some 580,000 French had died (40,000 of these by the western Allied forces during the bombardments of the first 48 hours of operation \"Overlord\"). Military deaths were 92,000 in 1939-40. Some 58,000 were killed in action from 1940 to 1945 fighting in the Free French forces. Some 40,000 \"malgré-nous\" (\"against our will\"), citizens of re-annexed Alsace-Lorraine drafted into the Wehrmacht, became casualties. Civilian casualties amounted to around 150,000 (60,000 by aerial bombing, 60,000 in the resistance, and 30,000 murdered by German occupation forces). Prisoners of war and deportee totals were around 1.9 million. Of this, around 240,000 died in captivity. An estimated 40,000 were prisoners of war, 100,000 racial deportees, 60,000 political prisoners and 40,000 died as slave labourers.\n\nThe census for 1 April 1941 show 25,071,255 inhabitants in the occupied zone (with 14.2m in the unoccupied zone). This does not include the 1,600,000 prisoners of war, nor the 60,000 French workers in Germany or the departments of Alsace-Lorraine.\n\nThe life of the French during the German occupation was marked, from the beginning, by endemic shortages. They are explained by several factors:\n\n\nErsatz, or makeshift substitutes, took the place of many products that were in short supply; wood gas generators on trucks and automobiles burned charcoal or wood pellets as a substitute to gasoline, and wooden soles for shoes were used instead of leather. Soap was rare and made in some households from fats and caustic soda. Coffee was replaced by toasted barley mixed with chicory, and sugar with saccharin.\n\nThe Germans seized about 80 percent of the French food production, which caused severe disruption to the household economy of the French people. French farm production fell in half because of lack of fuel, fertilizer and workers; even so the Germans seized half the meat, 20 percent of the produce, and 80 percent of the Champagne. Supply problems quickly affected French stores which lacked most items.\n\nFaced with these difficulties in everyday life, the government answered by rationing, and creating food charts and tickets which were to be exchanged for bread, meat, butter and cooking oil. The rationing system was stringent but badly mismanaged, leading to malnourishment, black markets, and hostility to state management of the food supply. The official ration provided starvation level diets of 1,300 or fewer calories a day, supplemented by home gardens and, especially, black market purchases.\n\nHunger prevailed, especially affecting youth in urban areas. The queues lengthened in front of shops. In the absence of meat and other foods including potatoes, people ate unusual vegetables, such as Swedish turnip and Jerusalem artichoke. Food shortages were most acute in the large cities. In the more remote country villages, however, clandestine slaughtering, vegetable gardens and the availability of milk products permitted better survival.\n\nSome people benefited from the black market, where food was sold without tickets at very high prices. Farmers diverted especially meat to the black market, which meant that much less for the open market. Counterfeit food tickets were also in circulation. Direct buying from farmers in the countryside and barter against cigarettes were also frequent practices during this period. These activities were strictly forbidden, however, and thus carried out at the risk of confiscation and fines.\n\nDuring the day, numerous regulations, censorship and propaganda made the occupation increasingly unbearable. At night, inhabitants had to abide a curfew and it was forbidden to go out during the night without an \"Ausweis\". They had to close their shutters or windows and turn off any light, to prevent Allied aircraft using city lights for navigation. The experience of the Occupation was a deeply psychologically disorienting one for the French as what was once familiar and safe suddenly become strange and threatening. Many Parisians could not get over the shock experienced when they first saw the huge swastika flags draped over the Hôtel de Ville and flying on top of the Eiffel Tower. The British historian Ian Ousby wrote:\n\nEven today, when people who are not French or did not live through the Occupation look at photos of German soldiers marching down the Champs Élysées or of Gothic-lettered German signposts outside the great landmarks of Paris, they can still feel a slight shock of disbelief. The scenes look not just unreal, but almost deliberately surreal, as if the unexpected conjunction of German and French, French and German, was the result of a Dada prank and not the sober record of history. This shock is merely a distant echo of what the French underwent in 1940: seeing a familiar landscape transformed by the addition of the unfamiliar, living among everyday sights suddenly made bizarre, no longer feeling at home in places they had known all their lives.\n\nOusby wrote that by the end of summer of 1940: \"And so the alien presence, increasingly hated and feared in private, could seem so permanent that, in the public places where daily life went on, it was taken for granted\". At the same time France was also marked by disappearances as buildings were renamed, books banned, art was stolen to be taken to Germany and as time went on, people started to vanish.\n\nWith nearly inhabitants killed and tons of bombs dropped, France was, after Germany, the second most severely bomb-devastated country on the Western Front of World War II. Allied bombings were particularly intense before and during Operation Overlord in 1944.\n\nThe Allies' Transportation Plan aiming at the systematic destruction of French railway marshalling yards and railway bridges, in 1944, also took a heavy toll on civilian lives. For example, the 26 May 1944 bombing hit railway targets in and around five cities in south-eastern France, causing over 2,500 civilian deaths.\n\nCrossing the \"ligne de démarcation\" between the north zone and the south zone also required an \"Ausweis\", which was difficult to acquire. People could write only to their family members, and this was only permissible using a pre-filled card where the sender checked off the appropriate words (e.g. 'in good health', 'wounded', 'dead', 'prisoner'). The occupied zone was on German time, which was one hour ahead of the unoccupied zone. Other policies implemented in the occupied zone but not in the free zone were a curfew from 10 p.m to 5 a.m, a ban on American films, the suppression of displaying the French flag and singing the \"Marseillaise\", and the banning of Vichy paramilitary organizations and the Veterans' Legion.\n\nSchoolchildren were made to sing \"Maréchal, nous voilà !\" (\"Marshall, here we are!\"). The portrait of Marshal Philippe Pétain adorned the walls of classrooms, thus creating a personality cult. Propaganda was present in education to train the young people with the ideas of the new Vichy regime. However, there was no resumption in ideology as in other occupied countries, for example in Poland, where the teaching elite was liquidated. Teachers were not imprisoned and the programs were not modified overall. In the private Catholic sector, many school directors hid Jewish children (thus saving their life) and provided education for them until the Liberation.\n\nOne month after the occupation, the bi-monthly soldiers' magazine \"\" (\"The German Guide to Paris\") was first published by the Paris \"Kommandantur\", and became a success. Further guides, such as the \"Guide aryien\", counted e.g. the Moulin Rouge among the must-see locations in Paris. Famous clubs such as the Folies-Belleville or Bobino were also among the sought-after venues. A wide array of German units were rotated to France to rest and refit; the Germans used the motto \"Jeder einmal in Paris\" (\"everyone once in Paris\") and provided 'recreational visits' to the city for their troops. Various famous artists, such as Yves Montand, or later Les Compagnons de la chanson, started their careers during the occupation. Edith Piaf lived above L'Étoile de Kléber, a famous bordello on the Rue Lauriston, which was near to the Carlingue headquarters and often frequented by German troops. The curfew in Paris was not upheld as strictly as in other cities.\n\nThe Django Reinhardt song \"Nuages\", performed by Reinhardt and the Quintet of the Hot Club of France in the Salle Pleyel, gained notoriety among both French and German fans. Reinhardt was even invited to play for the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht. The use and abuse of Paris in the visitations of German forces during the Second World War led to a backlash; the intensive prostitution during the occupation made way for the \"Loi de Marthe Richard\" in 1946, which closed the bordellos and reduced raunchy stage shows to mere dancing events.\n\nDuring the German occupation, a forced labour policy, called \"Service du Travail Obligatoire\" (\"Obligatory work service, STO\"), consisted of the requisition and transfer of hundreds of thousands of French workers to Germany against their will, for the German war effort. In addition to work camps for factories, agriculture, and railroads, forced labour was used for V-1 launch sites and other military facilities targeted by the Allies in Operation Crossbow. Beginning in 1942, many refused to be drafted to factories and farms in Germany by the STO, going underground to avoid imprisonment and subsequent deportation to Germany. For the most part, those \"work dodgers\" (\"réfractaires\") became \"maquisards\".\n\nThere were German reprisals against civilians in occupied countries; in France, the Nazis built an execution chamber in the cellars of the former Ministry of Aviation building in Paris.\n\nMany Jews were victims of the Holocaust in France. Approximately 49 concentration camps were in use in France during the occupation, the largest of them at Drancy. In the occupied zone, as of 1942, Jews were required to wear the yellow badge and were only allowed to ride in the last carriage of the Paris Métro. 13,152 Jews residing in the Paris region were victims of a mass arrest by pro-Nazi French authorities on 16 and 17 July 1942, known as the Vel' d'Hiv Roundup, and were transported to Auschwitz where they were killed.\n\nOverall, according to a detailed count drawn under Serge Klarsfeld, slightly below 77,500 of the Jews residing in France died during the war, overwhelmingly after being deported to death camps. Out of a Jewish population in France in 1940 of 350,000, this means that somewhat less than a quarter died. While horrific, the mortality rate was lower than in other occupied countries (e.g. 75 percent in the Netherlands) and, because the majority of the Jews were recent immigrants to France (mostly exiles from Germany), more Jews lived in France at the end of the occupation than did approximately 10 years earlier when Hitler formally came to power.\n\nThe Liberation of France was the result of the Allied operations \"Overlord\" and \"Dragoon\" in the summer of 1944. Most of France was liberated by September 1944. Some of the heavily fortified French Atlantic coast submarine bases remained stay-behind \"fortresses\" until the German capitulation in May 1945. The Free French exile government declared the re-establishment of a provisional French Republic, ensuring continuity with the defunct Third Republic. It set about raising new troops to participate in the advance to the Rhine and the invasion of Germany, using the French Forces of the Interior as military cadres and manpower pools of experienced fighters to allow a very large and rapid expansion of the French Liberation Army (\"Armée française de la Libération\"). Thanks to Lend-Lease, it was well equipped and well supplied despite the economic disruption brought by the occupation, and it grew from 500,000 men in the summer of 1944 to more than 1.3 million by V-E day, making it the fourth largest Allied army in Europe.\nThe French 2nd Armored Division, tip of the spear of the Free French forces that had participated in the Normandy Campaign and had liberated Paris on 25 August 1944, went on to liberate Strasbourg on 23 November 1944, thus fulfilling the Oath of Kufra made by General Leclerc almost four years earlier. The unit under his command, barely above company-size when it had captured the Italian fort, had grown into a full-strength armoured division.\n\nThe spearhead of the Free French First Army, that had landed in Provence on 15 August 1944, was the I Corps. Its leading unit, the French 1st Armored Division, was the first Western Allied unit to reach the Rhône (25 August 1944), the Rhine (19 November 1944) and the Danube (21 April 1945). On 22 April 1945, it captured the Sigmaringen enclave in Baden-Württemberg, where the last Vichy regime exiles, including Marshal Pétain, were hosted by the Germans in one of the ancestral castles of the Hohenzollern dynasty.\n\nCollaborators were put on trial in legal purges (\"épuration légale\"), and a number were executed for high treason, among them Pierre Laval, Vichy's prime minister in 1942-44. Marshal Pétain, \"Chief of the French State\" and Verdun hero, was also condemned to death (14 August 1945), but his sentence was commuted to life three days later.\nThousands of collaborators were summarily executed by local Resistance forces in so-called \"savage purges\" (\"épuration sauvage\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4053244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4053244", "title": "Haushabi", "text": "Haushabi\n\nHaushabi or Hawshabi ( \"al-Ḥawshabī\" or \"al-Ḥawāshab\"), or the Haushabi Sultanate ( \"Salṭanat al-Ḥawāshab\"), was a state in the British Aden Protectorate. Its capital was Musaymir. The area is now part of the Republic of Yemen.\n\nHaushabi was established in the eighteenth century. Its leader signed an agreement with the British already in 1839, but it was not until 1895 that a formal protection agreement with Great Britain was signed. Subsequently, it became part of the British Aden Protectorate. The state later joined the Federation of Arab Emirates of the South, and its successor, the Federation of South Arabia.\n\nThe last sultan, Faisal bin Surur Al Haushabi, was deposed and his state was abolished in 1967 upon the founding of the People's Republic of South Yemen.\n\nThe rulers of Haushabi bore the title \"Sultan al-Saltana al-Hawshabiyya\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21566349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21566349", "title": "Hebei people", "text": "Hebei people\n\nHebei people are a Mandarin-speaking people of North China from Hebei province. There is a small Hebei community in Malaysia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094527", "title": "International Vegetarian Union", "text": "International Vegetarian Union\n\nThe International Vegetarian Union (IVU) is an international non-profit organization whose purpose is to promote vegetarianism. IVU was founded in 1908 in Dresden, Germany.\n\nIt is considered as an umbrella organization for under this organisation are included organisations from many countries, and organises often World and Regional Vegetarian Congresses. These alternate in two-year cycles.\n\nThe ruling body from IVU is the International Council, and the members who form it are unpaid volunteers elected by the Member Societies at each World Vegetarian Congress.\n\nMember organizations may be continental groups (EVU, VUNA, NAVS, etc.) or local or other regional vegetarian organizations whose primary purpose is the promotion of vegetarianism and the support of vegetarian living (e.g. EarthSave).\n\nThe IVU also encourages regional and national organizations to run vegetarian festivals, such as the 43rd WorldVegFest in Sydney and Melbourne, Australia, on 25 October 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41698464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41698464", "title": "Joseph Core", "text": "Joseph Core\n\nJoseph Core was born April 25, 1843, in Virginia. In about 1853, he moved with his family to Edwards County, Illinois. In 1859, he moved with his family to Laclede County, Missouri.\n\nJoseph served in the American Civil War as a private in the Union Company 'G' 24th Missouri Infantry Volunteers. He mustered in November 30, 1861 in Oakland, Laclede County, Missouri. He served for four years and mustered out in St. Louis, Missouri on October 10, 1864.\n\nOn February 2, 1865, Joseph married Isabella Hemphill (1844–1879) in Laclede County, Missouri. Joseph was a crop farmer in Laclede County, Missouri.\n\nOn January 21, 1879, Joseph murdered George E. King (c1826 – 1879) near Drynob, Laclede County, Missouri. He was tried and found guilty in Lebanon, Missouri. He was sentenced to death by hanging on August 21, 1879. A public execution has held on March 5, 1880. Joseph Core was the first legal hanging in Laclede County, Missouri\n\nSee external link:\nHanging in Laclede County Missouri, The Core and King Story\n"}
{"id": "8475991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8475991", "title": "Kalyan Mal Lodha", "text": "Kalyan Mal Lodha\n\nKalyan Mal Lodha is an educationist, Hindi writer, literary critic and social reformer who served as vice-chancellor of Jodhpur University.\n\nLodha was born in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, and now lives in Kolkata. He has contributed significantly to the cause of Jain religion and Jain community. He was Head of the Department of Hindi at Calcutta University.\n\nLodha was presented with the Bihari Award by K. K. Birla Foundation at Kolkata for his book titled \"Vagdwar\". It comprises a thorough study of the productions of eight prominent Hindi poets, Tulsi, Soordas, Kabir, Nirala, Maithili Sharan Gupta, Jai Shankar Prasad, Mahadevi Verma and Makhanlal Chaturvedi.\n"}
{"id": "11107555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11107555", "title": "Keith Hefner", "text": "Keith Hefner\n\nKeith Hefner is the founder and Executive Director of Youth Communication, an influential nonprofit organization publishing magazines and books by and for youth. The magazines are New Youth Connections, written by New York City teens, and Represent, by and for foster youth. He is also a founder of Youth Liberation of Ann Arbor, a youth rights organization in Michigan.\n\nAfter growing up in Ann Arbor, in eleventh grade Hefner was inspired to become involved in the youth-led media field after seeing a high school principal censor the school newspaper. Soon after he started a magazine for local youth activists called \"FPS\".\n\nFrom 1971–1979 Hefner ran Youth Liberation, a youth-led organization that became a national publisher for the youth rights movement. Youth Liberation Press published several of his publications, including \"How to Start a High School Underground Newspaper\", \"Students and Youth Organizing\", and other books about youth rights.\n\nIn 1979 Hefner moved to New York City, and after gaining inspiration from a new youth-driven newspaper in Chicago, founded Youth Communication.\n\nHefner has received a great deal of recognition for his work in the fields of youth development, foster care and youth-led media. He won a MacArthur Fellowship in 1989. In 1986 he was a Charles H. Revson Fellow on the Future of New York City at Columbia University. In 1997 he received the Luther P. Jackson Award for Educational Excellence from the New York Association of Black Journalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "30724692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30724692", "title": "Kidnapping of Aldo Moro", "text": "Kidnapping of Aldo Moro\n\nThe kidnapping of Aldo Moro (), also referred in Italy as Moro Case (), was a seminal event in Italian political history.\n\nOn the morning of 16 March 1978, the day on which the new cabinet led by Giulio Andreotti was supposed to have undergone a confidence vote in the Italian Parliament, the car of Aldo Moro, former prime minister and then president of Christian Democracy (Italian: \"Democrazia Cristiana\", or DC, Italy's relative majority party at the time), was assaulted by a group of Red Brigades (Italian: \"Brigate Rosse\", or BR) terrorists in Via Fani in Rome. Firing automatic weapons, the terrorists killed Moro's bodyguards, (two Carabinieri in Moro's car and three policemen in the following car) and kidnapped him.\n\nOn 9 May 1978 Moro's body was found in the trunk of a Renault 4 in Via Caetani after 55 days of imprisonment, during which Moro was submitted to a political trial by the so-called \"people's court\" set up by the Brigate Rosse and the Italian government was asked for an exchange of prisoners. Despite the common interpretation, the car location in Via Caetani was not halfway between the locations of the national offices of DC and of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) in Rome.\n\nThe terrorists had prepared the ambush by parking two cars in Via Mario Fani which, once moved, would prevent Moro's cars from escaping. According to the official reconstruction at the subsequent trials, eleven people participated in the assault. However, several doubts have been cast on the terrorists' declarations on which the official accounts were based, and about the exact identity of the ambush team's members. The presence of Moro himself in Via Fani during the ambush has also been questioned after revelations in the 1990s (see Theory of the alternative kidnapping).\n\nAt 8:45 the Red Brigades members took their positions at the end of Via Fani, a downhill street in the northern quarter of Rome. An unknown number, from at least two to the whole team, were wearing Alitalia airline crew uniforms. Since not all team members knew each other, the uniforms were needed to avoid friendly fire. In the upper part of the road, and on the right-hand side, Mario Moretti was inside a Fiat 128 with a fake diplomatic license plate. Alvaro Lojacono and Alessio Casimirri were in another Fiat 128 some meters ahead of him. On the opposite side there was a third Fiat 128, with Barbara Balzerani inside, facing the supposed direction from which Moro would arrive. occupied a fourth car, a Fiat 132, near the crossroads where the street ended.\n\nMoro left his house a few minutes before 9:00. He was sitting in a blue Fiat 130 driven by Domenico Ricci. Another carabiniere, marshal Oreste Leonardi, sat beside him. Leonardi was the head of the bodyguard team. The Fiat 130 was followed by a white Alfetta with the remaining bodyguards: Francesco Zizzi, Giulio Rivera and Raffaele Iozzino.\n\nThe ambush began when the two cars entered Via Fani and the terrorists were alerted by a lookout, . Moretti's Fiat 128 cut the road in front of Moro's car, which bumped into the rear of Moretti's car and remained blocked between it and the bodyguards' Alfetta. Leonardi tried an escape manoeuver, but was thwarted by a Mini Minor parked at the crossroad. Moro's cars were finally trapped from behind by Lojacono's 128. At this point four armed terrorists jumped out from the bushes at the sides of the street, firing machine pistols. The judiciary investigations identified them as Valerio Morucci, , Prospero Gallinari and . The action has shown an analogy to a similar one by the German far-left formation RAF. One unidentified witness declared that a German voice was heard during the ambush, which led to a presumption of the presence of RAF militiamen in the ambush.\n\n91 bullets were fired of which 45 hit the bodyguards, who were all killed. 49 shots came from a single weapon, a FNAB-43 submachine gun, and 22 from another of the same model. The remaining 20 shots came from other weapons which included a Beretta M12. Ricci and Leonardi, who were sitting in the front seat of the first car, were killed first. Moro was immediately kidnapped and forced into the Fiat 132 which was next to his car. At the same time the terrorists killed the other three policemen, dispatching each of them with a single shot in the neck. The only policeman who was able to shoot back was Iozzino, but he was immediately hit in the head by Bonisoli. The blue Fiat 132 was found at 9:40 AM in Via Licinio Calvo with some blood stains inside. The other cars used for the ambush were also found in the following days in the same road (according to the declarations of Red Brigade members, the cars had been left in the road that same day).\n\nOn 16 March the escort in Via Fani was not carrying weapons, which were instead kept in the trunks of the cars; Eleonora Chiavarelli (Aldo Moro's wife) said, during the trial, that the weapons were in the trunks because \"these people didn't know how to use weapons because they had never had any shooting practice, they were not used to handling them, so the guns were in the trunk. Leonardi always talked about it. \"These people shouldn't have weapons they don't know how to use. They should know how to use them. They should carry them properly. Keep them within reach. The radio should be operational, but it doesn't work.\" For months it had been going on like this. Marshal Leonardi and lance corporal Ricci did not expect an ambush, because their weapons were placed in the bag and one of the two holsters was even in a plastic liner.\" The last sentence was denied by the widow of Marshal Leonardi, stating that her husband \"recently went around armed because he had noticed that a car was following him.\"\nThe action was claimed by the BR in a phone call to ANSA. At 10:00 Pietro Ingrao, president of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, stopped the session and announced that Moro had been kidnapped. On the same day Andreotti's government obtained a large majority of votes, including those of his traditional enemies, notably PCI. Before the kidnapping the Communists were supposed to enter the government in a direct role but the emergency changed the situation, resulting in another right-centre cabinet under the firm control of DC. Enrico Berlinguer spoke of \"an attempt to stop a positive political process\", but Lucio Magri, representative of the extreme left PUP, was concerned about the hypocrisy of passing laws limiting personal freedom as a reaction to the massacre, saying that \"it would play into the hands of the strategy of subversion\". He asked for \"self-criticism\" from the authorities and for a genuine willingness to tackle problems \"that are at the basis of the economic and moral crisis\".\n\nMario Ferrandi, a militant of Prima Linea, nicknamed \"Coniglio\" (\"Rabbit\"), later said that when the news of the kidnapping and the killing of the bodyguards spread during a workers' demonstration there was a moment of amazement, followed by a moment of euphoria and anxiety because there was a feeling that something would happen so big that things would not be quite the same. He recalled that students present at the event spent the money of \"Cassa del circolo giovanile\" to buy champagne and toast with workers of the canteen.\n\nA large amount of literature exists about the reasons for the kidnapping. The Red Brigades chose Moro due to his role as mediator between DC and PCI, the two main parties in Italy at the time, which had both participated in the Fourth Andreotti Cabinet. It was the first time since 1947 that Italian Communists had a government position, even if indirect. The success of the action would thus halt the Communists' rise to Italian state institutions, reassuring the BR as a key point in a future revolutionary war against capitalism. According to others BR aimed to strike at the whole DC who were the main exponent of a regime that, as described in BR's first communiqué after the kidnapping \"... had been suppressing the Italian people for years\".\n\nAccording to later terrorist declarations, in the months before the kidnapping the Red Brigades had also envisaged the kidnapping the other leader of DC, Giulio Andreotti. This was abandoned once they deemed that Andreotti's police protection was too strong.\n\nThe immediate consequence of the kidnapping was the exclusion of PCI from any government cabinet in the following years. Although increasingly weakened, DC remained the main government party until 1994 (although in 1981, for the first time since the formation of the Italian Republic Giovanni Spadolini, a non-Christian Democrat, became premier in a DC-based alliance).\n\nThe exact location of Moro's imprisonment is disputed. The official reconstruction in the trials identified it as an apartment in Via Camillo Montalcini 8 in Rome, which had been owned by a BR terrorist for a few years. Moro would be killed there, in an underground parking garage. Months after the kidnapping the apartment was put under investigation by UCIGOS, the Italian police's central directorate for political crimes, and was thus abandoned by the Red Brigades.\n\nAldo Moro's brother Carlo Alfredo, a judge, writes in his book \"Storia di un delitto annunciato\" that the politician was not detained in Via Montalcini, but in a seaside location. His theory is based on the fact that sand and vegetable remains were found in the car together with Moro's body. Further, Moro's body had a generally good muscular tone and according to Moro's brother this, along with several contradictions in the terrorists' declarations, contravenes the traditional view of the politician closed in a very tight cell with little space to move.\n\nDuring his detention, Moro wrote 86 letters to the main members of Christian Democracy, his family and to Pope Paul VI. Some arrived at their addressees; others that had not been sent were later found in another base of the BR in via Monte Nevoso, Milan. In the letters Moro puts forward the possibility of negotiation for his liberation if help from his party's colleagues and of the highest figures of the Republic could be obtained.\n\nSome of Moro's letters allegedly contain hidden allusions and hints. In one letter he asks: \"Is maybe there, behind keeping it hard against me, an American or German instruction?\" Writer Leonardo Sciascia suggested that in his letters Moro was including clues about his position, as when he wrote \"I am here in full health\" to indicate that he was in Rome. In the letter of 8 April Moro launched a vibrant attack at Benigno Zaccagnini, national secretary of Christian Democracy, at Francesco Cossiga, then Minister of the Interior, as well as on the whole of his party: \"Of course, I cannot prevent myself from underlining the wickedness of all the Christian Democrats who did not agree with my position [...] And Zaccagnini? How can he stay tranquil in his position? And Cossiga could not devise any possible defence? My blood will fall over them.\"\n\nDoubts have been cast over the complete publication of Moro's letters. The Carabinieri general Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa (then coordinator of the fight against terrorism in Italy, later killed by the Mafia) found copies of some previously unknown letters in an apartment used by the terrorists in via Monte Nevoso. For undisclosed reasons the finding was not publicly revealed for years. During the kidnapping the prevalent view was that Moro did not enjoy complete freedom to write. Despite Moro's wife declaring that she recognized his writing style in them, the letters would be considered, if not directly dictated by the terrorists, at least to be inspired or controlled by them. Some experts in an analysis committee formed by Cossiga initially declared that Moro had been subject to brainwashing. Cossiga would later admit that he had partially written the speech held by Giulio Andreotti in which it was said that Moro's letter were to be considered \"not morally authentic\".\n\nAldo Moro was never tortured by the Red Brigades during the 55 days; in the 1990s Italian journalist Indro Montanelli commented severely on the letters written during the kidnapping, saying that \"Everyone in this world has the right to be afraid. But a Statesman (and Moro was the State) can't try to induce the State to a negotiation with terrorists that over all, in the kidnapping of Via Fani, had left on the asphalt five dead between Carabinieri and policemen.\"\n\nMontanelli was also scathingly critical of Moro's widow, Eleonora Chiavarelli, who, in the years after her husband was killed, blamed the Christian Democrats and the Italian political class in general for his fate. In 1982 he wrote:\nDuring the 55 days of Moro's detention the Red Brigades issued nine \"Communications\" in which they explained the reasons of the kidnapping. In the Communication No.3:\nAnd:\nThe Red Brigades proposed to exchange Moro for imprisoned terrorists (Communication No.8). They later accepted to exchange him for a single terrorist. On 22 April 1978 Pope Paul VI made a public speech and asked BR to return Moro to his family, specifying that such act should also be \"without conditions\". Moro, who had previously written a letter to the Pope, reacted angrily to the latter point, feeling he had been abandoned by the Vatican. The specified \"without conditions\" is controversial—according to some sources it was added to Paul VI's letter against his will, and the pope instead wanted to negotiate with the kidnappers. Government members like Cossiga denied this hypothesis.\n\nItalian politicians were divided into two factions: one favourable to negotiations which, amongst others, included the secretary of the Italian Socialist Party, Bettino Craxi and the others totally negating that possibility, most of the Christian Democracy and Italian Communist Party, including the latter's national secretary Enrico Berlinguer and Republican leader Ugo La Malfa who proposed the death penalty for the terrorists. The second faction noted that any negotiation would seem a legitimisation of the violence of the terrorists. Further, that solution would not be accepted by the Italian police forces who had seen numerous of their members fall during the war against terrorism in previous years.\n\nWriters, including Moro's brother, underlined how the BR's communication lacked any reference to the possible role of the Communist Party in the Italian government. This was in spite of the day chosen for the kidnapping being that in which PCI, for the first time since the early republican years, was going to obtain an active government role in Italy. A letter by Moro to Zaccagnini, in which he was referring to this argument, had to be rewritten by the politician.\n\nA second point put forward was the premise that Moro's revelations, from most of the communication during his \"political process\", would be made public. Unlike other people kidnapped by the BR and subjected to same procedure and, in spite of the unprecedented repetition of the point, in the case of Moro this never happened. Much of the material collected by the terrorists, including Moro's letter and personal notes written during his imprisonment, became public only after the discovery of the base in via Monte Nevoso. The terrorists later declared they had destroyed all the material including that containing references to the Gladio undercover organization discovered in 1990.\n\nJournalist Indro Montanelli sided in favor of firmness and against the negotiations from the first day and in 2000, responding to a reader on \"Corriere della Sera\", wrote: \n\nCommunication No.9 stated that:\nThe depositions made to the Italian judges during the trials showed that not all the Red Brigades leaders were for condemning Moro to death. Mario Moretti called Moro's wife by phone, asking her to push the DC leaders for negotiations. Adriana Faranda, a member of BR, mentioned a night meeting held in Milan a few days before the murder of Moro where she and other terrorists, including Valerio Morucci and Franco Bonisoli, dissented although the final decision was taken after voting.\n\nOn 9 May 1978, after a summary \"people's trial\", Moro was murdered by Mario Moretti. It was also determined that the participation of . The body was found that same day in the trunk of a red Renault 4 in via Michelangelo Caetani in the historic centre of Rome. The location was mentioned by journalist Carmine Pecorelli as the residence of opera conductor Igor Markevitch who, according to some theories, was the alleged instigator of the whole kidnapping.\n\nAccording to the terrorist's declarations, made some ten years after the event, Moro was woken up at 06:00 AM with the excuse that he had to be moved to another secret base. In contradiction to this Bonisoli said that Moro was told that he had been \"pardoned\" and was going to be freed. The terrorists put him into a wicker basket and brought him to the parking garage of their base in via Montalcini. They put him into the trunk of a red Renault and, after covering him with a red sheet, Moretti shot Moro with a 9 mm Walther PPK and after the weapon jammed, a 7.65 mm Škorpion vz. 61. The bullets perforated Moro's lungs and killed him.\n\nThe car with his body was taken to via Caetani where it was parked about one hour after the murder. The common interpretation was that the location was midway between the national seats of DC and of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) in Rome to symbolize the end of the Historic Compromise, the alliance between DC and PCI which Moro had sought. In fact the car was found more towards the Tiber River, near the Ghetto. At 12:30 a phone call was made to Francesco Tritto, assistant of Aldo Moro in order to let him announce the location of the body. This fulfilled an \"exliciti\" will communicated by Aldo Moro to his kidnappers. At 13:30 a phone call, attributed to Valerio Morucci, notified the Prefecture of Police that the politician's body was in a car in via Caetani. Autoptic examinations made after the discovery assigned the death to around 09:00 and 10:00 of the same day, in contradiction to the terrorist's declarations. Witnesses declared that the car was in the street as early as 08:00 AM, while some witnesses declared that they did not see it before 12:30 AM.\n\nMoro was wearing the same grey clothes he had during the kidnapping. The cravat had several blood stains, traces of sand were found in the pockets and socks, and traces of vegetables were also found. Eventually the terrorists declared that they had intentionally added those traces in order to sidetrack the investigators. In the trunk there were also some of Moro's personal effects, a bracelet and his watch, and some spent cartridges. Moro also had a thigh wound, likely suffered during the initial assault in via Fani.\n\nDespite the long investigations and trials, the exact details of the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro are not known.\n\nFrancesco Cossiga, minister of the interior at the time, formed two \"crisis committees\" on the very day of the kidnapping of Moro. These were:\n\nA third unofficial committee was created which never met officially, called the \"comitato di esperti\" (\"committee of experts\"). Its existence was not disclosed until 1981, by Cossiga himself, in his interrogation by the Italian Parliament's Commission about the Moro affair. He omitted to reveal the decisions and the activities of the committee however. This committee included: Steve Pieczenik, a psychologist of the anti-terrorism section of the US State Department, a criminologist Franco Ferracuti, Stefano Silvestri, (director of the Istituto per l'Enciclopedia Italiana) and Giulia Conte Micheli.\n\nDespite these changes, in the months that the kidnapping of Aldo Moro developed and executed, no Secret Service was designed to combat internal subversion. The committees were acting according to old standards: the planning of measures to be taken in case of emergency dating back to the 1950s, and it hadn't been updated even after the alarming growth of terrorism. This was due to the fact that the country had spread an atmosphere of resignation (if not indulgence) to the left-wing terrorism, because in the trials defendants get extenuating circumstances, Prima Linea was considered a simple subversive association (instead of an armed gang) and a part of the judiciary harbored hostility towards the State and was sympathetic to the revolutionary myths; so that the political scientist said that terrorism had become \"a historical phenomenon understandable (though not justifiable) in a period of social change thwarted by a corrupt political class\".\n\nSeveral authorities have suggested that Propaganda 2 (P2) was involved in the kidnapping of Aldo Moro. Propaganda 2 was a secret masonic lodge involved in numerous financial and political scandals in Italy in the 1970s and 1980s and which featured as its members entrepreneurs, journalists, numerous high exponents of right-wing parties, the Italian police and military forces. Another theory supposes that the Red Brigades had been infiltrated by the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) or by the Organizzazione Gladio, a paramilitary clandestine network headed by NATO whose main alleged task was to oppose Soviet influence in western Europe.\nDuring the days of Moro's imprisonment journalist Carmine Pecorelli (see also below) wrote, in his magazine \"Osservatorio politico\", an article entitled \"Vergogna, buffoni!\" (\"Shame on you, clowns!\"): in it he wrote that Giulio Andreotti had met general Dalla Chiesa who told the politician that he knew the location where Moro was kept, but did not obtain the authorization to proceed to free him due to (in Pecorelli's words) a certain \"Christ's lodge in paradise\". The likely allusion to P2 became clear only after the discovery of a list of the lodge members on 17 March 1981. Members of the lodge occupied important institutional positions and included: Giuseppe Santovito, director of SISMI; prefect Walter Pelosi, director of CESIS; general Giulio Grassini of SISDE; admiral Antonino Geraci, commander of SIOS; Federico Umberto D'Amato, director of the Office of Reserved Affairs of the Ministry of the Interiors; generals Raffaele Giudice and Donato Lo Prete, respectively commander and chief-of-staff of the Guardia di Finanza; and Carabinieri general Giuseppe Siracusano, responsible for road blocks in the capital during the investigations of the Moro affair.\n\nAccording to (a professor who took part in the crisis committees) Franco Ferracuti, later discovered to be a member of P2 and who declared that Moro was suffering of the Stockholm syndrome towards his kidnappers, was close to the lodge during the kidnapping days, having been introduced by general Grassini. Licio Gelli declared that the presence of numerous members of P2 in the committees was casual, since numerous personalities were members at the time, and this was simply a statistic reflected by the composition of the committees. According to Gelli, some members of the committees did not know that some of their colleagues were also part of P2.\n\nOn 16 March 1978, the day of Moro's kidnapping, the most important members of P2 met in the Hotel Excelsior in Rome—a few hundred meters from the United States Embassy. While exiting the hotel Gelli declared \"the most difficult part is done\". It was supposed that his words referred to the abduction of Moro.\n\nAnother debated case was regarding the presence of Camillo Guglielmi, a colonel of SISMI's 7th Division which controlled Operation Gladio, in via Stresa near the location of the ambush, and in those exact minutes when the BR kidnapped Moro. His presence was kept secret and was only disclosed in 1990 during the investigation of the Italian Parliament commission on State Massacres. Guglielmi admitted that he was in via Stresa, but only because he had been invited to lunch by a colleague. According to several sources the colleague confirmed that Guglielmi came to his house, but had not been invited. Furthermore, Italians normally have lunch at around 12:30 and Guglielmi's presence at around 09:00 AM would be not justified. Other sources list Guglielmi as a true member of Gladio, but the officer always firmly denied this accusation. His direct superior, general Pietro Musumeci, was a member of P2 and condemned for sidetracking the investigations on the 1980 Bologna Station bombing.\n\nThe discovery of the BR refuge in via Gradoli (see also below) saw the participation of members of both P2 and the police forces of Italy. Lucia Mokbel, an informer of SISDE, had communicated that she had heard MORSE messages coming from the flat next to her. It turned out that those noises interpreted as MORSE code were in fact coming from the electric typewriter used by the Terrorists (BR) to type their demand letters. She informed police commissar Elio Coppa, enlisted in the Propaganda Due, but when police agents went to the flat and knocked on the door, strangely they did not attempt to enter it and left the place instead. SISDE had been also informed that a lock up garage in via Gradoli had an antenna, allegedly used by the terrorist to communicate with the area of Lake Duchessa. However Giulio Grassini, head of SISDE and member of P2, did not take any investigative measures.\n\nInvestigations made by DIGOS discovered that several machines used by the terrorists to print their communications from one year before the kidnapping of Moro, which was financed by Moretti, had been previously owned by the Italian state. These included a printer owned by the \"Raggruppamento Unità Speciali dell'Esercito\" and, despite its relatively young age and its high value, had been sold out as a scrap. A photocopier was previously owned by the Ministry of Transportation, acquired in 1969 and later sold to Enrico Triaca, a member of BR.\n\nThe apartment in via Gradoli (see below) had been rented by Mario Moretti under the pseudonym of Mario Borghi since 1978. The same building housed several apartments owned by SISDE men and one inhabited by a police confidant. During the days of the kidnapping the palace was inspected by Carabinieri under colonel Varisco, with the exclusion of Moretti's apartment—the official justification was that the Carabinieri were not authorized to enter the apartments if no one was inside. The owner of the apartment, Luciana Bozzi, was later discovered to be a friend of Giuliana Conforto, whose father was named in the Mitrokhin list of the KGB. Morucci and Faranda were eventually arrested in her flat. Pecorelli wrote a postcard to Moretti in 1977 from Ascoli Piceno (Moretti was born in the province of Ascoli), addressing it to one \"Borghi at via Gradoli\", with the message \"Greetings, brrrr\".\n\nIn June 2008 the Venezuelan terrorist Ilich Ramírez Sánchez, best known as \"Carlos the Jackal\", spoke in an interview released to the Italian press agency ANSA declaring that several men of the SISMI, led by colonel Stefano Giovannone (considered near to Moro) negotiated at the airport in Beirut for the liberation of the politician during the night of 8 to 9 May 1978: the agreement would endorse the liberation of several imprisoned members of the BR to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in the territory of an Arabic country. According to Carlos the agreement, which found the opposition of the SISMI leading figures, failed because news about it leaked to other western secret services who, in turn, informed SISMI. Moro was killed the following day. Carlos stated that the officers involved in the attempt were all expelled from the services, being forced to resign or to go into compulsory retirement on a pension.\n\nIn 2005 Giovanni Galloni, former national vice-secretary of Christian Democracy, said that during a discussion with Moro about the difficulty to find the Red Brigades' bases Moro told him that he knew of the presence of US and Israeli intelligence agents infiltrated within the BR. However the information obtained was not given to the Italian investigators. He also declared that the reason of the assassination of journalist Carmine Pecorelli was the same information, perhaps coming from the United States.\n\nDuring an interview in front of the Italian parliament commission on terrorism Galloni also stated that, during his trip to the United States in 1976, he had been told that a government like that envisaged by Moro, which would include the Communist presence, would be opposed at \"any cost\" by the American Republicans.\n\nDuring the 1983 trial against the BR Moro's widow, Eleonora Chiavarelli, declared that her husband was unpopular in the United States due to the historic compromise matter, and that he had been repeatedly warned by American politicians to stop disrupting the political situation which had been established in the Yalta conference (in reference to the possible executive role of the Italian Communist Party). According to her Henry Kissinger was one of the American personalities who menaced Moro in 1974 and 1976. She said that the words to Moro which he repeated to her were:\n\nKissinger denied these accusations.\n\nAlberto Franceschini, one of the founders of BR, mentioned the possibility that the Red Brigades had been infiltrated by Israeli agents as early as 1974. He reported a confidence told to him by co-founder Renato Curcio, according to whom Mario Moretti would be an infiltrated agent. Curcio has always denied this reconstruction. Moretti took the reins of the Red Brigades after Franceschini and Curcio were arrested in the mid-1970s, introducing a far stronger militarization of the organization's activities.\n\nMoretti, in the Italian RAI TV programme \"La notte della Repubblica\" denied these accusations, saying that he had never seen an Israeli in his life and that it was wrong to think that the change of RB's strategy depended from the arrest of some militants. He also added:\nAnother controversial event occurred on April 18, 1978 when a false BR's \"Communication No. 7\" announced the death of Moro and that he had been buried near Lake Duchessa, in the province of Rieti (north of Rome). In response the Italian police looked in vain for Moro under the iced surface of the lake.\n\nThe authors of the false communication included Antonio Chichiarelli, a notorious forger from Rome who was connected to the Banda della Magliana gang of the city. Chichiarelli would later issue further false communications from the Red Brigades. He was killed in uncertain circumstances in September 1984 when his connection with the false communiqué had been yet entirely clarified. Chichiarelli spoke of the communication to several people, including Luciano Dal Bello, a confidant of the Carabinieri and of SISDE. Del Bello reported the facts but no investigation on Chichiarelli followed.\n\nIn the same day that the police force found an apartment used as a base by the Red Brigades in Rome, on via Gradoli 96. The discovery was allegedly due to a water leak for which a neighbour had called the firemen. The leak was caused by a tap left open in the apartment's shower in an unusual fashion, i.e. with water directed against the wall. The base was normally used by Mario Moretti but the Italian media reported the discovery immediately and he avoided returning there. As previously mentioned, the palace had been inspected by Carabinieri under colonel Varisco, with the exclusion of Moretti's apartment: the official justification was that the Carabinieri were not authorized to enter the apartments if no one was inside. The owner of the apartment, Luciana Bozzi, was later discovered to be a friend of Giuliana Conforto, whose father was named in the Mitrokhin list of the KGB, and in whose apartments Morucci and Faranda were later arrested.\n\nThe commissar who had led Rome's police forces in the inspection of the building on via Gradoli, Elio Coppa, was eventually promoted to vice-director of SISDE—he later turned out to be a member of P2. The neighbor whose call had led to the inspection, Lucia Mokbel, was officially a university student of Egyptian descent and was later identified as a confidant of SISDE or of the police. Furthermore, the report of the inspection, which was presented at the trial on the Moro affair, was written on a type of paper distributed to the Italian police only in 1981, three years after the events.\n\nBefore, and after 1978, numerous apartments in the street had been used by Italian secret agents, including a Carabinieri NCO enrolled by SISMI who resided in the building facing that of Moretti and who was from the same birthplace. In the street there were also firms used by SISMI for its affairs. Moretti's apartment itself had been under observation by UCIGOS for several years previously as it had been frequented also by members of the far-left organizations Potere Operaio and Autonomia Operaia. Later it was revealed that the Christian Democracy parliament member Benito Cazora, during the contact he had with the 'ndrangheta (the Calabrian mafia) in the attempt to find Moro's prison, had been warned that the area of via Gradoli was a \"hot zone\". Cazora had reported this warning to the DC and to the police.\n\nMino Pecorelli, already mentioned for his likely knowledge of the presence of Moretti in via Gradoli, was one of the few journalists to immediately deny the authenticity of \"Communication No.7\", whereas most authorities had considered it true.\n\nSome 30 years after the events Steve Pieczenik, an expert on terrorism of the US State Department, declared in an interview that the decision to issue the false communication was taken during a meeting of the crisis committee, present at which were Francesco Cossiga, members of the Italian intelligence agencies and Franco Ferracuti (as previously mentioned, a member of P2). The alleged goal was to prepare the Italian and European audience for the likely death of Moro in the kidnapping. He however stated that it would be ignored if the communication had been actually issued. See also below\n\nIt was also supposed that Moro had told his kidnappers of the existence of Operation Gladio, many years before its public revelation in 1990. From this point of view the false \"Communication No.7\" was a code message from sectors of the Italian secret agencies that Moro should not return alive from his imprisonment.\n\nOn 20 April 1978 the Red Brigades issued the true Communication No.7: they attached a photo of Aldo Moro holding a copy of \"La Repubblica\", dated 19 April, showing that the politician was still alive.\n\nAlso connected to via Gradoli is an event which involved Romano Prodi, Mario Baldassarri and Alberto Clò. During an alleged séance in which they participated on 2 April 1978, after asking the soul of Giorgio La Pira about the location of Moro, a Ouija table they were using registered the words Viterbo, Bolsena and Gradoli, three towns north of Rome. The information was trusted and a police group made an armed blitz in the town of Gradoli, 80 km from Rome, on the following day, 6 April though Moro was not found. Prodi spoke to the Italian parliament's commission about the case in 1981. In the notes of the Italian parliament commission on terrorism the séance is described as a fake, used to hide the true source of the information. In 1997 Giulio Andreotti declared that the information came from the Bologna section of Autonomia Operaia, a far-left organization with some ties with the BR, and that Cossiga also knew the true source. Judge Ferdinando Imposimato considered Andreotti's theory as \"possible\", but accused him of having kept information that could have been valuable in a trial about Moro's murder.\n\nMoro's widow later declared that she had repeatedly informed the police that a via Gradoli existed in Rome, but the investigators did not consider it — some replied to her that the street did not appear in Rome's maps. This is confirmed by other Moro relatives, but strongly denied by Francesco Cossiga.\n\nIn the 1990s the séance matter was reopened by the Italian parliament's commission on terrorism. While Prodi (then prime minister) declared that he had no time for an interview, both Baldassarri (senator and vice-minister in two Berlusconi cabinets) and Clò (minister of Industry in Lamberto Dini's cabinet and owner of the house where the séance was performed) responded to the call: they confirmed the circumstances of the séance, and that the word \"Gradoli\" had appeared in several sessions, even if the participants had changed.\n\nIn the years following Moro's murder there have been numerous references to the presence of Calabrian 'ndrangheta at via Fani. In an intercepted phone call between Sereno Freato, then Moro's personal secretary, and Benito Cazora, a DC parliament member who had been given the task to keep contacts with the Calabrian gangs, Freato asks for news about the prison of Moro. The 'ndrangheta was in possession of several photos of the events in via Fani, some of which allegedly portrayed a \"man known by them\". According to what was reported by Cazora in 1991 some members of the 'ndrangheta, who had been expelled from Calabria, had offered their assistance to the Christian Democracy to discover the location of Moro, in exchange for the possibility to return to their homeland. However this collaboration never materialized.\n\nAccording to the Sicilian Mafia \"pentito\" Tommaso Buscetta, several Italian state organizations tried to obtain information about Moro's location from the Mafia, but later Giuseppe Calò asked boss Stefano Bontade to stop the search, since the highest members of DC no longer desired the liberation of their fellow politician. The decision to abandon the search was taken between 9 and 10 April after Moro had revealed to his captors a series of very compromising information about the American CIA and Giulio Andreotti. Other sources report that the Sicilian Mafia changed its mind due to Moro's will to associate the Communist Party with the government.\n\nIn a deposition made at trial Raffaele Cutolo, then leader of the Neapolitan camorra, declared that the Banda della Magliana asked him if he was interested in the liberation of Moro. Cutolo contacted the Italian secret service who replied to him to stay away from the matter, because had vetoed the intermediation for the salvation of the then president of the DC. Valerio Morucci has completely discredited this confused story: he showed that the Camorra's militants were apparently \"normal people in suits\", completely alien environment of the underworld and therefore difficult to identify from the \"Banda della Magliana\". Morucci concluded: \"We weren't a gang ... we didn't meet under the street lights ... we didn't do we trade strange ... I don't see how the Banda della Magliana or anyone could identify the Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 15 October 1993 a 'Ndrangheta pentito, , declared that Antonio Nirta, another Calabrian gangster who had been infiltrated in the Red Brigades, took part in the assault in via Fani. Sergio Flamigni, a former communist senator and member of the Italian Parliament commission on the Moro affair, wrote that when he learnt about Morabito's words he remembered about the testimony of Benito Cazora, who had declared that he had been approached by a Calabrian asking him about photos shot in via Fani.\n\nAccording to the 'Ndrangheta pentito Francesco Fonti, his boss Sebastiano Romeo was involved in attempts to locate the place where Moro was held. Romeo had been asked by unnamed national and Calabrian Christian Democrats such as and to help out. With the help of SISMI and the Banda della Magliana, Fonti was able to locate the house where Moro was kept. When he reported back, Romeo said that he had done a good job but that important politicians in Rome had changed their minds.\n\nMorabito's revelations were not considered supported by adequate evidence.\n\nJournalist Carmine \"Mino\" Pecorelli, who apparently had several informers in the Italian secret services, spoke repeatedly about the kidnapping of Moro in his magazine \"Osservatorio Politico\" (or simply \"OP\"). Before the events of via Fani, Pecorelli had already written about the possibility that Moro would be blocked in his attempt to admit the Italian Communist Party into the government. On 15 March 1978, one day before Moro was abducted, \"Osservatorio Politico\" published an article which, citing the anniversary of the killing of Julius Caesar in relation with the upcoming formation of Andreotti's cabinet, mentioned a possible new Brutus (one of the assassins of Caesar, and a member of his family).\n\nArticles written during the politician's imprisonment show that he already knew of the existence of a \"memorial\" (the documents written by Moro in his detention) and of some of the unpublished letters. Pecorelli stated that there were two groups within the Red Brigades, one favourable to the negotiations, and one who wanted to kill Moro in any case. He hinted that the group that had captured Moro in via Fani was not the same that was detaining him, and which had planned the whole move. He wrote:\n\nWhen the terrorist base in via Gradoli was discovered Pecorelli stressed how in the apartment, different from what could be expected, all the proofs of the BR's presence were clearly displayed. Regarding the kidnapping he wrote that Moro's opening to the Communist Party was not welcome, both by the United States as it would change the political balance of southern Europe, nor by the Soviet Union since this would prove that Communists could reach power democratically, and without being a direct offshoot of any Communist party.\n\nOn 20 March 1979 Pecorelli was murdered in front of his house. In 1992 the Mafia \"pentito\" Tommaso Buscetta revealed that the journalist had been eliminated as \"a favor to Andreotti\", who was preoccupied about some information about Moro's kidnapping in the possession of Pecorelli. The latter had allegedly received from general Dalla Chiesa (they were both affiliated or near to P2) a copy of a letter by Moro which contained dangerous accusations against Andreotti; the journalist had hinted about them in some previous articles. The unabridged letters were published only in 1991 when, together with others, it was discovered during renovation works in via Nevoso (only a resume of them, the so-called \"Memoriale Moro\", had been previously issued). The fact that Moro's letters were circulating before 1991 is proven by a speech held by Bettino Craxi, leader of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI), in which he mentioned a letter which had not been officially published at the time. The fact was considered a subtle menace against Andreotti in the war for the supreme political power waged between PSI and DC at the time.\n\nIn 1993 historian expressed doubts about what was said by the Mafia \"pentiti\" because, comparing the two memorials (the \"amputee\" of 1978 and the \"complete\" of 1990), noted that Moro's allegations addressed to Andreotti were the same, so Andreotti had no interest to order the murder of Pecorelli, who could not threaten him to publish things already known and publicly available.\n\nAndreotti underwent a trial for his role in the assassination of Pecorelli. He was acquitted in the first grade trial (1999), condemned in the second (2002), and finally acquitted by the Italian Supreme Court (2003).\n\nPecorelli, in an article written the very day of his assassination, hinted to the role of opera composer Igor Markevitch (see below) in the kidnapping.\n\nSteve Pieczenik was an American negotiatior and expert in terrorism who was sent by the US State Department, at the request of Cossiga, and remained in Italy for three weeks during Moro's detention. He later collaborated with Tom Clancy as a novel and cinematic writer. His presence in Italy as a member of one of the previously mentioned \"crisis committees\" was revealed only in the early 1990s. Pieczenik had written to a relation in which he spoke about the possible effects of Moro's abduction, the possibility that the Red Brigades had been infiltrated by Italian agents, and also gave advice about how to find the terrorists. Eventually however, Pieczenik declared that this relation was false, since the ideas included were similar to those of the P2-affiliated criminologist Francesco Ferracuti, another member of the secret committee. Pieczenik also stated that he did not release any written document.\n\nAccording to what was revealed by Cossiga and by Pieczenik himself, his initial idea was to show the will to negotiate, with the goal of gaining time and in the hope that the terrorists would make some error from which they could be detected. During later interviews, Pieczenik declared that there were numerous leaks about the discussions made at the committee:\n\nPieczenik also declared that, once returned to the United States, he met an alleged Argentinian secret agent who knew everything that had happened at the Italian crisis committee. Pieczenik explained the leak to Argentina with the presence in the committee of numerous members of the P2 lodge, which had strong ties with the South American country (its founder Licio Gelli had lived for a period there).\n\nIn a later interview to French journalist Emmanuel Amara, Pieczenik declared:\n\nAt his arrival in Italy Pieczenik had been informed by Cossiga and the Vatican intelligence services that there had been a coup attempt in Italy in previous months, led by right-winged personalities of the intelligence services and of P2. Pieczenik was astonished by the presence of so many fascists in the Italian intelligence services. The Red Brigades had also infiltrated the Italian institutions and obtained information from the children of politicians who were members of left and far-left organizations. With the help of the Vatican intelligence, which he considered superior to the Italian one, he investigated such infiltrations, but no measures were taken.\n\nPieczenik also declared that he participated in the decision to issue the false \"Communication No.7\", stating that he pushed the BR to kill Moro in order to de-legitimise them, once it was clear that the Italian politicians were not interested in his liberation. According to Pieczenik, the United States did not have a clear image of the situation in Italy, especially for the left and right-wing terrorist groups; he also said that he received no help from CIA or the US embassy in Italy.\n\nPieczenik explained his premature return to the US with the desire to avoid the accusations of American pressure behind the now likely death of Moro. Previously he had instead declared that he had left in order to deprive the decisions taken by the Italian institutions, which he considered inefficient and corrupted, of any US legitimisation.\n\nRussian composer and conductor Igor Markevitch has also been purported to have helped the kidnappers, housing them in his villa at Florence and perhaps preparing the questions made to Moro. His residence in Rome faced via Michelangelo Caetani (Markevitch had married the daughter of the nobleman after whom the street was named), where Moro's body was found after he was killed.\n\nA report issued by SISMI in 1980 mentions one \"Igor, of the dukes Caetani family\", who had a prominent role in the Red Brigades organization. Two agents of SISMI were investigating near Paleazzo Caetani in the early May 1978 when Moro had not yet been murdered. They were stopped by an unspecified \"superior intervention\" (allegedly coming from the agency's director, Giuseppe Santovito, a member of P2). Markevitch has been also identified as the \"mysterious intermediary\" mentioned by the Red Brigades in their Communication No.4.\n\nIn the article written the very day in which he was killed, Mino Pecorelli, speaking of the \"prison of the people\" where Moro was kept, mentioned a palace having a frieze with lions and located in the centre of Rome; and described a duchess who could see the body of Moro from her balcony. The Caetani palace in which Markevitch and his wife lived had a bas-relief of two lions biting two horses.\n\nIn the course of Moro's capture the terrorists fired 93 bullets. These killed all the five members of the escort but left Moro with only a light wound in his thigh. Despite this apparent precision, members of the BR such as Valerio Morucci declared that they had only a rough shooting training, obtained by firing their weapons in grottoes at night. The position of the bodyguards (two sitting in the front seats of Moro's car, and three in the following one), separated from the politician, likely made it easier for the ambush squad to direct their fire against them and avoid hitting Moro.\n\nHowever several writers and observers suggested that the ambushers of via Fani included a marksman. Sources such as the magazine \"l'espresso\" further suppose that he could have been a member of the Italian intelligence service and identify him as Giustino De Vuono, a marksman once part of the French Foreign Legion: according to their reconstruction, the 49 bullets found in the bodies of the bodyguards would come from his weapon. A witness reporting on 19 April 1978 at Rome's Prefecture declared that he had recognized De Vuono driving a green Austin Mini or Autobianchi A112 on the location of the massacre. De Vuono, who was affiliated to the 'Ndrangheta (Calabrian mafia), on that day was not in his usual residence in southern Paraguay (at the time under the dictatorship of Alfredo Stroessner). Several members of the Red Brigades declared that their weapons were acquired from the Calabrian gangland, amongst others; further, it has been proved that members of DC got in touch with Calabrian gangsters to obtain a help in the liberation of Moro.\n\nThe identity of the alleged marksman has been also associated to the German terrorist group RAF. Another witness of the events in via Fani declared that some thirty minutes before the ambush a foreigner with German accent had addressed him, ordering to go away from the area.\n\nSince some of the ammunition used for the massacre had been treated with a special preserving paint (which was also found in some secret depots related to the Gladio undercover organization), it has been suggested that these would come from some Italian military or paramilitary corps.\n\nJournalist Rita di Giovacchino suggests that Moro was not in via Fani during the massacre, but had been taken prisoner by another organization and that the Red Brigades acted only as \"front men\". This would explain their reticence and the incongruity of their declarations about the whole kidnapping (from the ambush, to the presence of sand on Moro's body). According to her, this would also explain the sibylline remark pronounced by Sereno Freato, first secretary of Aldo Moro, when Carmine Pecorelli (see above) was also found dead: \"Investigate on the instigators of Pecorelli's murder, and would find the instigators of Moro's murder\". She thus lists as part of the same plot the deaths of Pecorelli, Chichiarelli (who would have been punished for his blackmailing attempts) and of Carabinieri colonel . Allegedly killed by the Red Brigades in 1979, although in circumstances never clear, Antonio Varisco had been at the helm of the investigation on the BR base in via Gradoli; he was also a friend of general Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa (also murdered for never completely understood reasons), as well as of Pecorelli. The use made by BR of printing machines once owned by the Italian intelligence, according to di Giovacchino, shows that the latter were likely the organization behind all these bloody acts.\n\nMario Moretti declared that he was studying Moro's daily moves since 1976. Every morning the politician went with his grandson to a church near his house, after which he had a short walk with only one member of the escort. This looked like a more favourable moment to kidnap him, since most of the bodyguards were not present, but was not chosen by the terrorists. On the morning of his abduction Moro did not bring his grandson with him.\n\nAfter the ambush in via Fani the terrorists took only the most interesting for them of the five bags that Moro carried with him. Those containing the politician's medicines and his reserved documents. Further, the necessity of inflicting a coup de grâce to any of the bodyguards is in contrast with a hurried attack typical of such acts, and is motivated only by the necessity to eliminate any possible witness that would reveal that Moro was not there. In a letter to his wife Moro wrote during captivity he asked her to take care of his bags. Since Moro was surely aware that if his bags had been found in the massacre location, they had been taken by the investigators. Also the absence from his letter of any word about the victims of via Fani has been taken as an element in favour of the theory that Moro was captured while in his Gladio escort (see Involvement of P2, Gladio and of the Italian intelligence services) and not in via Fani and so did not know anything about their assassination.\n\nNumerous unanswered questions surround Moro's kidnapping in via Fani:\n\n\n\nThe kidnapping and murder of Moro drastically changed the politics of Italy.\n\nThe Historic Compromise between DC and PCI, one of Moro's main goals, was not liked by Italy's main international partners. On 23 March 1976 Aldo Moro, during his tenure as prime minister, took part in the G7 conference in Puerto Rico. When he asked his colleagues' opinions about the matter they replied to him that, if it materialized, the presence of the Communists in the executive would cause the loss of international support (including financial ones) for Italy. At the previous general elections, DC had scored a 38%, followed by PCI with 34%. Moro was considered a natural candidate for the next President of the Italian Republic, with the ensuing realization of the government alliance between the two parties. His assassination marked the definitive end of the Historic Compromise.\n\nOn 16 March 1978, the very day of the kidnapping of Moro, Andreotti's cabinet obtained the vote of confidence: it was voted for by all the Italian parties, with the exception of the Social Movement, the Liberal Party (the first a far right party, the second a centre-right one), the Radical Party and of Proletarian Democracy (the latter being left/far left formations). The executive was formed exclusively by members from DC and could govern only with the indirect support of PCI (the so-called \"non-no confidence\").\n\nBetween 1978 and 1979, Italy was involved with a series of events, after the assassination of Moro; on 15 June Giovanni Leone resigned from the presidency of the Republic, ending six months before his term as a result of harsh polemics and attacks on his person. A few weeks later Sandro Pertini was elected with plebiscite vote. In January 1979, Andreotti's cabinet resigned: Pertini entrusted the task to Ugo La Malfa, but the attempt failed and there were new elections.\nAt successive elections the DC remained stable while the PCI suffered a sharp setback: \nthis result marked the end of the government of national solidarity and the possibility of entry of the Communists in the executive.\n\nThe party, under the stronger influence of Ciriaco De Mita (from 1982 to 1989), Giulio Andreotti and Arnaldo Forlani (from 1989), remained a government party until 1994; in the 1992 elections went down for the first time below 30% of the votes due to the Lega Nord's growth in Northern Italy, and following the requests of Mani pulite scandal (and the ties between the Mafia and Andreotti himself) that also involved the allied parties (in addition to former PCI, renamed PDS, involved at the local level), continued to lose support. In 1994 the party was disbanded and the DC's last secretary, Mino Martinazzoli, decided to change the name of the party to the Italian People's Party.\n\nAccording to the acts of the Italian Parliament commission on terrorism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3232824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3232824", "title": "Kuki people", "text": "Kuki people\n\nThe Kukis constitute one of several hill tribes within India, Bangladesh, and Burma. As Chin in the Chin State of Myanmar and as Mizo in the State of Mizoram in India are a number of related Tibeto-Burman tribal peoples spread throughout the northeastern states of India, northwestern Burma, and the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh. In Northeast India, they are present in all states except Arunachal Pradesh. This dispersal across international borders is a culmination of punitive actions made by the British during their occupation of India.\n\nSome fifty tribes of Kuki peoples in India are recognised as scheduled tribes based on the dialect spoken by that particular Kuki community as well as their region of origin.\n\nThe name \"Chin\" is disputed. During the British occupation of India, the British used the compound term 'Chin-Kuki-Mizo' to group the Kukish language speaking people, and the Government of India \"inherited\" this. Missionaries chose to employ the term Chin to christen those on the Burmese side and the term Kuki on the Indian side of the border. Chin nationalist leaders in Burma's Chin State popularised the term \"Chin\" following Burma's independence from Britain.\n\nMore recently Chin and Kuki have been rejected by some for Zomi, a name common to several peoples speaking small Northern Kukish languages, including the Zou. which other groups like Hmars, Zou/Zo Hmal and Koms may not co-opt for themselves. The term \"Mizo\" also can cause confusion, particularly following the emergence of the Zomi National Congress.\n\nThe early history of the Kukis is obscure. The origin of the word \"Kuki\" is uncertain, but like the word \"Naga\", it is an exonym: it was not originally as a self-designation by the tribes that are now called Kukis. According to the colonial British writer Adam Scott Reid, the earliest reference to the word Kuki can be dated to 1777 CE, when it first appeared in British records. However, PS Haokip of Kuki National Organisation claims that a 33 CE record refers to two Kuki chiefs named Kuki Ahongba and Kuki Achouba. Ancient Sanskrit legendary literature mentions the Kirata people, which have been identified with tribes such as the Kuki.\n\nAccording to CA Soppit, the \"Old Kukis\" migrated to Manipur in the early 11th century, while the \"New Kukis\" migrated to Manipur during the first half of the 19th century.\n\nLong ignored by the outside world, an important landmark in the history of the Kuki people was the arrival of missionaries and the spread of Christianity among them. Missionary activity had considerable social, cultural and political ramifications while the acceptance of Christianity marked a departure from the tradition religion of the Kuki peoples as well as both the Kuki peoples' ancestral customs and traditions. The spread of English education introduced the Kuki people to the \"modern era\". William Pettigrew, the first foreign missionary, came to Manipur on 6 February 1894 and was sponsored by the American Baptist Mission Union. He, together with Dr. Crozier, worked together in the North and the Northeast of Manipur. In the south, Watkins Robert of the Welsh Presbytery mission organised the Indo-Burma Thadou-Kuki Pioneer Mission in 1913. To have a broader scope, the mission’s name was changed to North East India General Mission (NEIGM).\n\nThe first resistance to British hegemony by the Kuki people was the Kuki Rebellion of 1917-19 after which their territory was subjugated by the British and divided between the administrations of British India and British Burma. Up until their defeat in 1919, the Kukis had been an independent people ruled by their chieftains.\n\nDuring World War II, seeing an opportunity to regain independence, the Kuki fought with the Imperial Japanese Army and the Indian National Army led by Subhas Chandra Bose but the success of the Allied forces over the Axis group dashed their hopes.\n\nThe land of the Kukis has a number of customs and traditions.\n\nSawm, a community centre for boys – was the centre of learning in which the \"Sawm-upa\" (an elder) did the teaching, while \"Sawm-nu\" took care of chores, such as combing of the boy’s hair, washing of the garments and making the beds. The best students were recommended to the King’s or the Chief’s service, and eventually would achieve the office of \"Semang\" and \"Pachong\" (ministers) in their courts, or \"gal –lamkai\" (leaders, warriors) in the army.\n\nLawm (a traditional type of youth club) was an institution in which boys and girls engaged in social activities for the benefit of the individual and the community. It was also another learning institution. Every Lawm has a \"Lawm-upa\" (a senior member), a \"To’llai-pao\" (an overseer or superintendent) and a \"Lawm-tangvo\" (assistant superintendent). Besides being a source of traditional learning, the institution of the Lawm also facilitated the transmission of both technical as well as practical knowledge to its members, especially with regard to particular methods of farming, hunting, fishing and sporting activities such as \"Kung–Kal\" (high jump, especially over a choice \"mithun\"), \"Ka’ng Ka’p\", \"Ka’ngchoi Ka’p\" (top game), \"Suhtumkhawh\" (javelin throw using the heavy wooden implement for pounding-de-husking-paddy) and \"So’ngse\" (shot put).\n\nThe Lawm was also a centre where young Kuki people learned discipline and social etiquette. After harvest season, the \"Lawm meet\" is celebrated with a \"Lawm-se’l\" and, as a commemoration, a pillar is erected. The event is accompanied by dance and drinking rice-beer, which sometimes continues for days and nights.\n\nWith regard to governance, Semang (cabinet) is the annual assembly of a Kuki village community held at the Chief’s residence represents the Inpi (Assembly). In such an assembly, the Chief and his Semang and Pachong (cabinet members and auxiliary of Inpi) and all the household heads of the village congregate to discuss and resolve matters relating to the village and the community.\n\nThe majority of Chins are Christians, with most belonging to Protestant denominations, especially Baptist.\n\nTraditionally, the Chin were animists. Due to the work of Arthur E. Carson a Baptist missionary, many converted to Christianity. Many Chins have also served as evangelists and pastors, ministering in places like the United States, Australia, Guam and India.\n\nThe Bnei Menashe (, \"Sons of Menasseh\") are a small group within the indigenous people of India's North-Eastern border states of Manipur and Mizoram; since the late 20th century, they claim descent from one of the Lost Tribes of Israel and have adopted the practice of Judaism. The Bnei Menashe are made up of Mizo, Kuki and Chin peoples, who all speak Tibeto-Burman languages, and whose ancestors migrated into northeast India from Burma mostly in the 17th and 18th centuries. They are called Chin in Burma. In the late 20th century, an Israeli rabbi investigating their claims named them Bnei Menashe, based on their account of descent from Menasseh. Most of the peoples in these two northeast states, who number more than 3.7 million, do not identify with these claims. Some have supported other movements to separate from India.\n\nPrior to conversion in the 19th century to Christianity by Welsh Baptist missionaries, the Chin, Kuki, and Mizo peoples were animists; among their practices were ritual headhunting. Since the late 20th century, some of these peoples have begun following Messianic Judaism. The Bnei Menashe are a small group who started studying and practicing Judaism since the 1970s in a desire to return to what they believe is the religion of ancestors. The total population of Manipur and Mizoram is more than 3.7 million. The Bnei Menashe number below 9,000; several hundred have emigrated to Israel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9575280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9575280", "title": "Kyōgaku no Gaijin Hanzai Ura File – Gaijin Hanzai Hakusho 2007", "text": "Kyōgaku no Gaijin Hanzai Ura File – Gaijin Hanzai Hakusho 2007\n\n, is a that was published in Japanese on January 31, 2007 by Eichi Publishing Inc. It was distributed in convenience stores and online at Rakuten Books and Amazon.com. Its cover price was 690 yen.\n\nThe mook contains images and descriptions of what it says are crimes committed in Japan by non-Japanese, including graphs breaking down crimes by nationality. The mook's cover, in red and black, shows caricatured images of foreigners grinning maniacally with glowing red eyes under its banner headline. No advertising content was included in the mook.\n\nThe mook included a caption describing a black man as a \"nigga\", an article entitled \"Chase the Iranian!\", and calls Tokyo a \"city torn apart by evil foreigners\". One cartoon re-enacts a murder on a pig farm in Chiba, east of Tokyo, allegedly by a Chinese man who overstayed his visa.\n\nThe product was withdrawn from FamilyMart shelves after several complaints from customers. Debito Arudou, a commentator on racial issues in Japan, posted a bilingual letter on his blog for readers to take to FamilyMart stores, protesting against \"discriminatory statements and images about non-Japanese residents of Japan.\"\nRichard-Lloyd Parry, Asia editor of \"The Times\" also criticised the book. The blog Japan Probe requested its readers to \"check that FamilyMart is complying with its pledge to remove the publication\". Citing the publication's \"inappropriate racial expressions\" FamilyMart decided to stop distributing the book on February 5.\n\nThe editor of the book, Shigeki Saka, defended his decision to publish in an editorial in \"Metropolis\". Saka stated that, \"there are no lies, distortions or racist sentiments expressed in Gaijin Hanzai Ura Fairu. All the statistics about rising crime rates are accurate, and all the photographs show incidents that actually occurred.\" His stated purpose was to create an informed dialogue on the \"taboo\" topic of foreigner crime.\n\nArudou disagreed with Saka's claim of informed dialogue on a taboo topic, arguing in an electronic journal that a magazine that \"depicts foreigners as dangerous and evil\" violates United Nations treaties pertaining to hate speech, incitement to racial hatred, and racial discrimination:\nThe magazine soon went off the market, and, according to an April 5, 2007 report from Teikoku Databank, Eichi Shuppan KK, the magazine's publisher, went bankrupt.\n"}
{"id": "3318731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3318731", "title": "Lepcha language", "text": "Lepcha language\n\nLepcha language, or Róng language (Lepcha: ᰛᰩᰵ་ᰛᰵᰧᰶ; \"Róng ríng\"), is a Himalayish language spoken by the Lepcha people in Sikkim and parts of West Bengal, Nepal and Bhutan.\n\nLepcha is spoken by minorities in the Indian states of Sikkim and West Bengal, as well as parts of Nepal and Bhutan. Where it is spoken, it is considered to be an aboriginal language, pre-dating the arrival of the Tibetan languages (Sikkimese, Dzongkha, and others) and more recent Nepali language. Lepcha speakers comprise four distinct communities: the Renjóngmú of Sikkim; the Támsángmú of Kalimpong, Kurseong, and Mirik; the ʔilámmú of Ilam District, Nepal; and the Promú of southwestern Bhutan. Lepcha-speaking groups in India are larger than those in Nepal and Bhutan.\n\nThe Indian census reported 50,000 Lepcha speakers, however the number of native Lepcha speakers in India may be closer to 30,000.\n\nLepcha is difficult to classify, but George van Driem (2001) suggests that it may be closest to the Mahakiranti languages, a subfamily of the Himalayish languages.\n\nLepcha is internally diverse, showing lexical influences from different majority language groups across the four main Lepcha communities. According to Plaisier (2007), these Nepali and Sikkimese Tibetan influences do not amount to a dialectical difference.\n\nRoger Blench (2013) suggests that Lepcha has an Austroasiatic substratum, which originated from a now-extinct branch of Austroasiatic that he calls \"Rongic\". Lepcha words of Austroasiatic origin identified by Blench (2013) are as follows.\nLepcha is a non-tonal Sino-Tibetan language, although it does have phonemic stress or pitch that may be marked in the Lepcha script. Much of its lexicon is composed of monosyllabic elements.\n\nNotably, words that are commonly considered obscene or taboo in other languages are not treated as such by native speakers.\n\nThe Lepcha script (also known as \"róng\") is a syllabic script featuring a variety of special marks and ligatures. Its genealogy is unclear. Early Lepcha manuscripts were written vertically, a sign of Chinese influence. Prior to the development of the Lepcha script, Lepcha literary works were composed in the Tibetan script.\n\nLepcha language is romanized according to varying schemes, the prevailing system being that of Mainwaring (1876). Most linguists, including Plaisier (2007), whose system is used in this article, have followed modified versions of Mainwaring's system. Other linguists and historians have used systems based on European languages such as English, French, and German.\n\nLepcha consonants appear in the chart below, following Plaisier (2007):\n\nRetroflex phonemes /ʈ/, /ʈʰ/, and /ɖ/ are written in Lepcha script as ᰀᰥ \"kr\", ᰝᰥ \"hr\", and ᰃᰥ \"gr\", respectively. Most, though not all, instances of retroflex consonants indicate a word is of Tibetan origin. To distinguish this retroflex sound in Lepcha script, a dot may be written underneath: ᰀᰥ᰷, ᰝᰥ᰷, and ᰃᰥ᰷. Native instances of non-retroflex ᰀᰥ \"kr\", ᰝᰥ \"hr\", and ᰃᰥ \"gr\" may be pronounced either as written or as , , and . For example, \"tagrikup\", \"boy,\" may be said either or .\n\nLepcha has three glide consonants that may occur after certain initial consonants: , , and . When the phoneme operates as a glide, it can combine with as a double-glide: ᰕᰥᰤᰩᰮ\"mryóm\", \"to spread over the ground, creep.\" Notably, syllables with the glide are given their own independent forms in the Lepcha script.\n\nVelar consonants and preceding front vowels or are palatalized as and , respectively. Fricatives and are merged before .\n\nLepcha speakers tend not to distinguish between and , pronouncing both as ~~. Additionally, initial is occasionally realized as . Under the influence of Nepali, some Lepcha speakers have lost the distinction between and , and between and .\n\nOf the above phonemes, only , and may be syllable-final. Native speakers tend to neutralize the difference between final and . In syllable-final position, stops are realized as an unreleased stop, usually pronounced with a simultaneous : for example, becomes .\n\nAccording to Plaisier (2007), Lepcha has eight vowels:\n\nThe phoneme denoted by is shortened and appears in closed syllables; is longer and appears in open syllables. The phoneme /e/ is realized as in open syllables and in closed syllables before or . Closed syllables ending in /p/, /m/, /l/, /n/, /r/, and /t/ show free variation between , , and even . Distinctions between /o/ and /ɔ/ are often lost among non-literate speakers, particularly those highly fluent in Nepali language, which does not contrast the sounds.\n\nLepcha grammar features nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs, and verbs. Word order is typically subject–object–verb (SOV). Lepcha morphology is somewhat agglutinative, though most bare Lepcha lexicon is made up of one- or two-syllable words. Nouns are arranged into either head-first or head-last noun phrases. Relative clauses and genitive phrases precede nouns, whereas markers for demonstratives, definiteness, number, case, and other particles follow the noun. Lepcha is an ergative language, where the ergative case indicates transitivity and completedness of the event. There is no grammatical agreement between different parts of speech (i.e. verb conjugation). Adjectives follow nouns they modify, function as predicates, or stand independently as nominal heads. Adverbs generally directly precede verbs, and reduplication is generally productive for adverbs of time (e.g. \"nám\", \"year\" → \"nám-nám\", \"yearly\").\n\nAccording to Plaisier (2007), Lepcha has only two true \"cases\" that modify the noun morphologically: the definite article -\"re\" and the dative case marker -\"m\". All other noun markers, including for example the genitive marker, are actually invariable postpositions. A series noun markers may follow a single noun. Together, these cases and postpositions are:\nPlurals are marked differently according to whether they are human (-\"sang\") or non-human (-\"pang\") nouns. Notably, the plural is not used when the noun is followed by a number.\n\nAccording to Plaisier (2007), Lepcha personal pronouns are as follows:\n\nOblique forms appear in italics above. Lepcha personal pronouns can refer only to humans; otherwise demonstratives are used. Personal pronouns may take the definite article \"-re\".\n\nMany Lepcha nouns can be grouped into one of several classes based on associated characteristics. For example, many animal names begin with the Lepcha script syllabic /sâ/: ᰠᰲᰶ \"sâr\" means \"goat,\" ᰠᰶᰛᰤᰨᰮ \"sâryom\" means \"otter,\" ᰠᰶᰜᰩᰭ \"sâlók\" means \"rhinoceros,\" and ᰠᰶᰝᰪ\"sâhu\" means \"monkey.\" Other noun classes include /sâ/ and /ka/ for plants, and /pe/ or /pâ/ for snakes and bamboo products.\n\nLepcha verbs generally function predicates or, in relative clauses, as modifiers before a head-noun. Verbs may also be nominalized by a combination of suffixes. For example, \"zo\", \"eat,\" may be suffixed to produce \"zo-shang-re\", \"eating.\"\n\nMany intransitive verbs incorporate a causative -/y/- infix, sometimes followed by a -/t/ suffix, to take a transitive sense: ᰕᰦᰭ\"mák\", \"die\" → ᰕᰤᰦᰭ \"myák\", \"kill;\" ᰏᰶ\"plâ\", \"come forth\" → ᰏᰤᰶ \"plyâ\", \"bring forth;\" ᰄᰫ\"glú\", \"fall down\" → ᰄᰤᰳ/ᰄᰤᰬᰳ\"glyat/glyet\", \"drop.\"\n\nVerbs are followed by grammatical suffixes and particles. Verbal particles indicating sureness, polite requests, authoritativeness, dubiousness, and other nonlexical information follow clauses. Below is a chart of such verb- and clause-final suffixes and particles largely following Plaisier (2007):\nVerbs are negated by a circumfix, \"ma–n(e)\": \"khut\", \"to be able,\" becomes \"ma-khut-ne\", \"to be unable.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6088510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6088510", "title": "Masturbate-a-thon", "text": "Masturbate-a-thon\n\nThe Masturbate-a-thon is an event in which participants masturbate to raise money for charity and increase the public awareness and dispel the shame and taboos that exist about this form of sexual activity. From 1998 to 2003, the Masturbate-a-thon raised around $25,000 for women’s health initiatives and HIV prevention, education and treatment organizations, and has contributed to debates about safer sex and alternative safe methods of sexual expression.\nThe event awards several honors for those who raise the most money as well as for multiple orgasms and endurance.\n\nIn May 1995, San Francisco–based sex toy shop Good Vibrations declared May to be \"Masturbation Month\". Since then, it has encouraged people to get sponsors as a fundraiser for charities with a sex-positive focus.\n\nIn 1999, the Masturbate-a-Thon was originated by the collective Open Enterprises, which operates Good Vibrations. The slogan \"Come for a Cause\" was coined by Rachel Venning, the founder of the sex toy shop Babeland, formerly Toys in Babeland, which has branches in Seattle, in Brooklyn, and (two) in Manhattan. The Masturbate-a-Thon was built up by Good Vibrations, which encouraged other modern sex-toy businesses—such as Babeland; A Woman's Touch, in Madison, Wisconsin; Toronto's Come As You Are; and Boston's Grand Opening—to hold events coinciding with \"masturbation month\" (May in the United States). In that year, the first live event was held at San Francisco's Campus Theater, by the Center for Sex and Culture (CSC)'s Carol Queen and her partner, Robert Lawrence. CSC is an education-based non-profit providing professional-level sex education. The annual events are used as a public-health-education device to increase awareness of self-pleasure as a strategy for safer and healthier sex and to de-stigmatize self-love.\n\nLondon hosted Europe's first \"masturbate-a-thon\" on 5 August 2006. It aims to remove the taboo and shame associated with masturbation. Hundreds of persons raised money for the charity Terrence Higgins Trust and the sexual- and reproductive-health agency Marie Stopes International. The Masturbate-a-thon, also called \"Wank-a-Thon,\" was recorded by ZigZagProductions of London as part of an international documentary of the event. However, plans to broadcast this on Channel 4 as part of its Wank Week series were abandoned, including programming from Europe's fetish and leather week.\n\nIn 2009, Masanobu Sato won the Masturbate-a-thon held by the Center of Sex and Culture in San Francisco after masturbating for nine hours and thirty-three minutes.\n\nIn 2012, China's first masturbation contest was held in Shenzhen, China in celebration of World AIDS day. The event's organizers explained that the contest aims to promote masturbation as the safest means of sex and as an effective means for avoiding HIV infection. \n\nMontreal's first Masturbate-a-thon (aka \"Wankfest\") was on 4 May 2013 and raised money for the charity Head and Hands, a youth sex education and outreach organization, and Sexploreum, an adult education group dedicated to encouraging playfulness with sexuality. Masturbate-a-thon 3 in 2014 was cancelled due to lack of registrations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571038", "title": "McKinney v University of Guelph", "text": "McKinney v University of Guelph\n\nMcKinney v University of Guelph [1990] 3 SCR 229 is the Supreme Court of Canada case that decided that, for the purpose of determining the application of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\", universities were not part of government. Therefore, the mandatory retirement age for university teachers did not violate equality rights under section 15 of the \"Charter\". In reaching this holding, the Court refined the scope of the \"Charter\" as it applies to government bodies as well as the definition of \"law\" within the ambit of the \"Charter\".\n\nThree year prior to \"McKinney\", the Court held in \"Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 580 v Dolphin Delivery Ltd\" that the \"Charter\" only applied to the government but without defining what constitutes \"government\".\n\nEight professors and one librarian from the University of Guelph applied for declarations that the university's policy for mandatory retirement at age 65 as well as the Ontario \"Human Rights Code\", which allowed such policies, were unconstitutional because it violated their section 15 \"Charter\" rights to equality.\n\nThe issues before the court were: \n\nLaForest J wrote the majority, with Dickson and Gonthier JJ concurring. In the similar fashion from \"Dolphin Delivery\", they looked at the meaning of section 32 to determine the purpose of the \"Charter\", concluding it is a tool for checking the powers of the government over the individual. They further justified this conclusion by stating that if the scope were so widely read as to include private actions, it would impose too much a burden on the courts and would result in too much overlap with common law rules and statutes.\n\nLaForest J's attention then moved to whether the University was a government body. The \"Public Purpose\" test alluded to in \"Dolphin Delivery\" is not determinative. The fact the school was created by statute and received a significant portion of its funding from government was insufficient. Nor was the fact it is regulated by government and fulfilled a public service sufficient. LaForest J noted that universities still function as autonomous bodies and the government had no direct power to control the school. Instead, the school is governed by a Board of Governors which is not the representative of government.\n\nDespite the court ruling against the University's status as a government body, they nevertheless examined whether the retirement policy violated section 15. LaForest J stated that all actions pursuant to powers granted by law, not merely statutes, would be subject to \"Charter\" scrutiny.\n\nThe majority found that section 15 was violated because a distinction based on age discriminated against those who were old but capable of working. However, the violation was justified under section 1 due to the public necessity to have new teachers hired.\nIn a strong dissent, Wilson J (with Cory J concurring) examined a broad range of sources and proposed several tests including a \"control test\", \"government function test\" and a \"government entity test\". However, Wilson did not regard any of them as a panacea, since they all missed some aspect of government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40234734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40234734", "title": "Mestizo Colombians", "text": "Mestizo Colombians\n\nMestizo Colombians technically refers to Colombians who are of mixed white (mostly Spanish) and American-Indian ancestry. However, due to the fluidity of ethnic categorization common in Latin America, for all practical purposes, it refers to non-white Colombians who do not belong to one of the recognized minority groups in Colombia (Afro-Colombians, Indigenous Colombians, and Romani). Colombians who simply identify with the mainstream Hispanic culture of the nation are usually categorized as Mestizos, regardless of their actual ancestry. As such, this category may include people who are fully of American-Indian descent, as well as those who are mixed with other races. 49% of the population is Mestizo. They constitute the largest ethnic group in the country with a share of 49% or 58% of the whole country.\n\nMiscegenation in Colombia began shortly after the establishment of the first settlers in the territory. It is a direct result of the shortage of European women in some sectors of the kingdom during the conquest, because during the colonial period most European immigrants were male. The Spanish then joined mainly with native women of different ethnic groups. Mestizos are found almost everywhere in the country and is the largest population in Colombia, European contribution being almost exclusively on the paternal side (with indigenous contribution being mostly on the maternal side).\n\nMestizo Colombians make up 49% (+23 million) of the Colombian population. \n\nThe various racial groups exist in differing concentrations throughout the nation, in a pattern that to some extent goes back to colonial origins. However, they can be found throughout the country, mainly in the Caribbean coast, Orinoquia region, Andean region, and intermediate cities.\n\n"}
{"id": "14064829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14064829", "title": "Neighborhood commons", "text": "Neighborhood commons\n\nA neighborhood commons is a shared community space where neighborhood residents can come together to celebrate life, and young and old can be in each other’s presence but not in each other’s way. It can be a small-scale, multi-use facility, combining a sitting area, tot lot, playground, park, and community garden, designed and constructed on one or more vacant lots by residents, volunteer professionals, and youth work teams.\n\nThe term \"neighborhood commons\" was first widely used by landscape architect, educator, and psychologist Karl Linn, who guided the creation of many such spaces during the 1960s through 1980s, primarily in the northeastern United States.\n\nWhile teaching at the University of Pennsylvania in 1960, Linn and his students began to provide landscape design service to the residents of low-income African-American and Latino neighborhoods, helping them acquire materials and the assistance of volunteer work teams to construct neighborhood commons. Linn recruited volunteer professionals such as artists, architects, landscape architects, social scientists, and lawyers to add their skills to the projects and mentor the students. The neighborhood commons were built as celebrations of community in the spirit of \"urban barnraising.\" The students formed a Design Corps that served as a model for the Domestic Peace Corps (VISTA). In 1961, with growing demand for their service, Linn established the Neighborhood Renewal Corps Nonprofit Corporation of Philadelphia, a community design center in landscape architecture.\n\nIn 1962 he created a similar organization in Washington, D.C. One of their first projects was a \"land bank\" survey to identify vacant lots with the potential to become neighborhood commons. For the next 25 years while teaching at prominent colleges and universities, Linn guided or inspired into being numerous neighborhood commons. He worked hard to secure municipal support for these environmental self-help projects. In Philadelphia the work of the Neighborhood Renewal Corps received a lot of support and was gradually taken over by the city's Land Utilization Program. Unfortunately the focus shifted from involving residents in creating neighborhood commons to city crews constructing \"vest-pocket parks.\" These parks, although much admired by design critics, were not perceived as belonging to the community and were frequently subjected to graffiti and vandalism.\n\nLinn envisioned a neighborhood commons in every residential block as the physical framework for the development of a new kind of extended-family living based on mutual aid among neighbors and intergenerational support. Later in his career he observed that neighborhood commons in community gardens were most likely to be used and cared for since the gardeners go there regularly to attend to their plots.Many of these projects are described in Building Commons and Community by Karl Linn, published by New Village Press in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "22171679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22171679", "title": "Northwest Solomonic languages", "text": "Northwest Solomonic languages\n\nThe family of Northwest Solomonic languages is a branch of the Oceanic languages. It includes the Austronesian languages of Bougainville and Buka in Papua New Guinea, and of Choiseul, New Georgia, and Santa Isabel (excluding Bugotu) in Solomon Islands.\n\nThe unity of Northwest Solomonic and the number and composition of its subgroups, along with its relationship to other Oceanic groups, was established in pioneering work by Malcolm Ross.\n\nNorthwest Solomonic languages group as follows:\n\n\nIn addition, the extinct Kazukuru language was probably one of the New Georgia languages and Tetepare may also have been one, if it was Austronesian at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "57618069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57618069", "title": "Number 12 exposé", "text": "Number 12 exposé\n\nNumber 12: When Greed and Corruption Become the Norm (released by the BBC on YouTube under the title Betraying the Game: Anas Aremeyaw Anas investigates football in Africa) is an investigative documentary by Ghanaian award-winning journalist Anas Aremeyaw Anas and his investigative group, Tiger Eye P. I. The documentary which was premiered on 6 June 2018 sought to highlight the level of corruption in football and among football administrators in Ghana. The British Broadcasting Corporation provided technical support for the investigation and secured the right to show it to a global audience.\n\nThe idea for the documentary was born when Anas Anas was prompted by the action of certain football personalities in Ghana fingered in alleged corrupt acts. Anas' main focus was on the President of the Ghana Football Association, Kwesi Nyantakyi. Anas Anas believed that the actions of the leaders of various national football groups had led to the national football team the Black Stars missing out on a place at the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The culmination effect of effective management of football activities had led to a deterioration of Ghanaian football. \n\nDuring the course of interviewing, Nyantakyi hinted that he had considerable power to influence many sectors of the Ghanaian economy. He went further to suggest that he could facilitate business deals and involve the President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo whenever he needed to. Such meetings with the president could be achieved if supposed foreign investors would pay some bribe to him. \n\nPrior to the screening of the documentary, Anas Aremeyaw Anas allowed President Nana Akufo-Addo to view part of the documentary that had his name and office mentioned. Subsequent to watching the documentary, the President lodged an official complaint at the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) of the Ghana Police Service. This complaint was due to the fact that Kwasi Nyantakyi had mentioned the names of the president, his vice and others as people that had to be bribed in order to secure government contracts. The CID issued an arrest warrant for the arrest of Kwesi Nyantakyi, who was at that time on an official Confederation of African Football duty in Morocco. \n\nWhen the arrest warrant was issued, Abdul Malik Kweku Baako Jnr., editor-in-chief of \"The New Crusading Guide\" newspaper, expressed his disapproval of how the presidency handled the issue. According to him, there had been a gentleman's agreement between the party of Anas's Tiger Eye P. I. and the \"BBC\" and the presidency on delaying any action to be taken to a day prior to the official public premier of the documentary. He, however, said he understood why it was done and attributed it to social media allegations that the then yet-to-be released documentary had evidence of corruption at the seat of government. \nDue to the arrest warrant, Kwesi Nyantakyi cut short his duty to return to Ghana on 24 May 2018. He was arrested at the airport and sent to the CID headquarters in Accra for interrogation. His phones and laptop were seized to facilitate their investigation and was questioned for five hours. He was released after his statements were taken. Though the initial aim of the documentary was on football, certain Ghanaian politicians were caught in the web. One of such politicians was Anthony Karbo, the deputy minister for Roads and Transport. He was invited to the CID headquarters as a person of interest and was asked to assist in investigations.\n\nThe investigative piece revealed widespread corruption in football in Ghana. Several match referees were caught receiving bribes in order to favour certain teams. In many instances, match officials and football administrators engaged in match-fixing deals and influenced who was called to feature for the national team or who got to play in a particular match. In all, 77 Ghanaian referees and 14 Ghana Football Association officials were caught in various acts of corruption. The documentary also showed three individuals who rejected the bribes that were offered. They were GFA Executive Committee members Kweku Eyiah and John Frederick Mensah and Chief Protocol Officer at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Diana Boateng.\n\nPrior to the screening of the investigative piece, certain people who believed they would be caught in corrupt deals used various means to deter its premiere. These included some unidentified persons picketing at Anas’ office and at other properties reported to be owned by Anas Aremeyaw Anas. Kennedy Agyapong, the Member of Parliament for Assin Central started a media campaign against the investigative methods of Anas Aremeyaw Anas. The campaign became fierce forcing veteran journalist and mentor to Anas, Kweku Baako Jnr, to publicly defend his protege. Some people also felt that the documentary had vindicated their concerns about football in Ghana. They included former minister for youth and sports Nii Lante Vanderpuye. Some members of the GFA were unhappy with Tiger Eye PI and claimed that since the documentary was about Ghana football, they should have been given the chance to watch the movie ahead of its premier or been given tickets to watch the documentary. The Executive Director of Media Foundation for West Africa, Sulemana Braimah, wrote a piece which he titled \"Why Anas' Number 12 is not a Journalistic Piece\". In this piece, he tried to explain his point by stating that due to the ways and means used to acquire the contents of the investigative exposé, it cannot be accepted as a journalistic work. Not simply because it was put together by a journalist. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) in a media release by its Disciplinary Board on the 7th of July 2018 has penalized eleven (11) implicated referees with suspension, and banned eleven more for periods ranging between two and ten years. In the statement released by CAF, ten of the implicated Ghanaian referees are to appear before the Disciplinary Board on 5th August 2018. \n\nThe documentary was premiered at the Accra International Conference Centre on 6 June 2018. Thousands of Ghanaians trooped to the conference centre to have a chance of seeing the documentary. The tickets for the premier were offered free of charge. In order to allow as many people as possible to see the documentary, four viewing sessions where offered on 6 and 7 June 2018. Former Presidents John Agyekum Kufuor and John Dramani Mahama viewed the investigative piece and expressed their shock at the level of corruption that had engulfed Ghana football but believed that the documentary would usher in a new era for Ghana football. Additional shows were schedule for Kumasi, Tamale and Takoradi. \n\n\"Number 12\" was shown globally by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) which had collaborated with Anas in the making of the documentary. BBC premiered it on the African continent on the African Eye television show and globally on BBC News. The version of the documentary shown by the BBC was slightly different from the one premiered to the Ghanaian public. The BBC's version had focused more on corruption in Ghana Football and the conduct of African referees as opposed to the local version which was more on the conduct of Kwesi Nyantakyi. The documentary was also released on YouTube by BBC News Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "4009240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009240", "title": "Public nudity", "text": "Public nudity\n\nPublic nudity refers to nudity not in an entirely private context, that is, a person appearing nude in a public place or being able to be seen nude from a public place. Nudity on private property but where the general public is commonly free to enter, such as a shopping mall, public transport or swimming pool, is also considered public nudity. Nudity in the privacy of a person's home or grounds is not considered public nudity, nor is nudity at privately owned facilities where nudity commonly takes place, such as gymnasia, locker rooms, saunas, or specific nudist clubs or resorts. Naturism is a movement that promotes social nudity in nature, most but not all of which takes place on private property.\n\nNot all people who engage in public nude events see themselves as naturists or belong to traditional naturist or nudist organizations. Some activists, such as Vincent Bethell, claim that association with naturism or nudism is unnecessary. Others will point out that many people who participate in events such as clothing-optional bike rides or visit clothing-optional beaches do so casually and without association or formal affiliation to groups or movements. Activist Daniel Johnson believes that labels and affiliations overly complicate a relatively simple phenomenon, alienate others from a fear of over-commitment or undesirable stereotypes, and thus get in the way of integrating nudity into everyday life.\n\nThe social norms or laws of each culture require the wearing of clothes in most situations, but this expectation may be suspended in limited circumstances. For example, there are many countries which have designated public areas as nude beaches, or where nude bathing is unofficially tolerated. In those places, a person would not face legal prosecution or official harassment merely for being nude.\n\nOutside of those areas, community and legal acceptance of public nudity varies considerably. To avoid offending the public in general, public authorities maintain what are sometimes called \"standards of decency\". What falls outside these standards are usually termed \"indecent exposure\", or similar terminology. These standards, however, vary with time and place. If the intent is to draw attention to oneself, it may be referred to as exhibitionism, otherwise it may be to draw attention to a cause (see nudity and protest). There are also some people who disrobe in public to attract publicity to themselves, as a career move, such as some streakers at sporting events. There are also others who spontaneously disrobe in public, as an expression of their freedom and the shedding of inhibitions; an example being skinny dipping.\n\nSome people take part in non-sexual public nude events. These may be in a naturist resort or club or at a nude beach. Outdoor nude recreation can take place in private or rural areas, though generally limited to warm weather.\n\nOthers practice casual public nudity. Topfree sunbathing is considered acceptable by many on the beaches of Finland, France, Spain, Italy and most of the rest of Europe (and even in some outdoor swimming pools); however, exposure of the genitals is restricted to nudist areas in most regions. In the United States, topfree sunbathing and wearing thongs are not common in many areas, but are limited to nude beaches in various locations. It is normally acceptable for men in the U.S. to be barechested or shirtless when engaged in outdoor recreational activities.\n\nWhere the social acceptability of nudity in certain places may be well understood, the legal position is often less clear cut. In England, for example, the law does not actually prohibit simple public nudity, but does forbid indecent exposure. In practice, this means that successful prosecution hangs on whether there is a demonstrable intention to shock others, rather than simply a desire to be nude in a public place. Specifically, using nudity to \"harass, alarm or distress\" others is an offence against the Public Order Act of 1986. Occasional attempts to prove this point by walking naked around the country therefore often result in periods of arrest, followed by release without charge, and inconsistencies in the approach between different police jurisdictions. Differences in the law between England and Scotland appear to make the position harder for naked ramblers once they reach Scotland.\n\nPhotography of installations of massed nude people in public places, as made repeatedly around the world by Spencer Tunick, claim artistic merit.\n\nIt is generally accepted in western countries that a naked human body is not in itself indecent. That principle is reflected, for example, in depiction of the human form in art of various forms. \n\nThe lack of appropriate clothing may cause offence to others, giving raise to legal intervention in the form of charges described, for example, as indecent, offensive or disorderly conduct. This is the position, for example, in Germany and Spain, although local laws in the latter country can stipulate that public nudity is either restricted or not permitted. In Barcelona, public nudity used to be regarded as a recognised right, although there have been successful prosecutions for public nudity even there and a local ordinance by the local council in May 2011 empowers the authorities to impose a fine for nudity and being bare chested. In the Netherlands, public nudity is allowed on sites that have been assigned by the local authorities and \"other suitable places\" which effectively means any complaint will cause one to be arrested as a complaint is indication that the place was not \"suitable\".\n\nIn many countries public nudity is forbidden outright on the basis that nudity is inherently sexual. Many states of the United States fine offenders on that basis—see Indecent exposure in the United States. In Arkansas, not only is nudism illegal (even on private property), it is a crime to \"promote\" or \"advocate\" (i.e. express a favorable opinion about) nudism. In many contexts, public nudity has been more accepted, especially at designated areas such as nude beaches and, even in the United States, e.g. during World Naked Bike Ride events or Bay to Breakers. In some states, such as Oregon, public nudity is legal and protected as free speech, as long as there is not the \"intent to arouse\". In the United Kingdom, nudity per se is not unlawful, but the circumstances surrounding particular episodes of nudity may create public order offences, according to a police spokesman in July 2013. After repeated arrest, prosecution, conviction in Great Britain, the activist Stephen Gough sued at the European Court of Human Rights for his right to be nude in public outside of designated areas (like nude hiking). Gough's case concerned only charges brought against him in Scotland. The ECHR rejected his complaint in October 2014, stating that authorities in Scotland had not \"unjustifiably interfered with his exercise of freedom of expression\", though they did admit that the \"acceptance of public nudity in a modern society is a matter of public interest\".\n\nNudity has sometimes been used to attract media and public attention to a cause. Nudity in protest was used as a tactic by the Doukhobors in the early 20th century, and has been more widely used since the 1960s. Modern slogans include \"Disrobe for disarmament\", \"Nudes, not nukes!\", \"Naked For Peace\", and PETA's \"I'd rather go naked than wear fur!\".\n\nPublic nude protest groups and events include:\n\nThough depictions of nudity have been an aspect of art at all times, contemporary art has extended the use of nudity to non-traditional forms. For example:\n\n\nCertain activities in public areas are more readily accepted to be done while naked, such as sun bathing and swimming. Everyday activities such as riding a train or bus, shopping, or attending school or work are almost never considered by the public to be appropriate without clothing.\n\nExamples include going nude swimming at hot springs, nude beaches, naked hiking, streaking and even roller skating. Sandy Snakenberg has organized nude skating and rollerblading events in San Francisco, the largest of their kind in the world. Nude beaches are found in many Western countries.\n\nIn recent times, it appears that public nudity is becoming more common with nude sporting and other activities being held. These include naked hiking, canuding (nude canoeing), the World Naked Bike Ride, Bay to Breakers, Solstice Cyclists. Clothing-optional bike rides are becoming regular events around the world.\n\nIn 2016 naked dining has become something of a fashion, with naked restaurants opening in London, Melbourne and Tokyo.\n\nNudity in public, if any, is most commonly non-sexual in nature. For example, aspects of the Nambassa hippie festivals held in New Zealand in the 1970s are regarded as non-sexual naturism. Of the 75,000 patrons who attended the 1979 Nambassa 3-day counterculture festival, an estimated 35% spontaneously chose to remove their clothing, preferring complete or partial nudity.\n\nHowever, some nudity in public may give rise to controversy. Some people regard flashing, streaking and mooning as indecent exposure and as sexual public nudity. Similarly, some people regard dogging, exhibitionism, and voyeurism as offensive behaviour.\n\nBurning Man camps range from non-sexual nudity to overtly sexually themed, while the Folsom Street Fair held in San Francisco is a leather and BDSM themed fair. Nudes-A-Poppin' is an annual pageant in the United States for nude women and men competing in erotic dance.\n\nIn some cultures, toplessness by women in public is considered acceptable, while complete nudity is not.\n\nAlthough most ceremony and traditions involve dressing up, often with some preferential attire, certain cultural or religious traditions actually prescribe(d) ritual nudity. For example, ancient Sparta held a yearly celebration from 668 BC called gymnopaedia during which naked youths displayed their athletic and martial skills through the medium of war dancing. The Adamites, an early Christian sect, practiced \"holy nudism\", engaging in common worship in the nude. During the Middle Ages, the doctrines of this obscure sect were revived: in the Netherlands by the Brethren of the Free Spirit and the Taborites in Bohemia, and, in a grosser form, by the Beghards in Germany. Everywhere, they met with firm opposition from the mainstream churches.\n\nThis may be symbolic, especially for 'rebirth' to a new life phase, as in the case of baptism (originally taken by an adult, later often as a child - to symbolise the washing away of original sin - and/or at least partially covered up) or certain coming of age rites, such as cow jumping by young men of the East African Hamar people before they are eligible for marriage.\n\nThere is a tradition in some neopagan Wiccan covens of ritual nudity, called going skyclad.\n\nIn India, Digambara monks reject any form of clothing and practice nudity. Digambara (lit. 'sky clad') is one of the two main sects of Jainism.\n\nIn some hunter-gatherer cultures in warm climates, public nudity (or near-complete nudity) has been, until the introduction of Western culture or Islam, or still is, the social norm for both men and women.\n\nComplete nudity among men and complete or near-complete nudity among women is still common for Mursi, Surma, Nuba, Karimojong, Kirdi, Dinka and sometimes Maasai people in Africa, as well as Matses, Yanomami, Suruwaha, Xingu, Matis and Galdu people in South America.\n\nAustralian Aborigines before European settlement did not wear clothes in day-to-day life; but were also ritually exposed as a functional part testing endurance, e.g., to undergo scarification, as was also the case and Sepik River tribes in Papua New Guinea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2450056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450056", "title": "Section 51(xxvi) of the Australian Constitution", "text": "Section 51(xxvi) of the Australian Constitution\n\nSection 51(xxvi) of the Australian Constitution, commonly called \"the race power\", is the subsection of Section 51 of the Australian Constitution granting the Australian Commonwealth, the power to make special laws for people of any race.\n\nAs initially drafted, s 51(xxvi) empowered the Parliament to make laws with respect to: \"The people of any race, \"other than the aboriginal race in any State\", for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws\". The Australian people voting at the 1967 referendum deleted the words in italics.\n\nEdmund Barton had argued in 1898 that s 51(xxvi) was necessary to enable the Commonwealth to \"regulate the affairs of the people of coloured or inferior races who are in the Commonwealth\". The section was intended to enable the Commonwealth to pass laws restricting such migrant labourers such as the Chinese and Kanakas. Quick and Garran observed in 1901 that \"It enables the Parliament to deal with the people of any alien race after they have entered the Commonwealth; to localise them within defined areas, to restrict their migration, to confine them to certain occupations, or to give them special protection and secure their return after a certain period to the country whence they came.\"\n\nThere were delegates, however, at the 1898 Convention who argued against the use of legislative power to deal specifically with alien races, accepting that people might be excluded from Australia based on race, but arguing that once people were admitted to the country they should be treated in the same way as other citizens.\n\nThe scope of s 51(xxvi), is, subject to the Constitution itself, unfettered, in keeping with s 51 granting plenary powers to the Commonwealth. Section 51(xxvi) supports the rejection of legal equality requirements when considering legislation otherwise validly enacted under the Constitution. Thus legislation empowered by other constitutional powers, such as in the Northern Territory National Emergency Response, which was empowered by section 122, may be racially discriminatory.\n\nIn \"Kartinyeri v Commonwealth\", the High Court was split on whether s 51(xxvi) could be used to enact legislation that adversely discriminated on the basis of race. Justices Gummow and Hayne held that the use of race as the ais of parliamentary power was inherently discriminatory and that benefits to the people of one race may be detrimental to people of another. Justice Kirby disagreed, holding that the race power did not permit the enactment of laws to the detriment of the people of any race. Justice Gaudron held that it was difficult to conceive of circumstances in which a law to the disadvantage of a racial minority would be valid.\n\nIn a report delivered to the Australian prime minister on 19 January 2012, it was recommended that a referendum be held for the repeal of s 51(xxvi), to be replaced by s 51A (which empowers the Commonwealth to make laws for Indigenous Australians, but also recognises Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders as Australia's first peoples) and s 116A (which prohibits racially discriminatory legislation or the making of laws under s51A that are not for the benefit of Indigenous peoples).\n\n"}
{"id": "1383656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383656", "title": "Sex selection", "text": "Sex selection\n\nSex selection is the attempt to control the sex of the offspring to achieve a desired sex. It can be accomplished in several ways, both pre- and post-implantation of an embryo, as well as at childbirth. It has been marketed under the title family balancing.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Population Fund, the reasons behind sex selection are due to three factors and provide an understanding for sex ratio imbalances as well as to project future trends. The factors are:\n\n(1) A preference for sons which stems from household structures “in which girls and women have a marginal social, economic and symbolic position, and consequently enjoy fewer rights.” These household structures also focus on security in which sons are expected to provide support to their parents throughout their life;\n\n(2) Technological growth of prenatal diagnosis which allows parents to know the sex of their unborn child; and\n\n(3) Low fertility which increases the need for sex selection by reducing the probability of having a daughter in smaller families.\n\nThe United Nations Population Fund states that “Local fertility restrictions and spontaneous rapid fertility decline below replacement levels tend to compel parents who want both a son and a small family size to resort to sex selection.”\n\nIn many cultures, male offspring are desired in order to inherit property, carry on the family name and to provide support for parents in old age.\n\nIn countries such as India, China, Indonesia and Nepal sons have been favored over daughters. According to a 2011 Gallup poll, American parents favor boys by a 40% to 28% margin. The results were similar to a survey in 1941, when Americans preferred a boy to a girl by a 38% to 24% margin. The overall preference was driven by men, of whom 49% preferred a son compared to 22% who preferred a daughter. Men's preference for sons was most pronounced among men aged 18 to 29. Women, on the other hand, showed no preference for either sex, with 33% stating that they preferred a girl and 31% responding that they favored a boy.\n\nA 2009 study at the University of Ulster found that having sisters, as compared to brothers, can enhance the quality of an adult's life.\n\nThere is a preference of parents to have a son over a daughter in many countries. This can be observed through sex ratios of children in various countries. Although biologically the sex ratio of children is around 95 girls to every 100 boys, this number generally evens out due to the higher infant mortality rate of boy infants. Scholars argue that the expected birth sex ratio in a normal population is in the range of 103 to 107 males to females at birth.\nHowever, in a number of countries of South Asia, East Asia and the Caucasus, the sex ratio of children is severely distorted. The problem is particularly severe in China and India. The preference for sons over daughters can be connected to a number of reasons. In these countries, it is argued that son preference is linked to factors including economics, religion, and culture. Having a son ensures that families are more economically secure by not having to provide dowry payments, but rather being on the receiving end of this practice. In China, the one child policy has contributed to the sex imbalance, while the dowry system in India is responsible for a strong son preference. Furthermore, in countries where there are discriminatory practices regarding women inheriting, owning, or controlling land by law, having a son ensures that the family will not have to worry about the legal aftermath if something were to happen to them. It can also be argued that parents in these countries are aware of the potential hardship their daughter would have to endure in her lifetime, and therefore prefer to have a son in order not to see their daughter endure such difficulties. Many times this son preference results in female foeticide and pre-natal sex selection.\n\nTwo major types of pre-implantation methods can be used for social sex selection. Both of them are based on actively rendering the second sex chromosome to be either a Y chromosome (resulting in a male), or an X chromosome (resulting in a female).\n\nThe Ericsson method, first applied in a clinical setting in the 1970s by Dr. Ronald J. Ericsson, uses higher concentrations of sperm of the desired sex to increase the likelihood of conceiving that sex. The method has a 70-72% success rate for boys and a 69-75% success rate for girls. Currently, approximately 50 gender selection centers in the United States use the Ericsson Method for artificial gender selection.\n\nThe Ericsson method separates male and female sperm by passing them through a column filled with blood protein, human serum albumin. As the sperm enter the human serum albumin, the differences in mass between the X and Y chromosomes manifest as the lighter male sperm push deeper into the protein than the females dragged down by the weight of the extra \"leg\" of the X sex chromosome. This tiny difference creates separate layers of concentrated male and female sperm. The layers of gender-selected sperm are of higher concentrations but not pure. This lack of purity explains the 30% chance of gender selection failure of the Ericsson method.\n\nAfter ovarian stimulation, multiple eggs are removed from the mother. The eggs are fertilized in the laboratory using the father's sperm in a technique called in vitro fertilization (IVF). \"In vitro\" is Latin for \"within glass\". Fertilized eggs are called embryos. As the embryos develop through mitosis, they are separated by sex. Embryos of the desired gender are implanted back in the mother's uterus.\n\nPrior to fertilization with IVF, the fertilized eggs can be genetically biopsied with preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) to increase fertilization success. Once an embryo grows to a 6-8 cell size, a small laser incision in the egg membrane (zona pellucida) allows safe removal of one of the cells. Every cell in the embryo contains an identical copy of the genome of the entire person. Removal of one of these cells does not harm the developing embryo. A Geneticist then studies the chromosomes in the extracted cells for genetic defects and for a definite analysis of the embryo’s gender. Embryos of the desired sex and with acceptable genetics are then placed back into the mother.\n\nThe IVF/PGD technique is favored over the Ericsson method because of the stricter control of the offspring gender in the laboratory. Since only embryos of the desired sex are transferred to the mother, IVF/PGD avoids the small likelihood present in the Ericsson method of an undesired sperm fertilizing the egg. Gender selection success rates for IVF/PGD are very high. The technique is recommended for couples who will not accept a child of the undesired gender.\n\nTiming methods aim to affect the sex ratio of the resultant children by having sexual intercourse at specific times as related to ovulation. Studies have not been consistent about whether timing methods have any influence on the sex of the baby, with some showing no correlation and others showing just the opposite.\n\n\nSperm sorting is an advanced technique that sorts sperm \"in vitro\" by flow cytometry. This shines a laser at the sperm to distinguish X and Y chromosomes, and can automatically separate the sperm out into different samples. During the early to mid 1980s, Dr. Glenn Spaulding was the first to sort viable whole human and animal spermatozoa using a flow cytometer, and utilized the sorted motile rabbit sperm for artificial insemination. Subsequently, the first patent application disclosing the method to sort \"two viable subpopulations enriched for x- or y- sperm\" was filed in April 1987 as US Application Serial Number 35,986 and later became part of US Patent 5,021,244; and the patent included the discovery of haploid expression (sex-associated membrane proteins, or SAM proteins) and the development of monoclonal antibodies to those proteins. Additional applications and methods were added, including antibodies, from 1987 through 1997. At the time of the patent filing, both Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories and the USDA were only sorting fixed sperm nuclei, after the Application Serial Number 35,986 patent filing a new technique was utilized by the USDA where \"sperm were briefly sonicated to remove tails\". USDA in conjunction with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, 'Beltsfield Sperm Sexing Technology' relies on the DNA difference between the X- and Y- chromosomes. Prior to flow cytometric sorting, semen is labeled with a fluorescent dye called Hoechst 33342 which binds to the DNA of each spermatozoon. As the X chromosome is larger (i.e. has more DNA) than the Y chromosome, the \"female\" (X-chromosome bearing) spermatozoa will absorb a greater amount of dye than its male (Y-chromosome bearing) counterpart. As a consequence, when exposed to UV light during flow cytometry, X spermatozoa fluoresce brighter than Y- spermatozoa. As the spermatozoa pass through the flow cytometer in single file, each spermatozoon is encased by a single droplet of fluid and assigned an electric charge corresponding to its chromosome status (e.g. X-positive charge, Y-negative charge). The stream of X- and Y- droplets is then separated by means of electrostatic deflection and collected into separate collection tubes for subsequent processing. The technology is already in commercial use for animal farming. It is currently being trialed on humans in the US under the trademark MicroSort; it claims a 90% success rate but is still considered experimental by the FDA.\n\nSex selection after implantation can be performed by prenatal sex discernment, followed by sex-selective abortion of any offspring of the unwanted sex. For prenatal sex discernment, a blood test can be taken from the mother for testing of small amounts of fetal DNA within it, and has been estimated to be reliable more than 98% of the time, as long as the samples are taken after the seventh week of pregnancy.\n\nSex-selective infanticide - Killing children of the unwanted sex. Though illegal in most parts of the world, it is still practiced.\n\nSex-selective child abandonment - Abandoning children of the unwanted sex. Though illegal in most parts of the world, it is still practiced.\n\nSex-selective adoption - Placing children of the unwanted sex up for adoption. Less commonly viewed as a method of social sex selection, adoption affords families that have a gender preference a legal means of choosing offspring of a particular sex.\n\nThe application of these techniques to humans creates moral and ethical concerns in the opinion of some, while the advantages of sensible use of selected technologies is favored by others.\n\nIn contrast, in an interview study, sex-selection technology providers generally argued that sex selection is an expression of reproductive rights, was initiated and pursued by women, and was a sign of female empowerment that allowed couples to make well-informed family planning decisions, prevented occurrences of unintended pregnancy and abortion, and minimized intimate partner violence and/or child neglect. The Ethics Committee of the American Society of Reproductive Medicine concluded that it is ethically appropriate to employ these new reproductive technologies to avoid the birth of children suffering from X-linked genetic disorders. However, to use preimplantation genetic diagnosis and sex selection solely for non-medical reasons, the Committee claims, is morally inappropriate. Also, primary care physicians questioned whether women could truly express free choice under pressure from family and community. In addition, primary care physicians voiced the concerns that sex selection led to invasive medical interventions in the absence of therapeutic indications, contributed to gender stereotypes that could result in child neglect of the lesser-desired sex, and was not a solution to domestic violence. In addition, social risks of sex selection outweigh the social benefits of sex selection\n\nPost-conceptual selection by preimplantation testing (PGD) also involves preferential use of embryos, and termination of pregnancy for gender selection also raises many ethical questions of the abortion debate.\n\nIn addition to the ethical concerns mentioned, issues of demographics arise in societies where social sex selection is common. A society may exhibit a widespread bias towards having children of a specific gender, either due to cultural biases or economic concerns (e.g. male children may be more employable in the future and thus provide more financial support). When combined with frequent social sex selection, this bias may produce a gender imbalance that has undesirable consequences. This phenomenon has been observed in many nations in the Far East, such as India and China, where social sex selection has produced unnaturally high male/female ratios in the population. Couples in these areas use reproductive technologies to choose the sex of their children, which ultimately leads to a skew the human sex ratio toward a disproportionately male population. Sex selection has also been detected in several countries of Eastern Europe such as Albania or Azerbaijan. A 2012 report by UNFPA estimates that the total gender gap due to prenatal and postnatal gender discrimination amounts to 117 million women. China's gender imbalance is further increased by the One Child Policy, although applicable only in most urban populations. In these nations, a lack of opportunity for many men to marry is believed to be producing increases in crime, demand for prostitution, mass emigration, and the selling of brides.\n\nChina's 'one child family' policy is considered largely responsible for the substantial imbalance of the sex ratio. Chinese government reports show that the sex ratio for newborns is 118:100 (boys:girls), higher in rural areas such as Guangdong and Hainan (130:100) compared to the average of 104:100 in developed countries. It is believed that the ratio would increase further to the point that, by 2020, men of marriageable age would be unable to find mates, resulting in large social problems.\n\nSome nations, such as India, have attempted to curtail these gender imbalances with criminal statutes. In contrast, bioethicist Jacob Appel of New York University has argued that governments should pay couples to choose to have female children. According to Professor Appel, \"if female babies [were] worth their weight in rupees and yuan, economic and educational opportunities for girls would soon follow.\"\n\nIn contrast, actual experience in Western cultures provides no evidence for any degree of gender imbalance from technologies which have long been available and legal – such as selective abortion or preimplantation embryo testing. When used for family balancing indications in such countries as the United States, pre-conceptual sex selection is widely sought without any preferential selection of males.A 1993 survey of more than 2300 pregnant women in the British population found no overall preference for either sex. These findings are largely consistent with other surveys conducted in the US. Thus the right of individual families to determine whether or not to balance gender of offspring in their families is not and will not become, in many countries, a demographic issue. Furthermore, in countries where such demographic issues exist because of strong gender preferences in a segment of the population, regulatory and legal control of, without denial of access to, sperm sorting technology can be utilized to provide individuals with choices while ensuring that equal numbers of boys and girls are produced for population demographic equality.\n\nSex selection is not new. There are a wide variety of social sex selections methods which have not been demonstrated to be effective. Because even implausible and ineffective methods have a \"success\" rate of 50%, many continued to be recommended by word of mouth.\n\nThe Greeks and Romans did not have a consistent theory of how sex was determined. Pliny the Elder claims that tying the right testicle of a ram will cause him to produce only females, but does not claim this about other creatures. Pseudo-Plutarch lists many Greek theories of sex determination, including heat and cold, left and right testicles, left and right sides of the body, sperm crossing or not crossing from one side of the womb to the other, and the strength or dominance of various body parts.\n\nAn 18th-century French book called \"The art of boys\" suggested an extreme method of ensuring children of one sex. The author suggests that one testicle and one ovary are intended for each sex. By removing a testicle or ovary, children of the other sex can be guaranteed.\n\nCensus data from India show an imbalance in sex ratios among children in the early 20th century, such disparities almost always reflect a preference for sons.\n\nIn the past, son preference may have resulted in the neglect or killing of female infants. However, since the early 1980s, ultrasounds and other technologies have enabled parents to detect the sex of a foetus during prenatal screenings. Those who prefer sons may arrange to abort female foetuses. This has accelerated sex-ratio imbalances at birth in parts of the world. It is estimated that, over the past generation, tens of millions of female foetuses have been aborted. Since the 1990s, some areas have seen up to 25 per cent more male births than female births.\n\nSperm sorting utilizes the technique of flow cytometry to analyze and 'sort' spermatozoa. During the early to mid-1980s, Dr. Glenn Spaulding was the first to sort viable whole human and animal spermatozoa using a flow cytometer, and utilized the sorted motile rabbit sperm for artificial insemination. Subsequently, the first patent application disclosing the method to sort \"two viable subpopulations enriched for x- or y- sperm\" was filed in April 1987 as US Application Serial Number 35,986 and later became part of US Patent 5,021,244; and the patent included the discovery of haploid expression (sex-associated membrane proteins, or SAM proteins) and the development of monoclonal antibodies to those proteins. Additional applications and methods were added, including antibodies, from 1987 through 1997. At the time of the patent filing, both Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories and the USDA were only sorting fixed sperm nuclei, after the Application Serial Number 35,986 patent filing a new technique was utilized by the USDA where \"sperm were briefly sonicated to remove tails\". USDA in conjunction with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, 'Beltsfield Sperm Sexing Technology' relies on the DNA difference between the X- and Y- chromosomes. Prior to flow cytometric sorting, semen is labeled with a fluorescent dye called Hoechst 33342 which binds to the DNA of each spermatozoon. As the X chromosome is larger (i.e. has more DNA) than the Y chromosome, the \"female\" (X-chromosome bearing) spermatozoa will absorb a greater amount of dye than its male (Y-chromosome bearing) counterpart. As a consequence, when exposed to UV light during flow cytometry, X spermatozoa fluoresce brighter than Y- spermatozoa. As the spermatozoa pass through the flow cytometer in single file, each spermatozoon is encased by a single droplet of fluid and assigned an electric charge corresponding to its chromosome status (e.g. X-positive charge, Y-negative charge). The stream of X- and Y- droplets is then separated by means of electrostatic deflection and collected into separate collection tubes for subsequent processing.\n\nRecently, a study published in 2006 indicated that mothers with toxoplasmosis have a significantly higher sex ratio of boys to girls. This has been discussed in connection with the manipulation hypothesis of parasites.\nAnother study found a link between sex and the diet of the mother, but this may be due to statistical chance, and has yet to be confirmed.\n\nSex selection is legal in most of the world. There is fertility tourism from the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada to the United States for sex selection, because preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD, a potential expansion of IVF), which can be used for sex selection, is prohibited in the UK, Australia and Canada, except when it is used to screen for genetic diseases, while the laws in the US are more relaxed in this subject.\n\nSex selection is illegal in China, but the Chinese government admits that the practice is widespread, especially in rural areas of China and among lawless groups such as ghettoized migrant workers in cities.\n\nSex selection is illegal in India. Prenatal determination of sex through ultrasound is also illegal in India. In 1994, the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act banned prenatal sex determination, and was strengthened by an amendment in 2003. These laws were instituted to combat the prevalent practice of sex-selective abortion. However, these laws have generally failed to be effective in rural areas and, despite education efforts, sex-selective abortion continues to be widely practiced in India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11714752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11714752", "title": "Speed geeking", "text": "Speed geeking\n\nSpeed geeking is a participation process used to quickly view a number of presentations within a fixed period of time. Speed geeking gets its name from speed dating, since they both employ similar techniques.\n\nA large room is selected as the speed geeking venue. All the presenters are arranged in a large circle along the edge of the room. The remaining members of the audience stand at the center of the room. Ideally there are about 6-7 audience members for each presenter. One person acts as the facilitator.\n\nThe facilitator rings a bell to start proceedings. Once proceedings start, the audience splits up into groups and each group goes to one of the presenters. Presenters have a short duration, usually 5 minutes, to give their presentation and answer questions. At the end of the five minutes, the facilitator rings a bell. At this point, each group moves over to the presenter to their right and the timer starts once more. The session ends when every group has attended all the presentations.\n\nSpeed geeking is a great way to quickly view a number of presentations and demos in a short while. For example, one hour is enough time to view 12 presenters if you spend 5 minutes at each presentation. The 5 minute limit also keeps presentations short and interesting. Also the small table format gives participants an opportunity to connect on a more personal level.\n\nEach presenter has to give their presentation multiple times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8055104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055104", "title": "Storefront church", "text": "Storefront church\n\nA storefront church is a church housed in a commercial storefront building.\n\nThese buildings are often called \"Storefront Churches\" because they are buildings that were previously commercial properties that have been converted to a religious use.\n\nOften, the inside of the building was converted by putting in chairs and a makeshift pulpit. \nThe storefront church sometimes serves as a hub for many poor African Americans to see leadership in an all black area. Many storefronts emerged in the urban centers of the north and were filled with poor former slaves leaving the harsh memories of their former lives behind. Storefront churches are a center of social development and free speech in many poor African American communities to express their feelings about the struggles and hardships they faced every day in their lives. They also can provide a focus point for community unity and engagement.\n\nStorefronts are still very much a part of the Black church experience today; furthermore, the storefront church has also emerged within other cultures. A PBS report said “Storefront churches today are not just black and urban. Many have recently been established in Latino- and Asian-dominated neighborhoods, as well as poorer rural communities, typically serving similar functions as the storefront churches in historically black communities.”\n\nStorefront churches may still be found throughout the United States, among white and Latino neighborhoods as well as African American ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "38669766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38669766", "title": "Sudanese Iraqis", "text": "Sudanese Iraqis\n\nSudanese Iraqis came to Iraq in the 20th century as workers, as the Sudanese had to various countries of the Persian Gulf. Research in the 1980s indicated that \"almost all\" the Sudanese in Iraq identified themselves as \"skilled labourers, mechanics, electricians, welders, carpenters, etc\". while other researchers note that towards the end of the 1980s there were 250,000-300,000 Sudanese in Iraq, 3,000 of them in the Iraqi Army.\n\nDuring the 2003 Iraq invasion, Sudanese Iraqis were among the many \"third country refugees\" who fled Iraq to refugee camps in Jordan. Human Rights Watch later criticised the International Organisation for Migration for allowing Sudanese diplomats from Amman to enter the camps and speak with Sudanese-origin persons, stating such was a breach of international refugee law, particularly as some of these same refugees may previously have fled Sudan.\n"}
{"id": "47913046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47913046", "title": "Swiss migration to France", "text": "Swiss migration to France\n\nSwiss migration to France has resulted in France being home to one of the largest Swiss-born populations outside Switzerland. Migration from the Switzerland to France has increased rapidly from the 1980s onward and by 2013 there were an estimated 194,500 Swiss citizens living in France. Besides Paris, the Swiss living in France have formed communities in southern France, Brittany, and Corsica.\n\n"}
{"id": "8554393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8554393", "title": "Taz people", "text": "Taz people\n\nThe Taz (Russian: \"plural\" Тазы, transliterated Tazy) primarily live in Russia. They formed in the 1890s, from intermarriages between Udege, Nanai and Chinese. The Taz speak Russian and the Taz language (a Northeast Mandarin variety with loanwords from Udege and Nanai). In the 1880s (?), around 1,050 Taz speakers existed; today only elders speak the language. \n\nAccording to the Russian Census of 2002, the total Taz population numbered 276. Among these:\n\nIn Bashkortostan, four people identified themselves as Taz\n\nIn Khabarovsk Krai, three people identified themselves as Taz - one male and two females, all of them living in urban areas.\n\nIn the 2010 Russian census the number of Taz in Russia dropped to 274.\n"}
{"id": "45441687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45441687", "title": "The History of Warfare (TV series)", "text": "The History of Warfare (TV series)\n\nThe History of Warfare is a 3660-minute documentary series about the most famous wars and battles in world history focusing primarily on the military annals of Great Britain.\n\nThe series was created during the 1990s, when Cromwell Productions Ltd became a production company specialising in historical and arts documentaries taking the example of other shows from Cromwell such as Line of Fire and Battlefield.\n\nThe series dedicates numerous episodes to determine conflicts such as the English Civil Wars, the Napoleonic Wars, and the American Civil War. In addition to having segments such as Discovery To Revolution about the discovery and colonisation of the American continent by the Spanish, Dutch, French and English and Under Siege about the most famous battles of siege warfare.\n\nThe series has the participation as narrators of many British actors such as Robert Powell, Iain Cuthbertson and Brian Blessed. Bob Carruthers served as screenwriter and producer. The series included interviews with many military historians such as David G. Chandler then professor at the Sandhurst Military Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "32012371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32012371", "title": "The Tender", "text": "The Tender\n\nThe Tender was a news blog covering life in San Francisco's fifty square block Tenderloin District — published 2009–2011.\n\nOriginally titled \"The Tenderblog\", The Tender was published by couple Èlia Varela Serra (a native of Spain) and Miquel Hudin (a native northern Californian), focusing on the Tenderloin, Civic Center, Mid-Market, Tendernob, and Little Saigon neighborhoods of San Francisco.\n\nWhen Serra and Hudin returned to Serra's native Spain in November 2011, the couple stopped publication, allowing the site to go dormant, its archives remaining online.\n\nWith an estimated monthly readership of 40,000, \"The Tender\" focused on district current events, restaurants, arts, and general social issues — earning a place as one of San Francisco's strongest neighborhood blogs and earning the respect of San Franciscans.\n\nBecause of its in-depth knowledge of the Tenderloin, larger publications were known to pick up stories first published in \"The Tender\", as with June 2011 coverage of a long-established diner leaving the neighborhood subsequently carried up by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". SFist), Eater SF, and Grubstreet SF. — and October 2010 coverage of a four-alarm apartment building fire subsequently carried by \"SF Weekly\", SF Appeal, and SFist.\n\nThe Tender was nominated for both Best San Francisco Neighborhood Blog and Best Flickr Pool in the \"SF Weekly\" - Web Awards 2011.\n"}
{"id": "50562093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50562093", "title": "Vannar", "text": "Vannar\n\nThe Vannar () caste is primarily in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. They are an washerman caste, classified as Most Backward Class\n\nIn the Tamil Nadu state of India, the Vannar's form 4 or 5% of the total population and they are considered Most backward caste. Their nature of business is laundry and agriculture. Their social status need help and the community is requesting Tamil Nadu Government to move them into Schedule caste and Government promised them to move them into Schedule caste over and over again but ignoring them from long time. The primary reason for this is from this community there is no representation in any higher positions in politics, nor any sort of government representation.\nThe Vannar community is listed as a Schedule Caste and Other Backward Class in some regions and 'Different Names' of India, these include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49508264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49508264", "title": "Veneto Club", "text": "Veneto Club\n\nThe Veneto Club is an Italian social club in Bulleen, Victoria, Australia. It was established in the late 1960s on a site in the eastern suburbs, which had become an attractive area for Italian migrants to move to from the working class inner suburbs, when they had established themselves. A substantial Brutalist style building was erected in 1972-73, to the designed of the Italian émigré architect Ermin Smrekar.\n\nLocated at 191 Bulleen Road Bulleen, the Veneto Club has its origins in the 1960s during informal gatherings of some Melbourne-based ‘Veneti’ gathered for social activities including Bocce games. In 1969 a group of Italian businessmen purchased 16 acres of land in Bulleen and erected a small shed, known as ‘la Baracca’, as a shelter and informal ‘clubhouse’. On December 8, 1973, the new Smrekar-designed building, was opened by The Hon. Billy Snedden, in front of a crowd of 3000 people. The Italian Ambassador to Australia attended the opening.\n\nThe site includes extensive grounds and playing fields, and is the venue for the Women’s National Basketball League (WNBL)team the Bulleen Boomers from 1984. the History Teachers' Association of Victoria was based here in the 1990s.\n\nIt has been the venue for the Italian Food and Wine Festival for several years.\n"}
{"id": "7929343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7929343", "title": "Veteran Feminists of America", "text": "Veteran Feminists of America\n\nVeteran Feminists of America (VFA) is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization for supporters and veterans of the Second Wave of the feminist revolution. Founded by Jacqueline Ceballos in 1992, Veteran Feminists of America regularly hosts reunions for second-wave feminists and events honoring feminist leaders.\n\nThe purpose of Veteran Feminists of America is to honor, record and preserve the history of the accomplishments of women active in the feminist movement, to educate the public on the importance of the changes brought about by the women's movement, to preserve the movement's history and to inspire future generations.\n\nThe Veteran Feminists of America was created with the goals of remembering and recording the faces and retrospectives of the hundreds of pioneers who launched the 1960s feminist movement, often called second-wave feminism. \n\nAt first, VFA gatherings consisted of a time and place to meet and reminisce, followed by an awards dinner captured for posterity on video. Those videotapes are now archived at the Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute and the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture at Duke University. Soon after their first reunion in 1992, Jacqueline Ceballos joined with Dorothy Senerchia and Mary Jean Tully to create the organization. Muriel Fox joined soon thereafter and has chaired the organization since 1994.\n\nThe original idea for a name, Veterans of Feminist Wars, was rejected because its acronym could be confused with that of the Veterans of Foreign Wars organization.\n\nDuring its first decade, VFA mainly honored individuals and groups for their work in establishing national and local organizations, raising public awareness about feminist issues, and lobbying for women's rights. In time, VFA's events spread geographically and reached into new areas across the country. \n\nIn 1998, VFA Board member Barbara Love, with help from her fellow VFA members, began compiling a directory of feminists, published in 2006 as \"Feminists Who Changed America: 1963-1975\" (University of Illinois Press). The book is a collection of 2,220 biographies of second-wave feminists who accomplished significant activist work. It is also available as a searchable CD (www.fwca-cd.vetfems.org). \"Feminists Who Changed America\" — along with the videos from two decades of retrospective events — brings to life the history of feminism's second wave. It is meant to help to ensure that the achievements of the women's movement are not forgotten.\n\nVFA has a new partnership with the New York Historical Society Museum & Library. Its newly created Center for Women's History will be the venue to showcase the artifacts and stories that document modern feminism. \n\n\n\nVFA has held a number of events honoring Second Wave feminists. Here is a summary:\n\n\nBiographies of Second Wave Feminists are included on the VFA website. They are in the section titled \"Fabulous Feminists of VFA\". Obituaries for many Second Wave Feminists are also included on the site in the Obits section.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17685749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17685749", "title": "Virginia Bell", "text": "Virginia Bell\n\nVirginia Margaret Bell (born 7 March 1951) is the senior puisne Justice of the High Court of Australia, the highest court in the Australian court hierarchy. She was sworn in on 3 February 2009.\n\nBell was educated at SCEGGS Darlinghurst before attending the University of Sydney, where she graduated in law in 1976.\n\nBell was admitted as a solicitor of New South Wales in 1977. She was a solicitor at the Redfern Legal Centre from 1978–1984. Between 1982 and 1984, she was a member of the Board of Governors of the Law Foundation.\n\nIn 1984, Bell was called to the NSW bar, joining Frederick Jordan Chambers. Bell was appointed a public defender in 1986, returning to private practice in late 1989. She was one of the counsel assisting the Wood Royal Commission into the New South Wales Police Service between 1994 and 1997. In November 1997, she was appointed Senior Counsel.\n\nBell was sworn in as a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 25 March 1999. She was appointed to the Court of Appeal of that court in early 2008, and was sworn out on 19 December 2008. She was sworn in as a judge of the High Court of Australia on 3 February 2009.\n\nBell was President of the Australasian Institute of Judicial Administration from 2007–2008. She was Chair of the University of Wollongong Law Faculty Advisory Committee from 2007-2008. From 1998-1999, she served as a part-time Commissioner of the NSW Law Reform Commission.\n\nOn 26 January 2012, Bell was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia for \"eminent service to the judiciary and to the law through leadership in criminal law reform and public policy development, to judicial administration, and as an advocate for the economically and socially disadvantaged\".\n\nBell lives in inner Sydney with her female partner, a barrister. She has long been involved in the LGBT and human rights issues, participating in the first Mardi Gras LGBT rights rally in Sydney in 1978, which was broken up by police. She is the first lesbian to serve on the High Court, and the second openly LGBT person after Michael Kirby, whom she replaced upon his retirement on 3 February 2009.\n\nOn her appointment, Australian Law Reform Commission president David Weisbrot opined that Bell will be a \"progressive\" jurist in the tradition of Michael Kirby.\n\n"}
