{"id": "189351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189351", "title": "Angkor Wat", "text": "Angkor Wat\n\nAngkor Wat (; , \"Capital Temple\") is a temple complex in Cambodia and one of the largest\nreligious monuments in the world, on a site measuring . It was originally constructed as a Hindu temple dedicated to the god Vishnu for the Khmer Empire, gradually transforming into a Buddhist temple towards the end of the 12th century. It was built by the Khmer King Suryavarman II in the early 12th century in Yaśodharapura (, present-day Angkor), the capital of the Khmer Empire, as his state temple and eventual mausoleum. Breaking from the Shaiva tradition of previous kings, Angkor Wat was instead dedicated to Vishnu. As the best-preserved temple at the site, it is the only one to have remained a significant religious centre since its foundation. The temple is at the top of the high classical style of Khmer architecture. It has become a symbol of Cambodia, appearing on its national flag, and it is the country's prime attraction for visitors.\n\nAngkor Wat combines two basic plans of Khmer temple architecture: the temple-mountain and the later galleried temple. It is designed to represent Mount Meru, home of the devas in Hindu mythology: within a moat more than 5 kilometres (3 mi) long and an outer wall long are three rectangular galleries, each raised above the next. At the centre of the temple stands a quincunx of towers. Unlike most Angkorian temples, Angkor Wat is oriented to the west; scholars are divided as to the significance of this. The temple is admired for the grandeur and harmony of the architecture, its extensive bas-reliefs, and for the numerous devatas adorning its walls.\n\nThe modern name, Angkor Wat () (alternate name: \"Nokor Wat\", ), means \"Temple City\" or \"City of Temples\" in Khmer; \"Angkor\" () meaning \"city\" or \"capital city\", is a vernacular form of the word \"nokor\" (), which comes from the Sanskrit word \"nagara\" (Devanāgarī: नगर). \"Wat\" () is the Khmer word for \"temple grounds\", also derived from Sanskrit \"vāṭa\" (Devanāgarī: वाट), meaning \"enclosure\".\n\nThe original name of the temple was Vrah Viṣṇuloka or Parama Viṣṇuloka (Sanskrit), ( – \"Barom Visnulōk\") which means the sacred dwelling of Vishnu.\n\nAngkor Wat lies north of the modern town of Siem Reap, and a short distance south and slightly east of the previous capital, which was centred at Baphuon. In an area of Cambodia where there is an important group of ancient structures, it is the southernmost of Angkor's main sites.\n\nAccording to legend, the construction of Angkor Wat was ordered by Indra to serve as a palace for his son Precha Ket Mealea. According to the 13th-century Chinese traveller Zhou Daguan, some believed that the temple was constructed in a single night by a divine architect.\n\nThe initial design and construction of the temple took place in the first half of the 12th century, during the reign of Suryavarman II (ruled 1113 – c. 1150). Dedicated to Vishnu, it was built as the king's state temple and capital city. As neither the foundation stela nor any contemporary inscriptions referring to the temple have been found, its original name is unknown, but it may have been known as \"Varah Vishnu-lok\" after the presiding deity. Work seems to have ended shortly after the king's death, leaving some of the bas-relief decoration unfinished. In 1177, approximately 27 years after the death of Suryavarman II, Angkor was sacked by the Chams, the traditional enemies of the Khmer. Thereafter the empire was restored by a new king, Jayavarman VII, who established a new capital and state temple (Angkor Thom and the Bayon respectively) a few kilometres to the north.\n\nTowards the end of the 12th century, Angkor Wat gradually transformed from a Hindu centre of worship to Buddhism, which continues to the present day. Angkor Wat is unusual among the Angkor temples in that although it was largely neglected after the 16th century it was never completely abandoned. Fourteen inscriptions dated from the 17th century discovered in Angkor area testify to Japanese Buddhist pilgrims that had established small settlements alongside Khmer locals. At that time, the temple was thought by the Japanese visitors as the famed Jetavana garden of the Buddha, which originally located in the kingdom of Magadha, India. The best-known inscription tells of Ukondafu Kazufusa, who celebrated the Khmer New Year at Angkor Wat in 1632.\n\nOne of the first Western visitors to the temple was António da Madalena, a Portuguese friar who visited in 1586 and said that it \"is of such extraordinary construction that it is not possible to describe it with a pen, particularly since it is like no other building in the world. It has towers and decoration and all the refinements which the human genius can conceive of.\"\n\nIn the mid-19th century, the temple was effectively rediscovered by the French naturalist and explorer Henri Mouhot, who popularised the site in the West through the publication of travel notes, in which he wrote:Angkor Wat may relate to the architecture of the Greek and Roman record explored in terms of the west rather than east orientation of the temple. Some architects have written that it is 'correct' for the construction to be facing to the west. In temple orientations for the Greek and Etruscan context, west is associated with \"right\" and the \"underworld\" to suggest a religious connection of the building.\n\nMouhot, like other early Western visitors, found it difficult to believe that the Khmers could have built the temple and mistakenly dated it to around the same era as Rome. His reports inspired the French government, already an established presence in Indochina, to begin a systematic study of the ruins. The true history of Angkor Wat was pieced together from stylistic and epigraphic evidence accumulated during subsequent clearing and restoration work. There were no ordinary dwellings or houses or other signs of settlement, including cooking utensils, weapons, or items of clothing usually found at ancient sites. Instead there is only the evidence of the monuments themselves. An exploration commission began drawing up a list of principal monuments. Subsequent missions copied inscriptions written on Angkor buildings so scholars might translate them and learn something of Angkor's history. By 1885 they had worked up a chronology of the rulers and developed the outlines of a description of the civilization that had produced the temple complex. In 1898 the French decided to commit substantial funds to Angkor's preservation. Centuries of neglect had permitted the jungle to recapture many of the more significant structures, and unless efforts were made to free the buildings from the embrace of huge banyan and silk-cotton trees, they might soon be crushed to destruction.\n\nThe 20th century saw considerable restoration of Angkor Wat. Gradually teams of laborers and archeologists pushed back the jungle and exposed the expanses of stone, permitting the sun once again to illuminate the dark corners of the temple. Work was interrupted by the Cambodian Civil War and Khmer Rouge control of the country during the 1970s and 1980s, but relatively little damage was done during this period. Camping Khmer Rouge forces used whatever wood remained in the building structures for firewood, and a shoot-out between Khmer Rouge and Vietnamese forces put a few bullet holes in a bas relief. Far more damage was done after the wars, by art thieves working out of Thailand, which, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, claimed almost every head that could be lopped off the structures, including reconstructions.\n\nThe temple is a powerful symbol of Cambodia, and is a source of great national pride that has factored into Cambodia's diplomatic relations with France, the United States and its neighbour Thailand. A depiction of Angkor Wat has been a part of Cambodian national flags since the introduction of the first version circa 1863. From a larger historical and even transcultural perspective, however, the temple of Angkor Wat did not become a symbol of national pride \"sui generis\" but had been inscribed into a larger politico-cultural process of French-colonial heritage production in which the original temple site was presented in French colonial and universal exhibitions in Paris and Marseille between 1889 and 1937. Angkor Wat's aesthetics were also on display in the plaster cast museum of Louis Delaporte called \"musée Indo-chinois\" which existed in the Parisian Trocadero Palace from c.1880 to the mid-1920s.\n\nThe splendid artistic legacy of Angkor Wat and other Khmer monuments in the Angkor region led directly to France adopting Cambodia as a protectorate on 11 August 1863 and invading Siam to take control of the ruins. This quickly led to Cambodia reclaiming lands in the northwestern corner of the country that had been under Siamese (Thai) control since AD 1351 (Manich Jumsai 2001), or by some accounts, AD 1431. Cambodia gained independence from France on 9 November 1953 and has controlled Angkor Wat since that time. It is safe to say that from the colonial period onwards until the site's nomination as UNESCO World Heritage in 1992, this specific temple of Angkor Wat was instrumental in the formation of the modern and gradually globalised concept of built cultural heritage.\n\nIn December 2015, it was announced that a research team from University of Sydney had found a previously unseen ensemble of buried towers built and demolished during the construction of Angkor Wat, as well as massive structure of unknown purpose on its south side and wooden fortifications. The findings also include evidence of low-density residential occupation in the region, with a road grid, ponds and mounds. These indicate that the temple precinct, bounded by moat and wall, may not have been used exclusively by the priestly elite, as was previously thought. The team used LiDAR, ground-penetrating radar and targeted excavation to map Angkor Wat.\n\nAngkor Wat, located at , is a unique combination of the temple mountain (the standard design for the empire's state temples) and the later plan of concentric galleries. The construction of Angkor Wat also suggests that there was a celestial significance with certain features of the temple. This is observed in the temple's east-west orientation, and lines of sight from terraces within the temple that show specific towers to be at the precise location of the sunrise on a solstice. The temple is a representation of Mount Meru, the home of the gods: the central quincunx of towers symbolises the five peaks of the mountain, and the walls and moat symbolise the surrounding mountain ranges and ocean. Access to the upper areas of the temple was progressively more exclusive, with the laity being admitted only to the lowest level.\n\nUnlike most Khmer temples, Angkor Wat is oriented to the west rather than the east. This has led many (including Maurice Glaize and George Coedès) to conclude that Suryavarman intended it to serve as his funerary temple. Further evidence for this view is provided by the bas-reliefs, which proceed in a counter-clockwise direction—\"prasavya\" in Hindu terminology—as this is the reverse of the normal order. Rituals take place in reverse order during Brahminic funeral services. The archaeologist Charles Higham also describes a container which may have been a funerary jar which was recovered from the central tower. It has been nominated by some as the greatest expenditure of energy on the disposal of a corpse. Freeman and Jacques, however, note that several other temples of Angkor depart from the typical eastern orientation, and suggest that Angkor Wat's alignment was due to its dedication to Vishnu, who was associated with the west.\n\nA further interpretation of Angkor Wat has been proposed by Eleanor Mannikka. Drawing on the temple's alignment and dimensions, and on the content and arrangement of the bas-reliefs, she argues that the structure represents a claimed new era of peace under King Suryavarman II: \"as the measurements of solar and lunar time cycles were built into the sacred space of Angkor Wat, this divine mandate to rule was anchored to consecrated chambers and corridors meant to perpetuate the king's power and to honour and placate the deities manifest in the heavens above.\" Mannikka's suggestions have been received with a mixture of interest and scepticism in academic circles. She distances herself from the speculations of others, such as Graham Hancock, that Angkor Wat is part of a representation of the constellation Draco.\n\nThe Angkor Wat temple's main tower aligns to the morning sun of the Spring Equinox.\n\nAngkor Wat is the prime example of the classical style of Khmer architecture—the Angkor Wat style—to which it has given its name. By the 12th century Khmer architects had become skilled and confident in the use of sandstone (rather than brick or laterite) as the main building material. Most of the visible areas are of sandstone blocks, while laterite was used for the outer wall and for hidden structural parts. The binding agent used to join the blocks is yet to be identified, although natural resins or slaked lime has been suggested.\n\nThe temple has drawn praise above all for the harmony of its design. According to Maurice Glaize, a mid-20th-century conservator of Angkor, the temple \"attains a classic perfection by the restrained monumentality of its finely balanced elements and the precise arrangement of its proportions. It is a work of power, unity and style.\"\n\nArchitecturally, the elements characteristic of the style include: the ogival, redented towers shaped like lotus buds; half-galleries to broaden passageways; axial galleries connecting enclosures; and the cruciform terraces which appear along the main axis of the temple. Typical decorative elements are devatas (or apsaras), bas-reliefs, and on pediments extensive garlands and narrative scenes. The statuary of Angkor Wat is considered conservative, being more static and less graceful than earlier work. Other elements of the design have been destroyed by looting and the passage of time, including gilded stucco on the towers, gilding on some figures on the bas-reliefs, and wooden ceiling panels and doors.\n\nThe outer wall, by and high, is surrounded by a apron of open ground and a moat wide and over 5 kilometres (3 mi) in perimeter. Access to the temple is by an earth bank to the east and a sandstone causeway to the west; the latter, the main entrance, is a later addition, possibly replacing a wooden bridge. There are gopuras at each of the cardinal points; the western is by far the largest and has three ruined towers. Glaize notes that this gopura both hides and echoes the form of the temple proper. Under the southern tower is a statue of Vishnu, known as \"Ta Reach\", which may originally have occupied the temple's central shrine. Galleries run between the towers and as far as two further entrances on either side of the gopura often referred to as \"elephant gates\", as they are large enough to admit those animals. These galleries have square pillars on the outer (west) side and a closed wall on the inner (east) side. The ceiling between the pillars is decorated with lotus rosettes; the west face of the wall with dancing figures; and the east face of the wall with balustered windows, dancing male figures on prancing animals, and devatas, including (south of the entrance) the only one in the temple to be showing her teeth.\n\nThe outer wall encloses a space of 820,000 square metres (203 acres), which besides the temple proper was originally occupied by the city and, to the north of the temple, the royal palace. Like all secular buildings of Angkor, these were built of perishable materials rather than of stone, so nothing remains of them except the outlines of some of the streets. Most of the area is now covered by forest. A causeway connects the western gopura to the temple proper, with naga balustrades and six sets of steps leading down to the city on either side. Each side also features a library with entrances at each cardinal point, in front of the third set of stairs from the entrance, and a pond between the library and the temple itself. The ponds are later additions to the design, as is the cruciform terrace guarded by lions connecting the causeway to the central structure.\n\nThe temple stands on a terrace raised higher than the city. It is made of three rectangular galleries rising to a central tower, each level higher than the last. Mannikka interprets these galleries as being dedicated to the king, Brahma, the moon, and Vishnu. Each gallery has a gopura at each of the points, and the two inner galleries each have towers at their corners, forming a quincunx with the central tower. Because the temple faces west, the features are all set back towards the east, leaving more space to be filled in each enclosure and gallery on the west side; for the same reason the west-facing steps are shallower than those on the other sides.\n\nThe outer gallery measures by , with pavilions rather than towers at the corners. The gallery is open to the outside of the temple, with columned half-galleries extending and buttressing the structure. Connecting the outer gallery to the second enclosure on the west side is a cruciform cloister called \"Preah Poan\" (the \"Hall of a Thousand Gods\"). Buddha images were left in the cloister by pilgrims over the centuries, although most have now been removed. This area has many inscriptions relating the good deeds of pilgrims, most written in Khmer but others in Burmese and Japanese. The four small courtyards marked out by the cloister may originally have been filled with water. North and south of the cloister are libraries.\n\nBeyond, the second and inner galleries are connected to each other and to two flanking libraries by another cruciform terrace, again a later addition. From the second level upwards, devatas abound on the walls, singly or in groups of up to four. The second-level enclosure is by , and may originally have been flooded to represent the ocean around Mount Meru. Three sets of steps on each side lead up to the corner towers and gopuras of the inner gallery. The very steep stairways represent the difficulty of ascending to the kingdom of the gods. This inner gallery, called the \"Bakan\", is a square with axial galleries connecting each gopura with the central shrine, and subsidiary shrines located below the corner towers. The roofings of the galleries are decorated with the motif of the body of a snake ending in the heads of lions or garudas. Carved lintels and pediments decorate the entrances to the galleries and to the shrines.\nThe tower above the central shrine rises to a height of above the ground; unlike those of previous temple mountains, the central tower is raised above the surrounding four. The shrine itself, originally occupied by a statue of Vishnu and open on each side, was walled in when the temple was converted to Theravada Buddhism, the new walls featuring standing Buddhas. In 1934, the conservator George Trouvé excavated the pit beneath the central shrine: filled with sand and water it had already been robbed of its treasure, but he did find a sacred foundation deposit of gold leaf two metres above ground level.\n\nIntegrated with the architecture of the building, and one of the causes for its fame is Angkor Wat's extensive decoration, which predominantly takes the form of bas-relief friezes. The inner walls of the outer gallery bear a series of large-scale scenes mainly depicting episodes from the Hindu epics the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Higham has called these, \"the greatest known linear arrangement of stone carving\". From the north-west corner anti-clockwise, the western gallery shows the Battle of Lanka (from the Ramayana, in which Rama defeats Ravana) and the Battle of Kurukshetra (from the Mahabharata, showing the mutual annihilation of the Kaurava and Pandava clans). On the southern gallery follow the only historical scene, a procession of Suryavarman II, then the 32 hells and 37 heavens of Hinduism.\nOn the eastern gallery is one of the most celebrated scenes, the Churning of the Sea of Milk, showing 92 asuras and 88 devas using the serpent Vasuki to churn the sea under Vishnu's direction (Mannikka counts only 91 asuras, and explains the asymmetrical numbers as representing the number of days from the winter solstice to the spring equinox, and from the equinox to the summer solstice). It is followed by Vishnu defeating asuras (a 16th-century addition). The northern gallery shows Krishna's victory over Bana (where according to Glaize, \"The workmanship is at its worst\").\n\nAngkor Wat is decorated with depictions of apsaras and devata; there are more than 1,796 depictions of devata in the present research inventory. Angkor Wat architects employed small apsara images (–) as decorative motifs on pillars and walls. They incorporated larger devata images (all full-body portraits measuring approximately –) more prominently at every level of the temple from the entry pavilion to the tops of the high towers. In 1927, Sappho Marchal published a study cataloging the remarkable diversity of their hair, headdresses, garments, stance, jewellery and decorative flowers, which Marchal concluded were based on actual practices of the Angkor period.\n\nThe stones, as smooth as polished marble, were laid without mortar with very tight joints that are sometimes hard to find. The blocks were held together by mortise and tenon joints in some cases, while in others they used dovetails and gravity. The blocks were presumably put in place by a combination of elephants, coir ropes, pulleys and bamboo scaffolding. Henri Mouhot noted that most of the blocks had holes in diameter and deep, with more holes on the larger blocks. Some scholars have suggested that these were used to join them together with iron rods, but others claim they were used to hold temporary pegs to help manoeuvre them into place.\n\nThe monument was made out of 5 million to 10 million sandstone blocks with a maximum weight of 1.5 tons each. In fact, the entire city of Angkor used up far greater amounts of stone than all the Egyptian pyramids combined, and occupied an area significantly greater than modern-day Paris. Moreover, unlike the Egyptian pyramids which use limestone quarried barely away all the time, the entire city of Angkor was built with sandstone quarried (or more) away. This sandstone had to be transported from Mount Kulen, a quarry approximately to the northeast. The route has been suggested to span along a canal towards Tonlé Sap lake, another crossing the lake, and finally against the current along Siem Reap River, making a total journey of . However, Etsuo Uchida and Ichita Shimoda of Waseda University in Tokyo, Japan have discovered in 2011 a shorter canal connecting Mount Kulen and Angkor Wat using satellite imagery. The two believe that the Khmer used this route instead.\n\nVirtually all of its surfaces, columns, lintels and even roofs are carved. There are miles of reliefs illustrating scenes from Indian literature including unicorns, griffins, winged dragons pulling chariots as well as warriors following an elephant-mounted leader and celestial dancing girls with elaborate hair styles. The gallery wall alone is decorated with almost 1,000 square metres of bas reliefs. Holes on some of the Angkor walls indicate that they may have been decorated with bronze sheets. These were highly prized in ancient times and were a prime target for robbers. While excavating Khajuraho, Alex Evans, a stonemason and sculptor, recreated a stone sculpture under , this took about 60 days to carve. Roger Hopkins and Mark Lehner also conducted experiments to quarry limestone which took 12 quarrymen 22 days to quarry about 400 tons of stone. The labour force to quarry, transport, carve and install so much sandstone must have run into the thousands including many highly skilled artisans. The skills required to carve these sculptures were developed hundreds of years earlier, as demonstrated by some artefacts that have been dated to the seventh century, before the Khmer came to power.\n\nAs with most other ancient temples in Cambodia, Angkor Wat has faced extensive damage and deterioration by a combination of plant overgrowth, fungi, ground movements, war damage and theft. The war damage to Angkor Wat's temples however has been very limited, compared to the rest of Cambodia's temple ruins, and it has also received the most attentive restoration.\n\nThe restoration of Angkor Wat in the modern era began with the establishment of the Conservation d'Angkor (Angkor Conservancy) by the École française d'Extrême-Orient (EFEO) in 1908; before that date, activities at the site were primarily concerned with exploration. The Conservation d'Angkor was responsible for the research, conservation, and restoration activities carried out at Angkor until the early 1970s, and a major restoration of Angkor was undertaken in the 1960s. However, work on Angkor was abandoned during the Khmer Rouge era and the Conservation d'Angkor was disbanded in 1975. Between 1986 and 1992, the Archaeological Survey of India carried out restoration work on the temple, as France did not recognise the Cambodian government at the time. Criticism has been raised about both the early French restoration attempts and particularly the later Indian work, with concerns over damage done to the stone surface by the use of chemicals and cement.\n\nIn 1992, following an appeal for help by Norodom Sihanouk, Angkor Wat was listed in UNESCO's World Heritage in Danger (later removed in 2004) and World Heritage Site together with an appeal by UNESCO to the international community to save Angkor. Zoning of the area was set up to protect the Angkor site in 1994, APSARA was established in 1995 to protect and manage the area, and a law to protect Cambodian heritage was passed in 1996. A number of countries such as France, Japan and China are currently involved in various Angkor Wat conservation projects. The German Apsara Conservation Project (GACP) is working to protect the devatas, and other bas-reliefs which decorate the temple, from damage. The organisation's survey found that around 20% of the devatas were in very poor condition, mainly because of natural erosion and deterioration of the stone but in part also due to earlier restoration efforts. Other work involves the repair of collapsed sections of the structure, and prevention of further collapse: the west facade of the upper level, for example, has been buttressed by scaffolding since 2002, while a Japanese team completed restoration of the north library of the outer enclosure in 2005. World Monuments Fund began conservation work on the Churning of the Sea of Milk Gallery in 2008 after several years of studies on its condition. The project restored the traditional Khmer roofing system and removed cement used in earlier restoration attempts that had resulted in salts entering the structure behind the bas-relief, discoloring and damaging the sculpted surfaces. The main phase of work ended in 2012, with the final component being the installation of finials on the roof of the gallery in 2013.\n\nMicrobial biofilms have been found degrading sandstone at Angkor Wat, Preah Khan, and the Bayon and West Prasat in Angkor. The dehydration- and radiation-resistant filamentous cyanobacteria can produce organic acids that degrade the stone. A dark filamentous fungus was found in internal and external Preah Khan samples, while the alga \"Trentepohlia\" was found only in samples taken from external, pink-stained stone at Preah Khan. Replicas were also made to replace some of the lost or damaged sculptures.\n\nSince the 1990s, Angkor Wat has become a major tourist destination. In 1993, there were only 7,650 visitors to the site; by 2004, government figures show that 561,000 foreign visitors had arrived in Siem Reap province that year, approximately 50% of all foreign tourists in Cambodia. The number reached over a million in 2007, and over two million by 2012. Most visited Angkor Wat, which received over two million foreign tourists in 2013. The site has been managed by the private SOKIMEX group since 1990, which rented it from the Cambodian government. The influx of tourists has so far caused relatively little damage, other than some graffiti; ropes and wooden steps have been introduced to protect the bas-reliefs and floors, respectively. Tourism has also provided some additional funds for maintenance—as of 2000 approximately 28% of ticket revenues across the whole Angkor site was spent on the temples—although most work is carried out by teams sponsored by foreign governments rather than by the Cambodian authorities.\n\nSince Angkor Wat has seen significant growth in tourism throughout the years, UNESCO and its International Co-ordinating Committee for the Safeguarding and Development of the Historic Site of Angkor (ICC), in association with representatives from the Royal Government and APSARA, organised seminars to discuss the concept of \"cultural tourism\". Wanting to avoid commercial and mass tourism, the seminars emphasised the importance of providing high quality accommodation and services in order for the Cambodian government to benefit economically, while also incorporating the richness of Cambodian culture. In 2001, this incentive resulted in the concept of the \"Angkor Tourist City\" which would be developed with regard to traditional Khmer architecture, contain leisure and tourist facilities, and provide luxurious hotels capable of accommodating large numbers of tourists.\n\nThe prospect of developing such large tourist accommodations has encountered concerns from both APSARA and the ICC, claiming that previous tourism developments in the area have neglected construction regulations and more of these projects have the potential to damage landscape features. Also, the large scale of these projects have begun to threaten the quality of the nearby town's water, sewage, and electricity systems. It has been noted that such high frequency of tourism and growing demand for quality accommodations in the area, such as the development of a large highway, has had a direct effect on the underground water table, subsequently straining the structural stability of the temples at Angkor Wat. Locals of Siem Reap have also voiced concern that the charm and atmosphere of their town have been compromised in order to entertain tourism. Since this local atmosphere is the key component to projects like Angkor Tourist City, the local officials continue to discuss how to successfully incorporate future tourism without sacrificing local values and culture.\n\nAt the ASEAN Tourism Forum 2012, it was agreed that Borobudur and Angkor Wat would become sister sites and the provinces sister provinces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27151306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27151306", "title": "Bench memorandum", "text": "Bench memorandum\n\nA bench memorandum (pl. \"bench memoranda\") (also known as a \"bench memo\") is a short and neutral memo which summarizes the facts, issues, and arguments of a court case. Bench memos are used by the judge as a reference when preparing for trial, when hearing lawyers' arguments, when drafting a decision, and to give the judge an idea of the arguments given by each side in the court case. Bench memos are generally written by the judge's law clerk, although lawyers can also submit their own memos that argue their case, so long as their memos remain neutral.\n"}
{"id": "3798951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798951", "title": "Benshi", "text": "Benshi\n\nDuring silent films, the \"benshi\" stood to the side of the screen and introduced and related the story to the audience. In theatrical style, \"benshi\" often spoke for the characters on-screen and played multiple roles. Stemming from the traditions of \"kabuki\" and \"Noh\" theaters, the benshi's narration and general commentary were an important part of the Japanese silent film experience. The \"benshi\" also provided translation for foreign (mostly American) movies.\n\nMuch like in the West, Japanese silent films were often accompanied by live music (in addition to the \"benshi\"). However, unlike Western films, which tended to have a theatre organ as accompaniment, Japanese films had a score which supported the traditional Japanese instruments of a \"kabuki\" play. Since \"benshi\" performed without external amplification, they had to carefully coordinate with the orchestra to be heard. At that time, theaters typically seated 1000, so a trademark of successful \"benshi\" was the ability to project their voices into large spaces.\n\nFamous benshi active in the silent era include Musei Tokugawa (at the Aoikan and Musashinokan theaters), Saburō Somei (at the Denkikan), Rakuten Nishimura, Raiyū Ikoma (at the Teikokukan), Mitsugu Ōkura, and Shirō Ōtsuji.\n\nIn the 1995 film \"Picture Bride,\" Toshirō Mifune portrays a \"benshi\" who traveled to sugar cane plantations in Hawaii during the early 20th century.\n\nAs the film industry and art form developed in Japan, the presence of a \"benshi\" came to be part of the film. Benshi read the intertitles on silent films and voiced all on-screen characters. Perhaps most significantly for filmmakers, \"benshi\" would add their own commentary, explaining what was happening in a shot or describing what had happened in confusing edits or sudden transitions. Some \"benshi\" were known to interpret and add to a script, for example reciting poetry to accompany a moving visual.\n\nIn addition, it was traditional for the \"benshi\" to introduce the film, even giving a brief lecture about the history of the setting. This meant that filmmakers could assume that a live narrator, accustomed to improvisation, would be present at the showing to explain scenes or even explain missing scenes or unfilmed action.\n\nPerhaps because most early Japanese films were simply \"kabuki\" plays adapted to film, the characterization style \"benshi\" performed roles strongly influenced by the narrators in \"kabuki\" or a \"noh\" chorus—a grave, dramatic, exaggerated style. Due to the influence of \"kabuki\", audiences were not distracted by a single \"benshi\" voicing male and female roles, regardless of the gender of the \"benshi\".\n\nIn 1927, there were 6,818 \"benshi\", including 180 women. Many \"benshi\" were famous in their own right and garnered great acclaim. The presence of a \"benshi\" was the aspect of the film presentation that drew in the audience, more so than the actors appearing in the film, and promotional posters would frequently include a photo of the \"benshi\" announcing the movie.\n\nThe silent film era lasted until the mid-1930s in Japan in part due to \"benshi\", despite the introduction of sound in full-length films in the late 1920s. The adoption of this new technology was slowed by the popularity and influence of the \"benshi\" (in addition to the high costs to the cinemas and production companies). Though the tradition has mostly faded, there are a few remaining active \"benshi\" in Japan (e.g., Midori Sawato).\n\n\n\nThe underlying concept of benshi, live narration of film, continues to work its way into performance practices. The actual practice of \"benshi\" is most commonly referenced in relation to live film narration largely due to it having been and when the practice was more formalized and financed. As evidenced by the (above) listings of \"benshi\" in other cultures, the art of cinema accompanied by a live performer was as international then as it is now. \n\nThere are groups in the United States seeking to revive this form and to continue exploring the possibilities of altering the form in the spirit of experimentation from which the practice emerged. Likewise, new attempts to subvert traditional notions of storytelling and film watching are underway. Some performers interject commentary into films, drawing from a century of social critique, often presenting popular films along with new dialog and narrative intended to juxtapose their ideas with those of the audience. While some have adopted the term \"Neo-Benshi\", other performers have chosen to adopt the title \"movieteller\" as an alternative. They believe it emphasizes the multicultural past and future(s) of the form, while inviting further experimentation with the medium, such as a live narration of one's own films, the implementation of instruments as narrative devices, or any instance where a human contingent mediates between an audience and an image.\n\nTaiwanese Benshi \n"}
{"id": "29694089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29694089", "title": "Bibliography of Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Bibliography of Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with Antigua and Barbuda and its geography, history, inhabitants, culture, biota, etc. \n\n"}
{"id": "22629998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629998", "title": "Blaenavon Ironworks", "text": "Blaenavon Ironworks\n\nBlaenavon Ironworks is a former industrial site which is now a museum in Blaenavon in Wales. The ironworks was of crucial importance in the development of the ability to use cheap, low quality, high sulphur iron ores worldwide. It was the site of the experiments by Sidney Gilchrist Thomas and his cousin Percy Gilchrist that led to \"the basic steel process\" or \"Gilchrist-Thomas process\".\n\nThe ironworks is on the outskirts of Blaenavon, in the borough of Torfaen, within the Blaenavon Industrial Landscape, a World Heritage Site.\n\nThe site is under the care of Cadw, the Welsh Government's historic environment service.\n\nThe land on which the Ironworks reside was at one time the property of Lord Abergavenny and was leased in 1787 by three Midlands businessmen, Thomas Hill, his brother-in-law Thomas Hopkins and Benjamin Pratt. Work constructing the Ironworks began immediately and included several \"luxury\" cottages. Blaenavon Ironworks was the first to be designed as a multi-furnace site from the outset, with three furnaces, calcining kilns, cottages, and a company shop.\n\nArchdeacon Coxe visited Blaenavon during 1798–99 and enthusiastically described the small town as \"an opulent and increasing establishment\", which was \"surrounded with heaps of ore, coal and limestone\". The reason for the growth of Blaenavon from a rural to an industrial community lay in the rich mineral deposits found in the surrounding area, which outcropped at the surface making extraction a relatively cheap process. The iron works demanded a skilled and permanent labour force, which the Eastern Valley of Monmouthshire lacked. Previous iron works at nearby Pontypool, for instance, had relied on charcoal and water.\n\nThe nature of the work introduced to Blaenavon was different. The changes involved the coal-using technology and the application of steam power, not used until that time in the Eastern Valley. Skilled workers came mainly from West Wales, Staffordshire, Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Somerset and Ireland. Unskilled men, often with families came for the promise of work. The population of the district expanded from a little over 1,000 in 1800 to 5115 in 1840 with 61% speaking Welsh and the remainder English.\n\nBy 1800 Blaenavon Ironworks contributed greatly to South Wales becoming the foremost iron-producing region in the world. Production at Blaenavon was second only to Cyfarthfa Ironworks in Merthyr Tydfil, the largest iron producer in Wales. Two new furnaces were added over the next decade and in 1804 a forge was constructed in nearby Cwmavon. By 1833 the company owned 430 houses and employed 1000 workers but suffered economic boom-and-bust that accompanied iron-making with wage cuts, strikes and the emergence of \"Scotch Cattle\".\nIn 1836, the works was bought by the Blaenavon Iron and Coal Company, financed by Londoner Robert Kennard, later an MP. Led by new managing director James Ashwell, a huge investment was made in the ironworks, including the construction of the impressive Balance tower which utilised a water displacement lift to carry pig iron from the base of the site to the Brecknock and Abergavenny Canal system, which offered lower tolls to Newport than the Monmouthshire Canal. After this £138,000 investment the site showed little sign of profit and so Ashwell was forced to resign in 1840. In the following years, iron rails produced at Blaenavon were exported all over the world, including India, Russia and Brazil but also in projects closer to home such as the construction of Crumlin Viaduct.\n\nWhen Ashwell resigned, Mr. Scrivener became manager of the works and production picked up for a short while. In 1845 sales reached a peak of 35,549 tons out of which 20,732 tons were sold. This was a rise of 5,000 tons on sales for the previous year. However, fluidity was uncertain. By 1847 sales had declined to 18,981 tons. The works continued to suffer. A lower amount of pig iron was produced in 1849, partly due to the furnaces being out of action for three months. However, it was claimed that this was the consequence of \"workmen refusing to submit to a reduction in wages, which the depressed state of the iron industry had rendered necessary\".\n\nThe company was relaunched in 1870 as the Blaenavon Iron & Steel Company and was one of only six south Wales ironworks that successfully made the change to steel production. By 1878 the company employed 5,000 people but had greatly overreached itself financially and failed amongst tough competition. With financial ruin just around the corner the company was given some respite thanks to the discoveries of Sidney Gilchrist Thomas and Percy Carlyle Gilchrist which enabled the use of the previously uneconomic phosphoric iron ore. Their experiments were carried out at Blarnavon between 1877 and 1878. This was short lived as it meant Germany and North America were now able to utilise their own phosphoric ores and ironically accelerated the decline of Blaenavon Ironworks.\nIn 1880 the Blaenavon Company opened Big Pit and moved away from iron production. In 1904 the ironworks finally ceased production, restarting briefly in 1924 but was unsustainable. The forges at the site were still being used and helped with the production of steel shell during both world wars but was mostly used as a storage yard for the National Coal Board.\n\nIn 1959 novelist Alexander Cordell set his most famous novel, \"Rape of the Fair Country\" at the Ironworks and the surrounding area at the height of the industrial revolution. At around the same time, industrial archaeology began to emerge as a discipline and the site was spared the fate of so many other 18th–19th century industrial works. In 1974 the conservation of the ironworks began. Shortly after statutory protection was provided for various sites in Blaenavon including the Ironworks.\n\nIn 2000 Blaenavon was awarded World Heritage Site status for the industrial landscape including the Ironworks and are now under the care of Cadw and open as one of only two free admission staffed sites.\n\nIn 2001, the structure underwent a major restructuring. The 160-year old cast iron columns at the top of the tower were taken down and the iron frame was casted and painted in order to ensure that it stayed intact now that it was a World Heritage Site.\n\nThe blast furnaces, Cast House, Foundry and Balance Tower are Grade I listed buildings.\n\nCoal House was a reality TV series shown one BBC One Wales. In October 2007 three Welsh families were transported back to the south Wales coalfield of the 1920s. The Stack Square cottages located at the Ironworks were transformed into authentic 1927 coal mining family homes.\n\nIn October 2008 this series was followed by Coal House at War where three new families were transported back to the second world war era conditions of 1944. This time they were joined by evacuees and Bevin Boys.\n\nThe furnished cottages used for both series are open to the public at the Ironworks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56345589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56345589", "title": "Brigade Media", "text": "Brigade Media\n\nBrigade Media, also known as Brigade, is a civic technology platform that was formed on June 4, 2014, and founded by James Windon, Jason Putorti, John Thrall, Matt Mahan, and Miche Capone. The platform is intended to serve as a way for users to connect with others who share the same or similar views and voice their opinions, create debates, or organize petitions. This process is intended to make the users' concerns more visible to and influential towards United States' policymakers.\n\nJames Wendon is the President of the Brigade platform. He previously acted as the Vice President of Causes and earlier worked with the World Trade Organization in Switzerland. Matt Mahan is the CEO of Brigade and previously served as the CEO of Causes. John Thrall works in Engineering, Jason Putorti works in Design, and Miche Capone specializes in Production. Sean Parker is the Chairman of the startup. He sits on the board of Spotify and was the founding president of Facebook.\n\nOn June 4th, 2014, Brigade Beta became available to download on iOS or Google Play, in its private beta version. In this beginning stage, the app asked users to agree or disagree on a position. Brigade then split up its users into those who agreed on the issue and those who disagreed on the issue. Participants were also allowed to write their own opinions on positions and ask those in their respective group if they were \"for\" or \"against\" the opinion stated.\n\nA few weeks before the November 2016 elections, Brigade created a ballot guide for its users. It ran these voter guides in San Francisco and Manchester, New Hampshire. As the user entered the application, he or she was prompted with questions regarding government and social issues. One could agree, disagree, or click unsure as their answer choices. After completing the questionnaire, the guide gave recommendations on who to vote for and which propositions to pass or not pass. Furthermore, the app also determined these choices based on those a user socializes with on Brigade. Brigade users could then pledge their votes to the candidates and propositions listed on the ballot. With these pledges, the app could track which candidates had more pledged votes in real time. Users were further able to recruit pledges from other users for their favorite candidates or propositions.\n\nBrigade implemented a voter verification service as well. With voter verification, a user can determine how similar or different a political representative's viewpoints are from their own. This data was received from Google's Civic API with geographic information on 520,000 American elected officials.\n\nBrigade Media has acquired Causes,Votizen, and Voter. At the time of its acquisition, Causes was the largest online platform where candidates could campaign. At the time of its acquisition, Votizen functioned as a tool for voters to learn more about their leaders. At the time of its acquisition, Voter aimed to put voters and politicians together via shared viewpoints. These three companies helped Brigade gain social media presence and find intelligent workers in the field.\n\nAs technology has advanced, it was assumed that the average individual would have further access to voting, and therefore, voting numbers would increase. Instead, voter turnout at the elections remains low, with numbers at the presidential elections between 50% and 60% of the US population in the last 50 years. At the midterm election of 2014, only 36.4% of people voted, the lowest percentage since 1942. It is hoped that civic technology will incentivize and educate its users to vote. Brigade's voter ballot was an attempt as a civic technology platform to increase voter participation as well as educate its users about candidates and propositions.\n\nOne mission of Brigade Media is to act as a foreground for its users to connect and organize so that they can voice their opinions on our nation's issues. Another more general goal is to increase voter participation.\n\nBrigade interacts with American voters by linking its users to the same held concerns. The opinions of elected officials on those concerns will be provided and metrics about the candidate most similar in concerns and degree of concern will be available. This data should be useful for both candidates and voters, in that voters can voice their grievances and candidates must respond accordingly.\n\nIn 2014, Brigade Media received about $9.5 million in seed money from Sean Parker, Marc Benioff, and Ron Conway.\n\nBarbara Simons, a computer scientist from IBM, asserts that all current forms of digital voting devices are hackable, and that the best unhackable option is paper.\nFurthermore, a Canadian study revealed that online voting platforms may not improve voter participation. The study found that those who did not already vote on paper ballots did not vote with digital devices. Instead, non-paper voting forms are simply more convenient for those who would have already decided to vote. With this data brought to light, the Independent Panel On Internet Voting did not recommend internet voting to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in 2012.\n\nBrigade's Executive Chairman, Sean Parker, was the president of Facebook in mid-2004. Recently, Facebook sold information on over 50 million Facebook users to Cambridge Analytica. Sean Parker's previous relationship with Facebook could provide controversy in his work with Brigade Media and his other projects.\n\nAt the company's formation, Brigade Media also faced a racial controversy. When Brigade was only a few weeks old, the entire leadership division of the start-up was white males. The company addressed the issues by filling in 12 additional positions and noting that women were also present in the organization.\n\nWhen the ballot guide was introduced, about 67% of its users were millennials. This is an accomplishment because millennial participation in the 2014 midterm elections had declined. At the time of the ballot guide, the start-up had 100,000 pledged candidates and 400,000 friends of candidates also pledged. \n\nThe platforms data also saw Donald Trump winning swing states before the polls in the 2016 United States Presidential Election. At this time, Brigade had 200,000 verified users. Within the vote pledges, 94.5% of Republicans pledged to vote for Republican nominee Trump, with 2.2% pledging with Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. However, on the Democratic pledge side, only 55% pledged for Clinton while 40% of Democrats pledged for Trump.\n"}
{"id": "8868266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8868266", "title": "Capitoline Antinous", "text": "Capitoline Antinous\n\nThe Capitoline 'Antinous' is a marble statue of a young nude male found at Hadrian's Villa, Tivoli, during the time when Conte Giuseppe Fede was undertaking the earliest concerted excavations there. It was bought before 1733 by Alessandro Cardinal Albani. To contemporaries it seemed to be the real attraction of his collection. The statue was bought by Pope Clement XII in 1733 and went on to form the nucleus of the Capitoline Museums, Rome, where it remains. The restored left leg and the left arm, with its unexpected rhetorical hand gesture, were provided by Pietro Bracci. In the 18th century it was considered to be one of the most beautiful Roman copies of a Greek statue in the world. It was then thought to represent Hadrian's lover Antinous owing to its fleshy face and physique and downturned look. It was part of the artistic loot taken to Paris under the terms of the Treaty of Tolentino (1797) and remained in Paris 1800-15, when it was returned to Rome after the fall of Napoleon. \n\nIn part due to its hair being unlike that in better-attested Antinous-types, which closely follow a very few iconographic models, it is now considered to be a Roman Imperial era copy of an early 4th century BC Greek statue of Hermes. Such a change of identification was already underway before 1900, when Augustus Hare observed in his \"Walks in Rome\" that :\n\n"}
{"id": "770233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770233", "title": "Chinookan languages", "text": "Chinookan languages\n\nThe Chinookan languages were a small family of languages spoken in Oregon and Washington along the Columbia River by Chinook peoples. All are now extinct, although Upper Chinook had 270 self-identified speakers in 2009-2013.\n\nChinookan consisted of three languages with multiple varieties. There is some dispute over classification, and there are two ISO 639-3 codes assigned: chh (Chinook, Lower Chinook) and wac (Wasco-Wishram, Upper Chinook). For example, Ethnologue 15e classifies Kiksht as Lower Chinook, while others consider it instead Upper Chinook (discussion), and others a separate language.\n\n\nThe vowels in the Chinookan languages are /a i ɛ ə u/ as followed. Stress is marked as /á/.\n\nAs in many North American Languages, verbs constitute complete clauses in themselves. Nominal may accompany the verbs, but they have adjunct status, functioning as appositives to the pronominal affixes. Word order functions purely pragmatically; constituents appear in decreasing order of newsworthiness. Clauses are combined by juxtaposition or particles, rather than subordinating inflection.\n\nVerbs contain an initial tense or aspect prefix, ergative pronominal prefix, obligatory assaultive prefixed, dative prefix, reflexive/reciprocal/middle, adverbial, directional, and verb stem. The number of tense/aspect prefix distinctions varies among the languages. Kiksht shows six way tense distinctions: mythic past, remote past, recent past, immediate past, present, and future.\n\nThe pronominal prefixes are obligatory, whether free nominals occur in the clause-or not. Three can be seen in the Kathlamet verb. The ergative refers to agent of a transitive verb, the absolutive to patient of a transitive or single argument of an intransitive, the dative to indirect object. Reflexive prefixes can serve as reciprocals and as medio-passives. When the reflexive follows can ergative-absolutive pronoun sequence, it indicates that one indirectly affected is the same as the ergative. When it follows an absolutive –dative pronoun sequence, it indicates that one indirectly affected is associated with the absolutive, perhaps as the whole in a part-whole relationship, or the owner.\n\nVerbs stems may be simplex or compound, the second member indicating direction, including motion out of, from open to cover especially from water to shore or inland, from cover to open, especially toward water, into, down or up.\n\nSuffixes include repetitive, causatives, an involuntary passive, completive, stative, purposive, future, usitative, successful completive and so on.\n\nNouns contain an initial prefix, pronominal prefix, positive prefix, inner normalizer, root, a qualifying suffix, plural, and final suffix. Initial prefix serve primarily as nominalizers. Masculine prefixes appear with nouns designating male persons, feminine with those denoting female persons. The neuter may indicate indefiniteness. All are used for nouns referring to objects as well. Masculine prefixes appear with the large animals; feminine for small ones. Masculine prefixes also appear with nouns expressing qualities.\n\nThe gender/number prefixes is followed by possessive pronominal prefixes of the verb. These distinguish first, inclusive, second, third, fourth (indefinite) person, dual and plural possessors. The possessive prefixes are followed by noun stem, perhaps including another nominalizer. Nominal suffixes indicate emphasis or contrast, specificity, succession in time, definiteness, plurality, and time, location, or similarity.\n\nThe gender/number prefixes is followed by possessive pronominal prefixes of the verb. These distinguish first, inclusive, second, third, fourth (indefinite) person, dual and plural possessors. The possessive prefixes are followed by noun stem, perhaps including another nominalizer. Nominal suffixes indicate emphasis or contrast, specificity, succession in time, definiteness, plurality, and time, location, or similarity.\n\n1. The possessive prefix for the third person singular feminine (\"her\") is –ga- when the noun itself is feminine, neuter, dual, or plural, it is preceded by the gender-number prefixes:\n\nbut is-tca- when the noun itself is masculine, is preceded by the gender-number prefix: \n2. The possessive prefix for the first person singular \"my\" is –gE (Wishram-g-,-k-;- x̩\n-before k-stops) when the noun is feminine, neuter, dual or plural, but –tcE-,-tci-(Wishram-tc-) when the noun is masculine.\n\n3. Aside from certain secondary irregularities in the third person dual and third person plural which don't concern us, the pronominal subject of the transitive verb differs from the pronominal subject of the intransitive verb only in the case of the third person singular masculine and third persoonsingular feminine, the difference between the two sets of forms being for the most part indicated by position and, in part, by the use of a \"postpronominal\" particle-g-which indicates that the preceding pronominal element is used as the subject of a transitive verb.\n\nThe phonetic parallelism would then be perfect in the three cases. If we compare the theoretical forms *ag-\"she\"and *itc-\"he\"with the remaining subjective forms of the transitive verb, we obtain at once a perfectly regular and intelligible set of forms. Including the \"post-pronominal\"-g-, the system is as follows:\n\nCompare these pronominal prefixes with the corresponding intransitive subjects and transitive objects:\nThe original Chinook Jargon was a simplified language, originally used as a second language by speakers of other Native American languages in the area. It has sentence-initial negation which is atypical of regional languages and doesn't have typical complex morphology. It has SVO structure: Chinookan and Salishan are VSO, e.g., Haias olo tso naika [much hungry water I] \"I'm very thirsty\". However, local Athabaskan languages are SOV, so this is probably a result of contact – a cross-language compromise. Only later did Chinook Jargon acquire significant English and French lexical items.\n\nThere were Lower and Upper Chinookan groups, only a single variety of the latter now survives: Wasco-Wishram (Wasco and Wishram were originally two separate, similar varieties). In 1990, there were 69 speakers (7 monolinguals) of Wasco-Wishram; in 2001, 5 speakers of Wasco remained; the last fully fluent speaker, Gladys Thompson, died in 2012.\n\nChinook-speaking groups were once powerful in trade, before and during early European contact (Lewis & Clark), hence developed the Chinook Jargon – a pre-European contact language, with lexicon from at least Chinook, Chehalis, and Nootka or Nuu-chah-nulth.\n\nChinook people were quickly diminished by European diseases: Numbered around 800 persons in 1800; they mixed with Chehalis (in fact, the very word \"Chinook\" is a Chehalis word for those who lived on the south of the river). Most of the language family became extinct as separate groups by 1900, except a few hundreds who mixed with other groups. Around 120 people in 1945, though some 609 were reported in the 1970s, having by then mixed extensively with other groups. Language is now extinct.\n\nChinook Jargon also flourished from 1790s–1830s, then experienced a flood of English and French new vocabulary. It was used by up to 100,000 speakers of 100 mother tongues in the 19th century. Then declined, was recorded by linguists in the 1930s, and died out by the early 1900s. The Chinook people were finally recognized by the US Govt. in Jan. 2001, but in the 90-day grace period the Quinault Tribe filed an appeal stating that the Chinook Nation made mistakes when applying for federal recognition.\n\nA Chinookan Phonetic Law\nE. Sapir\nInternational Journal of American Linguistics, Vol. 4, No. 1 (Jan., 1926), pp. 105–110\nPublished by: The University of Chicago Press\nArticle Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/1263359\n\nMithun, Marianne. (1999). The languages of Native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. (hbk); .\n\nHymes, Dell. \"A Pattern of Verbal Irony in Chinookan.\" International Journal of the Sociology of Language 1987.65 (1987): 97-110. Communication & Mass Media Complete. Web. 4 Feb. 2014.\n\n\"We Should Lose Much by Their Absence\": The Centrality of Chinookans and Kalapuyans to Life in Frontier Oregon\nMathias D. Bergmann\nOregon Historical Quarterly, Vol. 109, No. 1 (Spring, 2008), pp. 34–59\nPublished by: Oregon Historical Society\nArticle Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/20615823\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52745930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52745930", "title": "Citizens' Party (Finland)", "text": "Citizens' Party (Finland)\n\nCitizens' Party (, ) is a Finnish political party, founded in 2016. It was founded by the long-time Centre Party politician and MEP Paavo Väyrynen, who left Centre in early 2016. Väyrynen acted as the first chairman of the party until July 2017, when he was succeeded by Sami Kilpeläinen.\n\nThe party did not take part in the 2017 municipal elections, although Väyrynen was elected to the City Council of Helsinki as an independent candidate. Väyrynen also participated the 2018 presidential election as an independent candidate, finishing fourth with 6.2 percent of the votes.\n\nIn March 2018, Citizens' Party expelled Väyrynen from the party, due to his alleged misdeeds with the campaign funding during the presidential elections. Väyrynen denied the allegations and instead started a court case against the activities of the board of the party. While the court case was still ongoing, Väyrynen founded a Citizens' Party's parliamentary group, with an intention to represent the party within the parliament.\n\nIn November 2018, the District Court of Helsinki deemed void the majority of decisions made by the party board, including the decision to expel Väyrynen. Chairman Sami Kilpeläinen soon announced that they would appeal against the decision, while preparing for the 2019 parliamentary election as usual. The decision promoted Väyrynen to abandon the Citizens' Party's parliamentary group in favor of that of his Seven Star Movement.\n"}
{"id": "1944076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944076", "title": "Colombo Dreams", "text": "Colombo Dreams\n\nColombo Dreams was a show performed by the University College London Sri Lankan Society on Friday 28 January and Saturday 29 January 2005 at the Bloomsbury Theatre, London and was directed by Pam Kangeyan, Thushan Dias, Marcus Ranney and Shaun Fernando.\n\nLoosely based on the theatre production \"Bombay Dreams\", \"Colombo Dreams\" was a hit romantic comedy grossing almost £6,000 which went to charities in aid of the Indian Ocean Tsunami relief effort in Sri Lanka. Based around the play were several contemporary and traditional dances, as well as classical orchestra, performed by members of the UCL Sri Lankan Society.\n\nPushpakumar Pitiyapolgodagoonetillekeratneupersirisekera is just an ordinary schoolboy growing up in the remote village of Bambalasuriyaville, Sri Lanka. Like all country boys his age, when he is not at school, and when he is not getting up to mischief with his best friend, and secret admirer, Samanthi, he is obliged to help his family out on their small subsistence farm. But Pushpa is like no ordinary boy - he rejects the calls for him to go to medical school and make a life for himself... instead, Pushpa believes his haphazard, almost comic, acting skills will find him fame and fortune in the thriving(!) Sri Lankan movie industry. His chance to show his talent and make it big finally comes along when a little-known Indian director, Asoka Choudary, comes to town to find talent for his latest production - \"Lagaanic\" - a period drama/romantic comedy depicting the class oppression of the Sri Lankan village-folk by their colonial masters, resulting in a game of cricket being played by the villagers against their oppressors - on a sinking ship in the Indian Ocean.\n\nIn making the film, Pushpa becomes ensnared by the sexy allure of an Indian co-star, the famous D-grade actress Aishwarya, who exposes him to the self-obsessed and indulgent lifestyle of Bollywood stars. Samanthi, with the help of a wheeler-dealing dodgy acting Guru realises that if she wants to win Pushpa's heart, she must do the unthinkable... become a man! Leaving Pushpa in a predicament; does he follow his dreams and become just another D-grade Bollywood actor? Or is eternal love with his lifelong friend in the humbleness of village life the real dream that we secretly long for?\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23739941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739941", "title": "Color realism (art style)", "text": "Color realism (art style)\n\nColor realism is a fine art style where accurately portrayed colors create a sense of space and form. It employs a flattening of objects into areas of color, where the modulations occur more as a result of an object interacting with the color and light of its environment than the sculptural modeling of form or presentation of textural detail. The actual color of an object, or 'local color', is held secondary to how that color interacts with surrounding light sources that may alter the look of the original color. Warm light of the sun, cool light from the sky, and warm reflected light bouncing off other objects are all examples of how a local color may be affected by its location in space.\nEarliest proponents of this style include the Dutch Master Johannes Vermeer and Hendrick Terbrugghen.\nRecent artists working with this style include the Boston School of painters, such as Edmund Tarbell and William McGregor Paxton. These artists combined vibrant Impressionist pastel colors with a more traditional palette, to create color-realist works that have a full range of dark to light values. Contemporary artists utilizing elements of this style include Sam Vokey, Charles Tersolo, and Barbara Glee Lucas.\n"}
{"id": "22378693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22378693", "title": "Come-outer", "text": "Come-outer\n\nCome-outer is a phrase coined in the 1830s which denotes a person who withdraws from an established organization, or one who advocates political reform.\n\nThe term was first applied during the Second Great Awakening to a small group of American abolitionists who dissented from religious orthodoxy, who withdrew from a number of established churches because the churches were not progressive enough on the issue of abolition. A come-outer would not join a church which held a neutral position on the issue of slavery, and he would not vote, or run for office, or otherwise take part in a government that let slavery happen. The phrase was derived from the Bible verse, II Corinthians 6:17 which read \"Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.\"\n\nWilliam Lloyd Garrison was an influential Boston abolitionist who founded the New England Anti-Slavery Society and the American Anti-Slavery Society in the early 1830s. Garrison advocated an immediate end to slavery, rather than a step-by-step process working through the political system. In 1832, he printed an anti-slavery tract called \"Thoughts on African Colonization\" which included the \"come out from among them\" verse from the Second Epistle to the Corinthians, and a quote from a recently deceased Reverend Doctor Thomson of Edinburgh: \"To say that we will only come out of the sin by degrees—that we will only forsake it slowly, and step by step... is to trample on the demands of moral obligation...\" At the New England Anti-Slavery Convention in 1836, Garrison proposed that only churches willing to help fight slavery should be considered \"the true and real church of God.\" This was viewed by many as too divisive, so other means were tried until the 1837 convention when a resolution was adopted urging abolitionists to leave unresponsive churches, \"to come out from among them and be separate.\" Garrison's radical ideas defined a strong split within the anti-slavery societies, and Garrison was abandoned by all but a dedicated core group of like-minded abolitionists. The Boston-based group of reformers began to be called \"come-outers\".\n\nGarrison's newspaper, \"The Liberator\", served to spread his view of abolition and anti-institutionalism. From time to time, news items about come-outers would appear, some culled from other journals. In 1851, Garrison quoted an article entitled \"Come-outers in jail\" which appeared in \"The Barnstable Patriot\": \"Several of these poor deluded beings in Barnstable, whose actions we have before noticed, are now on trial in that town for an assault upon a constable when in the discharge of his duty…the poor creatures are insane, and can hardly be held responsible for their acts. ….the most fitting place for these unfortunate beings is in the Insane Hospital.\" Garrison offered his opinion that the 'poor deluded beings' were quite properly \"laboring under religious insanity.\"\n\nOther regions of the United States that held pockets of \"come-outerism\" included Cape Cod, New Hampshire and New York.\n\nCome-outers themselves split further into those who, like Garrison, were against any institution at all, and those who believed that political systems and churches could be reformed into anti-slavery organizations. Non-Garrisonian come-outers split from Methodist, Baptist and Presbyterian churches to form new church doctrines that were either completely free of slavery or focused on anti-slavery. The American Baptist Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840 brought the issue to the fore, defining a split among Baptists. The American Baptist Free Mission Society formed in 1843 in Boston when 17 Baptists led by William Henry Brisbane left their church to create a non-racist, anti-slavery evangelical group with missions to Haiti, Burma and Africa. James G. Birney and Gerrit Smith were among those who left the Presbyterian church. The integrated American Missionary Association, a non-denominational group, formed in 1846 mostly of Presbyterian and Congregational members who were unable to get their churches to commit to fight slavery. The Wesleyan Methodist Connection was organized in 1843 and grew to some 15,000 members, many of whom were not Methodist. By 1850, membership in come-outer churches, combined with those in religious denominations such as Free Will Baptist who had long been against slavery, reached 241,000 in America.\n\nSome come-outers engaged in tax resistance because of their unwillingness to fund a government that did not work to end slavery. Henry David Thoreau and Amos Bronson Alcott both used tax resistance in this way. Utopian Brook Farm has been described as \"a come-outer enterprise\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008422", "title": "Corelative", "text": "Corelative\n\nCorrelative (\"corelative,\" UK spelling) is the term adopted by Wesley Newcomb Hohfeld to describe the philosophical relationships between fundamental legal concepts in jurisprudence.\n\nHohfeld was concerned that there was some ambiguity in the explanation of the similarities and differences between concepts in law. Hence, with the focus on the nature of \"rights\", he proposed a system of analysis based on \"jural correlatives\" and \"jural opposites\". A correlative is where two concepts are logically consistent and the one necessarily implies the other. When two concepts are Hohfeldian opposites (technically, logical contradictions), they are mutually exclusive.\n\nThus, if A has a right with regard to B, an analysis of their relationship from B's point of view must imply that B has a duty to A. An owner of land may hold four distinct entitlements: rights, privileges, powers, and immunities. Hohfeld linked each entitlement to a corelative and its opposite:\n\nJurists such as Mickey Dias and Hohfeld have declared that rights and duties are \"jural corelatives\", which means that if someone has a right, \"someone else\" owes a duty to him. This reasoning of Dias' was used in \"Murphy v Brentwood District Council\" (1991) to disapprove Lord Denning MR's judgment in \"Dutton v Bognor Regis Urban District Council\" (1972).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14363796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14363796", "title": "Digital Library of India", "text": "Digital Library of India\n\nDigital Library of India, part of the online services of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and partner in the Million Book Project, provides free access to many books in English and Indian languages. The scanning of Indian language books has created an opportunity for developing Indian language optical character recognition (OCR) software. The publications are mainly in PDF or QuickTime format.\n\nBecause of copyright laws, the texts are all out of copyright and therefore not sources for current information, but rather useful for history and background.\n\n, DLI had scanned 550,603 titles.\n\nRepresentative titles include:\n\n\nBooks in Urdu and Persian are also available. Examples include \" Aligarh kee taaleemi tehreek\" by Khwaja Ghulamus Sayyedain\nand Makateeb-e-Sanai by Professor Nazir Ahmad\n\nDLI website has not been operational for maintenance reasons from 2017. The contents are available from archive.org\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10405146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10405146", "title": "Dorothy Whitelock", "text": "Dorothy Whitelock\n\nDorothy Whitelock, (11 November 1901 – 14 August 1982) was an English historian. From 1957 to 1969, she was the Elrington and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon at the University of Cambridge. Her best-known work is \"English Historical Documents, vol. I: c. 500-1042\", which she edited. It is a compilation of translated sources, with introductions.\n\nHer other works include \"The Beginnings of English Society\" (1952), \"After Bede\" (1960), \"The Audience of Beowulf\" (1951), and \"Genuine Asser\" (1967), in which she argued against V.H. Galbraith's assertion that Asser's \"Life of King Alfred\" was a forgery by Leofric.\n\nWhitelock was born in Leeds to Edward Whitelock and his second wife Emmeline Dawson. Edward died in 1903 but despite financial struggles, Dorothy Whitelock was able to attend the Leeds Girls' High School. Whitelock was a promising student at school and it came as no surprise when in 1921 she went up to Newnham College, Cambridge at the age of 20, where she studied for Section B of the English Tripos under Hector Munro Chadwick. She gained a First in Part I and a Second in Part II.\n\nWhitelock went on to postgraduate work, as Marion Kennedy Student at Newnham (1924–26), Cambridge University Scandinavian Student at Uppsala (1927–29), and the first woman to receive the Allen Scholarship at Cambridge (1929–30) These labours led to her first book, her 1930 translation and commentary on thirty nine Anglo-Saxon wills. In the same year, she became a lecturer in English language at St Hilda's College, Oxford (tutor in 1935, full fellow 1937, vice principal 1951). In 1940, she was elected a Leverhulme Fellow and in 1946 became a University Lecturer in Old English at Oxford. In 1957, she returned to Cambridge, and Newnham, as the Elrington and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon.\n\nNotwithstanding these successes, throughout her career, Whitelock found herself frustrated by a male-dominated academy which often favoured male scholars at the expense of talented female academics. In 1945, following her failure to secure a professorship at the University of Liverpool, Whitelock applied for the Rawlinson and Bosworth professorship of Anglo-Saxon at the University of Oxford, a chair that had been vacated by J. R. R. Tolkien. She was unsuccessful; Tolkien himself had voted against her. In the face of such opposition she was tempted to abandon the academy altogether but her close friends, the leading Anglo-Saxon historians Sir Frank Stenton and his wife Doris, addressed a series of supportive letters to her, encouraging her to persevere. A key part of her work was lobbying for Oxford's women's colleges to have the same status as men's, finally achieved only in 1959.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Whitelock returned to her work with renewed vigour, producing a series of important works culminating with her most famous book, \"English Historical Documents\" in 1955. Her achievements were finally recognised in 1956, when she was elected a fellow of the British Academy. In 1957, Whitelock returned to Cambridge, where she had begun her career, succeeding Bruce Dickins as Elrington and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon (in which capacity she supervised Simon Keynes, who himself became the Elrington and Bosworth Professor between 1999-2018). Under her direction, the 'Department of Anglo-Saxon and Kindred Studies' relocated in 1967 from the Faculty of Archaeology and Anthropology to the Faculty of English and became the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic. A photograph of her hangs on the wall there.\n\nWhitelock retired in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "6661919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6661919", "title": "Dynastic race theory", "text": "Dynastic race theory\n\nThe dynastic race theory was the earliest thesis to attempt to explain how predynastic Egypt developed into the sophisticated monarchy of Dynastic Egypt. The theory holds that the earliest roots of the ancient Egyptian dynastic civilisation were imported by invaders from Mesopotamia who then founded the First Dynasty and brought culture to the indigenous population. This theory had strong supporters in the Egyptological community in the first half of the 20th century, but has since lost mainstream support.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Egyptologist Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie deduced that skeletal remains found at pre-dynastic sites at Naqada (Upper Egypt) indicated the presence of two different races, with the Dynastic Race, also referred to as the \"Followers of Horus\", differentiated physically by a noticeably larger skeletal structure and cranial capacity. Petrie concluded that the physical differences of the remains in conjunction with the previously unknown burial styles, uncharacteristic tomb architecture, and abundance of foreign artifacts, implied this race must have been an invading ruling elite that was responsible for the seemingly sudden rise of Egyptian civilization. Based on plentiful cultural evidence, Petrie determined that the invader race had come from Mesopotamia, and imposed themselves on the native Badarian culture to become their rulers. Petrie adduced new architectural styles—the distinctly Mesopotamian \"niched-facade\" architecture—pottery styles, cylinder seals and a few artworks, as well as numerous Predynastic rock and tomb paintings depicting Mesopotamian style boats, symbols, and figures.\n\nThis came to be called the \"dynastic race theory\" The theory further argued that the Mesopotamians then conquered both Upper and Lower Egypt and founded the First Dynasty. Predynastic and First Dynasty burial sites similar to Naqada were also found at Abydos, Sakkara, and Hieraconpolis.\n\nVersions of the Dynastic race model were adopted by scholars as L. A. Waddell, and Walter Bryan Emery, a former Chair of Egyptology at University College London.\n\nThe dynastic race theory is no longer an accepted thesis in the field of predynastic archaeology. While there is clear evidence the Naqada II culture borrowed abundantly from Mesopotamia, the most commonly held view today is that the achievements of the First Dynasty were the result of a long period of cultural and political development. Such borrowings are much older than the Naqada II period, the Naqada II period had a large degree of continuity with the Naqada I period, and the changes which did happen during the Naqada periods happened over significant amounts of time.\n\nModern Egyptology largely maintains the view that \"state formation occurred as a mainly indigenous process\", although significant differences in morphology indicated migration along the Nile Valley also took place. The Dynastic Race theory has been largely replaced by the theory Egypt was a hydraulic empire.\n\nIn the 1950s, when the Dynastic Race Theory was widely accepted by mainstream scholarship, the Senegalese Egyptologist Cheikh Anta Diop was publicising his theory that the Ancient Egyptians were \"Black Africans\". Diop \"paid special attention to the emergence of the Dynastic Race Theory\", and claimed that European scholars supported this theory to avoid having to admit that the Ancient Egyptians were black and to charactise them as \"Semitic\" or \"Caucasian\". Other prominent Afrocentrists, including Martin Bernal, later also argued against the dynastic race theory in favour of a \"Black Egyptian\" model. The most recent contributor to an Afrocentric model of the Ancient Egyptians is by Segun Magbagbeola, who included information from Nuwaupu in his book \"Black Egyptians\". Afrocentrists particularly condemn the alleged dividing of African peoples into racial clusters as being new versions of the Dynastic Race Theory and the Hamitic hypothesis.\n\nA version of the theory has been revived by some modern scholars, most notably David Rohl, and Michael Rice, who have advanced reasons in support of a Mesopotamian origin of Dynastic Egypt in books such as Rohl's \"Legend-The Genesis of Civilisation\" and Rice's \"Egypt's Making\".\n\nAccording to Rohl, \"There is little evidence of kingship and its rituals very much before the beginning of the 1st Dynasty; no signs of the gradual development of metal working, art, monumental architecture and writing—the defining criteria of early civilisation. Much of what we know about the pharaohs and their complex culture seems to come into existence in a flash of inspiration.\" Rohl believes the catalyst for this sudden development was the influx of a Mesopotamian \"foreign elite\" who made their way to Egypt by sailing around the coastline of the Arabian Peninsula into the Red Sea ultimately dragging their boats across the desert to the Nile. Rohl notes numerous pre-dynastic rock carvings found in several locations from Wadi Abbad to Abydos which is suggested depict large Mesopotamian style boats with crews of up to 75, some of which appear being pulled across land. Rohl believes the most dramatic evidence to support this theory is the sudden introduction of distinctly Mesopotamian \"niched-facade\", also known as \"palace facade\", architecture found in several early Dynastic sites, most notably the large 1st Dynasty mastabas at Saqqara. A depiction of a building using this kind of architecture is also an integral part of the serekh, the early Egyptian seal of kingship, and is found before the 1st Dynasty as well in the Naqada III, or \"Dynasty 0\" period. He says, \"It is highly improbable that such specialized building techniques were independently invented in two widely separated regions at the same historical period without cultural transmission. \nIn addition to the evidence available to Petrie et al., proponents also point out similarities in the names of divinities and places in the religious beliefs of the two cultures, and in depictions of regalia. For example the primeval mound of the Egyptian first creation was called the Island of Nun, and was surrounded by the Waters of Nun, while the Sumerian name for the great temple in their original city of Eridu was Nun.ki—the 'Mighty Place'—and it was built on an island in the reed swamps. Several scholars have also noted that the name Osiris is a Greek pronunciation, and that the god would have been called Asar in Egyptian, while the Sumerian god of the Eridu area was also called Asar (the Babylonian Marduk.). The Uruk period of Ancient Mesopotamia (4100–2900 BC calibrated) predates the Naqada II period of Ancient Egypt (3500-3200 BC) and indeed there is evidence of colonies of this Uruk civilization over a wide area—from the Taurus Mountains in Turkey, to the Mediterranean Sea in the west, and as far east as Central Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "52763193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52763193", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Azerbaijan", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Azerbaijan\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Azerbaijan () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Azerbaijan. It is located in Baku.\n\n"}
{"id": "18343262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18343262", "title": "Immediations", "text": "Immediations\n\nimmediations is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal in the history of art, published by the Courtauld Institute of Art, London. The journal was established in 2004 by Louise Sørensen, John-Paul Stonard, and Linda Goddard.\n\n\"immediations\" covers research on any period in the history of art by current or recent members of the postgraduate community of the Courtauld Institute of Art. \"immediations\" also publishes interviews with art historians, artists, conservators and curators, and transcripts of events held at The Courtauld Institute of Art Research Forum.\n\nIn 2009, \"immediations\" initiated an occasional series of period-specific, themed volumes with \"immediations Conference Papers 1: Art and Nature, Studies in Medieval Art and Architecture\" (), edited by Laura Cleaver, Kathryn Gerry, and Jim Harris.\n\n2014 marked the journal's tenth year, celebrated by a series of events including a Conference on 17 January 2015 at the Courtauld Institute of Art. The conference featured past contributors and editors, who discussed their current research or the ways in which the trajectory of their careers in the art world reflected their original contributions to \"immediations\". \n\nPrevious editors-in-chief have been:\n\nCurrent editors-in-chief:\n\nThe cover of each edition is commissioned from a contemporary artist.\n"}
{"id": "15316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316", "title": "Imperialism", "text": "Imperialism\n\nImperialism is a state policy, practice, or advocacy of extending power and dominion, especially by direct territorial acquisition or by gaining political and economic control of other areas. Because it always involves the use of power, whether military force or some subtler form, imperialism has often been considered morally reprehensible, and the term is frequently employed in international propaganda to denounce and discredit an opponent’s foreign policy.\n\nIt is different from new imperialism, as the term \"imperialism\" is usually applied to the colonization of the Americas between the 15th and 19th centuries, as opposed to the expansion of Western Powers and Japan during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. However, both are examples of imperialism.\n\nThe word imperialism originated from the Latin word \"imperium\", which means supreme power. It first became common with its current sense in Great Britain, during the 1870s and was used with a negative connotation. Previously the word imperialism had been used to describe to what was perceived as Napoleon III's attempts of obtaining political support through foreign military interventions. The term was and is mainly applied to Western (and Japanese) political and economic dominance, especially in Asia and Africa, in the 19th and 20th centuries. Its precise meaning continues to be debated by scholars. Some writers, such as Edward Said, use the term more broadly to describe any system of domination and subordination organised with an imperial center and a periphery. This definition encompasses both nominal empires and neocolonialism.\n\n\"The word 'empire' comes from the Latin word imperium; for which the closest modern English equivalent would perhaps be 'sovereignty', or simply 'rule'\". The greatest distinction of an empire is through the amount of land that a nation has conquered and expanded. Political power grows from conquering land; however, cultural and economic aspects flourish through sea and trade routes. A distinction about empires is \"that although political empires were built mostly by expansion overland, economic and cultural influences spread at least as much by sea\". Some of the main aspects of trade that went overseas consisted of animals and plant products. European empires in Asia and Africa \"have come to be seen as the classic forms of imperialism: and indeed most books on the subject confine themselves to the European seaborne empires\". European expansion caused the world to be divided by how developed and developing nation are portrayed through the world systems theory. The two main regions are the core and the periphery. The core consists of high areas of income and profit; the periphery is on the opposing side of the spectrum consisting of areas of low income and profit. These critical theories of Geo-politics have led to increased discussion of the meaning and impact of imperialism on the modern post-colonial world. The Russian leader Lenin suggested that \"imperialism was the highest form of capitalism, claiming that imperialism developed after colonialism, and was distinguished from colonialism by monopoly capitalism\". This idea from Lenin stresses how important new political world order has become in our modern era. Geopolitics now focuses on states becoming major economic players in the market; some states today are viewed as empires due to their political and economic authority over other nations.\nThe term \"imperialism\" is often conflated with \"colonialism\"; however, many scholars have argued that each have their own distinct definition. Imperialism and colonialism have been used in order to describe one's perceived superiority, domination and influence upon a person or group of people. Robert Young writes that while imperialism operates from the center, is a state policy and is developed for ideological as well as financial reasons, colonialism is simply the development for settlement or commercial intentions. However, colonialism still includes invasion. Colonialism in modern usage also tends to imply a degree of geographic separation between the colony and the imperial power. Particularly, Edward Said distinguishes the difference between imperialism and colonialism by stating; \"imperialism involved 'the practice, the theory and the attitudes of a dominating metropolitan center ruling a distant territory', while colonialism refers to the 'implanting of settlements on a distant territory.' Contiguous land empires such as the Russian or Ottoman have traditionally been excluded from discussions of colonialism, though this is beginning to change, since it is accepted that they also sent populations into the territories they ruled. Thus it can be said that imperialism includes some form of colonialism, but colonialism itself does not automatically imply imperialism, as it lacks a political focus.\n\nImperialism and colonialism both dictate the political and economic advantage over a land and the indigenous populations they control, yet scholars sometimes find it difficult to illustrate the difference between the two. Although imperialism and colonialism focus on the suppression of \"an other\", if colonialism refers to the process of a country taking physical control of another, imperialism refers to the political and monetary dominance, either formally or informally. Colonialism is seen to be the architect deciding how to start dominating areas and then imperialism can be seen as creating the idea behind conquest cooperating with colonialism. Colonialism is when the imperial nation begins a conquest over an area and then eventually is able to rule over the areas the previous nation had controlled. Colonialism's core meaning is the exploitation of the valuable assets and supplies of the nation that was conquered and the conquering nation then gaining the benefits from the spoils of the war. The meaning of imperialism is to create an empire, by conquering the other state's lands and therefore increasing its own dominance. Colonialism is the builder and preserver of the colonial possessions in an area by a population coming from a foreign region. Colonialism can completely change the existing social structure, physical structure and economics of an area; it is not unusual that the characteristics of the conquering peoples are inherited by the conquered indigenous populations. Few colonies remain remote from their mother country. Thus, most will eventually establish a separate nationality or remain under complete control of their mother colony.\n\nStephen Howe, while generally hostile to empires, has summarized the beneficial effects of the main empires:\nA controversial aspect of imperialism is the defense and justification of empire-building based on seemingly rational grounds. In ancient China, tianxia denoted the lands, space, and area divinely appointed to the Emperor by universal and well-defined principles of order. The center of this land was directly apportioned to the Imperial court, forming the center of a world view that centered on the Imperial court and went concentrically outward to major and minor officials and then the common citizens, tributary states, and finally ending with the fringe \"barbarians\". Tianxia's idea of hierarchy gave Chinese a privileged position and was justified through the promise of order and peace. J. A. Hobson identifies this justification on general grounds as: \"It is desirable that the earth should be peopled, governed, and developed, as far as possible, by the races which can do this work best, i.e. by the races of highest 'social efficiency'\". Many others argued that imperialism is justified for several different reasons. Friedrich Ratzel believed that in order for a state to survive, imperialism was needed. Halford Mackinder felt that Great Britain needed to be one of the greatest imperialists and therefore justified imperialism. The purportedly scientific nature of \"Social Darwinism\" and a theory of races formed a supposedly rational justification for imperialism. Under this doctrine, the French politician Jules Ferry could declare in 1883 that \"Superior races have a right, because they have a duty. They have the duty to civilize the inferior races.\" The rhetoric of colonizers being racially superior appears to have achieved its purpose, for example throughout Latin America \"whiteness\" is still prized today and various forms of blanqueamiento (whitening) are common.\n\nThe Royal Geographical Society of London and other geographical societies in Europe had great influence and were able to fund travelers who would come back with tales of their discoveries. These societies also served as a space for travellers to share these stories. Political geographers such as Friedrich Ratzel of Germany and Halford Mackinder of Britain also supported imperialism. Ratzel believed expansion was necessary for a state's survival while Mackinder supported Britain's imperial expansion; these two arguments dominated the discipline for decades.\n\nGeographical theories such as environmental determinism also suggested that tropical environments created uncivilized people in need of European guidance. For instance, American geographer Ellen Churchill Semple argued that even though human beings originated in the tropics they were only able to become fully human in the temperate zone. Tropicality can be paralleled with Edward Said's Orientalism as the west's construction of the east as the \"other\". According to Said, orientalism allowed Europe to establish itself as the superior and the norm, which justified its dominance over the essentialized Orient.\n\nTechnology and economic efficiency were often improved in territories subjected to imperialism through the building of roads, other infrastructure and introduction of new technologies.\n\nThe principles of imperialism are often generalizable to the policies and practices of the British Empire \"during the last generation, and proceeds rather by diagnosis than by historical description\". British imperialism in some sparsely-inhabited regions appears to have applied a principle now termed Terra nullius (Latin expression which stems from Roman law meaning 'empty land'). The country of Australia serves as a case study in relation to British settlement and colonial rule of the continent in the eighteenth century, that was arguably premised on \"terra nullius\", as its settlers considered it unused by its original inhabitants.\n\nImperial control, territorial and cultural, is justified through discourses about the imperialists' understanding of different spaces. Conceptually, imagined geographies explain the limitations of the imperialist understanding of the societies (human reality) of the different spaces inhabited by the non–European Other.\n\nIn \"Orientalism\" (1978), Edward Said said that the West developed the concept of The Orient—an imagined geography of the Eastern world—which functions as an essentializing discourse that represents neither the ethnic diversity nor the social reality of the Eastern world. That by reducing the East into cultural essences, the imperial discourse uses place-based identities to create cultural difference and psychologic distance between \"We, the West\" and \"They, the East\" and between \"Here, in the West\" and \"There, in the East\".\n\nThat cultural differentiation was especially noticeable in the books and paintings of early Oriental studies, the European examinations of the Orient, which misrepresented the East as irrational and backward, the opposite of the rational and progressive West. Defining the East as a negative vision of the Western world, as its inferior, not only increased the sense-of-self of the West, but also was a way of ordering the East, and making it known to the West, so that it could be dominated and controlled. Therefore, Orientalism was the ideological justification of early Western imperialism—a body of knowledge and ideas that rationalized social, cultural, political, and economic control of other, non-white peoples.\n\nOne of the main tools used by imperialists was cartography. Cartography is \"the art, science and technology of making maps\" but this definition is problematic. It implies that maps are objective representations of the world when in reality they serve very political means. For Harley, maps serve as an example of Foucault's power and knowledge concept.\n\nTo better illustrate this idea, Bassett focuses his analysis of the role of nineteenth-century maps during the \"scramble for Africa\". He states that maps \"contributed to empire by promoting, assisting, and legitimizing the extension of French and British power into West Africa\". During his analysis of nineteenth-century cartographic techniques, he highlights the use of blank space to denote unknown or unexplored territory. This provided incentives for imperial and colonial powers to obtain \"information to fill in blank spaces on contemporary maps\".\n\nAlthough cartographic processes advanced through imperialism, further analysis of their progress reveals many biases linked to eurocentrism. According to Bassett, \"[n]ineteenth-century explorers commonly requested Africans to sketch maps of unknown areas on the ground. Many of those maps were highly regarded for their accuracy\" but were not printed in Europe unless Europeans verified them.\nImperialism in ancient times is clear in the history of China and in the history of western Asia and the Mediterranean—an unending succession of empires. The tyrannical empire of the Assyrians was replaced (6th–4th century BCE) by that of the Persians, in strong contrast to the Assyrian in its liberal treatment of subjected peoples, assuring it long duration. It eventually gave way to the imperialism of Greece. When Greek imperialism reached an apex under Alexander the Great(356–323 BCE), a union of the eastern Mediterranean with western Asia was achieved. But the cosmopolis, in which all citizens of the world would live harmoniously together in equality, remained a dream of Alexander. It was partially realized when the Romans built their empire from Britain to Egypt.\n\nCultural imperialism is an extremely fuzzy concept, pointing to the supposed influence of one dominant culture over others, i.e. a form of soft power, which changes the moral, cultural, and societal worldview of the subordinate country. In some ways, this is such an expansion of the concept of imperialism as to be meaningless. This is more than just \"foreign\" music, television or film becoming popular with young people, but that popular culture changing their own expectations of life and their desire for their own country to become more like the foreign country depicted. For example, depictions of opulent American lifestyles in the soap opera Dallas during the Cold War changed the expectations of Romanians; a more recent example is the influence of smuggled South Korean drama series in North Korea. The importance of soft power is not lost on authoritarian regimes, fighting such influence with bans on foreign popular culture, control of the internet and unauthorised satellite dishes etc. Nor is such a usage of culture recent, as part of Roman imperialism local elites would be exposed to the benefits and luxuries of Roman culture and lifestyle, with the aim that they would then become willing participants.\n\nImperialism has been subject to moral or immoral censure by its critics, and thus the term is frequently used in international propaganda as a pejorative for expansionist and aggressive foreign policy.\n\nThe Age of Imperialism, a time period beginning around 1760, saw European industrializing nations, engaging in the process of colonizing, influencing, and annexing other parts of the world. 19th century episodes included the \"Scramble for Africa.\"\n\nIn the 1970s British historians John Gallagher (1919–1980) and Ronald Robinson (1920–1999) argued that European leaders rejected the notion that \"imperialism\" required formal, legal control by one government over a colonial region. Much more important was informal control of independent areas. According to Wm. Roger Louis, \"In their view, historians have been mesmerized by formal empire and maps of the world with regions colored red. The bulk of British emigration, trade, and capital went to areas outside the formal British Empire. Key to their thinking is the idea of empire 'informally if possible and formally if necessary.'\" Oron Hale says that Gallagher and Robinson looked at the British involvement in Africa where they \"found few capitalists, less capital, and not much pressure from the alleged traditional promoters of colonial expansion. Cabinet decisions to annex or not to annex were made, usually on the basis of political or geopolitical considerations.\"\n\nLooking at the main empires from 1875–1914, historians estimate a mixed record in terms of profitability. At first planners expected that colonies would provide an excellent captive market for manufactured items. Apart from India, this was seldom true. By the 1890s, imperialists saw the economic benefit primarily in the production of inexpensive raw materials to feed the domestic manufacturing sector. Overall, Great Britain did very well in terms of profits from India, but not from most of the rest of its empire. The Netherlands did very well in the East Indies. Germany and Italy got very little trade or raw materials from their empires. France did slightly better. The Belgian Congo was notoriously profitable when it was a capitalistic rubber plantation owned and operated by King Leopold II as a private enterprise. However, scandal after scandal regarding very badly mistreated labour led the international community to force the government of Belgium to take it over in 1908, and it became much less profitable. The Philippines cost the United States much more than expected because of military action against rebels.\n\nBecause of the resources made available by imperialism, the world's economy grew significantly and became much more interconnected in the decades before World War I, making the many imperial powers rich and prosperous.\n\nEurope's expansion into territorial imperialism was largely focused on economic growth by collecting resources from colonies, in combination with assuming political control by military and political means. The colonization of India in the mid-18th century offers an example of this focus: there, the \"British exploited the political weakness of the Mughal state, and, while military activity was important at various times, the economic and administrative incorporation of local elites was also of crucial significance\" for the establishment of control over the subcontinent's resources, markets, and manpower. Although a substantial number of colonies had been designed to provide economic profit and to ship resources to home ports in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Fieldhousesuggests that in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in places such as Africa and Asia, this idea is not necessarily valid:\n\nDuring this time, European merchants had the ability to \"roam the high seas and appropriate surpluses from around the world (sometimes peaceably, sometimes violently) and to concentrate them in Europe\".\n\nEuropean expansion greatly accelerated in the 19th century. To obtain raw materials, Europe expanded imports from other countries and from the colonies. European industrialists sought raw materials such as dyes, cotton, vegetable oils, and metal ores from overseas. Concurrently, industrialization was quickly making Europe the center of manufacturing and economic growth, driving resource needs.\n\nCommunication became much more advanced during European expansion. With the invention of railroads and telegraphs, it became easier to communicate with other countries and to extend the administrative control of a home nation over its colonies. Steam railroads and steam-driven ocean shipping made possible the fast, cheap transport of massive amounts of goods to and from colonies.\n\nAlong with advancements in communication, Europe also continued to advance in military technology. European chemists made new explosives that made artillery much more deadly. By the 1880s, the machine gun had become a reliable battlefield weapon. This technology gave European armies an advantage over their opponents, as armies in less-developed countries were still fighting with arrows, swords, and leather shields (e.g. the Zulus in Southern Africa during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879).\n\nAnglophone academic studies often base their theories regarding imperialism on the British experience of Empire. The term \"imperialism\" was originally introduced into English in its present sense in the late 1870s by opponents of the allegedly aggressive and ostentatious imperial policies of British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli. Supporters of \"imperialism\" such as Joseph Chamberlain quickly appropriated the concept. For some, imperialism designated a policy of idealism and philanthropy; others alleged that it was characterized by political self-interest, and a growing number associated it with capitalist greed.\n\nJohn A. Hobson, A leading English Liberal, developed a highly influential interpretation of \"Imperialism: A Study\" (1902) that expanded on his belief that free enterprise capitalism had a negative impact on the majority of the population. In \"Imperialism\" he argued that the financing of overseas empires drained money that was needed at home. It was invested abroad because lower wages paid the workers overseas made for higher profits and higher rates of return, compared to domestic wages. So although domestic wages remained higher, they did not grow nearly as fast as they might have otherwise. Exporting capital, he concluded, put a lid on the growth of domestic wages in the domestic standard of living. . By the 1970s, historians such as David K. Fieldhouse and Oron Hale could argue that \"the Hobsonian foundation has been almost completely demolished.\" The British experience failed to support it. However, European Socialists picked up Hobson's ideas and made it into their own theory of imperialism, most notably in Lenin's \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism\" (1916). Lenin portrayed Imperialism as the closure of the world market and the end of capitalist free-competition that arose from the need for capitalist economies to constantly expand investment, material resources and manpower in such a way that necessitated colonial expansion. Later Marxist theoreticians echo this conception of imperialism as a structural feature of capitalism. which explained the World War as the battle between imperialists for control of external markets. Lenin's treatise became a standard textbook that flourished until the Collapse of communism in 1989–91.\n\nSome theoreticians on the non-Communist left have emphasized the structural or systemic character of \"imperialism\". Such writers have expanded the period associated with the term so that it now designates neither a policy, nor a short space of decades in the late 19th century, but a world system extending over a period of centuries, often going back to Christopher Columbus and, in some accounts, to the Crusades. As the application of the term has expanded, its meaning has shifted along five distinct but often parallel axes: the moral, the economic, the systemic, the cultural, and the temporal. Those changes reflect—among other shifts in sensibility—a growing unease, even great distaste, with the pervasiveness of such power, specifically, Western power.\n\nHistorians and political theorists have long debated the correlation between capitalism, class and imperialism. Much of the debate was pioneered by such theorists as J. A. Hobson (1858–1940), Joseph Schumpeter (1883–1950), Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), and Norman Angell (1872–1967). While these non-Marxist writers were at their most prolific before World War I, they remained active in the interwar years. Their combined work informed the study of imperialism and its impact on Europe, as well as contributing to reflections on the rise of the military-political complex in the United States from the 1950s. Hobson argued that domestic social reforms could cure the international disease of imperialism by removing its economic foundation. Hobson theorized that state intervention through taxation could boost broader consumption, create wealth, and encourage a peaceful, tolerant, multipolar world order. \n\nWalter Rodney, in his 1972 classic How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, proposes the idea that imperialism is a phase of capitalism \"in which Western European capitalist countries, the U.S.A., and Japan established political, economic, military and cultural hegemony over other parts of the world which were initially at a lower level and therefore could not resist domination.\" As a result, Imperialism \"for many years embraced the whole world – one part being the exploiters and the other the exploited, one part being dominated and the other acting as overlords, one part making policy and the other being dependent.\"\n\nThe concept of environmental determinism served as a moral justification for the domination of certain territories and peoples. The environmental determinist school of thought held that the environment in which certain people lived determined those persons' behaviours; and this validated their domination. For example, the Western world saw people living in tropical environments as \"less civilized\", therefore justifying colonial control as a civilizing mission. Across the three major waves of European colonialism (the first in the Americas, the second in Asia and the last in Africa), environmental determinism served to place categorically indigenous people in a racial hierarchy. This takes two forms, orientalism and tropicality.\n\nSome geographic scholars under colonizing empires divided the world into climatic zones. These scholars believed that Northern Europe and the Mid-Atlantic temperate climate produced a hard-working, moral, and upstanding human being. In contrast, tropical climates allegedly yielded lazy attitudes, sexual promiscuity, exotic culture, and moral degeneracy. The people of these climates were believed to be in need of guidance and intervention from a European empire to aid in the governing of a more evolved social structure; they were seen as incapable of such a feat. Similarly, orientalism could promote a view of a people based on their geographical location.\n\nBritain's imperialist ambitions can be seen as early as the sixteenth century. In 1599 the British East India Company was established and was chartered by Queen Elizabeth in the following year. With the establishment of trading posts in India, the British were able to maintain strength relative to other empires such as the Portuguese who already had set up trading posts in India. In 1767 political activity caused exploitation of the East India Company causing the plundering of the local economy, almost bringing the company into bankruptcy. By the year 1670 Britain's imperialist ambitions were well off as she had colonies in Virginia, Massachusetts, Bermuda, Honduras, Antigua, Barbados, Jamaica and Nova Scotia.\n\nDue to the vast imperialist ambitions of European countries, Britain had several clashes with France. This competition was evident in the colonization of what is now known as Canada. John Cabot claimed Newfoundland for the British while the French established colonies along the St. Lawrence River and claiming it as \"New France\". Britain continued to expand by colonizing countries such as New Zealand and Australia, both of which were not empty land as they had their own locals and cultures. Britain's nationalistic movements were evident with the creation of the commonwealth countries where there was a shared nature of national identity.\n\nThe \"First\" British Empire was based on mercantilism, and involved colonies and holdings primarily in North America, the Caribbean, and India. Its growth was reversed by the loss of the American colonies in 1776. Britain made compensating gains in India, Australia, and in constructing an informal economic empire through control of trade and finance in Latin America after the independence of Spanish and Portuguese colonies in about 1820. By the 1840s, Britain had adopted a highly successful policy of free trade that gave it dominance in the trade of much of the world. After losing its first Empire to the Americans, Britain then turned its attention towards Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. Following the defeat of Napoleonic France in 1815, Britain enjoyed a century of almost unchallenged dominance and expanded its imperial holdings around the globe. Unchallenged at sea, British dominance was later described as \"Pax Britannica\" (\"British Peace\"), a period of relative peace in Europe and the world (1815–1914) during which the British Empire became the global hegemon and adopted the role of global policeman.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the Industrial Revolution began to transform Britain; by the time of the Great Exhibition in 1851 the country was described as the \"workshop of the world\". The British Empire expanded to include India, large parts of Africa and many other territories throughout the world. Alongside the formal control it exerted over its own colonies, British dominance of much of world trade meant that it effectively controlled the economies of many regions, such as Asia and Latin America. Domestically, political attitudes favoured free trade and laissez-faire policies and a gradual widening of the voting franchise. During this century, the population increased at a dramatic rate, accompanied by rapid urbanisation, causing significant social and economic stresses. To seek new markets and sources of raw materials, the Conservative Party under Disraeli launched a period of imperialist expansion in Egypt, South Africa, and elsewhere. Canada, Australia, and New Zealand became self-governing dominions.\n\nA resurgence came in the late 19th century with the Scramble for Africa and major additions in Asia and the Middle East. The British spirit of imperialism was expressed by Joseph Chamberlain and Lord Rosebury, and implemented in Africa by Cecil Rhodes. The pseudo-sciences of Social Darwinism and theories of race formed an ideological underpinning during this time. Other influential spokesmen included Lord Cromer, Lord Curzon, General Kitchener, Lord Milner, and the writer Rudyard Kipling. The British Empire was the largest Empire that the world has ever seen both in terms of landmass and population. Its power, both military and economic, remained unmatched. After the First Boer War, the South African Republic and Orange Free State were recognized by Britain but eventually re-annexed after the Second Boer War.\n\nWorld War II had weakened Britain's position in the world, especially financially. Decolonization movements proliferated throughout the Cold War, resulting in Indian independence and the establishment of independent states throughout Africa. British imperialism continued for a few years, notably with its involvement in the Iranian coup d'état of 1953 and in Egypt during the Suez Crisis in 1956. However, with the United States and Soviet Union emerging from World War II as the sole superpowers, Britain's role as a worldwide power declined significantly.\n\nAncient China has been one of the world's oldest empires that still exist. Due to its long history of being imperialist expansion, China has been seen by its neighboring countries as a threat due to large population, giant economy, large military force as well as its territorial evolution in most of history of China.\n\nStarting with the unification of China under the Qin Dynasty, later Chinese dynasties continued to follow its form of expansions. The most successful Chinese imperial dynasties are Tang and Qing Dynasty, due to its expansions.\n\nDuring the 16th century, the French colonization of the Americas began with the creation of New France. It was followed by French East India Company's trading posts in Africa and Asia in the 17th century. France had its \"First colonial empire\" from 1534 until 1814, including New France (Canada, Acadia, Newfoundland and Louisiana), French West Indies (Saint-Domingue, Guadeloupe, Martinique), French Guiana, Senegal (Gorée), Mascarene Islands (Mauritius Island, Réunion) and French India.\n\nIts \"Second colonial empire\" began with the conquest of Algiers in 1830 and came for the most part to an end with the granting of independence to Algeria in 1962. The French imperial history was marked by numerous wars, large and small, and also by significant help to France itself from the colonials in the world wars. France took control of Algeria in 1830 but began in earnest to rebuild its worldwide empire after 1850, concentrating chiefly in North and West Africa (French North Africa, French West Africa, French Equatorial Africa), as well as South-East Asia (French Indochina), with other conquests in the South Pacific (New Caledonia, French Polynesia).\n\nFrench Republicans, at first hostile to empire, only became supportive when Germany started to build her own colonial empire. As it developed, the new empire took on roles of trade with France, supplying raw materials and purchasing manufactured items, as well as lending prestige to the motherland and spreading French civilization and language as well as Catholicism. It also provided crucial manpower in both World Wars. It became a moral justification to lift the world up to French standards by bringing Christianity and French culture. In 1884 the leading exponent of colonialism, Jules Ferry declared France had a civilising mission: \"The higher races have a right over the lower races, they have a duty to civilize the inferior\". Full citizenship rights – \"assimilation\" – were offered, although in reality assimilation was always on the distant horizon. Contrasting from Britain, France sent small numbers of settlers to its colonies, with the only notable exception of Algeria, where French settlers nevertheless always remained a small minority.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, the French colonial empire was the second-largest colonial empire in the world behind the British Empire, extending over 12,347,000 km (4,767,000 sq. miles) at its height in the 1920s and 1930s. France controlled nearly 1/10th of the Earth's land area, with a population of 110 million people on the eve of World War II (5% of the world's population at the time).\n\nIn World War II, Charles de Gaulle and the Free French used the overseas colonies as bases from which they fought to liberate France. However, after 1945 anti-colonial movements began to challenge the Empire. France fought and lost a bitter war in Vietnam in the 1950s. Whereas they won the war in Algeria, de Gaulle decided to grant Algeria independence anyway in 1962. French settlers and many local supporters relocated to France. Nearly all of France's colonies gained independence by 1960, but France retained great financial and diplomatic influence. It has repeatedly sent troops to assist its former colonies in Africa in suppressing insurrections and coups d'état.\n\nGerman participation in imperialism was negligible until the late 19th century. Prussia unified the other states into the second German Empire in 1871. Its Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck (1862–90), long opposed colonial acquisitions, arguing that the burden of obtaining, maintaining, and defending such possessions would outweigh any potential benefits. He felt that colonies did not pay for themselves, that the German bureaucratic system would not work well in the tropics and the diplomatic disputes over colonies would distract Germany from its central interest, Europe itself.\n\nHowever, public opinion and elite opinion in Germany demanded colonies for reasons of international prestige, so Bismarck was forced to oblige. In 1883–84 Germany began to build a colonial empire in Africa and the South Pacific. The establishment of the German colonial empire started with German New Guinea in 1884.\n\nGerman colonies included the present territories of in Africa: Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Namibia, Cameroon, Ghana and Togo; in Oceania: New Guinea, Solomon islands, Nauru, Marshall Islands, Mariana Islands, Caroline Islands and Samoa; and in Asia: Tsingtao, Chefoo and the Jiaozhou Bay.\n\nBy the Treaty of Versailles, all German colonies were lost after World War I.\n\nFor over 200 years, Japan remained isolated from the rest of the world, staying in a feudal system. However, in the 1850s military pressure by the United States and other world powers forced Japan to open itself to the world markets, ending the period of isolation. A period of conflicts and revolutions unleashed in the uncertainty of the new period, ending in 1867 with the reunification of the political power in only one leader: the Japanese Emperor. Everything was ready for Japan to embrace the Industrial Revolution. However, from the start the Japanese didn't look too enthusiastic on relying on other countries to obtain industrial manufactures and remaining forever an underdeveloped nation, key to this understanding is the traditional Japanese psyche of self-sustainability that made them survive isolated for centuries. Thus, Japan initiated a process of modernization through central planning and a firm direction of the government. This became one of the fastest modernization processes in world history: in a matter of few decades it went through the full technological evolution that took centuries in Europe. Japan's late industrialization example became a leading case for underdeveloped countries that suffered from European rule. By the early 1900s, Japan was a naval power that could hold its own against an established European power like Russia.\n\nWithout much natural resources and territory to sustain the increasing Japanese population that industrialization brought, Japan turned to imperialism and expansionism as a way to compensate for its lackings and also to strengthen itself, the national motto \"Fukoku kyōhei\" (富国強兵, \"Enrich the state, strengthen the military\") as a sign of this attitude. Also the mentioned typical self-sustaining mentality of the Japanese was a cause of this change in foreign policy.\n\nAnd Japan was eager to take every opportunity. In 1869 they took advantage of the defeat of the rebels of the Republic of Ezo to incorporate definitely the island of Hokkaido to Japan. For centuries, Japan viewed the Ryukyu Islands as one of its provinces. In 1871 the Mudan incident happened: cannibal Taiwanese aborigines murdered 54 Ryūkyūan sailors that had their ship shipwrecked. At that time the Ryukyu Islands were claimed by both Qing China and Japan, and the Japanese interpreted the incident as an attack on their citizens. They took steps to bring the islands in their jurisdiction: in 1872 the Japanese Ryukyu Domain was declared, and in 1874 a retaliatory incursion to Taiwan was sent, which was a success. The success of this expedition emboldened the Japanese: not even the Americans could defeat the Taiwanese cannibals in the Formosa Expedition of 1867. Very few gave it much thought at the time, but this was the first move in the Japanese expansionism series. Japan occupied Taiwan for the rest of 1874 and then left owing to Chinese pressures, but in 1879 it finally annexed the Ryukyu Islands. In 1875 Qing China sent a 300-men force to subdue the Taiwanese cannibals, but unlike the Japanese the Chinese were routed, ambushed and 250 of their men were killed; the failure of this expedition exposed once more the failure of Qing China to exert effective control in Taiwan, and acted as another incentive for the Japanese to annex Taiwan. Eventually, the spoils for winning the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894 included Taiwan.\n\nIn 1875 Japan took its first operation against Joseon Korea, another territory that for centuries it coveted; the Ganghwa Island incident made Korea open to international trade. Korea was annexed in 1910. As a result of winning the Russo-Japanese War in 1905, Japan took part of Sakhalin Island from Russia. Precisely, the victory against the Russian Empire shook the world: never before an Asian nation defeated a European power, and in Japan it was seen as a feat. Japan's victory against Russia would act as an antecedent for Asian countries in the fight against the Western powers for Decolonization. During World War I, Japan took German-leased territories in China's Shandong Province, as well as the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands, and kept the islands as League of nations mandates. At first, Japan was in good standing with the victorious Allied powers of World War I, but different discrepancies and dissatisfaction with the rewards of the treaties cooled the relations with them, for example American pressure forced it to return the Shandong area. By the '30s, economic depression, urgency of resources and a growing distrust in the Allied powers made Japan lean to a hardened militaristic stance. Through the decade, it would grow closer to Germany and Italy, forming together the Axis alliance. In 1931 Japan took Manchuria from China. International reactions condemned this move, but Japan's already strong skepticism against Allied nations meant that it nevertheless carried on.\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937, Japan's military invaded central China. By now, relations with the Allied powers were at the bottom, and an international boycott against Japan to deprive it of natural resources was enforced. Thus a military move to gain access to them was needed, and so Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, bringing the United States to World War II. Using its superior technological advances in naval aviation and its modern doctrines of amphibious and naval warfare, Japan achieved one of the fastest maritime expansions in history, by the end of the Pacific War, Japan had conquered much of East Asia and the Pacific, including the east of China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, part of New Guinea and many islands of the Pacific Ocean. Just as Japan's late industrialization success and victory against the Russian Empire was seen as an example among underdeveloped Asia-Pacific nations, the Japanese took advantage of this and promoted among its conquered the goal to jointly create an anti-European \"Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere\". This plan helped the Japanese gain support from native populations during its conquests. However, the United States were benefited by the long-term, war of attrition and over time the massive output of their industrial muscle, together with improvements in their military doctrines, turned the war in their favor. Japan's defeat in 1945 meant that its imperial gains, along with the proposed Pan-Asian sphere, were lost altogether, but this anti-European experience was one of the leading antecedents in the Decolonization movements in East Asia and the Pacific in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was an imperial state that lasted from 1299 to 1922. In 1453, Mehmed the Conqueror besieged the capital of the Byzantine Empire, resulting in the Fall of Constantinople after 1,500 years of Roman rule. Thereafter, making it the capital of the empire. During the 16th and 17th centuries, in particular at the height of its power under the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent, the Ottoman Empire was a powerful multinational, multilingual empire, which invaded and colonized much of Southeast Europe, Western Asia, the Caucasus, North Africa, and the Horn of Africa. Its repeated invasions, and brutal treatment of Slavs led to the great migration of the Serbs to escape prosecution. At the beginning of the 17th century the empire contained 32 provinces and numerous vassal states. Some of these were later absorbed into the empire, while others were granted various types of autonomy during the course of centuries.\n\nWith Constantinople as its capital and control of lands around the Mediterranean basin, the Ottoman Empire was at the center of interactions between the Eastern and Western worlds for six centuries. Following a long period of military setbacks against European powers, the Ottoman Empire gradually declined into the late nineteenth century. The empire allied with Germany in the early 20th century, with the imperial ambition of recovering its lost territories, but it dissolved in the aftermath of its defeat in the First World War. The residue was the new state of Turkey in the Ottoman Anatolian heartland, as well as the creation of modern Balkan and Middle Eastern states, thus ending Turkish colonial ambitions.\n\nBy the 18th century, the Russian Empire extended its control to the Pacific, forming a common border with the Qing Empire. This took place in a large number of military invasions of the lands east, west, and south of it. The Polish–Russian War of 1792 took place after Polish nobility from the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth wrote the Constitution of May 3, 1791. The war resulted in eastern Poland being conquered by Imperial Russia as a colony until 1918. The southern campaigns involved a series of Russo-Persian Wars, which began with the Persian Expedition of 1796, resulting in the acquisition of Georgia (country) as a protectorate. Between 1800 and 1864, Imperial armies invaded south in the Russian conquest of the Caucasus, the Murid War, and the Russo-Circassian War. This last conflict led to the ethnic cleansing of Circassians from their lands. The Russian conquest of Siberia over the Khanate of Sibir took place in the 16th and 17th centuries, and resulted in the slaughter of various indigenous tribes by Russians, including the Daur, the Koryaks, the Itelmens, Mansi people and the Chukchi. The Russian colonization of Central and Eastern Europe and Siberia and treatment of the resident indigenous peoples has been compared to European colonization of the Americas, with similar negative impacts on the indigenous Siberians as upon the indigenous peoples of the Americas. The extermination of indigenous Siberian tribes was so complete that a relatively small population of only 180,000 are said to exist today. The Russian Empire exploited and suppressed Cossacks hosts during this period, before turning them into the special military estate Sosloviye in the late 18th century. Cossacks were then used in Imperial Russian campaigns against other tribes.\n\nBolshevik leaders had effectively reestablished a polity with roughly the same extent as that empire by 1921, however with an internationalist ideology: Lenin in particular asserted the right to limited self-determination for national minorities within the new territory. Beginning in 1923, the policy of \"Indigenization\" [korenizatsiya] was intended to support non-Russians develop their national cultures within a socialist framework. Never formally revoked, it stopped being implemented after 1932. After World War II, the Soviet Union installed socialist regimes modeled on those it had installed in 1919–20 in the old Russian Empire, in areas its forces occupied in Eastern Europe. The Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China supported post–World War II communist movements in foreign nations and colonies to advance their own interests, but were not always successful.\n\nTrotsky, and others, believed that the revolution could only succeed in Russia as part of a world revolution. Lenin wrote extensively on the matter and famously declared that Imperialism was the highest stage of capitalism. However, after Lenin's death, Joseph Stalin established 'socialism in one country' for the Soviet Union, creating the model for subsequent inward looking Stalinist states and purging the early Internationalist elements. The internationalist tendencies of the early revolution would be abandoned until they returned in the framework of a client state in competition with the Americans during the Cold War. In the after Stalin period in the late 1950s, the new political leader Nikita Khrushchev put pressure on the Soviet-American relations starting a new wave of anti-imperialist propaganda. In his speech on the UN conference in 1960, he announced the continuation of the war on imperialism, stating that soon the people of different countries will come together and overthrow their imperialist leaders. Although the Soviet Union declared itself anti-imperialist, critics argue that it exhibited traits common to historic empires. Some scholars hold that the Soviet Union was a hybrid entity containing elements common to both multinational empires and nation states. Some also argued that the USSR practiced colonialism as did other imperial powers and was carrying on the old Russian tradition of expansion and control. Mao Zedong once argued that the Soviet Union had itself become an imperialist power while maintaining a socialist façade. Moreover, the ideas of imperialism were widely spread in action on the higher levels of government. Some Marxists within the Russian Federation and later the USSR, like Sultan Galiev and Vasyl Shakhrai, considered the Soviet regime a renewed version of the Russian imperialism and colonialism.\n\nA former colony itself, the early United States expressed its opposition to Imperialism, at least in a form distinct from its own Manifest Destiny, through policies such as the Monroe Doctrine. However, beginning in the late 19th and early 20th century, policies such as Theodore Roosevelt’s interventionism in Central America and Woodrow Wilson’s mission to \"make the world safe for democracy\" changed all this. They were often backed by military force, but were more often effected from behind the scenes. This is consistent with the general notion of hegemony and imperium of historical empires. In 1898, Americans who opposed imperialism created the Anti-Imperialist League to oppose the US annexation of the Philippines and Cuba. One year later, a war erupted in the Philippines causing business, labor and government leaders in the US to condemn America's occupation in the Philippines as they also denounced them for causing the deaths of many Filipinos. American foreign policy was denounced as a \"racket\" by Smedley Butler, a former American general who had become a spokesman for the far left.\n\nAt the start of World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt was opposed to European colonialism, especially in India. He pulled back when Britain's Winston Churchill demanded that victory in the war be the first priority. Roosevelt expected that the United Nations would take up the problem of decolonization.\n\nSome have described the internal strife between various people groups as a form of imperialism or colonialism. This internal form is distinct from informal U.S. imperialism in the form of political and financial hegemony. This internal form of imperialism is also distinct from the United States' formation of \"colonies\" abroad. Through the treatment of its indigenous peoples during westward expansion, the United States took on the form of an imperial power prior to any attempts at external imperialism. This internal form of empire has been referred to as \"internal colonialism\". Participation in the African slave trade and the subsequent treatment of its 12 to 15 million Africans is viewed by some to be a more modern extension of America's \"internal colonialism\". However, this internal colonialism faced resistance, as external colonialism did, but the anti-colonial presence was far less prominent due to the nearly complete dominance that the United States was able to assert over both indigenous peoples and African-Americans. In his lecture on April 16, 2003, Edward Said made a bold statement on modern imperialism in the United States, whom he described as using aggressive means of attack towards the contemporary Orient, \"due to their backward living, lack of democracy and the violation of women’s rights. The western world forgets during this process of converting the other that enlightenment and democracy are concepts that not all will agree upon\".\n\nSpanish imperialism in the colonial era corresponds with the rise and decline of the Spanish Empire, conventionally recognized as emerging in 1402 with the conquest of the Canary Islands and fully dissolving by 1975 with the loss of Spanish Sahara. Following the successes of exploratory maritime voyages conducted during the Age of Discovery, such as those undertaken by Christopher Columbus, Spain committed considerable financial and military resources towards developing a robust navy capable of conducting large-scale, transatlantic expeditionary operations in order to establish and solidify a firm imperial presence across portions of North America, South America, and the geographic regions comprising the Caribbean basin. Concomitant with Spanish endorsement and sponsorship of transatlantic expeditionary voyages was the deployment of \"Conquistadors\", which further expanded Spanish imperial boundaries through the acquisition and development of territories and colonies.\n\nIn congruence with the colonialist activities of competing European imperial powers throughout the 15th – 19th centuries, the Spanish were equally engrossed in extending geopolitical power. The Caribbean basin functioned as a key geographic focal point for advancing Spanish imperialism. Similar to the strategic prioritization Spain placed towards achieving victory in the conquests of the Aztec Empire and Inca Empire, Spain placed equal strategic emphasis on expanding the nation's imperial footprint within the Caribbean basin.\n\nEchoing the prevailing ideological perspectives regarding colonialism and imperialism embraced by Spain's European rivals during the colonial era, including the English, French, and the Dutch, the Spanish utilized colonialism as a means of expanding imperial geopolitical borders and securing the defense of maritime trade routes in the Caribbean basin.\n\nWhile leveraging colonialism in the same geographic operating theater as its imperial rivals, Spain maintained distinct imperial objectives and instituted a unique form of colonialism in support of its imperial agenda. Spain placed significant strategic emphasis on the acquisition, extraction, and exportation of precious metals (primarily gold and silver). A second objective was the evangelization of subjugated indigenous populations residing in mineral-rich and strategically favorable locations. Notable examples of these indigenous groups include the Taίno populations inhabiting Puerto Rico and segments of Cuba. Compulsory labor and slavery were widely institutionalized across Spanish-occupied territories and colonies, with an initial emphasis on directing labor towards mining activity and related methods of procuring semi-precious metals. The emergence of the \"Encomienda\" system during the 16th – 17th centuries in occupied colonies within the Caribbean basin reflects a gradual shift in imperial prioritization, increasingly focusing on large-scale production and exportation of agricultural commodities.\n\nThe scope and scale of Spanish participation in imperialism within the Caribbean basin remains a subject of scholarly debate among historians. A fundamental source of contention stems from the inadvertent conflation of theoretical conceptions of imperialism and colonialism. Furthermore, significant variation exists in the definition and interpretation of these terms as expounded by historians, anthropologists, philosophers, and political scientists.\n\nAmong historians, there is substantial support in favor of approaching imperialism as a conceptual theory emerging during the 18th – 19th centuries, particularly within Britain, propagated by key exponents such as Joseph Chamberlain and Benjamin Disraeli. In accordance with this theoretical perspective, the activities of the Spanish in the Caribbean are not components of a preeminent, ideologically-driven form of imperialism. Rather, these activities are more accurately classified as representing a form of colonialism.\n\nFurther divergence among historians can be attributed to varying theoretical perspectives regarding imperialism that are proposed by emerging academic schools of thought. Noteworthy examples include cultural imperialism, whereby proponents such as John Downing and Annabelle Sreberny-Modammadi define imperialism as \"...the conquest and control of one country by a more powerful one.\" Cultural imperialism signifies the dimensions of the process that go beyond economic exploitation or military force.\" Moreover, colonialism is understood as \"...the form of imperialism in which the government of the colony is run directly by foreigners.\"\n\nIn spite of diverging perspectives and the absence of a unilateral scholarly consensus regarding imperialism among historians, within the context of Spanish expansion in the Caribbean basin during the colonial era, imperialism can be interpreted as an overarching ideological agenda that is perpetuated through the institution of colonialism. In this context, colonialism functions as an instrument designed to achieve specific imperialist objectives.\n\nVenezuela has had a history of expansionist actions to add to its territory and regional influence. In the 20th century, Venezuela's national interests included obtaining the Guayana Esequiba and maritime territory in the Caribbean. Due to these interests, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago feared Venezuelan expansionist actions due to its authority in the Caribbean and its actions regarding the Guayana Esequiba.\n\nOn 12 November 1962 the Venezuelan foreign relations minister, , denounced the validity of the 1899 Arbitral Award of Paris, which was favourable to the United Kingdom, in the United Nations General Assembly Fourth Committee after the Mallet-Prevost Memorandum was published, arguing that Venezuela considered the Award null due to \"acts contrary to the good faith\" by the British government and the members of the Award's tribunal. Such complaints led to the 1966 Geneva Agreement shortly after Guyana's independence and to the renewal of Venezuela's claim to two-thirds of Guyana's western territory, known as the Guayana Esequiba. \n\nAccording to Guyana, the 1969 Rupununi Uprising was a plot by Venezuela to reclaim a portion of the Esequiba territory and that the Venezuelan government had armed rebels. Valerie Hart, who had led the uprising, had met with Venezuelan ministers at the time and was granted Venezuelan citizenship by birth. The Peoples Temple Agricultural Project's location, better known as Jonestown, also stood not far from the disputed Guyana–Venezuela border, with Guyanese officials hoping that the presence of American citizens would deter a potential military incursion. \n\nDuring the administration of Venezuelan president Luis Herrera Campins, Venezuela attempted to benefit on the geopolitical stage by utilizing oil politics and pursued territorial expansion. In the 1980s, Guyana encouraged the purchase of defense bonds with Guyanese President Forbes Burnham stating \"Every bond we buy is a nail in the coffin of Venezuelan imperialism and aggression\" during a speech on 1 May 1982. Days later on 10 May 1982, Venezuelan troops entered Guyana by crossing the Cuyuni River and were intercepted by Guyanese troops who fired gunshots into the air, with the Venezuelan troops later leaving hours after the confrontation. The Guyanese government would continue to repel Venezuelan intervention, arresting some of their own officials stating they were working for the Venezuelan government. \n\nFollowing the election of Jaime Lusinchi as President of Venezuela in 1984, the country faced economic difficulties and Venezuela's influence in the region waned. The support of Guyana by their larger neighbor Brazil also helped deter Venezuela from making further territorial claims.\n\nDuring the tenure of President Hugo Chávez, it was stated that Venezuela's \"imperialism\" was beginning in Latin America, with Venezuela attempting to establish \"a sort of hegemony\" over smaller nations in the region. Venezuela's geopolitical ambitions grew as oil profits increased with much of the country's foreign policy involving oil politics. Critics described the presidencies of Bolivia's Evo Morales and Ecuador's Rafael Correa as results of \"Venezuelan imperialism\".\n\nIn 2001, \"Current History\" stated that Chávez began \"tensions with his neighbors [and] reopened the old Venezuelan claim to half of Guyana's territory and insulted Colombian President Andrés Pastrana Arango by verbally supporting [FARC] fighting against his Colombian government\", noting allegations that Chávez offered \"substantial assistance to radical elements in the hemisphere, raising questions about Venezuelan expansionism\". The United States Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs, Peter F. Romero stated in 2001 that \"Bolivarian propaganda\" used by Chávez and then-Secretary of Defense José Vicente Rangel was not only just rhetoric, but that there were \"indications that the government of Chávez has supported violent indigenous movements in Bolivia, and in the case of Ecuador, military coup members\" with both officials being described as \"professional agitators\".\n\nThe Independent Institute described Chávez as a \"populist caudillo [that] has embarked on an adventure of continental expansionism\" and that at the time \"Venezuela’s expansionism ... seems unstoppable because of the economic power crude oil has brought that country\". Noam Chomsky described Chávez's oil subsidies to Caribbean and South American countries as \"buying influence, undoubtedly\" and called Venezuela's social programs in neighboring countries as \"just another example of Venezuelan imperialism\". The Caribbean Community feared \"Venezuelan expansionism especially the Hugo Chavez variety\" when the Bolivarian Navy of Venezuela established a base on Isla Aves, stating that Venezuela would attempt to expand its exclusive economic zone further into Caribbean waters.\n\nUnder the administration of President Nicolás Maduro, Venezuela's foreign policy grew even more aggressive as the country faced a socioeconomic crisis. On 11 May 2015, Guyana announced the discovery of promising oil deposits, though days later the Maduro government decreed that they controlled much of Guyana's maritime territory distancing all the way into Suriname waters. The decree was reversed shortly afterwards. Former Venezuelan general and high-level official Pedro Carreño stated on 9 July 2018 that if the United States were to attack Venezuela, the Venezuelan military would immediately fire on targets in Colombia. Carreño stated that Venezuelan Sukhoi fighter jets would destroy the seven bridges crossing the Magdalena River in order to virtually divide Colombia in two. A month later on 12 August 2018, former Foreign Minister of Venezuela, Roy Chaderton, stated that Venezuelans are \"more civilized\" than Colombians and that he was \"part of the Pedro Carreño command\" of the Bolivarian government, believing that Venezuelan troops must conquer Colombia and \"reach the Pacific, because at last and finally we liberate the countries whose coasts are bathed by the Pacific Ocean ... I believe that we ... have military superiority\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7939939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7939939", "title": "Independent Publishers Group", "text": "Independent Publishers Group\n\nIndependent Publishers Group (IPG) is a worldwide distributor for independent general, academic, and professional publishers, founded in 1971 to exclusively market titles from independent client publishers to the international book trade. As per other book wholesalers and distributors, IPG combines its client publishers’ books into a single list, comparable to the larger publishing houses. IPG’s distribution services to publishers include warehousing, bill collecting, and sales to the book trade. IPG currently represents about 1,000 publishers. They are based in Chicago, Illinois. IPG distributes publishers based in Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Ireland, Switzerland, New Zealand, Israel, and others.\n\nIn 1987, IPG was acquired by Chicago Review Press (CRP) an independent publisher founded at about the same time as IPG.\n\nIPG acquired Paul & Company, an 11-year-old distributor of university presses, in 2001. IPG now sells directly to universities.\n\nIn 2006, IPG acquired Trafalgar Square Publishing, founded in 1973, which is the distributor of more than 100 publishers from the UK, Australia, New Zealand, China, and Germany, representing more than 20,000 titles. Its roster includes HarperCollins, Pan Macmillan, and Penguin Random House from the UK and Allen and Unwin and Penguin Random House from Australia; these publisher's titles are not always issued in US editions.\n\nIn 2018, IPG acquired International Specialized Book Services (ISBS), an academic book distributor.\n\nIn August 2019, IPG acquired the book distributor, Midpoint Trade Books. Speaking to Publishers Weekly, IPG's CEO, Joe Matthews said that the publishing industry \"is consolidating because distribution rewards scale, requires expensive technology, and demands high-level access to customers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11164252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164252", "title": "John Lynch (historian)", "text": "John Lynch (historian)\n\nJohn Lynch (11 January 1927 – 4 April 2018) was Professor of Latin American History at the University of London.<ref name=\"urlThe great liberator of S. America / Masterly new biography of BolÃvar is the first in English in half a century - SFGate\"></ref> He spent most of his academic career at University College, and then from 1974 to 1987 as Director of the Institute of Latin American Studies. The main focus of his work was Spanish America in the period 1750–1850.\n\nJohn Lynch was born on 11 January 1927 in Boldon, County Durham, in northern England. He married Wendy Kathleen Norman in 1960, both are Catholic. They had 5 children.\n\nLynch studied at the University of Edinburgh (MA, 1952), and at the University of London (Ph.D., 1955). He served in the British Army after World War II from 1945-48. He then taught at the University of Liverpool (1954–61) and, since 1961 has been teaching at the University of London. He was the director for the Institute of Latin American Studies at the University of London from 1974 until his retirement in 1987.\n\nThe scope of his work expanded over the years: from the River Plate area to Latin America as a whole; and from the 18th to the 19th centuries.\n\nHe died on 4 April 2018 at the age of 91.\n\n\"I first became interested in Latin American history out of ignorance and curiosity, eager to discover a new world of sources and events. Since then I have tried to remove a few academic blind spots in Britain by teaching and writing in this field, and also to contribute the view of an outsider to Latin Americans. It is a matter of particular pleasure not only that I have been invited to lecture in their countries but that my books have been translated into Spanish and received a sympathetic reception in the Hispanic world. It is a challenging world, though the challenge for the historian is a limited one. The historian would not claim to resolve the problems of the present, only to reveal the past that lies behind the present.” (Contemporary Authors, v. 85-88, p. 363. Detroit, 1980)\n\n"}
{"id": "3832940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832940", "title": "Kavirajamarga", "text": "Kavirajamarga\n\nKavirajamarga () (850 C.E.) is the earliest available work on rhetoric, poetics and grammar in the Kannada language. It was inspired by or written in part by the famous Rashtrakuta King Amoghavarsha I, and some historians claim it is based partly on an the Sanskrit text \"Kavyadarsha\". Some historians believe \"Kavirajamarga\" may have been co-authored by a poet in the king's court, the Kannada language theorist Sri Vijaya.\n\nThe name literally means \"Royal Path for Poets\" and was written as a guide book for poets and scholars (\"Kavishiksha\"). From references made in this writing to earlier Kannada poetry and literature it is clear that a considerable body of work in prose and poetry must have existed in the preceding centuries.\n\nThe pre-coronation name of Amoghavarsha I was Sharva. He was born in Sribhavan in 800 to Rashtrakuta King Govinda III during the king's return from his successful northern campaigns in Kanauj. This is known from the Manne records (803), Sirur plates and Sanjan records (871) of Amoghavarsha I. Amoghavarsha I came to the throne in 814 at the age of 14 and took great interest in the Kannada language, culture, country and its people, and his writing \"Kavirajamarga\" goes into these details as well. The work describes the entire region between the Godavari river in the north and Kaveri river in the south as \"Kannada country\", which includes large territories north of modern Karnataka where Kannada is now not spoken. An English translation of a quote from the writing goes as follows,\n\n\"Kavirajamarga\" makes important references not only to earlier Kannada writers and poets but also to early literary styles that were in vogue in the various written dialects of Kannada language. The aim of this writing was to standardize these written styles. The book dwells on earlier styles of composition; the \"Bedande\", the \"Chattana\", and the \"Gadyakatha\", and indicates that these styles were recognised by \"puratana kavi\" (\"lit\", \"earlier poets\"). The term \"pruvacharyar\" (\"lit\", earlier grammarians or rhetoricians) has also been used. The book mentions several early Kannada writers who preceded Amoghavarsha I: Vimalachandra (777), Udaya, Nagarjuna, Jayabhandu and 6th century King Durvinita of the Western Ganga Dynasty as the best writers of Kannada prose; Srivijaya, Kavisvara, Pandita, Chandra and Lokapala as the best writers of Kannada poetry. But the works and compositions of these early authors are yet to be discovered. \"Kavirajamarga\" was formative in the literary growth of Kannada and is a guide book to the Kannada grammar that existed in that period. It laid the \"royal path\" for guiding many aspiring writers.\n\nIn his criticism, Amoghavarsha I writes that old Kannada is appropriate in \"ancient poems\" but is insipid in works of the present time, like an \"association with an old woman\". According to him, a mixture of Kannada with Sanskrit is \"harsh to the ear\" but a mixture of Kannada and \"Sama-Samskrita\" is pleasant to the ear like \"music\", while a mixture of Kannada and Sanskrit in compounds is disagreeable \"like mixing drops of buttermilk (curdled milk) and boiling milk\". He also condemned the usage of expletives such as \"ante\", \"matte,\" and \"gadam,\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1323044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323044", "title": "Levallois technique", "text": "Levallois technique\n\nThe Levallois technique () is a name given by archaeologists to a distinctive type of stone knapping developed by precursors to modern humans during the Palaeolithic period.\n\nIt is named after nineteenth-century finds of flint tools in the Levallois-Perret suburb of Paris, France. The technique was more sophisticated than earlier methods of lithic reduction, involving the striking of lithic flakes from a prepared lithic core. A striking platform is formed at one end and then the core's edges are trimmed by flaking off pieces around the outline of the intended lithic flake. This creates a domed shape on the side of the core, known as a tortoise core, as the various scars and rounded form are reminiscent of a tortoise's shell. When the striking platform is finally hit, a lithic flake separates from the lithic core with a distinctive plano-convex profile and with all of its edges sharpened by the earlier trimming work.\n\nThis method provides much greater control over the size and shape of the final flake which would then be employed as a scraper or knife although the technique could also be adapted to produce projectile points known as Levallois points. Scientists consider the Levallois complex to be a technology, as a result of its diachronic variability. This is one level superior to the Acheulean complex of the Lower Paleolithic.\n\nThe technique is first found in the Lower Palaeolithic but is most commonly associated with the Neanderthal Mousterian industries of the Middle Palaeolithic. In the Levant, Levallois methods were also in use in the Upper Palaeolithic and later. In East Africa, Levallois methods were used in the Middle Stone Age. While Levallois cores do display some variability in their planform, their flake production surfaces show remarkable uniformity. This would seem to indicate that some sort of teaching process was occurring, which some have speculated would have involved language.\n\nThe distinctive forms of the flakes were originally thought to indicate a wide ranging Levallois culture resulting from the expansion of archaic Homo sapiens out of Africa. However, the wide geographical and temporal spread of the technique has rendered this interpretation obsolete. Adler et al., further argues that Levallois technology evolved independently in different populations and thus cannot be used as a reliable indicator of Paleolithic human population change and expansion. Aside from technique, the overarching commonality in Levallois complexes is the attention given to maximizing core efficiency. Lycett and von Cramon-Taubedel (2013) measured variability in shape and geometrics relationships between cores over multiple regions, with an outcome that suggests a tendency for knappers to choose planforms with a specific surface morphology. In other words, they conclude that Levallois knappers cared less about the overall outline or shape of their core and more about the striking surface, evidence of complex pre-planning and recognition of an \"ideal form\" of Levallois core. A recent article by Lycett and Eren (2013) statistically shows the efficiency of the Levallois technique which at times has been called into question. Lycett and Eren created 75 Levallois flakes from 25 Texas Chert nodules. They counted the 3957 flakes and separated them into four stages in order to show efficiency, which grew subsequently in each stage. Based on the comparative study of 567 debitage flakes and 75 preferential Levallois flakes, Lycett and Eren found out the thickness is more evenly distributed and less variable across preferential Levallois flakes, which indicates the thickness is an important factor for efficiency and retouch potential. The experiment also shows that the Levallois core is an economic optimal strategy of raw material (lithic) usage, which means it can generate longest cutting edge per weight unit of raw material. This result also implies that the mobility of prehistoric people was higher when applying Levallois technology; prehistoric people may explore more area with Levallois cores, which can make longer cutting edge than the other flake making technique under same amount of cores, and no need to worry about the lack of raw material to make tools.\n\nThere is disagreement when it comes to defining Levallois technology. Archeologists question which attributes and dimensions are specifically associated with Levallois, and argue that there are other techniques with similar cosmetic and functional aspects. Due to these disagreements, there is now a more precise set of criteria that outlines Levallois technology from a geometric standpoint. These criteria are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19066405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19066405", "title": "List of Chicken Soup for the Soul books", "text": "List of Chicken Soup for the Soul books\n\nChicken Soup for the Soul is a series of books, usually featuring a collection of short, inspirational stories and motivational essays. The 101 stories in the first book of the series were compiled by motivational speakers Jack Canfield and Mark Victor Hansen.\n\nThere have been numerous volumes of \"Chicken Soup\" issued.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14734968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14734968", "title": "List of Judy Garland biographies", "text": "List of Judy Garland biographies\n\nJudy Garland has been the subject of many biographies. Since her death in 1969, she has been the subject of over two dozen books. The first of these was Brad Steiger's \"Judy Garland\", published shortly after her death, which includes information on Garland's astrological chart, analysis of her handwriting, numerology and biorhythms. Most of the books are entirely about Garland, but some, including Patricia Fox-Sheinwold's \"Too Young to Die\", \"Some Are Born Great\" by Adela Rogers St. Johns and Jane Ellen Wayne's \"The Golden Girls of MGM\", merely feature a chapter about her. Two volumes, \"Rainbow's End: The Judy Garland Show\" by Coyne Steven Sanders and Mel Tormé's \"The Other Side of the Rainbow: On the Dawn Patrol With Judy Garland\", focus on Garland's television series, \"The Judy Garland Show\". Garland's last husband, Mickey Deans, co-authored an early biography in 1972 and Garland's daughter Lorna Luft wrote a family memoir in 1988.\n\nGarland has been profiled on-screen several times. The earliest known film biography was a 1961 installment of the syndicated television series \"Hollywood Hist-o-rama\", which covered her career through the filming of \"A Star is Born\". Garland was the subject of episodes of the British series \"Omnibus\", \"60 Minutes\", \"Biography\" and the \"E! True Hollywood Story\". Her life story was fictionalized in \"Rainbow\" in 1978 and in 2001 in \"\", based on daughter Luft's memoir. On stage, Garland is a character in \"The Boy from Oz\", a 1998 musical based on the life of former son-in-law Peter Allen, and the 2006 play \"The Property Known as Garland\", based on tape recordings made prior to her last ever concert appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20284235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20284235", "title": "List of books about coal mining", "text": "List of books about coal mining\n\nBooks and some articles relating to coal mining, especially historical.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54614643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54614643", "title": "List of metal detecting finds", "text": "List of metal detecting finds\n\nThis is an incomplete list of historically significant items found by metal detecting method.\n\n"}
{"id": "19460748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19460748", "title": "Mak nyah", "text": "Mak nyah\n\nMak nyah (), alternatively spelled maknyah, is a Malay vernacular term for trans women in Malaysia. It arose in the late 1980s in order to distinguish MTF trans women from other minorities.\n\nThe name is preferred by Malaysian trans women as opposed to various derogatory terms (namely, \"pondan\" and \"bapok\"), which were previously used by Sarawakians when referring to transsexuals and cross-dressers. These are also considered slurs, which are variously directed to gay men as well as transgender individuals. Though less used, the term \"pak nyah\" is sometimes used for trans men, and the hybrid term \"mak-pak nyah\" for all transgender individuals.\n\n\"Mak nyah\" is formed from the word \"mak\", meaning 'mother', and \"nyah\", meaning 'transition' (literally, 'to run from'). Khartini Slamah describes how the term arose in the transgender community: \"[F]irst, [as] a desire to differentiate ourselves from gay men, transvestites, cross-dressers, drag queens, and other 'sexual minorities' with whom all those who are not heterosexual are automatically lumped, and second, because we also wanted to define ourselves from a vantage point of dignity rather than from the position of derogation in which Malaysian society had located us Slamah then goes on to explain that the term \"mak nyah\" does not necessarily refer to a MTF trans woman who has undergone sex reassignment surgery (SRS): \"\"[M]ak Nyahs\" define themselves in various ways along the continuums of gender and sexuality: as men who look like women and are soft and feminine, as the third gender, as men who dress up as women, as men who like to do women's work, as men who like me, etc.\"\n\nThe term of \"mak nyah\" for Malay transgender women can be contrasted with other terms for the trans community around the world, such as \"hijras\" in India, \"kathoeys\" in Thailand and \"occult\" in Myanmar.\n\n\"Bahasa Seteng\" (literally \"half-language\"), is a secret language used within the Malaysian transgender community, in order to reflect their identity. It is commonly used amongst teenage \"mak nyah\".\n\nThe \"mak nyah\" community in Malaysia experiences heavy discrimination, including discrimination in employment, housing and health care. In 2010, the governments of the United Kingdom and Australia recognised Malaysian transgender asylum seekers, in response to the persecution and discrimination that they face in Malaysia.\n\nMalaysian courts have issued ambiguous messages as to whether a transgender individual's preferred gender identity or their birth sex should appear on their ID cards (\"My Kad\"). For example, in \"Wong's case\", the judge of the High Court of Ipoh upheld the refusal of the national Registration Department to amend or correct the Birth Certificate and National Registration Identity Card of the claimant who was a transsexual man. However, in \"J.G.'s case\", a judge of the High Court of Kuala Lumpur, in dealing with a case which shared many similarities with \"Wong's case\", decised that the claimant's ID card be amended to acknowledge her gender identity.\n\nUnder Section 21 of the Minor Offences Act 1955, \"mak nyah\" can be charged for indecent behaviour for dressing as women, and Section 28 of the Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) Act 1997 prohibits any male person from wearing a woman's attire in a public place and posing as a woman for \"immoral purposes\". Such a charge usually results in a small fine of RM25–50.\n\nIn 1983, the Malaysian Conference of Rulers issued a \"fatwa\" which ruled that sex reassignment surgery should be forbidden to all except intersex people, on the basis that any other surgery was against Islam, as Islam only permits \"khunsa\" (intersex people) to undergo a sex change operation. Sunni Islam forbids males from cross-dressing, wearing make-up, injecting hormones to enlarge their breasts, and undergoing sex change operations. Research shows that 78% of \"mak nyahs\" would prefer to have a sex change operation if their religion permits them to do so.\n\nAs the majority of \"mak nyah\" are Malay Muslims, they can be further charged by a \"sharia\" court, for which there is a fine of RM800–3000. Laws such as these have been used by the Malaysian religious authorities (the \"Jabatan Hal Ehwal Agama Islam Negeri Sembilan\") to oppress the \"mak nyah\" community, through raids, interrogation, violence and detention.\n\nIn addition, having SRS also causes a problem in terms of Islamic burial rites, which state that only a woman may be permitted to bath the body of a woman. This does not include \"mak nyah\" individuals, even if they have undergone SRS. However, \"maknyah\" individuals who underwent SRS could not be bathed by a man either.\n\nIt has been estimated that there are about 10,000 \"mak nyah\" in Malaysia. In the city of Kuching there are 700 \"mak nyah\" (75% Malays, the rest are Dayaks and Chinese).\n\nTeh Yik Koon wrote research documents on the \"mak nyah\", including a 1998 study and a 2002 book called \"The Mak Nyahs\". Andrew Hock Soon Ng, the author of \"The Politics of Reclaiming Identity: Representing the \"Mak Nyahs\" in \"Bukak Api\",\" wrote that the book was \"the most extensive scholarly work\" on the \"mak nyahs\".\n\nThe 2000 documentary \"Bukak Api\" is about Mak nyah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19325", "title": "Monism", "text": "Monism\n\nMonism attributes oneness or singleness (Greek: μόνος) to a concept e.g., existence. Various kinds of monism can be distinguished:\n\nThere are two sorts of definitions for monism:\n\nAlthough the term \"monism\" is derived from Western philosophy to typify positions in the mind–body problem, it has also been used to typify religious traditions. In modern Hinduism, the term \"absolute monism\" is being used for Advaita Vedanta.\n\nThe term \"monism\" was introduced in the 18th century by Christian von Wolff in his work \"Logic\" (1728), to designate types of philosophical thought in which the attempt was made to eliminate the dichotomy of body and mind and explain all phenomena by one unifying principle, or as manifestations of a single substance.\n\nThe mind–body problem in philosophy examines the relationship between mind and matter, and in particular the relationship between consciousness and the brain. The problem was addressed by René Descartes in the 17th century, resulting in Cartesian dualism, and by pre-Aristotelian philosophers, in Avicennian philosophy, and in earlier Asian and more specifically Indian traditions.\n\nIt was later also applied to the theory of absolute identity set forth by Hegel and Schelling. Thereafter the term was more broadly used, for any theory postulating a unifying principle. The opponent thesis of dualism also was broadened, to include pluralism. According to Urmson, as a result of this extended use, the term is \"systematically ambiguous\".\n\nAccording to Jonathan Schaffer, monism lost popularity due to the emergence of Analytic philosophy in the early twentieth century, which revolted against the neo-Hegelians. Carnap and Ayer, who were strong proponents of positivism, \"ridiculed the whole question as incoherent mysticism\".\n\nThe mind–body problem has reemerged in social psychology and related fields, with the interest in mind–body interaction and the rejection of Cartesian mind–body dualism in the \"identity thesis\", a modern form of monism. Monism is also still relevant to the philosophy of mind, where various positions are defended.\n\nDifferent types of monism include:\n\nViews contrasting with monism are:\n\nMonism in modern philosophy of mind can be divided into three broad categories:\n\nCertain positions do not fit easily into the above categories, such as functionalism, anomalous monism, and reflexive monism. Moreover, they do not define the meaning of \"real\".\n\nWhile the lack of information makes it difficult in some cases to be sure of the details, the following pre-Socratic philosophers thought in monistic terms:\n\n\n\nPantheism is the belief that everything composes an all-encompassing, immanent God, or that the universe (or nature) is identical with divinity. Pantheists thus do not believe in a personal or anthropomorphic god, but believe that interpretations of the term differ.\n\nPantheism was popularized in the modern era as both a theology and philosophy based on the work of the 17th century philosopher Baruch Spinoza, whose \"Ethics\" was an answer to Descartes' famous dualist theory that the body and spirit are separate. Spinoza held that the two are the same, and this monism is a fundamental quality of his philosophy. He was described as a \"God-intoxicated man,\" and used the word God to describe the unity of all substance. Although the term pantheism was not coined until after his death, Spinoza is regarded as its most celebrated advocate.\n\nH. P. Owen claimed that\nPantheism is closely related to monism, as pantheists too believe all of reality is one substance, called Universe, God or Nature. Panentheism, a slightly different concept (explained below), however is dualistic. Some of the most famous pantheists are the Stoics, Giordano Bruno and Spinoza.\n\nPanentheism (from Greek (pân) \"all\"; (en) \"in\"; and (theós) \"God\"; \"all-in-God\") is a belief system that posits that the divine (be it a monotheistic God, polytheistic gods, or an eternal cosmic animating force) interpenetrates every part of nature, but is not one with nature. Panentheism differentiates itself from pantheism, which holds that the divine is synonymous with the universe.\n\nIn panentheism, there are two types of substance, \"pan\" the universe and God. The universe and the divine are not ontologically equivalent. God is viewed as the eternal animating force within the universe. In some forms of panentheism, the cosmos exists within God, who in turn \"transcends\", \"pervades\" or is \"in\" the cosmos.\n\nWhile pantheism asserts that 'All is God', panentheism claims that God animates all of the universe, and also transcends the universe. In addition, some forms indicate that the universe is contained within God, like in the concept of Tzimtzum. Much Hindu thought is highly characterized by panentheism and pantheism. Hasidic Judaism merges the elite ideal of nullification to paradoxical transcendent Divine Panentheism, through intellectual articulation of inner dimensions of Kabbalah, with the populist emphasis on the panentheistic Divine immanence in everything and deeds of kindness.\n\nPaul Tillich has argued for such a concept within Christian theology, as has liberal biblical scholar Marcus Borg and mystical theologian Matthew Fox, an Episcopal priest.\n\nPandeism or pan-deism (from and meaning \"god\" in the sense of deism), is a term describing beliefs coherently incorporating or mixing logically reconcilable elements of pantheism (that \"God\", or a metaphysically equivalent creator deity, is identical to Nature) and classical deism (that the creator-god who designed the universe no longer exists in a status where it can be reached, and can instead be confirmed only by reason). It is therefore most particularly the belief that the creator of the universe actually became the universe, and so ceased to exist as a separate entity.\n\nThrough this synergy pandeism claims to answer primary objections to deism (why would God create and then not interact with the universe?) and to pantheism (how did the universe originate and what is its purpose?).\n\nThe central problem in Asian (religious) philosophy is not the body-mind problem, but the search for an unchanging Real or Absolute beyond the world of appearances and changing phenomena, and the search for liberation from dukkha and the liberation from the cycle of rebirth. In Hinduism, substance-ontology prevails, seeing Brahman as the unchanging real beyond the world of appearances. In Buddhism process ontology is prevalent, seeing reality as empty of an unchanging essence.\n\nCharacteristic for various Asian religions is the discernment of levels of truth, an emphasis on intuitive-experiential understanding of the Absolute such as jnana, bodhi and kensho, and an emphasis on the integration of these levels of truth and its understanding.\n\nVedanta is the inquiry into and systematisation of the Vedas and Upanishads, to harmonise the various and contrasting ideas that can be found in those texts. Within Vedanta, different schools exist: \n\nMonism is most clearly identified in Advaita Vedanta, though Renard points out that this may be a western interpretation, bypassing the intuitive understanding of a nondual reality.\n\nIn Advaita Vedanta, Brahman is the eternal, unchanging, infinite, immanent, and transcendent reality which is the Divine Ground of all matter, energy, time, space, being, and everything beyond in this Universe. The nature of Brahman is described as transpersonal, personal and impersonal by different philosophical schools.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta gives an elaborate path to attain moksha. It entails more than self-inquiry or bare insight into one's real nature. Practice, especially Jnana Yoga, is needed to \"destroy one’s tendencies (vAasanA-s)\" before real insight can be attained.\n\nAdvaita took over from the Madhyamika the idea of levels of reality. Usually two levels are being mentioned, but Shankara uses sublation as the criterion to postulate an ontological hierarchy of three levels:\n\nAll Vaishnava schools are panentheistic and view the universe as part of Krishna or Narayana, but see a plurality of souls and substances within Brahman. Monistic theism, which includes the concept of a personal god as a universal, omnipotent Supreme Being who is both immanent and transcendent, is prevalent within many other schools of Hinduism as well.\n\nTantra sees the Divine as both immanent and transcendent. The Divine can be found in the concrete world. Practices are aimed at transforming the passions, instead of transcending them.\n\nThe colonisation of India by the British had a major impact on Hindu society. In response, leading Hindu intellectuals started to study western culture and philosophy, integrating several western notions into Hinduism. This modernised Hinduism, at its turn, has gained popularity in the west.\n\nA major role was played in the 19th century by Swami Vivekananda in the revival of Hinduism, and the spread of Advaita Vedanta to the west via the Ramakrishna Mission. His interpretation of Advaita Vedanta has been called Neo-Vedanta. In Advaita, Shankara suggests meditation and Nirvikalpa Samadhi are means to gain knowledge of the already existing unity of \"Brahman\" and \"Atman\", not the highest goal itself:\nVivekananda, according to Gavin Flood, was \"a figure of great importance in the development of a modern Hindu self-understanding and in formulating the West's view of Hinduism.\" Central to his philosophy is the idea that the divine exists in all beings, that all human beings can achieve union with this \"innate divinity\", and that seeing this divine as the essence of others will further love and social harmony. According to Vivekananda, there is an essential unity to Hinduism, which underlies the diversity of its many forms. According to Flood, Vivekananda's view of Hinduism is the most common among Hindus today. This monism, according to Flood, is at the foundation of earlier Upanishads, to theosophy in the later Vedanta tradition and in modern Neo-Hinduism.\n\nAccording to the Pāli Canon, both pluralism (\"nānatta\") and monism (\"ēkatta\") are speculative views. A Theravada commentary notes that the former is similar to or associated with nihilism (\"ucchēdavāda\"), and the latter is similar to or associated with eternalism (\"sassatavada\"). See middle way.\n\nIn the Madhyamaka school of Mahayana Buddhism, the ultimate nature of the world is described as \"Śūnyatā\" or \"emptiness\", which is inseparable from sensorial objects or anything else. That appears to be a monist position, but the Madhyamaka views - including variations like \"rangtong\" and \"shentong\" - will refrain from asserting any ultimately existent entity. They instead deconstruct any detailed or conceptual assertions about ultimate existence as resulting in absurd consequences. The Yogacara view, a minority school now only found among the Mahayana, also rejects monism.\n\nWithin Buddhism, a rich variety of philosophical and pedagogical models can be found. Various schools of Buddhism discern levels of truth:\n\nThe Prajnaparamita-sutras and Madhyamaka emphasize the non-duality of form and emptiness: \"form is emptiness, emptiness is form\", as the heart sutra says. In Chinese Buddhism this was understood to mean that ultimate reality is not a transcendental realm, but equal to the daily world of relative reality. This idea fitted into the Chinese culture, which emphasized the mundane world and society. But this does not tell how the absolute is present in the relative world:\n\nThis question is answered in such schemata as the Five Ranks of Tozan, the Oxherding Pictures, and Hakuin's Four ways of knowing.\n\nSikhism complies with the concept of Priority Monism. Sikh philosophy advocates that all that our senses comprehend is an illusion; God is the sole reality. Forms being subject to time shall pass away. God's Reality alone is eternal and abiding. The thought is that Atma (soul) is born from, and a reflection of, ParamAtma (Supreme Soul), and \"will again merge into it\", in the words of the Tenth guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh, \"just as water merges back into the water.\"\n\nGod and Soul are fundamentally the same; identical in the same way as Fire and its sparks. \"Atam meh Ram, Ram meh Atam\" which means \"The Ultimate Eternal reality resides in the Soul and the Soul is contained in Him\". As from one stream, millions of waves arise and yet the waves, made of water, again become water; in the same way all souls have sprung from the Universal Being and would blend again into it.\n\nJewish thought considers God as separate from all physical, created things (transcendent) and as existing outside of time (eternal).\n\nAccording to Chasidic Thought (particularly as propounded by the 18th century, early 19th century founder of Chabad, Shneur Zalman of Liadi), God is held to be immanent within creation for two interrelated reasons:\n\nThe Vilna Gaon was very much against this philosophy, for he felt that it would lead to pantheism and heresy. According to some this is the main reason for the Gaon's ban on Chasidism.\n\nAccording to Maimonides, God is an incorporeal being that caused all other existence. In fact, God is defined as the necessary existent that caused all other existence. According to Maimonides, to admit corporeality to God is tantamount to admitting complexity to God, which is a contradiction to God as the First Cause and constitutes heresy. While Hasidic mystics considered the existence of the physical world a contradiction to God's simpleness, Maimonides saw no contradiction.\n\nChristianity strongly maintains the creator–creature distinction as fundamental. Christians maintain that God created the universe \"ex nihilo\" and not from his own substance, so that the creator is not to be confused with creation, but rather transcends it (metaphysical dualism) (cf. Genesis). Although, there is growing movement to have a \"Christian Panentheism\". Even more immanent concepts and theologies are to be defined together with God's omnipotence, omnipresence and omniscience, due to God's desire for intimate contact with his own creation (cf. Acts 17:27). Another use of the term \"monism\" is in Christian anthropology to refer to the innate nature of humankind as being holistic, as usually opposed to bipartite and tripartite views.\n\nIn \"On Free Choice of the Will\", Augustine argued, in the context of the problem of evil, that evil is not the opposite of good, but rather merely the absence of good, something that does not have existence in itself. Likewise, C. S. Lewis described evil as a \"parasite\" in \"Mere Christianity\", as he viewed evil as something that cannot exist without good to provide it with existence. Lewis went on to argue against dualism from the basis of moral absolutism, and rejected the dualistic notion that God and Satan are opposites, arguing instead that God has no equal, hence no opposite. Lewis rather viewed Satan as the opposite of Michael the archangel. Due to this, Lewis instead argued for a more limited type of dualism. Other theologians, such as Greg Boyd, have argued in more depth that the Biblical authors held a \"limited dualism\", meaning that God and Satan do engage in real battle, but only due to free will given by God, for the duration God allows.\n\nIsaiah 45:5-7\n5 I am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:\n6 That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else.\n7 I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do all these things.\n\nIn Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, while human beings are not ontologically identical with the Creator, they are nonetheless capable with uniting with his Divine Nature via theosis, and especially, through the devout reception of the Holy Eucharist. This is a supernatural union, over and above that natural union, of which St. John of the Cross says, \"it must be known that God dwells and is present substantially in every soul, even in that of the greatest sinner in the world, and this union is natural.\" Julian of Norwich, while maintaining the orthodox duality of Creator and creature, nonetheless speaks of God as \"the true Father and true Mother\" of all natures; thus, he indwells them substantially and thus preserves them from annihilation, as without this sustaining indwelling everything would cease to exist.\n\nHowever, in Eastern Orthodoxy creation is united to God by grace and not by nature. This is what is known as the Essence-Energies distinction, while in union with God, Orthodox Christians believe, the human person retains its individuality and is not swallowed up by the Monad.\n\nSome Christian theologians are avowed monists, such as Paul Tillich. Since God is he \"in whom we live and move and have our being\" (Book of Acts 17.28), it follows that everything that has being partakes in God.\n\nVincent Cornell argues that the Quran provides a monist image of God by describing reality as a unified whole, with God being a single concept that would describe or ascribe all existing things. But most argue that Semitic religious scriptures, especially the Quran, see creation and God as two separate existences. It explains that everything has been created by God and is under his control, but at the same time distinguishes creation as being dependent on the existence of God.\n\nSufi mystics advocate monism. One of the most notable being the 13th-century Persian poet Rumi (1207–73) in his didactic poem \"Masnavi\" espoused monism. Rumi says in the Masnavi,\nThe most influential of the Islamic monists was the Sufi philosopher Ibn Arabi (1165–1240). He developed the concept of 'unity of being' (Arabic: \"waḥdat al-wujūd\"), a pantheistic monoist philosophy. Born in al-Andalus, he made an enormous impact on the Muslim world, where he was crowned \"the great Master\". In the centuries following his death, his ideas became increasingly controversial.\n\nAlthough the Bahá'í teachings have a strong emphasis on social and ethical issues, there exist a number of foundational texts that have been described as mystical. Some of these include statements of a monist nature (e.g., \"The Seven Valleys\" and the \"Hidden Words\"). The differences between dualist and monist views are reconciled by the teaching that these opposing viewpoints are caused by differences in the observers themselves, not in that which is observed. This is not a 'higher truth/lower truth' position. God is unknowable. For man it is impossible to acquire any direct knowledge of God or the Absolute, because any knowledge that one has, is relative.\n\nAccording to nondualism, many forms of religion are based on an experiential or intuitive understanding of \"the Real\". Nondualism, a modern reinterpretation of these religions, prefers the term \"nondualism\", instead of monism, because this understanding is \"nonconceptual\", \"not graspable in an idea\".\n\nTo these nondual traditions belong Hinduism (including Vedanta, some forms of Yoga, and certain schools of Shaivism), Taoism, Pantheism, Rastafari and similar systems of thought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4680239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4680239", "title": "Māori influence on New Zealand English", "text": "Māori influence on New Zealand English\n\nDuring the 19th century, New Zealand English gained many loanwords from the Māori language, mainly the names of birds, plants, fishes and places, but the flow stopped abruptly around the beginning of the 20th century. From the last quarter of the 20th century onwards this flow resumed, this time with a focus on cultural concepts. The use of Māori words is increasing, particularly in the North Island.\n\nLarge numbers of native plants and animals retain their Māori names in New Zealand English. Examples include:\n\n\n\"Kia ora\" (literally \"be healthy\") is a Māori term of greeting, meaning \"hello\" or \"welcome\". It can also mean \"thank you\", or signify agreement with a speaker at a meeting. The Māori greetings \"tēnā koe\" (to one person), \"tēnā kōrua\" (to two people) or \"tēnā koutou\" (to three or more people) are also widely used, as are farewells such as \"haere rā\".\n\nThe Māori phrase \"kia kaha\", \"be strong\", is frequently encountered as an indication of moral support for someone starting a stressful undertaking or otherwise in a difficult situation. Although previously in common usage it became an iconic phrase of support following the 2010 Canterbury earthquake.\n\nSome hybrid words, part English and part Māori, have developed, the most common of which is probably \"half-pai\" — often written \"half-pie\" — meaning incomplete or substandard quality, \"pai\" being the Māori word for \"good\". (The portmanteau form \"half-pied\" is also used, derived from \"half-baked\".) Similarly, the Māori word ending \"-tanga\", which has a similar meaning to the English ending \"-ness\", is occasionally used in hybrid terms such as \"kiwitanga\" (that is, the state of being a New Zealander).\n\nSeveral Māori words are used in English as lighthearted, or even slang, equivalents of their more common English counterparts. The term \"puku\" for stomach, for example, is more likely to be encountered during a friendly chat than in more formal circumstances, with one of its uses being a euphemism for a large belly.\n\nEnglish words intimately associated with New Zealand are often of Māori origin, such as haka, Pākehā, Aotearoa, kiwi, and the word Māori itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38264968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38264968", "title": "Native American rhetoric", "text": "Native American rhetoric\n\nA history of Native American rhetorics.\n\n1823 - Johnson v. McIntosh\n1830s - William Appess \n1827 and 1839 - Cherokee constitutions\n1879 - Thomas Tibbles\n1879 - Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins\n1881 - Constitution of the Osage Nation\n1881 – Helen Hunt Jackson, A Century of Dishonor\n1928 – Meriam Report \n1946 - Indian Claims Commission created\n1953 – Thomas Banyacya \n1955 - Tee-Hit-Ton Indians v. United States\n1961 - The American Indian Chicago Conference \n1966-1995 - Blackbird Bend litigation \n1969 - Alcatraz Occupation \n1970 - N. Scott Momaday \n1973 - Maria Campbell \n1977 - Charles Aubid \n1980 - Russell Means “Fighting Words on the Future of the Earth,” \"Mother Jones\" \n1994 - Gerald Vizenor \"Manifest Manners\"\n1997 - U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples\n1997 - Delgamuukw v. British Columbia \n1997 - Robin Ridington and Dennis Hastings, \"Blessing for a Long Time\"\n1998 - “Statement of Reconciliation” \n2005 - Statement on Native American Languages in the College and University Curriculum: MLA Committee on the Literatures of People of Color in the United States and Canada \n2007 - Ward Churchill \n2008 - Malea Powell, “Dreaming Charles Eastman: Cultural Memory, Autobiography, and Geography in Indigenous Rhetorical Histories” \n\n[1]Adamson, Joni. “Cultural Critique and Local Pedagogy: A Reading of Louise Erdrich’s Tracks.” \"American Indian Literature, Environmental Justice, and Ecocriticism: The Middle Place\". Tucson: U of Arizona P, 2001. 89-115. Print.\nDeloria, Philip J. \"Playing Indian\". New Haven: Yale UP, 1998. Print.\nKovach, Margaret. \"Indigenous Methodologies: Characteristics, Conversations, and Contexts\". Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2009. Print.\nLaDuke, Winona. \"The Winona LaDuke Reader: A Collection of Essential Writings\". Stillwater: Voyageur, 2002. Print.\nLyons, Scott Richard. “Rhetorical Sovereignty: What Do American Indians Want from Writing?” \"College Composition and Communication\" 51.3 (Feb. 2000): 447-468. JSTOR. Web. 9 Nov. 2011. PDF File. <https://www.jstor.org/stable/358744>\n---, Scott Richard. “There's No Translation for It: The Rhetorical Sovereignty of Indigenous Languages.” \"Cross-Language Relations in Composition\". Ed. Bruce Horner, Min-Zhan Lu, and Paul Kei Matsuda. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 2010.\n---, Scott Richard. \"X-Marks: Native Signatures of Assent\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 2010. Print.\nMihesuah, Devon Abott, and Angela Cavender Wilson, eds. \"Indigenizing the Academy: Transforming Scholarship and Empowering Communities\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 2004. Print.\n---. \"American Indians: Stereotypes & Realities\". Atlanta: Clarity P, 1996. Print.\n---. \"So You Want to Write about American Indians?: a Guide for Writers, Students, and Scholars\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 2005. Print.\n---. \"Natives and Academics: Researching and Writing about American Indians\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1998. \nPowell, Malea. “Dreaming Charles Eastman: Cultural Memory, Autobiography, and Geography in Indigenous Rhetorical Histories.” \"Beyond the Archives: Research as a Lived Process\". Ed. Gesa E. Kirsch and Liz Rohan. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 2008. Print.\n---. “Learning (Teaching) to Teach (Learn).” \"Relations, Locations, Positions: Composition Theory for Writing Teachers\". Ed. Peter Vandenberg, Sue Hum, and Jennifer Clary-Lemon. Urbana: National Council of Teachers of English, 2006. 571-580. Print.\n---. “Stories Take Place.”\nScherer, Mark R. \"Imperfect Victories: The Legal Tenacity of the Omaha Tribe, 1945-1995\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1999.\nSmith, Paul Chaat and Robert Allen Warrior. \"Like a Hurricane: the Indian Movement from Alcatraz to Wounded Knee\". New York: New P, 1996. Print. \nSmith, Linda Tuhiwai. \"Decolonizing Methodologies: Research and Indigenous Peoples\". New York: St. Martin’s, 1999. Print.\nVizenor, Gerald. \"Manifest Manners: Narratives on Postindian Survivance\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1999. Print. \nWarrior, Robert. \"The People and the Word: Reading Native Nonfiction\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 2005. Print.\nWomack, Craig S. \"Red on Red: Native American Literary Separatism\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1999. Print.\n"}
{"id": "48826684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48826684", "title": "Nitoy Achumi", "text": "Nitoy Achumi\n\nN. K. Achumi was a Bible Translator who was Translations Advisor with the United Bible Societies and was based in Nagaland.\n\nAs a Linguist, Achumi was involved in the translation and revision of the Bible into Naga languages. When the Bible in Pochuri language was released in 2014, Achumi's contribution towards the translation was acknowledged.\n\n\nAchumi studied Old Testament under E. C. John, G. M. Butterworth and Gerhard Wehmeier at the United Theological College, Bangalore between 1972-1975 during the Principalship of Joshua Russell Chandran. Achumi's companions included Basil Rebera, A. P. Chacko, G. Babu Rao, S. J. Theodore and Timotheas Hembrom, all of whom studied under E. C. John, a direct student of the master-specialist of Old Testament, Gerhard von Rad. In the ensuing convocation of the Senate of Serampore College (University), Achumi was awarded an M. Th. degree by then Registrar, C. Devasahayam.\n"}
{"id": "20782736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20782736", "title": "Opsis", "text": "Opsis\n\nOpsis () is the Greek word for spectacle in the theatre and performance. Its first use has been traced back to Aristotle's \"Poetics.\" It is now taken up by theatre critics, historians, and theorists to describe the mise en scène of a performance or theatrical event.\n\nOpsis comes from the ancient Greek for \"appearance, sight, view.\" The English word optic is derived from this word.\n\nAristotle's use of the term opsis, as Marvin Carlson points out, is the \"final element of tragedy,\" but the term \"receive[d] no further consideration\". Aristotle discusses opsis in book 6 of the poetics, but only goes as far as to suggest that \"spectacle has, indeed, an emotional attraction of its own, but, of all the parts, it is the least artistic, and connected least with the art of poetry. For the power of Tragedy, we may be sure, is felt even apart from representation and actors. Besides, the production of spectacular effects depends more on the art of the stage machinist than on that of the poet\".\n\nIn \"Theories of the Theatre\" by Marvin Carlson, the word opsis is replaced with the English equivalent \"spectacle,\" but gives opsis/spectacle as much focus as Aristotle does in the Poetics; however, in \"Dictionary of the Theatre: Terms, Concepts, and Analysis\" Opsis is listed in the \"terms\" section, and defined as:\nthat which is visible, offered to the [gaze], hence its connections with the notions of \"spectacle\" and \"performance\". In Aristotle's \"Poetics, spectacle\" is one of the six constituent parts of tragedy, but ranks below others considered to be more essential ... The place in theatre history assigned subsequently to the opsis, to what we would now call the [mise-en-scene], determined the mode of transmission and the overall meaning of the performance. \"Opsis\" is a spectific feature of the performing arts.\n\nJ. Michael Walton, in \"The Greek Sense of Theatre: Tragedy Reviewed\", challenges the traditional assumptions about Ancient Greek theatre. He states that “the visual aspect of the Greek theatre has for so long taken second place to the spoken word...it is still the common belief that what was said in the Greek tragedies was more important than what was seen.” Walton's thesis suggests that Ancient theatre lacks evidence of original productions, but that the written text, in comparison, is more accessible, and as a result, has caused Ancient theatre critics to relegate spectacle/mise-en-sene/opsis to less important aspects of theatre than the spoken word.\n\nRonald W. Vince, suggests that while it may \nseem logical simply to recognize \"opsis\" as stage spectacle or the \"mise-en-scene\" and so include it — if anywhere — in the vocabulary of performance theory. But there is implied even in Aristotle's use of the term a possible interpretation which would link \"opsis\" with the art of writing plays as well as with the art of staging them.\n"}
{"id": "31028977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31028977", "title": "Plateau Sign Language", "text": "Plateau Sign Language\n\nPlateau Sign Language, or Old Plateau Sign Language, is a poorly attested, extinct sign language historically used across the Columbian Plateau. The Crow Nation introduced Plains Sign Talk, which replaced Plateau Sign Language among the eastern nations that used it (the Coeur d’Alene, Sanpoil, Okanagan, Thompson, Lakes, Shuswap, and Coleville), with western nations shifting instead to Chinook Jargon.\n\n"}
{"id": "25565512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25565512", "title": "Power Without Responsibility", "text": "Power Without Responsibility\n\nPower Without Responsibility (subtitled: \"The Press and Broadcasting in Britain\" or \"Press, Broadcasting and the Internet in Britain\") is a book written by James Curran (Professor of Communications at Goldsmiths College) and Jean Seaton (Professor of Media History at the University of Westminster). Originally published in 1981 by Fontana, it has been translated into several languages and is now in its seventh edition. The title comes from a quote by former British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin. It details the history of the news media in the UK from the eighteenth century to the present. It has been cited by Noam Chomsky in the introduction to \"Manufacturing Consent\" and by him in a televised BBC interview with Andrew Marr. Nick Cohen rated it \"the best guide to the British media\" in a review for the \"New Statesman\".\n\nPart I - Press history\n\nPart II - Broadcasting history\n\nPart III - Rise of new media\n\nPart IV - Theories of the media\n\nPart V - Politics of the media\n"}
{"id": "16986816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16986816", "title": "Preservation Metadata: Implementation Strategies", "text": "Preservation Metadata: Implementation Strategies\n\nPREservation Metadata: Implementation Strategies (PREMIS) is an international working group concerned with developing metadata for use in digital preservation.\n\nIn 2003 the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC) and Research Libraries Group (RLG) established the PREMIS working group, which consisted of a multi-national roster of more than thirty representatives from the cultural, government, and private sectors, in order to define implementable, core preservation metadata, with guidelines/recommendations for management and use. \nPREMIS was “charged to define a set of semantic units that are implementation independent, practically oriented, and likely to be needed by most preservation repositories”. \n\nIn May 2005, PREMIS released \"Data Dictionary for Preservation Metadata: Final Report of the PREMIS Working Group\". This 237-page report includes: PREMIS Data Dictionary 1.0: a comprehensive, practical resource for implementing preservation metadata in digital archiving systems; accompanying report (providing context, data model, assumptions); special topics, glossary, usage examples; set of XML schema which was developed to support use of the Data Dictionary. Version 2.0 of PREMIS was released in March 2008. Version 3.0 of PREMIS was released in June 2015.\n\nEvery digital object usually has metadata with descriptive information about the object connected to it. Digital library professionals however are all too aware that metadata for access and discovery is no longer enough. These professionals are looking to the future with an eye towards preservation, not only of the digital objects themselves but its metadata as well. Consider that certain file formats can become obsolete and inaccessible by future applications. This would require either transforming older formats to new (migration), or reproducing the original experience with newer technology (emulation). Both strategies would require the following: technical metadata about the original files, the older hardware and software that they ran on, and what actions had been performed on them, all of which is preservation metadata. Preservation metadata therefore supports activities intended to ensure the long-term usability of a digital resource. \n\nThe PREMIS working group was created to further the work began by another initiative sponsored by the OCLC and the RLG: the Preservation Metadata Framework (PMF) working group. In 2001–2002 the PMF working group outlined the types of information that should be associated with an archived digital object. Their report, \"A Metadata Framework to Support the Preservation of Digital Objects\" (the \"Framework\"), proposed a list of prototype metadata elements. At this stage these proposed elements could not be implemented and additional work was needed. The PREMIS working group was asked to take the PMF group’s findings a step further and develop a data dictionary of core metadata for archived digital objects, as well as give guidance and suggest best practice for creating, managing, and using the metadata in preservation systems. \n\nIn November 2003 the PREMIS working group sought to understand how preservation repositories were actually implementing preservation metadata. A survey was performed on 70 organizations thought to be active in or interested in digital preservation. In December 2004 the PREMIS working group published its report, \"Implementing Preservation Repositories for Digital Materials: Current Practice and Emerging Trends in the Cultural Heritage Community\". The findings were extremely helpful in the development of the Data Dictionary. \n\nThe earlier \"Framework\" and the PREMIS Data Dictionary build on the Open Archival Information System (OAIS) reference model. The OAIS information model provides a conceptual foundation in the form of a taxonomy of information objects and packages for archived objects, and the structure of their associated metadata. The \"Framework\", through its deeply detailed mapping of preservation metadata to that conceptual structure, can be seen as an elaboration of OAIS. The PREMIS Data Dictionary, on the other hand, can be seen as a translation of the \"Framework\" into a set of implementable semantic units. It should be noted that the Data Dictionary and OAIS sometimes differ in terminology usage and these are noted in the Glossary. Differences usually reflect the fact that PREMIS semantic units require more specificity than the OAIS definitions provide, which is to be expected when moving from a conceptual framework to an implementation.\n\nThe PREMIS data model consists of five interrelated entities: Intellectual, Object, Event, Agent, and Rights with each semantic unit in the data dictionary categorized in one of these areas.\n\nAn intellectual entity is a set of content that constitutes a discrete, coherent intellectual unit, such as a book or a database. These may be compound objects containing other intellectual entities and may have multiple digital representations. Descriptive metadata is usually applied at this level; given the proliferation of competing schemes, the working group did not define any further descriptive semantic units and allowed for interoperability through “extension containers” (containers hold a related group of semantic units) that can be used for external schemes.\n\nMost of the semantic units listed in the data dictionary relate to object and event entities, the former being further divided into three subtypes of file, bitstream, and representation. A file is the level at which most end users are used to working, a “named and ordered sequence of bytes that is known by an operating system.” It includes a variety of file system attributes, rendering it understandable by an operating system, encompassing bitstreams, which are “contiguous or non-contiguous data within a file that has meaningful common properties for preservation purposes.” A representation is, in a sense, the “highest level” of this model, for it may encompass several files in order to properly render the structure and content of an intellectual entity. Not all repositories will be concerned with preserving representations, depending on their purpose and the curatorial body’s need to preserve what might be considered the entity’s digital “intrinsic value.” Furthermore, intellectual entities may have multiple representations within a repository. Events interrelate with objects insofar as they involve actions that have an effect on them or agents (\"a person, organization, or software...associated with Events...or with Rights attached to an object\") associated with the object.\n\nFinally, the inclusion of rights entities responds to an increased awareness of and concern for the legal requirements of copyright and licensing. It also includes information about the specific actions permitted; for example, semantic unit 4.1.6.1, act, “the action the preservation repository is allowed to take,” includes such suggested values as replicate, migrate, and delete.\n\nPREMIS data dictionary entries include twelve attribute fields, not all of which are applied to every semantic unit (analogous to an \"element\" in other metadata schemes). In addition to the name and definition of the unit, the fields record such things as rationale for including the unit, usage notes, and examples of how the value might be filled in. Four of the attributes - object category, applicability, repeatability, and obligation - are linked, as the last three are defined for each of the object entity levels of file, bitstream, and representation. The dictionary is hierarchical; some semantic units are contained within others. For example, 1.3 preservationLevel, includes four semantic components, such as 1.3.1 preservationLevelValue and 1.3.2 preservationLevelRole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39567408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39567408", "title": "Sally Gary", "text": "Sally Gary\n\nSally Gary (born September 19, 1961) is a speaker and author on the Christian approach to homosexuality.\n\nGary was born in Wichita Falls, Texas. She grew up going to Tenth and Broad Church of Christ in Wichita Falls. She attended Abilene Christian University and has a law degree from Texas Tech University. In 2006, Gary founded CenterPeace, a nonprofit ministry that creates safe spaces for Christians to talk about homosexuality. Gary also taught at Abilene Christian University in the department of communication from 2001 to 2011. In 2013 Gary authored \"Loves God, Likes Girls\", a memoir telling the story of her own journey experiencing homosexuality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22703423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22703423", "title": "Sholapith", "text": "Sholapith\n\nSholapith or Shola Pith (also referred to as shola and Indian cork) is a dried milky-white spongey plant matter from \"Aeschynomene\" sp. It can be pressed and shaped into objects of art.\n\nThe useful part of this plant is the bark of the wood (secondary-xylem) of the stem. This wood is often mistaken as the pith.\n\n\"Aeschynomene\" makes among the world's lightest woods.\n\nShola grows wild in marshy waterlogged areas. The biological name of shola is \"Aeschynomene aspera\" of the bean family. It is an herbaceous plant, which grows especially in the marshy areas of Bengal, Assam, Orissa and the Deccan. The sholapith is the cortex or core of the plant and is about 1.5 inch across.\n\nTraditionally sholapith products have been used for decorating Hindu idols and creating the headgear of brides and grooms for a traditional Bengali wedding. In more recent times, sholapith handicrafts have found a wider application in home décor such as Hindu gods and artistic objects.\n\nSholapith is similar in form to man-made polystyrene foam (sometimes known by the brand names Thermacol and Styrofoam), but is superior in terms of malleability, texture, lustre and sponginess.\n\nIn West Bengal, this craft is mainly practised in the districts of Bardhaman, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Nadia, Hooghly, Malda and south 24 Parganas district. Sholapith craftsmen are known as \"Malakar\", meaning \"garland maker\", probably because they made shola garlands for idols and for the noble class.\n\nAbout 5,000 artisans practice this craft. Craftsmen spend months on each piece. In Murshidabad shola crafts are flowery designs, decorative headwear of gods and goddesses, garlands, figurines such as the faces of gods and goddesses, elephant howdahs, peacock boats and palanquins. Shola products are exported to across the world. In South 24 Parganas, many poor families earn their livelihood from shola products. Big \"puj\"a \"pandels\" of Calcutta are beautifully decorated using shola. \n\nThe idol makers of Kumortuli who traditionally produced clay idols have taken to making idols of sholapith and fibreglass. While fibreglass products can cost around Rs 110,000-120,000, those prepared from sholapith cost Rs 90,000. The height of the idols can vary from four to nine feet. These are mostly purchased for Indian community puja organizers abroad.\n\nThe shola (sola)-style pith helmet—also known as the sun helmet, topee, shola topee, salacot or topi, is a lightweight helmet made of shola pith, with a cloth cover and a particular design and thickness designed to shade and insulate the wearer’s head from the sun. It was popular among Westerners in India, Pakistan, Egypt, Sudan, Iraq, Transjordan, Palestine, Sri Lanka, and other tropical and subtropical British colonies until the late 1960s.\nLater this style of hat became associated with colonial oppression and was slowly abandoned by Western visitors, but continues to be used by military units around the world. The Shola-style helmet has, however, recently gained popularity among traffic police in cities such as Chennai during the summer as they insulate the wearer from the oppressive South Asian summer heat.\nThe Shola-style pith helmet usually has a flattened top and thick brim with either square or rounded edges. It is easily confused with other styles of \"pith helmets\" that were manufactured outside India and are usually made from cork or other materials. Some shola-style pith helmets feature a crisscross quilt-stitched cloth cover. The latter had more rounded edges at the brim. The cork-style pith helmets, contrary to their misleading name, are not made out of pith; they are much thinner, heavier, and more rounded on the top.\n\nBoth styles of hats feature puggrees, air vents, khaki or white covers and green inner brim liners. Some have chin straps made of leather, in others they are made of cloth. Some Shola-style pith helmets feature a thin leather belt that runs from under the puggaree across the top. The chin strap commonly runs across the front brim. Shola pith helmets are still sold in Indian, Pakistani and Nepali polo-equipment stores, though they are seldom used in matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "11656077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11656077", "title": "Soupy Norman", "text": "Soupy Norman\n\nSoupy Norman is an eight-part Irish television programme broadcast by RTÉ. It aired weekly on Thursday nights at 23:05 on the RTÉ Two channel, in ten-minute segments. The series ran from May 2007 to December 2008. The show is a comedic re-dubbing of the Polish soap opera \"Pierwsza miłość\" (\"First Love\"), which has been running on Polsat television since 2004.\n\nThe series is written and edited by Barry Murphy and Mark Doherty, with additional voices provided by Tara Flynn, Sue Collins, Luke Murphy and Mario Rosenstock. Where the original soap opera dealt with a girl leaving her family behind to go to college, the re-dubbed version of the programme explores the culture shock of a dysfunctional Cork family in Dublin. The series' surreal humour led to a cult following, with its episodes being popular on YouTube.\n\nA special episode entitled \"The Late Late Soupy Norman Tribute\" which featured dubbed clips from RTÉ's \"The Late Late Show\" as well as clips from previous episodes of \"Soupy Norman\" as well as including a new scene of the show. This was broadcast on Christmas Eve 2007.\n\nA pilot sketch for the series initially aired on Armando Iannucci's show \"Time Trumpet\" on BBC 2, of which this show was a spin-off.\n\nThe main story of the show concerns Esther, a young girl from Buttevant, County Cork, who travels up to Dublin to study in college. There she encounters strong discrimination, for being a \"culchie\". She lives with Susan Costigan (or Gleeson, depending on the episode), described by Esther as \"a woman with red hair\", her daughter Kylie, her son Nathan (who becomes possessed by voices in the episode \"Omen\"), and her husband Declan. Kylie becomes Esther's friend, and they are seen stealing items (such as a dog) in the episode \"Margarita\".\n\nThe series' other main characters are Esther's father, named Jack, and her Grandad, known to Jack as \"Daddy\", who live in Buttevant. She has a sister, who is unseen throughout the series, who Jack mentions a few times (\"I have two daughters – two of them – and one of them's a boy\"). Grandad is an extreme authority figure, as seen in the first episode \"Buttevant\", often sending Jack to the \"bold chair\" if he disobeys him in any way. He constantly berates Jack, calling him a \"great big disappointment\". The two of them are mostly seen drinking vinegar (Jack thinking it was whisky), and being visited by Soupy Norman, the title character.\n\nSoupy is always extremely aggressive and inebriated, and is only ever seen stumbling into the pair's house, delivering rambling, nonsensical rantings to the two men, always trying to punch Jack. In one episode, he asks to marry Esther's sister. He refers to Esther as \"that culchie bitch\". The Soupy Norman sequences are always taken from the same scene from \"First Love\", and are repeated every episode.\n\nThe series has a subplot of Sean, a Dublin youth, trying to make a living in the city. He does this by applying for increasingly strange jobs, such as a builder, walking a dog with \"canine leg disorder\", running the \"Red Car Bar\" nightclub, and helping Satanic spirits in the episode \"Omen\" (a reference to the film \"The Omen\".)\n\nIn the final episode, \"Straz\", a character called Soupy Dave (who is sometimes seen throughout the series trying to sell Jack and Grandad shady goods such as prawns and whale meat) is contracted by Jack's estranged wife (rarely seen before this episode) to kill him, using a number of surreal techniques.\n\nAlthough unsuccessful on its initial broadcast, \"Soupy Norman\" acquired a following online and is now considered a cult classic, with a 2018 article on RTÉ's website naming it the third greatest Irish sitcom of all time, with the Rubberbandits commenting \"To this day I've no idea how RTE let something that good on TV\".\n"}
{"id": "36552747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36552747", "title": "State Palaces, Castles and Gardens of Saxony", "text": "State Palaces, Castles and Gardens of Saxony\n\nThe State Palaces, Castles and Gardens of Saxony () is a state-owned company with its head office in Dresden. It belongs to the Saxon State Ministry of Finance and has the aim of preserving Saxon cultural heritage whilst respecting cultural and conservation needs. The state-owned company manages several palaces, castles and parks in the Saxony. These include the Zwinger in Dresden, the Albrechtsburg in Meissen and Kriebstein Castle.\n\nFollowing the restoration of the Free State of Saxony on 3 October 1990, assets that had already been owned in the past by the state, or which had been managed during the East German era as legal entities under the Asset Allocation Act, were transferred into the ownership of the new German state.\n\nStarting on the first of January 1992, the state took over the following properties: Dresden Castle including the Johanneum and the Stallhof, the Dresden Zwinger and the Zwinger Gardens, the Japanese Palace with its palace garden, Pillnitz Castle and park, Moritzburg Palace and the surrounding landscape gardens, the Albrechtsburg in Meißen, Königstein Fortress, Schloss Weesenstein, Gnandstein Castle, Frauenstein castle ruins, Großsedlitz Baroque Gardens, Hubertusburg Palace, Nischwitz Palace, Stolpen Castle, Augustusburg Palace, Lichtenwalde Palace, the palace and park at Bad Muskau, Colditz Castle, Altzella Abbey, Nossen Palace, Wiederau Palace, Mildenstein Castle and the Ortenburg\n\nIn the following years, other historic buildings were allocated to the Free State of Saxony.\n\nWith a cabinet decision on third November 1992, 17 independent state companies were formed for some of the most important sites and placed under commercial management. These companies together formed the State Palaces Department (\"Staatliche Schlösserverwaltung\"). During the implementation phase, between 1 April 1993 and 1 January 1994, 15 state-owned enterprises were founded for the following properties:<ref name=\"2/10146\">Drucksache des Sächsischen Landtages 2/10146</ref>\n\nIn addition, the Palaces Department managed the following properties directly: the Albertinum, the Catholic Court Church, the Jägerhof, the Royal Burial Chapel at Freiberg, Colditz Castle, Lichtenwalde Palace and the Exhibition Hall of the Academy of Art.\n\nThe following properties remained under the administration of local authority land offices: the Japanese Palace, Siebeneichen Palace, Reinhardtsgrimma Palace, the Ortenburg, Hubertusburg Palace, Freudenstein Castle, Wurzen Palace, Grimma Palace Königswartha Palace, Suchominsky Villa, Sonnenstein Castle, Dippoldiswalde Palace, the Niederlauterstein castle ruins, the Frauenstein castle ruins, Wachwitz Palace, the Royal Villa, Lützschena Palace, Thallwitz Palace, the Grillenburg Hunting Lodge, Brauna Palace, the Keppschloss, Zehren-Schieritz Palace, Königsbrück Palace, Gaussig House, Hohenprießnitz Palace and Ruhenthal Palace. Many of these sites were later transferred to the towns and cities in which they were situated or sold off to third parties.\n\nOn 1 March 1996 the Saxon Palaces Department was incorporated into the State Finance Office. On 1 July 2000 the companies running Königstein Fortress on the one hand and the castles of Augustusburg, Lichtenwalde, and Scharfenstein on the other hand were turned in a charitable company. Their owner remains the Free State of Saxony. The management of those involved is carried out by the Palaces Department.\n\nIn the period from 1993 to 2003 the Palaces Department's share of the cost rose from 37% to 61.4%. As of 1 January 2003, the Palaces Department was separate from the State Office and a common public enterprise, the \"State Palaces, Castles and Gardens of Saxony\", was founded. The palace companies are its individual business units.\n\nIn 2005, the advertising association \"Schlösserland Sachsen\" (Castles of Saxony) was created, a federation of major governmental and non-governmental heritage building and gardens groups, which has the task of preserviing, maintaining and displaying Saxony's cultural monuments. Under this umbrella brand, in cooperation with the Saxony Tourism Marketing Corporation (TMGS), more than 50 castles, palaces, gardens, fortresses and castle hotels are marketed both nationwide and internationally.\n\nThe following palaces, castles and abbeys are partners in the \"Werbegemeinschaft Schlösserland Sachsen\":\n\nIn addition there are the properties owned by the hotel and hospitality industry: Hohnstein Castle, \"Churfuerstliche Waldschänke Moritzburg, Europa-Jugendherberge Schloss Colditz, Pension Zur Königlichen Ausspanne, Schloss Hotel Dresden-Pillnitz\" and \"Schlosshotel Gaußig\".\n\nThe state-owned palaces, castles and gardens receive about two million visitors every year.\n\nThe head office of the state company has five divisions under the management of Christian Striefler. The individual palace business units are run by a palace manager (\"Schlossleiter\").\n\nThe supervisory body for the state firm is the governing board (\"Verwaltungsrat\"). Its main task is the oversight of the business leadership and support to the manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "35732859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35732859", "title": "Susan Stryker", "text": "Susan Stryker\n\nSusan O'Neal Stryker is an American professor, author, filmmaker, and theorist whose work focuses on gender and human sexuality. She is associate professor of Gender and Women's Studies, former director of the Institute for LGBT Studies, and founder of the Transgender Studies Initiative at the University of Arizona. She is the author of several books about LGBT history and culture.\n\nStryker received a bachelor's degree in Letters from University of Oklahoma in 1983. She earned a Ph.D. in United States History at the University of California, Berkeley in 1992; the doctoral thesis she presented was \"Making Mormonism: A Critical and Historical Analysis of Cultural Formation\".\n\nStryker is an associate professor of Gender and Women's Studies at the University of Arizona, and is the former director of the university's Institute for LGBT Studies. She has served as a visiting professor at Harvard University, University of California, Santa Cruz, and Simon Fraser University. She is an openly lesbian trans woman who has produced a significant body of work about transgenderism and queer culture.\n\nShe came out as transgender and began to transition shortly after earning her doctorate. Her scholarly article \"My Words to Victor Frankenstein Above the Village of Chamounix\", published in 1994, was her first published academic article, and after trail-blazing Australian transgender academic Roberta Perkins who began publishing her research on female sex workers in the 1980s, one of the first articles ever published in a peer-reviewed academic journal by an openly transgender author.\n\nShe was later awarded a postdoctoral research fellowship in human sexuality studies at Stanford University, sponsored by the Social Science Research Council and the Ford Foundation. From 1999 to 2003, she was the executive director of the GLBT Historical Society in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2013, Stryker established the Transgender Studies Initiative at the University of Arizona. She focused on \"hiring faculty of color\", in her own words.\n\nIn 2015, Yale University awarded Stryker the James Robert Brudner Class of 1983 Memorial Prize for lifetime accomplishment and scholarly contributions in the field of lesbian and gay studies. In 2007, the Monette-Horowitz Trust honored her for her anti-homophobia activism. Among her other honors are a Community Vanguard Award from the Transgender Law Center, and recognition as a \"Local Hero\" by San Francisco public television station KQED.\n\nStryker's first book, \"Gay by the Bay: A History of Queer Culture in the San Francisco Bay Area\" (Chronicle Books 1996), coauthored with Jim Van Buskirk, is an illustrated account of the evolution of LGBT culture in the San Francisco Bay Area of Northern California. This book and its successor, \"Queer Pulp\", were each nominated for a Lambda Literary Award.\n\nIn the critical survey \"Queer Pulp: Perverted Passions from the Golden Age of the Paperback\" (Chronicle Books 2001), Stryker turned her attention to the lesbian pulp fiction and gay male pulp fiction published in the United States from the 1930s through the 1960s.\n\nWith Stephen Whittle she co-edited \"The Transgender Studies Reader\" (Routledge 2006), which was her first work to win a Lambda Literary Award. Her following book, \"Transgender History\" (Seal Press 2008), covers transvestism, transgender people, and transsexualism in the United States from the conclusion of World War II to the 2000s.\n\nStryker is now working on a new book project, \"Cross-Dressing for Empire: Gender and Performance at the Bohemian Grove\". The Bohemian Grove is a campground in Northern California, and the summer meeting-place of the Bohemian Club, a private organization of American men with considerable political and economic power or cultural influence.\n\nStryker received a San Francisco / Northern California Emmy Award for her directorial work on \"Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton's Cafeteria\" (2005), a documentary film about the Gene Compton's Cafeteria riot of 1966; the film was co-written, -directed, and -produced by Victor Silverman. With director Michelle Lawler and executive producer Kim Klausner she subsequently co-produced \"Forever's Gonna Start Tonight\" (2009), a documentary film about Vicki Marlane, an HIV-positive, transgender performer at nightclubs and lounges. Stryker's most recent documentary is \"Christine in the Cutting Room\" (2013), an experimental film about Christine Jorgensen.\n\nMonika Treut filmed and interviewed Stryker for the 1999 documentary film \"Gendernauts: A Journey Through Shifting Identities\". She was also interviewed for a 2002 episode of the long-running television documentary series \"SexTV\", and for two episodes of \"\" (2008). She is featured in the documentary film \"Reel in the Closet\" (2015), directed by Stu Maddux.\n\nStryker and Paisley Currah co-edit \"\", the first non-medical academic journal devoted to transgender issues. The journal premiered in 2014.\n\nStryker's scholarly papers have been published in \"\", \"WSQ: Women's Studies Quarterly\", \"parallax\", \"Radical History Review\", and other academic journals. In 2008, she was nominated for a GLAAD Media Award for her Salon.com article \"Why the T in LGBT is Here to Stay\", a response to John Aravosis' 2007 article \"How did the T get in LGBT?\".\n\nIn one paper, \"Transgender Studies: Queer Theory's Evil Twin\" (2004), Stryker describes how transgender people are often marginalized within the queer community, and how the academic discipline of Queer Studies privileges specific narratives of sexual orientation over gender identity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31998621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31998621", "title": "Taíno", "text": "Taíno\n\nThe Taíno were an indigenous people of the Caribbean. At the time of European contact in the late fifteenth century, they were the principal inhabitants of most of Cuba, Hispaniola (the Dominican Republic and Haiti), Jamaica, Puerto Rico, The Bahamas and the northern Lesser Antilles. The Taíno were the first New World peoples to encounter Europeans, during the voyages of Christopher Columbus, starting in 1492. They spoke the Taíno language, an Arawakan language.\n\nThe ancestors of the Taíno originated in South America, and the Taíno culture as documented developed in the Caribbean. Taíno groups were in conflict with the Island Caribs of the southern Lesser Antilles. At the time of contact, the Taíno were divided into several groups. Western Taíno groups included the Lucayans of the Bahamas, the Ciboney of central Cuba, and the inhabitants of Jamaica. The Classic Taíno lived in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, while the Eastern Taíno lived in the northern islands of the Lesser Antilles.\n\nAt the time of Columbus's arrival in 1492, there were five Taíno chiefdoms in Hispaniola, each led by a principal (chief), to whom tribute was paid. The Taíno name for Hispaniola was (\"land of high mountains\"), which is the source of the name \"Haiti\". Cuba was divided into 29 chiefdoms, many of which have given their name to modern cities, including Havana, Batabanó, Camagüey, Baracoa, and Bayamo. Taíno communities ranged from small settlements to larger centers of up to 3,000 people. They may have numbered 2 million at the time of contact.\n\nThe Spanish conquered various Taíno chiefdoms during the late fifteenth and early sixteenth century. Warfare and harsh enslavement by the colonists decimated the population. European diseases also played a major role; a smallpox epidemic in Hispaniola in 1518-1519 killed almost 90% of the surviving Taíno. The remaining Taíno were intermarried with Europeans and Africans, and were incorporated into the Spanish colonies. The Taíno were considered extinct by the end of the century. However, since about 1840, there have been attempts to create a quasi-indigenous Taíno identity in rural areas of Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico. This trend accelerated among Puerto Rican communities in the mainland United States in the 1960s. At the 2010 U.S. census, 1,098 people in Puerto Rico identified themselves as \"Puerto Rican Indian\", 1,410 identified as \"Spanish American Indian\", and 9,399 identified as \"Taíno.\" In total, 35,856 Puerto Ricans considered themselves Native American.\n\nA direct translation of the word \"Taíno\" signified \"men of the good\". Additionally, the name was used by the indigenous people of Hispaniola to indicate that they were \"relatives\". The Taíno people, or Taíno culture, has been classified by some authorities as belonging to the Arawak, as their language was considered to belong to the Arawak language family, the languages of which were present throughout the Caribbean, and much of Central and South America.\nThe early ethnohistorian Daniel Garrison Brinton called the Taíno people the \"Island Arawak\". \nNevertheless, contemporary scholars have recognized that the Taíno had developed a distinct language and culture.\n\nTaíno and Arawak appellations have been used with numerous and contradictory meanings by writers, travelers, historians, linguists, and anthropologists. Often they were used interchangeably; \"Taíno\" has been applied to the Greater Antillean nation only, or including the Bahamian nations, or adding the Leeward Islands nations, or all those excluding the Puerto Rican and Leeward nations. Similarly, \"Island Taíno\" has been used to refer to those living in the Windward Islands only, to the northern Caribbean inhabitants only, as well as to the population of the entire Caribbean.\n\nModern historians, linguists and anthropologists now hold that the term Taíno should refer to all the Taíno/Arawak nations except for the Caribs, who are not seen to belong to the same people. Linguists continue to debate whether the Carib language is an Arawakan dialect or creole language, or perhaps an individual language, with an Arawakan pidgin used for communication purposes.\n\nRouse classifies as Taíno all inhabitants of the Greater Antilles (except the western tip of Cuba), the Bahamian archipelago, and the northern Lesser Antilles. He subdivides the Taíno into three main groups: Classic Taíno, mostly from Haiti, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic; Western Taíno, or sub-Taíno, for population from Jamaica, Cuba (except for the western tip), and the Bahamian archipelago; and Eastern Taíno for those from the Virgin Islands to Montserrat.\n\nTwo schools of thought have emerged regarding the origin of the indigenous people of the Caribbean.\n\n\nTaíno culture as documented is believed to have developed in the Caribbean. The Taíno creation story says that they emerged from caves in a sacred mountain on present-day Hispaniola. In Puerto Rico, 21st century studies have shown a high proportion of people having Amerindian MtDNA. Of the two major haplotypes found, one does not exist in the Taíno ancestral group, so other Native American people are also part of this genetic ancestry.\n\nTaíno society was divided into two classes: \"naborias\" (commoners) and \"nitaínos\" (nobles). These were governed by male chiefs known as \"caciques\", who inherited their position through their mother's noble line. The nitaínos functioned as sub-caciques in villages, overseeing naborias work. Caciques were advised by priests/healers known as \"bohiques\". Caciques enjoyed the privilege of wearing golden pendants called \"guanín\", living in square \"bohíos,\" instead of the round ones of ordinary villagers, and sitting on wooden stools to be above the guests they received. Bohiques were extolled for their healing powers and ability to speak with deities. They were consulted and granted the Taíno permission to engage in important tasks.\n\nThe Taíno had a matrilineal system of kinship, descent, and inheritance. When a male heir was not present, the inheritance or succession would go to the oldest male child of the sister of the deceased. The Taíno had avunculocal post-marital residence, meaning a newly married couple lived in the household of the maternal uncle. He was more important in the lives of his niece's children than their biological father; the uncle introduced the boys to men's societies. Some Taíno practiced polygamy. Men, and sometimes women, might have two or three spouses. A few caciques had as many as 30 wives.\n\nThe Taíno women were highly skilled in agriculture. The people depended on it, but the men also fished and hunted. They made fishing nets and ropes from cotton and palm. Their dugout canoes (\"kanoa\") were made in various sizes, which could hold from 2 to 150 people. An average-sized canoe would hold about 15–20 people. They used bows and arrows for hunting, and developed the use of poisons on their arrowheads.\n\nA frequently worn hair style for women featured bangs in front and longer hair in back. They sometimes wore gold jewelry, paint, and/or shells. Taíno men and unmarried women were usually naked. After marriage, women wore a small cotton apron, called a \"nagua\".\nThe Taíno lived in settlements called \"yucayeques\", which varied in size depending on the location. Those in Puerto Rico and Hispaniola were the largest, and those in the Bahamas were the smallest. In the center of a typical village was a central plaza, used for various social activities such as games, festivals, religious rituals, and public ceremonies. These plazas had many shapes, including oval, rectangular, narrow, and elongated. Ceremonies where the deeds of the ancestors were celebrated, called \"areitos\", were performed here.\n\nOften, the general population lived in large circular buildings (\"bohios\"), constructed with wooden poles, woven straw, and palm leaves. These houses, built surrounding the central plaza, could hold 10-15 families each. The cacique and his family lived in rectangular buildings (\"caney\") of similar construction, with wooden porches. Taíno home furnishings included cotton hammocks (\"hamaca\"), sleeping and sitting mats made of palms, wooden chairs (dujo or duho) with woven seats, platforms, and cradles for children.\nThe Taíno played a ceremonial ball game called \"batey\". Opposing teams had 10 to 30 players per team and used a solid rubber ball. Normally, the teams were composed of men, but occasionally women played the game as well. The Classic Taíno played in the village's center plaza or on especially designed rectangular ball courts called \"batey\". Games on the \"batey\" are believed to have been used for conflict resolution between communities. The most elaborate ball courts are found at chiefdom boundaries. Often, chiefs made wagers on the possible outcome of a game.\n\nTaíno spoke an Arawakan language and used an early form of writing Proto-writing in the form of petroglyph.\n\nSome words that they used, such as \"barbacoa\" (\"barbecue\"), \"hamaca\" (\"hammock\"), \"kanoa\" (\"canoe\"), \"tabaco\" (\"tobacco\"), \"yuca\", \"batata\" (\"sweet potato\"), and \"juracán\" (\"hurricane\"), have been incorporated into Spanish and English.\n\nFor warfare, the men made wooden war clubs, which they called a \"macana.\" It was about one inch thick and was similar to the coco macaque.\n\nTaíno staples included vegetables, fruit, meat, and fish. There were no large animals native to the Caribbean, but they captured and ate small animals, such as hutias and other mammals, earthworms, lizards, turtles, and birds. Manatees were speared and fish were caught in nets, speared, trapped in weirs, or caught with hook and line. Wild parrots were decoyed with domesticated birds, and iguanas were taken from trees and other vegetation. The Taíno stored live animals until they were ready to be consumed: fish and turtles were stored in weirs, hutias and dogs were stored in corrals.\n\nDue to this lack of large game, the Taíno people became very skilled fishermen. One technique was to hook a remora, also known as a suckerfish, to a line secured to a canoe and wait for the fish to attach itself to a larger fish or even a sea turtle. Once this happened, men would jump into the water and bring in their assisted catch. Another method used by the Taínos was to take shredded stems and roots of poisonous senna shrubs and throw them into nearby streams or rivers. Upon eating the bait, the fish were stunned just long enough to allow the fishermen to gather them in. This poison did not affect the edibility of the fish. Taíno youth, mostly young boys, also collected mussels and oysters in shallow waters and within the mangroves.\n\nTaíno groups in the more developed islands, such as Puerto Rico, Hispaniola, and Jamaica, relied more on agriculture (farming and other jobs). Fields for important root crops, such as the staple yuca, were prepared by heaping up mounds of soil, called \"conucos.\" This improved soil drainage and fertility as well as delaying erosion, allowed for longer storage of crops in the ground. Less important crops such as corn were raised in simple clearings created by slash and burn technique. Typically, \"conucos\" were three feet high and nine feet in circumference and were arranged in rows. The primary root crop was yuca or cassava, a woody shrub cultivated for its edible and starchy tuberous root. It was planted using a \"coa\", a kind of hoe made completely from wood. Women processed the poisonous variety of cassava by squeezing it to extract the toxic juices. Then they would grind the roots into flour for baking bread. \"Batata\" (sweet potato) was the next most important root crop.\n\nContrary to mainland practices, corn was not ground into flour and baked into bread, but was cooked and eaten off the cob. Corn bread becomes moldy faster than cassava bread in the high humidity of the Caribbean. Corn also was used to make an alcoholic beverage known as chicha. The Taíno grew squash, beans, peppers, peanuts, and pineapples. Tobacco, calabashes (West Indian pumpkins), and cotton were grown around the houses. Other fruits and vegetables, such as palm nuts, guavas, and \"Zamia\" roots, were collected from the wild.\n\nTaíno spirituality centered on the worship of zemís. A zemí is a spirit or ancestor. The major Taíno zemis are Atabey and her son, Yúcahu. Atabey, was the zemi of the moon, fresh waters, and fertility. Other names for her include, Guabancex, Atabei, Atabeyra, Atabex, and Guimazoa. Guabancex was the non-nurturing aspect of the zemi Atabey who had control over natural disasters. Juracán is often identified as the zemi of storms, but the word simply means hurricane in the Taíno language. Guabancex had two assistants: Guataubá, a messenger who created hurricane winds, and Coatrisquie who created floodwaters. The Taínos of Quisqueya (Dominican Republic) called her son, \"Yucahú Bagua Maorocotí\", which means \"White Yuca, great and powerful as the sea and the mountains\". He was the spirit of cassava, the zemi of cassava – the Taínos' main crop – and the sea. \n\nThe minor Taíno zemis related to the growing of cassava, the process of life, creation, and death. Baibrama was a minor zemi worshiped for his assistance in growing cassava and curing people from its poisonous juice. Boinayel and his twin brother Márohu were the zemis of rain and fair weather, respectively. \n\nMaquetaurie Guayaba or Maketaori Guayaba was the zemi of Coaybay or Coabey, the land of the dead. Opiyelguabirán', a dog-shaped zemi, watched over the dead. Deminán Caracaracol, a male cultural hero from whom the Taíno believed themselves to be descended, was worshipped as a zemí. Macocael was a cultural hero worshipped as a zemi, who had failed to guard the mountain from which human beings arose. He was punished by being turned into stone, or a bird, a frog, or a reptile, depending on interpretation of the myth.\nZemí was also the name the people gave to their physical representations of the Zemis, whether objects or drawings. They were made in many forms and materials and have been found in a variety of settings. The majority of zemís were crafted from wood, but stone, bone, shell, pottery, and cotton were used as well. Zemí petroglyphs were carved on rocks in streams, ball courts, and on stalagmites in caves. \"Cemí\" pictographs were found on secular objects such as pottery, and on tattoos. Yucahú, the zemi of cassava, was represented with a three-pointed zemí, which could be found in \"conucos\" to increase the yield of cassava. Wood and stone zemís have been found in caves in Hispaniola and Jamaica. \"Cemís\" are sometimes represented by toads, turtles, fish, snakes, and various abstract and human-like faces.\nSome zemís are accompanied by a small table or tray, which is believed to be a receptacle for hallucinogenic snuff called \"cohoba,\" prepared from the beans of a species of \"Piptadenia\" tree. These trays have been found with ornately carved snuff tubes. Before certain ceremonies, Taínos would purify themselves, either by inducing vomiting (with a swallowing stick) or by fasting. After communal bread was served, first to the zemí, then to the cacique, and then to the common people, the people would sing the village epic to the accompaniment of maraca and other instruments.\n\nOne Taíno oral tradition explains that the Sun and Moon come out of caves. Another story tells of people who once lived in caves and only came out at night, because it was believed that the Sun would transform them. The Taíno believed they were descended from the union of the cultural hero Deminán Caracaracol and a female turtle. The origin of the oceans is described in the story of a huge flood that occurred when a father murdered his son (who was about to murder the father). The father put his son's bones into a gourd or calabash. When the bones turned into fish, the gourd broke, and all the water of the world came pouring out.\n\nTaínos believed that Jupias, the souls of the dead, would go to Coaybay, the underworld, and there they rest by day. At night they would assume the form of bats and eat the guava fruit.\n\nColumbus and his crew were the first Europeans to encounter the Taíno people, as they landed in The Bahamas on October 12, 1492. After their first interaction, Columbus described the Taínos as a physically tall, well-proportioned people, with a noble and kind personality.\n\nIn his diary, Columbus wrote:\nAt this time, the neighbors of the Taíno were the Guanahatabeys in the western tip of Cuba, the Island-Caribs in the Lesser Antilles from Guadeloupe to Grenada, and the Calusa and Ais nations of Florida. Guanahaní was the Taíno name for the island that Columbus renamed as \"San Salvador\" (Spanish for \"Holy Savior\"). Columbus called the Taíno \"Indians\", a reference that has grown to encompass all the indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere. A group of Taíno people accompanied Columbus on his return voyage to Spain.\n\nOn Columbus' second voyage to their culture, he began to require tribute from the Taíno in Hispaniola. According to Kirkpatrick Sale, each adult over 14 years of age was expected to deliver a hawks bell full of gold every three months, or when this was lacking, twenty-five pounds of spun cotton. If this tribute was not brought, the Spanish cut off the hands of the Taíno and left them to bleed to death. These cruel practices inspired many revolts by the Taíno and campaigns against the Spanish — some being successful, some not.\n\nIn 1511, several caciques in Puerto Rico, such as Agüeybaná II, Arasibo, Hayuya, Jumacao, Urayoán, Guarionex, and Orocobix, allied with the Carib and tried to oust the Spaniards. The revolt was suppressed by the Indio-Spanish forces of Governor Juan Ponce de León. Hatuey, a Taíno chieftain who had fled from Hispaniola to Cuba with 400 natives to unite the Cuban natives, was burned at the stake on February 2, 1512.\n\nIn Hispaniola, a Taíno chieftain named Enriquillo mobilized more than 3,000 Taíno in a successful rebellion in the 1520s. These Taíno were accorded land and a charter from the royal administration. Despite the small Spanish military presence in the region, they often used diplomatic divisions and, with help from powerful native allies, controlled most of the region. In exchange for a seasonal salary, religious and language education, the Taíno were required to work for Spanish and Indian land owners. This system of labor was part of the \"encomienda\".\n\nTaíno society was based on a matrilineal system and descent was traced through the mother. Women lived in village groups containing their children. The men lived separately. Because of this Taíno women had extensive control over their lives, their co-villagers, and their bodies. Since they lived separately from men, they were able to decide when they wanted to participate in sexual contact. This social organization partially shaped the views of conquistadors who came in contact with Taíno culture. They reportedly perceived women as \"macha women\" who had strong control over the men.\n\nAlthough unclear, most historical evidence suggests that Taíno gender roles were non exclusive regarding most of the activities in their community.\n\nTaíno women played an important role in intercultural interaction between Spaniards and the Taíno people. When Taíno men were away fighting intervention from other groups, women assumed the roles of primary food producers or ritual specialists. Women seem to have participated in all levels of the Taíno political hierarchy, occupying roles as high up as being \"caciques\". Potentially, this meant that Taíno women could make the important choices for the village and could give the permission for Taíno men and women to take on the important tasks needed. There is evidence that suggests that the women who were wealthiest among the tribe collected crafted goods that they would then use for trade or as gifts.\n\nDespite women being seemingly independent in Taíno society, during the era of contact Spaniards took Taíno women as an exchange item, putting them in a non-autonomous position. Dr. Chanca, a physician who traveled with Christopher Columbus, reported in a letter that Spaniards took as many women as they possibly could and kept them as concubines. Some sources report that, despite women being free and powerful before the contact era, they became the first commodities up for Spaniards to trade, or often, steal. This marked the beginning of a lifetime of kidnapping and abuse of Taíno women.\n\nEarly population estimates of Hispaniola, probably the most populous island inhabited by Taínos, range from 100,000 to 1,000,000 people. The maximum estimates for Jamaica and Puerto Rico are 600,000 people. The Spanish priest and defender of the Taíno, Bartolomé de las Casas (who had lived in Santo Domingo), wrote in his 1561 multi-volume \"History of the Indies\":\n\nResearchers today doubt Las Casas' figures for the pre-contact levels of the Taíno population, considering them an exaggeration. For example, Anderson Córdova estimates a maximum of 500,000 people inhabiting the island. The Taíno population estimates vary a great deal, from a few hundred thousand up to 8,000,000. They had no resistance to Old World diseases, notably smallpox. The \"encomienda\" system brought many Taíno to work in the fields and mines in exchange for Spanish protection, education, and a seasonal salary. Under the pretense of searching for gold and other materials, many Spaniards took advantage of the regions now under control of the \"anaborios\" and Spanish \"encomenderos\" to exploit the native population by seizing their land and wealth. It would take some time before the Taíno revolted against their oppressors — both Indian and Spanish alike — and many military campaigns before Emperor Charles V eradicated the \"encomienda\" system as a form of slavery.\n\nIn thirty years, between 80% and 90% of the Taíno population died. Because of the increased number of people (Spanish) on the island, there was a higher demand for food. Taíno cultivation was converted to Spanish methods. In hopes of frustrating the Spanish, some Taínos refused to plant or harvest their crops. The supply of food became so low in 1495 and 1496 that some 50,000 died from the severity of the famine. Historians have determined that the massive decline was due more to infectious disease outbreaks than any warfare or direct attacks. By 1507 their numbers had shrunk to 60,000. Scholars believe that epidemic disease (smallpox, influenza, measles, and typhus) was the overwhelming cause of the population decline of the indigenous people.\n\nGroups of people currently identify as Taíno, most notably among the Puerto Ricans, Cubans, Jamaicans, and Dominicans, both on the islands and on United States mainland.\n\nSome scholars, such as Jalil Sued Badillo, an ethnohistorian at the University of Puerto Rico, assert that although the official Spanish histories speak of the disappearance of the Taínos as an ethnic identification, many survivors left descendants - usually by intermarrying with other ethnic groups. Recent research revealed a high percentage of mixed or tri-racial ancestry in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. Those claiming Taíno ancestry also have Spanish ancestry or African ancestry, and often, both.\n\nFrank Moya Pons, a Dominican historian, documented that Spanish colonists intermarried with Taíno women. Over time, some of their mixed descendants intermarried with Africans, creating a tri-racial Creole culture. 1514 census records reveal that 40% of Spanish men on the island of Hispaniola had Taíno wives. Ethnohistorian Lynne Guitar writes that the Taíno were declared extinct in Spanish documents as early as the sixteenth century; however, individual Taínos continued to appear in wills and legal records for several decades after the arrival of the Spaniards.\n\nEvidence suggests that some Taíno men and African women inter-married and lived in relatively isolated Maroon communities in the interior of the islands, where they evolved into a hybrid rural or campesino population with little or no interference from the Spanish authorities. Scholars also note that contemporary rural Dominicans retain Taíno linguistic features, agricultural practices, food ways, medicine, fishing practices, technology, architecture, oral history, and religious views. Often these cultural traits are looked down upon by urbanites as backward, however.\n\nSixteen “autosomal” studies of peoples in the Spanish-speaking Caribbean and its diaspora (mostly Puerto Ricans) have shown that between 10-20% of their DNA is indigenous, with some individuals having slightly higher scores and others having lower scores or no indigenous DNA at all. A recent study of a population in eastern Puerto Rico where the majority of persons tested claimed Taíno ancestry and pedigree showed that they had 61% mtDNA (distant maternal ancestry) and 0% y-chromosome DNA (distant paternal ancestry) demonstrating as expected that this is a hybrid creole population.\n\nGroups, such as the Jatibonicu Taino Tribal Nation of Boriken Puerto Rico (1970), the Taíno Nation of the Antilles N.Y.C. (1993), United Confederation of Taíno People N.Y.C (1998), and El Pueblo Guatu Ma-Cu A Borikén Puerto Rico (2000), have been established to foster Taíno culture.\nTaíno activists have created two unique writing scripts. The scripts are used to write Spanish, not a retained language from pre-Columbian ancestors. The organization Guaka-kú teaches and uses their script among their own members. The LGTK (Liga Guakía Taína-ké) has promoted teaching their script among elementary and middle school students to strengthen their interest in Taíno identity.\n\nIn February 2018, a DNA study from an ancient tooth determined that the Taínos have living descendants in Puerto Rico, indicating that most Puerto Ricans have a degree of Taíno ancestry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18154691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18154691", "title": "Terra pericolosa", "text": "Terra pericolosa\n\nTerra pericolosa is an Italian phrase for \"dangerous land\", used in cartography to denote regions that are believed to be likely to put the travellers in jeopardy. Such regions would probably not have been mapped or documented fully. \n\n"}
{"id": "1317673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317673", "title": "Tewa language", "text": "Tewa language\n\nTewa is a Tanoan language spoken by Pueblo people, mostly in the Rio Grande valley in New Mexico north of Santa Fe, and in Arizona. It is also known as Tano, or (archaic) Tée-wah.\n\nThe 1980 census counted 1,298 speakers, almost all of whom are bilingual in English. Each pueblo or reservation where it is spoken has a dialect:\n\n\nTewa is also spoken by the Arizona Tewa (Hopi-Tewa, Tano) who live at Hano on the Hopi Reservation in Arizona.\n\nAs of 2012, Tewa is defined as \"definitely endangered\" in Arizona and \"severely endangered\" in New Mexico by UNESCO.\n\nIn the names \"Pojoaque\" and \"Tesuque\", the element spelled \"que\" (pronounced something like in Tewa, or in English) is Tewa for \"place\".\n\nTewa can be written with the Latin script; this is occasionally used for such purposes as signs (\"Be-pu-wa-ve\", \"Welcome\", or \"sen-ge-de-ho\",\"Bye\"). Because alphabet systems have been developed in the different pueblos, Tewa has a variety of orthographies rather than a single standardized alphabet. The written form of the language is not as ubiquitous as in languages such as Cherokee or Navajo, because some Tewa speakers feel that the language should be passed on through the oral tradition. The Tewa language was a spoken language through the 1960s; digital language documentation efforts were underway as of 1995.\n\nThe phonemes of Rio Grande Tewa are as follows:\n\nEsther Martinez, who lived to be 94 years old, was nationally known for her commitment to preserving the Tewa language. Her San Juan Pueblo Tewa Dictionary was published in 1982. The Esther Martinez Native American Languages Preservation Act is named for her, and as of Sept. 15, 2012, members of the New Mexico congressional delegation have introduced legislation to extend the program for another five years.\n\nTewa language programs are available for children in most of the Tewa-speaking pueblos. The Santa Clara Pueblo Tewa Language Revitalization Program also sponsors cultural activities, such as visiting Crow Canyon. \n\nChildren's stories in Tewa have been digitized by the University of New Mexico, and are available online.\n\nA 2012 documentary film, \"The Young Ancestors\", follows a group of teenagers from Santa Fe Preparatory School as they learn the Tewa language in a self-study program with the help of a mentor, seventh grade literature teacher Laura Kaye Eagles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43266934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43266934", "title": "The Chinese in Latin America and the Caribbean", "text": "The Chinese in Latin America and the Caribbean\n\nThe Chinese in Latin America and the Caribbean is a 2010 book edited by Walton Look Lai and Tan Chee-Beng and published by Brill.\n\nThe essays in the book were previously published as a portion of an issue of the \"Journal of Overseas Chinese\", a publication of the International Society for the Study of Chinese Overseas (ISSCO) of Singapore. Look Lai is a University of the West Indies (UWI) professor who specialized in studying the British Caribbean population of Chinese and Southeast Asians. Tan, a Hong Kong-based man who is the editor of the \"Journal of Overseas Chinese\", is a specialist in studying the Southeast Asian ethnic Chinese populations.\n\nLook Lai wrote the introduction.\n\nThe remaining portion of the book has three parts, which together have eight chapters. The Chinese immigration discussed in these chapters include those from the early colonial era to the present.\n\nThe sole article of Part I is \"The Early Colonial Period\" by Edward Slack, Jr. This article discusses the first Chinese immigration to Mexico. The source material of this chapter originates from the General Archive of the Indies in Seville, Spain and the \"Archivo General de la Nación\" in Mexico City. John Kuo Wei Tchen of New York University wrote that the Slack article \"is a valuable baseline framing of the early Manila-Acapulco “China trade,” the Asian peoples moving to colonial Mexico, and the emergence of the New World typology of “chino” or “indio chino,” a legal subcategory of the “indios” of the Americas.\"\n\nPart II, \"The Classic Migration,\" includes Chapters 2-5. Chapter 2, written by Look Lai, discusses overall migration from Asia during the 19th Century. Chapter 3, written by Evelyn Hu-Dehart, discusses anti-Chinese sentiment in Latin America. Hu-Dehart's essay examines a question asked by Nicolás Cárdenas García, a scholar from Mexico, on whether the Chinese in Latin America are \"integrated and foreign.\" Chapter 4, written by Belizian St. John Robinson, is a comparative analysis which discusses Chinese populations of Central America. Chapter 5, written by Lisa Yun, is an interview with Ruthanne Lum discussing Lum's book, \"God of Luck\". Dorothea A. L. Martin of Appalachian State University stated that the first two chapters of this section are \"the anchors of the work\".\n\nPart III, \"Old Migrants, new Immigration,\" includes Chapters 6-8. The overall focus are relations between different generations of immigrants in Latin America. Chapter 6, by Isabelle Lausent-Herrera, discusses the history and internal relations of Chinese Peruvians. Chapter 7, written by anthropologist Paul B. Tjon Sie Fat, discusses the groups of Chinese Surinamese and their responses to anti-Chinese sentiment. Chapter 8, by Kathleen Lopez, discusses Chinese Cubans in the post-Soviet Union era. The article discusses a PRC-Cuba initiative to renovate the Havana Chinatown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18210164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18210164", "title": "The Review of Metaphysics", "text": "The Review of Metaphysics\n\nThe Review of Metaphysics is a peer-reviewed academic journal of philosophy. It was established by Paul Weiss and the first issue was published in September 1947. The journal's primary sponsor is and has been The Catholic University of America, but other major universities help sustain it. All issues are available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\nThe journal publishes articles on metaphysics and on the history of philosophy. It also has a large book review section and lists the abstracts of other English-based philosophy journals. Once a year, it publishes statistics on the philosophy graduate programs in North America. The current editor-in-chief is John C. McCarthy (School of Philosophy, The Catholic University of America). \n\n"}
{"id": "34468438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34468438", "title": "West India Committee", "text": "West India Committee\n\nThe West India Committee, later also known as The Committee to the West Indies was an English charity formed out of the London Society of West India Planters and Merchants, established in 1780 as a lobby group for British-based merchants and absentee plantation owners with business interests in the Caribbean and which later became a group promoting Caribbean businesses to the world's major markets.\n\nThe principal commodities were cane sugar, rum, mahogany, other softwood, spices and tropical produce, early on largely confined to types which would last a long transatlantic voyage such as coffee, nuts and desiccated coconut but later expanded to include tropical fruits in general.\n\nIn 1904, the committee received a (royal) charter of incorporation at the initiative of the British government. It later acquired charitable status and established two subsidiary bodies: \n\nAmong its records are for example eight collections of Caribbean and English newspapers 1761–1846, reports of the Acting Committee to the Half-Yearly Meeting of the Standing Committee of West India Planters and Merchants, 1878–1883 and albums of photographs and press cuttings on the 1907 Kingston earthquake in Jamaica, a country that was a major subject of its promotion work.\n\nFrom at least 1915–1929 its Secretary was Sir Algernon Edward Aspinall who in the name of his committee published geographical guides to Guyana and the British Caribbean, such as a 1907 Stanford's Guide: \"Pocket Guide to the West Indies\" and \"The Handbook of the British West Indies, British Guiana and British Honduras\" (1929).\nThe Chief Executive is Blondel Cluff CBE, who is also the Anguilla government’s representative in the United Kingdom. \n"}
{"id": "10681572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10681572", "title": "Yōga", "text": "Yōga\n\nEuropean painting was introduced to Japan during the late Muromachi period along with Christian missionaries. Early religious works by Japanese artists in imitation of works brought by the missionaries can be considered some of the earliest forms of \"Yōga\". However, the policy of national seclusion introduced by the Tokugawa bakufu in the Edo period effectively ended the influence of western art on Japanese painting, with the exception of the use of perspective, which was discovered by Japanese artists in sketches found in European medical and scientific texts imported from the Dutch via Nagasaki.\n\nIn 1855, the Tokugawa \"bakufu\" established the \"Bansho Shirabesho,\" a translation and research institute for western studies, including a section to investigate western art. This section was headed by Kawakami Togai, whose assistant Takahashi Yuichi was a student of English artist Charles Wirgman. Takahashi is regarded by many as the first true Yōga painter.\n\nIn 1876, the \"Kobu Bijutsu Gakko\" (Technical Art School) was established by the Meiji government as Japan's first dedicated \"Yōga\" art school. Foreign advisors, such as the Italian artist Antonio Fontanesi, were hired by the government to teach Japanese artists, such as Asai Chu in the latest western techniques.\n\nIn the 1880s, the general reaction against Westernization and the growth in popularity and strength of the \"Nihonga\" movement caused the temporary decline of \"Yōga\". The \"Kobu Bijutsu Gakko\" was forced to close in 1883, and when the \"Tokyo Bijutsu Gakko\" (the forerunner of the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music) was established in 1887, only \"Nihonga\" subjects were taught.\n\nHowever, in 1889, the \"Meiji Bijutsukai\" (Meiji Fine Arts Society) was established by \"Yōga\" artists, and in 1893, the return of Kuroda Seiki from his studies in Europe gave fresh impetus to the \"Yōga\" genre. From 1896, a Yōga department was added to the curriculum of the \"Tokyo Bijutsu Gakko\", and from that point onwards, \"Yōga\" has been an accepted component of Japanese painting.\n\nSince that time, \"Yōga\" and \"Nihonga\" have been the two main divisions of modern Japanese painting. This division is reflected in education, the mounting of exhibitions, and the identification of artists. However, in many cases \"Nihonga\" artists also adopted realistic Western painting techniques, such as perspective and shading. Because of this tendency to synthesize, although \"Nihonga\" forms a distinct category within the Japanese annual \"Nitten\" exhibitions, in recent years, it has become increasingly difficult to draw a distinct separation in either techniques or materials between \"Nihonga\" and \"Yōga\".\n\n\"Yōga\" in its broadest sense encompasses oil painting, watercolors, pastels, ink sketches, lithography, etching and other techniques developed in western culture. However, in a more limited sense, \"Yōga\" is sometimes used specifically to refer to oil painting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13798788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13798788", "title": "Ziran", "text": "Ziran\n\nZiran is a key concept in Daoism that literally means \"self so; so of its own; so of itself\" and thus \"naturally; natural; spontaneously; freely; in the course of events; of course; doubtlessly\". This Chinese word is a two-character compound of \"zi\" (自) \"nose; self; oneself; from; since\" and \"ran\" (然) \"right; correct; so; yes\", which is used as a \"-ran\" suffix marking adjectives or adverbs (roughly corresponding to English \"-ly\"). In Chinese culture, the nose (or zi) is a common metaphor for a person's point of view.\n\nThe word 'ziran' first occurs in the Daodejing (17, 23, 25, 51) and refers to the structure of Dao, which cannot be referred back to anything else. It is generally accepted that the philosopher Laozi, author of the Daodejing, coined the term. Ziran is a central concept of Daoism, closely tied to the practice of wuwei, detached or effortless action. Ziran refers to a state of \"as-it-isness,\" the most important quality for anyone following Daoist beliefs. To become nearer to a state of ziran, one must become separate from unnatural influences and returned to an entirely natural, spontaneous state. Ziran is related to developing an \"altered sense of human nature and of nature per se\". When it comes to sensibility of Taoism, the moral import can be most found in ziran.\n\nZiran has been interpreted and reinterpreted in a great number of ways over time. Most commonly it has been seen as a model that was followed by the Dao, Heaven, Earth, and Man in turn, based on the traditional translation and interpretation of Chapter 25 of the Daodejing. Wang's more modern translation eliminates the logical flaw that arises when one considers that to model oneself after another entity may be to become less natural, to lose the 'as-it-isness' that ziran refers to. Wang reinterprets the words of Chapter 25 to be instructions to follow the model set by Earth's being Earth, by Heaven's being Heaven, and by the Dao being the Dao; each behaving perfectly in accordance with ziran. This interpretation reaffirms that the base nature of the Dao is one of complete naturalness.\n\nWing-Chuek Chan provides another translation of 'ziran:' \"It is so by virtue of its own\". This brings up ziran's link to another Daoist belief, specifically that the myriad things exist because of the qualities that they possess, not because they were created by any being to fulfill a purpose or goal. The only thing that a being must be when it exists in accordance with ziran is ultimately natural, unaffected by artificial influences.\n\nZiran and Tianran are related concepts. Tianran refers to a thing created by heaven that is ultimately untouched by human influence, a thing fully characterized by ziran. The two terms are sometimes interchangeably used. It can be said that by gaining ziran, a person grows nearer to a state of tianran.\n\nZiran can also be looked at from under Buddha's influence, \"non-substantial\". It is then believed to mean 'having no nature of its own'. In this aspect it is seen as a synonym of real emptiness.\n\nD. T. Suzuki, in a brief article penned in 1959, makes the suggestion of \"ziran\" as an aesthetic of action: \"Living is an act of creativity demonstrating itself. Creativity is objectively seen as necessity, but from the inner point of view of Emptiness it is 'just-so-ness,' (ziran). It literally means 'byitself-so-ness,' implying more inner meaning than 'spontaneity' or 'naturalness'\".\n\n"}
