{"id": "481276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=481276", "title": "Adam Powell (game designer)", "text": "Adam Powell (game designer)\n\nAdam James Powell (born 20 December 1976) is a Welsh computer programmer, game designer and businessman. He is the co-founder of Neopets and Meteor Games.\n\nPowell attended the University of Nottingham from 1995 to 1998 studying for a computer science degree. During his time at Nottingham, Powell created Dark Heart released in 1996, a popular MUD based on the DikuMUD code.\n\nIn 1997, Powell started Shout! Advertising, a UK-based advertising company which operated the third largest click-through program on the Internet by mid-1999. He also co-founded Netmagic, a successful business which designed and sold online banner advertising. Then in July 1999, he founded Powlex, which focused on web page design.\n\nPowell first had the idea of Neopets in 1997, while studying at the University of Nottingham.\nHe and Donna Powell (formerly Donna Williams) started programming the site in September 1999, and launched the site two months later on 15 November 1999. Powell programmed the entire site, and created most of the original activities and games.\n\nIn April 2000, Powell negotiated a significant investment in Neopets.com and transferred the company from the UK to Los Angeles, US. After the relocation, Powell remained on staff as creative director and technical lead. Under Powell's management, Neopets went from its initial launch to over 140 million accounts and 5 billion pageviews per month. On 20 June 2005, Viacom bought Neopets, Inc. for US$160 million.\n\nPowell continued to work for Neopets.com until June 2007, aiding the transition following the purchase and continuing to develop high-end concepts for the site.\n\nPowell has creative design and writing credits on a wide variety of Neopets products including SCEA's 2006 PlayStation Portable release \"\", \"Wizards of the Coast\" September 2003 release the \"Neopets Trading Card Game\" and Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc's 2005 release \"\", for the PlayStation 2.\n\nIn 2007, Adam and Donna Powell founded Meteor Games, an independent online gaming studio committed to developing immersive and innovative games spanning the web, social networks, and mobile devices. As of February 2011 Meteor Games hadn't raised any venture capital and was profitable\n\nMeteor Games' first project was Twin Skies, a 3D MMO that blended casual gaming and social networking elements with traditional massively multiplayer online role-playing games. Meteor Games released their first web-based game Vikings, Pirates and Ninjas in March 2009. The game was free to play on the web and Facebook.\n\nIn the company's shift to the rapidly growing social gaming market it released several games based on internal intellectual property including: Island Paradise which became a large commercial success, Serf Wars, and Ranch Town.\n\nMeteor Games is headquartered in Los Angeles and has 100 employees.\n\nLate in December 2011, Meteor Games laid off 90% of its staff, shut down the Viacom-backed game \"Treasure Keepers\", and subsequently wound down all operations.\n\nAround June 2013, Adam stated that he, Donna, and TPOSG would be making a new game. In Donna's Reddit AMA, she said that the tentative title would be Moglings, and development would start in 2015. On September 22, 2014, Adam stated in a post to the Moglings subreddit that the project would be suspended for some time, perhaps to be taken up again in early 2016.\n"}
{"id": "5914460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5914460", "title": "Archaeidae", "text": "Archaeidae\n\nThe Archaeidae are a spider family with about 70 described species in four genera, . Commonly known as assassin spiders, they are also known as pelican spiders, stemming from their specialised anatomy: they have elongated chelicerae (jaws) and necks for catching other spiders.\n\nSpiders of the family Archaeidae are unusual in that they have \"necks\", which can be very long and slender, or short and fat. Archaeids prey only upon other spiders. Assassin spiders were first known from 40 million year old amber fossils which were found in Europe in the 1840s, and were not known to have living varieties until 1881, when the first living assassin spider was found in Madagascar. They are native to Australia, South Africa, and Madagascar, with the sister family Mecysmaucheniidae occurring in southern South America and New Zealand. They range in size from 2–8 mm.\n\nThe fossil record of this family was first identified from Baltic amber dating to the Eocene, although many taxa from these deposits have been reassigned to Mecysmaucheniidae, Pararchaeidae, and Holarchaeidae. Currently valid Baltic species include \"Archaea levigata\" and \"Archaea paradoxa\". In 2003, \"Afarchaea grimaldii\" was described from Cretaceous Burmese amber aged between 88-95 million years, extending the record of this group considerably, the oldest fossil known of the group is \"Patarchaea muralis\" from the Middle Jurassic (Oxfordian/Callovian) of Inner Mongolia, China.\n\nThe family Archaeidae was erected in 1854 by C. L. Koch and Berendt for one genus, \"Archaea\", initially with three extinct species, all found in amber from the Baltic Sea or Bitterfeld in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. No living species are placed in this genus.\n\n, five extant genera are accepted by the World Spider Catalog:\n\n\nFossils found in amber, particularly from the Baltic and Myanmar (Burma), have been assigned to a number of extant and extinct genera placed in the family Archaeidae. \nThe extinct species \"Burmesarchaea grimaldii\" (syn. \"Afrarchaea grimaldii\") was found in Burmese amber dated to 88–95 Mya. \"Jurarchaea zherikhini\" Eskov, 1987 was previously considered a member of this family, but it is more likely a holarchaeid or a pararchaeid.\n\nA 2012 Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of 15 Archaeidae species, using combined molecular and morphological data, produced the cladogram shown below. Species representing modern genera found in Africa and Madagascar (\"Afrarchaea\" and \"Eriauchenius\") were not resolved into monophyletic groups; \"Zephyrarchaea\" had not then been split off from \"Austrarchaea\". The species found in European amber formed a clade, whereas \"Burmesarchaea grimaldii\", from Burmese amber, appeared to be basal to modern genera.\n\nLiving species of Archaeidae occur in South Africa, Madagascar and Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "748517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748517", "title": "Aubrey de Grey", "text": "Aubrey de Grey\n\nAubrey David Nicholas Jasper de Grey (; born 20 April 1963) is an English author and biomedical gerontologist. He is the Chief Science Officer of the SENS Research Foundation and VP of New Technology Discovery at AgeX Therapeutics, Inc. He is editor-in-chief of the academic journal \"Rejuvenation Research\", author of \"The Mitochondrial Free Radical Theory of Aging\" (1999) and co-author of \"Ending Aging\" (2007). He is known for his view that medical technology may enable human beings alive today not to die from age related causes. He is also an amateur mathematician who has contributed to the study of the Hadwiger–Nelson problem.\n\nHis research focuses on whether regenerative medicine can prevent the aging process. He works on the development of what he calls \"Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence\" (SENS), a collection of proposed techniques to rejuvenate the human body and stop aging. To this end, he has identified seven types of molecular and cellular damage caused by essential metabolic processes. SENS is a proposed panel of therapies designed to repair this damage.\n\nDe Grey is an international adjunct professor of the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, a fellow of the Gerontological Society of America, the American Aging Association, and the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies. He has been interviewed in recent years in a number of news sources, including CBS \"60 Minutes\", the BBC, \"The New York Times\", \"Fortune Magazine\", \"The Washington Post\", \"TED\", \"Popular Science\", \"The Colbert Report\", \"Time\" and the \"Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\". He is also a member of Flooved advisory board.\n\nDe Grey was born and brought up in London, England. He told \"The Observer\" that he never knew his father, and that his mother Cordelia, an artist, encouraged him in the areas she herself was the weakest: science and mathematics. He was educated at Sussex House School and Harrow School. He attended the University of Cambridge, and studied at its constituent college of Trinity Hall. He graduated with a BA in computer science in 1985.\n\nAfter graduation in 1985, de Grey joined Sinclair Research Ltd as an artificial intelligence and software engineer. In 1986, he cofounded Man-Made Minions Ltd to pursue the development of an automated formal program verifier. At a graduate party in Cambridge, De Grey met fruit fly geneticist Adelaide Carpenter whom he would later marry. Through her he was introduced to the intersection of biology and programming when her boss needed someone who knew about computers and biology to take over the running of a database on fruit flies. He educated himself in biology by reading journals and textbooks, attending conferences, and being tutored by his wife. From 1992 to 2006, he was in charge of software development at the university's Genetics Department for the FlyBase genetic database.\n\nCambridge awarded de Grey a PhD in biology on 9 December 2000. The degree was based on his 1999 book \"The Mitochondrial Free Radical Theory of Aging\", in which de Grey wrote that obviating damage to mitochondrial DNA might by itself extend lifespan significantly, though he said it was more likely that cumulative damage to mitochondria is a significant cause of senescence, but not the single dominant cause.\n\nDe Grey argues that most of the fundamental knowledge needed to develop effective anti-aging medicine already exists, and that the science is ahead of the funding. He works to identify and promote specific technological approaches to the reversal of various aspects of aging, or, as de Grey puts it, \"... the set of accumulated side effects from metabolism that eventually kills us.\"\n\n, his work centered on a detailed plan called Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence (SENS), which is aimed at preventing age-related physical and cognitive decline. In March 2009, he cofounded the SENS Research Foundation (named SENS Foundation until early 2013), a non-profit organisation based in California, United States, where he currently serves as Chief Science Officer. The Foundation \"works to develop, promote and ensure widespread access to regenerative medicine solutions to the disabilities and diseases of aging,\" focusing on the Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence. Before March 2009, the SENS research program was mainly pursued by the Methuselah Foundation, cofounded by de Grey.\n\nA major activity of the Methuselah Foundation is the Methuselah Mouse Prize, a prize designed to incentivize research into effective life extension interventions by awarding monetary prizes to researchers who stretch the lifespan of mice to unprecedented lengths. De Grey stated in March 2005 \"if we are to bring about real regenerative therapies that will benefit not just future generations, but those of us who are alive today, we must encourage scientists to work on the problem of aging.\" The prize reached 4.2 USD million in February 2007.\n\nIn 2005, he was the subject of two highly critical editorials accompanying an article in \"MIT Technology Review\".\n\nIn 2007, de Grey wrote the book \"Ending Aging\" with the assistance of Michael Rae. It provides a detailed account of the science, politics and social challenges of the entire SENS agenda.\n\nIn a 2008 broadcast on the Arte German & French TV, de Grey claimed that the first human to live 1,000 years was probably already alive, and might even be between 50 and 60 years old already.\n\nSince 2008, soon after he began speaking publicly about his gerontological theories, de Grey has been scientific advisor for the Campaign for Aging Research (C.A.R.).\n\n, the SENS Research Foundation has an annual budget of $4 million.\n\nThe \"pro-aging trance\" is a term coined by Grey to describe \"the impulsion to leap to embarrassingly unjustified conclusions in order to put the horror of aging out of one's mind\". According to de Grey, the pro-aging trance or \"pro-aging edifice\" is a psychological strategy which people use to cope with aging, and which is rooted in the belief that aging is not only immutable and unavoidable, but \"desirable\" in some sense, as part of the natural or divine order that should not be perturbed. De Grey refers, in this regard, to the general public's ambivalence towards aging. For example, he states that SENS research is often misunderstood or misrepresented as likely to lead to \"prolonging\", rather than postponing, the period of decrepitude characteristic of old age—a belief that de Grey calls the \"Tithonus error\", in reference to the myth of Tithonus. He describes this \"pro-aging\" stance as an irrational response to the perceived inevitability of aging, and compares it with related ideas and experimental findings in terror management theory. However, de Grey believes that defeating aging is feasible and that the pro-aging trance represents a huge barrier to combating aging.\n\nIn 2011, de Grey inherited roughly $16.5 million on the death of his mother. Of this he assigned $13 million to fund SENS research, which by 2013 had the effect of roughly doubling the SENS Research Foundation's yearly budget to $4 million. Other donors who have given millions to the Foundation include investor Peter Thiel. The foundation also has yearly funding drives that have been successful with some significant donors offering matching grants for members of the public who donate.\n\nIn July 2017 de Grey was appointed Vice President of New Technology Discovery at AgeX Therapeutics, a startup in the Longevity space helmed by Michael D. West, PhD.\n\nDe Grey proposed the following types of aging damage:\n\nDe Grey is also a cryonicist, having signed up with Alcor. He has supported and advocated human cryopreservation, for example by signing an open letter to support research into cryonics, and by being an advisor to a UK cryonics and cryopreservation advocacy group.\n\nOn April 8 2018 de Grey posted a paper to the arXiv explicitly constructing a unit-distance graph which cannot be colored with fewer than 5 colors. The previous lower bound is due to the problem's original proposal in 1950 by Hugo Hadwiger and Edward Nelson. The result has been discussed by mathematician Gil Kalai and computer scientist Scott Aaronson with Aaronson writing that there has been independent verification using SAT-solvers. De Grey's graph has 1581-vertices but it has since been reduced to 633 vertices by independent researchers.\n\nIn 2005, \"MIT Technology Review\", in cooperation with the Methuselah Foundation, announced a $20,000 prize for any molecular biologist who could demonstrate that SENS was \"so wrong that it is unworthy of learned debate.\" The judges of the challenge were Rodney Brooks, Anita Goel, Vikram Sheel Kumar, Nathan Myhrvold, and Craig Venter. Five submissions were made, of which three met the terms of the challenge. De Grey wrote a rebuttal to each submission, and the challengers wrote responses to each rebuttal. The judges concluded that none of the challengers had disproved SENS, but the magazine opined that one of the rebuttals had been particularly eloquent and well written, and awarded the contestant $10,000. The judges also noted \"the proponents of SENS have not made a compelling case for SENS,\" and wrote that many of its proposals could not be verified with the current level of scientific knowledge and technology, concluding that \"SENS does not compel the assent of many knowledgeable scientists; but neither is it demonstrably wrong.\" The critics single out three proposed therapies for criticism: somatic telomerase deletion, somatic mitochondrial genome engineering, and the use of transgenic microbial hydrolase.\n\nA 2005 article about SENS published in the viewpoint section of \"EMBO Reports\" by 28 scientists concluded that none of de Grey's therapies \"has ever been shown to extend the lifespan of any organism, let alone humans\". The SENS Research Foundation, of which de Grey was a cofounder, seems to agree with the EMBO Report as it states, \"If you want to reverse the damage of aging right now I'm afraid the simple answer is, you can't.\" Nonetheless, de Grey argues that this reveals a serious gap in understanding between basic scientists and technologists and between biologists studying aging and those studying regenerative medicine. The 25-member Research Advisory Board of his own SENS Research Foundation have signed an endorsement of the plausibility of the SENS approach.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36021876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36021876", "title": "Baldin Collection", "text": "Baldin Collection\n\nThe Baldin Collection is a group of 364 masterpieces removed from Germany to the Soviet Union by Russian Army officer Victor Baldin at the end of World War II. The ensemble consists of 362 drawings and 2 paintings by Dürer, van Gogh, Manet, Rembrandt, Rubens, Titian and other famous artists. Historically part of the collection at the Kunsthalle Bremen, the Baldin group came from a much larger cache of artworks stored by the Germans in a Brandenburg castle to protect it from air raids. In 1945 the castle was occupied by the Red Army and the storage vaults were looted, mainly by Russian soldiers but also by the local German population. The works Baldin took were then hidden at a Soviet Research Institute for many years. In 1991 the collection was moved to the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg where its existence was revealed to the world in 1992. It remains there today.\n\nSince then the Baldin Collection has been regarded as looted art and is the subject of fierce debate among experts, between Germany and Russia, and among politicians inside Russia itself. While Victor Baldin did steal the works, he is also credited with having saved them from destruction. For decades he appealed to senior officials, including Soviet leaders Leonid Brezhnev and Mikhail Gorbachev, to get them returned to Germany. In 1989 Baldin even traveled to Bremen, West Germany, to reveal the existence of the secret collection to the Kunsthalle. In the 1990s the government of Boris Yeltsin finally agreed to return the works, but subsequent Russian governments have blocked such plans. Today the Collection has been called \"of singular importance to the entire issue of trophy art\" by the Russians and a \"cause célèbre of German-Russian Restitution Politics\" by those who support its return.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II in 1939, the Bremen Art Museum (German: \"Kunsthalle Bremen\") was closed and its priceless paintings, drawings, prints, and sculpture were stored in the basement. Bremen, an important manufacturing center, became an early target for Allied strategic bombing. On the night of 5 September 1942, a fire bomb destroyed the central staircase and six gallery rooms of the museum. It also burned a version of Emanuel Leutze's famous painting \"Washington Crossing the Delaware\", which because of its size could not be moved. After this damage, the Kunsthalle collections were moved to more secure storage in various bank vaults underneath Bremen. In 1943, as bombing intensified, Bremen's mayor decreed that the museum's collections be moved to safety outside the city. The collection was divided up between four castles in Germany. A set of 50 paintings, 1715 drawings and 3000 prints were moved to Schloss Karnzow, the hunting lodge of Count von Königsmarck, near the small town of Kyritz north of Berlin in the Province of Brandenburg.\n\nAfter Germany's defeat, Brandenburg and specifically the area around Karnzow Castle was occupied by the Red Army. On 29 May 1945 soldiers and officers of the 38th Field Engineers' Brigade billeted at the Castle began looting it. Victor Baldin, an Army captain and combat engineer, found opened boxes in the cellar, saw documents trampled on the floor, and observed soldiers lighting their way by using burning papers. Baldin, an art restorer before the war, recognized these as drawings by the great masters. Baldin intervened and sealed the cellar. Scrutinizing the treasures lying about, he found works by Corot, Delacroix, Degas, Dürer, Van Dyke, Van Gogh, Goya, Manet, Raphael, Rembrandt, Rodin, Rubens, Toulouse-Lautrec, and Titian.\n\nBaldin became determined to save what he could. He later said \"I started in on the beautiful things, then I saw it was all beautiful.\" He took drawings away from soldiers by force, by deception and in exchange for personal items. In one case, it took him three days to obtain a drawing of Christ's head by Albrecht Dürer from another officer. Baldin managed to coax the officer into exchanging it for his chrome boots. Of the thousands of works stored in the cellar, Baldin managed to save just 362 drawings and 2 paintings. Among them was the only known pen and ink study by van Gogh of his famous painting, \"Starry Night\" As the Soviet Army withdrew, the cellars were left open and what little remained of the collection was lost to local looters and the weather.\n\nBaldin's actions and motives are still debated today. He did indeed cut the drawings from their mounts, put them into a suitcase, carry them to Russia and hide them in his apartment. However, while at the castle Baldin also wrote down descriptions of every work he saw, copied the German signatures and labels, and later carefully documented their provenance. He also begged for an official military transport so the collection could be handled more securely, but none were available, and his request was denied. As a result, it is generally agreed that Baldin's efforts rescued priceless masterpieces from outright destruction. In addition, because of his specialized art knowledge, what would become known as the \"Baldin Collection\" became the most important part of the Kunsthalle collection remaining from Schloss Karnzow.\n\nIn contrast to Baldin's efforts, works looted by Baldin's comrades from Karnzow have been found as far afield as Azerbaijan and in varying states of decay. In the late 1990s eight disputed drawings, including the world-famous \"Frauenbad\" (\"Women's Bathhouse\") by Albrecht Dürer, were seized by United States Customs in an incident of black market trading. Today over 1,500 items from the Kunsthalle collection that were stored at Karnzow remain missing.\n\nAfter their return home, some of the officers who had participated in the looting at Karnzow donated their pieces to museums around the Soviet Union. In 1948 Baldin deposited his at the A. V. Shchusev State Scientific Research Museum of Architecture in Moscow, where the masterpieces became a Soviet state secret. Baldin worked as an art restorer at the museum and eventually became its general director in 1963, a post he held for 25 years.\n\nBaldin then tried for decades to give the stolen art back to Germany. He took the courageous steps of writing to Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev in 1973, to the chief ideologist of the Communist Party Yegor Ligachev in 1987, and many other Soviet political and cultural officials including Mikhail Suslov, Mikhail Gorbachev, and Raisa Gorbachev – all to no avail. In 1989, during the period of increased transparency in the Soviet Union known as perestroika, Baldin took another unprecedented step. He traveled to Bremen, West Germany, and met with the director of the Kunsthalle, Dr Siegfried Salzmann. The director was shocked to learn that important parts of the long lost collection had survived. With hands shaking, he read the list of the missing masterpieces that Baldin had prepared years before. Baldin had put pencil marks next to those works he had personally rescued. He has since been called the \"hero of the story.\"\n\nIn 1991, Baldin wrote to Russian President Boris Yeltsin and finally received his first reply, in which the president agreed it would be politically correct to return the works to Germany. However, that same year nationalist elements in the Russian government hurriedly transferred the collection to the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg in a cover-up attempt. As of 2012 it is still unclear if one of the most famous works in the collection, \"Cypresses in Starry Night\" (1889) by Van Gogh, is at the Hermitage or remains in Moscow.\n\nIn legal proceedings and political debates during the following years it appeared that collection might return to its rightful owner. In 2000, a group of 101 pieces from another part of Baldin's brigade, including Albrecht Duerers' 1494 watercolor \"View of a Rock Castle by a River\", were returned to the Kunsthalle by Russia. This was followed by the simultaneous return of two artifacts of the Amber Room, bought and financed by a Bremen businessman to speed up the process. Anatoly Vilkov, from the Russian ministry of culture, stated that \"Russia has no right to keep the Baldin collection. We did not receive this right through a gift, since by law the collection did not belong to the donor Baldin.\"\n\nThe potential return of the collection to Germany began to face increasing opposition from Russian nationalist leaders, including Communist legislator and former Culture Minister of the USSR Nikolai Gubenko. Gubenko had been one of those involved in the 1991 transfer of the art to the Hermitage to hide it. The State Duma, which included Gubenko as a member, passed a non-binding resolution on 12 March 2003 asking President Vladimir Putin to prevent the Culture Ministry from returning the Baldin Collection.\n\nRussian Culture Minister Mikhail Shvydkoy opposed these moves to keep the collection in Russia; he regarded it as illegal loot based on a 1998 law that protected only those artworks from World War II taken by official Soviet trophy brigades and not private citizens. In 2003 he confirmed an order by the Russian General Prosecutor confirming a resolution of the Hanse Supreme court, which had decided the entire 364 remaining items were the official property of the Bremen Kunsthalle. Shvydkoy and the German Minister of Culture Christina Weiss even signed an agreement that 20 pieces of the Baldin ensemble could remain in Russia. Shvydkoy later received an official reprimand and was threatened by deputy prosecutor Vladimir Kolsenikov with criminal charges if he attempted to return the rest of the collection to Germany. In 2005 Aleksandr Sergeyevich Sokolov, Russia's new Culture Minister, then contradicted previous promises and stated that he opposed the return of the Baldin collection to Germany. As of 2010, it appeared that the collection would not be returning to Germany any time soon.\n\nAccording to a 2005 interview with Baldin's widow Julia Siwakowa, it was always his wish that the looted art be returned to the Kunsthalle. Baldin's last will stated: \"The collection belongs to humankind, not only Germany, and as the collection was located at the Kunsthalle Bremen, it must be returned to this place.\" The history of Victor Baldin, the stolen paintings and their odyssey is featured in the 2007 book \"Victor Baldin – The Man with the Suitcase/Victor Baldin – Der Mann mit dem Koffer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31320348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31320348", "title": "Caleb Carr (governor)", "text": "Caleb Carr (governor)\n\nCaleb Carr (1616 - 17 December 1695) was a governor of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, serving a very short term prior to his death. In 1635, at the age of 19, he sailed from England on the ship \"Elizabeth and Ann\" with his older brother Robert. Carr's name appears on a list of Newport freemen in 1655, and he began serving in a civil capacity the year prior when he became a commissioner. He served in this capacity for a total of six years between 1654 and 1662, and then served as deputy for 12 years from 1664 to 1690. During the years when he wasn't serving as deputy, he was an assistant, serving in this role for a total of ten years. From 1677 to 1678 he was the justice of the General Quarter Session and Inferior Court of Common Pleas.\n\nBetween 1658 and 1663 Carr purchased several large tracts of land on Conanicut Island (later becoming Jamestown), and following his death he willed this property to his sons. He owned a boat, and in 1671 he was paid four pounds for services rendered with the craft. In 1676 he bought the services of an Indian captive, for which he paid 12 bushels of Indian corn.\n\nCarr became governor of the colony in 1695, and in this capacity he wrote to Governor Fletcher of New York in answer to a request for 48 men from Rhode Island to assist in the defense of New York. He agreed to either send the men, or some comparable assistance. Carr died late in 1695 and was buried in a family cemetery in Newport. He was succeeded as governor by Walter Clarke.\n\nCarr had 13 children, nine with his first wife, Mercy (three died young), and four with his second wife, Sarah Clarke. His second wife was the widow of John Pinner and a daughter of Frances Latham and former colonial President Jeremy Clarke.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25816415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816415", "title": "Capital punishment in San Marino", "text": "Capital punishment in San Marino\n\nCapital punishment is no longer applied in San Marino: the last execution was carried out in 1468, by hanging. \n\nSan Marino is one of only two countries in the world to have carried out no executions since prior to 1800 (the other is Liechtenstein, where the last execution took place in 1785).\n\nSan Marino was the first country in the world to abolish the death penalty for ordinary crimes, in 1848. In 1865, it became the second country in the world (and the first in Europe) to abolish the death penalty for all crimes, following Venezuela in 1863. It is one of only three countries to have abolished the death penalty for all crimes before 1900 (the third one being Costa Rica).\n\nIn 1989, it formally ratified Protocol 6 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which requires the complete abolition of the death penalty in peacetime.\n"}
{"id": "53012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53012", "title": "Chandra Levy", "text": "Chandra Levy\n\nChandra Ann Levy (April 14, 1977 – May 1, 2001) was an American intern at the Federal Bureau of Prisons in Washington, D.C., who disappeared in May 2001. She was presumed murdered after her skeletal remains were found in Rock Creek Park in May 2002. The case attracted attention from the American news media for several years.\n\nDue to a miscommunication, the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia (MPD) failed to follow its own search parameters in Rock Creek Park, leaving Levy's body to decompose for a year. Further, the MPD had been informed, but soon dismissed the information, that Ingmar Guandique, already arrested for attacking women in Rock Creek Park, had confessed to attacking Levy. The MPD instead put much of its focus on the revelation that Levy had been having an affair with Congressman Gary Condit, a married Democrat then serving his fifth term representing California's 18th congressional district, and a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Condit had an overwhelming alibi (he was in meetings with the Vice President), was never named as a suspect by police, and was eventually cleared of any involvement in the disappearance. However, due to the cloud of suspicion raised by the intense media focus on the missing intern and the later revelation of the affair, Condit lost his bid for re-election in 2002.\n\nFollowing a series of investigative reports by the \"Washington Post\" in 2008, the MPD followed up and finally obtained a warrant, on March 3, 2009, to arrest Ingmar Guandique, the illegal immigrant from El Salvador identified and dismissed by the MPDC eight years earlier. He had been convicted of assaulting two other women in Rock Creek Park around the time of Levy's disappearance and was still in prison on those convictions when the arrest warrant on Levy's death was issued. Prosecutors alleged that Guandique had attacked and tied up Levy in a remote area of the park and left her to die of dehydration or exposure. In November 2010, Guandique was convicted of murdering Levy; he was sentenced in February 2011 to 60 years in prison. In June 2015, however, Guandique was granted a new trial. On July 28, 2016, prosecutors announced that they would not proceed with the case against Guandique and would, instead, seek to have him deported.\n\nLevy was born in Cleveland, Ohio, to Robert and Susan Levy; the family moved to Modesto, California, where she attended Grace M. Davis High School. Her parents are members of Congregation Beth Shalom, a Conservative Jewish synagogue. She attended San Francisco State University, where she earned a degree in journalism. After interning for the California Bureau of Secondary Education and working in the office of Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan, she began attending the University of Southern California to earn a master's degree in public administration.\n\nAs part of her final semester of study, Levy moved to Washington, D.C., to become a paid intern with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. In October 2000 she began her internship at the bureau's headquarters, where she was assigned to the public affairs division. Her supervisor, bureau spokesperson Dan Dunne, was impressed with Levy's work, especially her handling of media inquiries regarding the upcoming execution of Timothy McVeigh, convicted of bombing the Oklahoma City Federal Building. Levy's internship was abruptly terminated in April 2001 because her academic eligibility was found to have expired in December 2000. She had already completed her master's degree requirements and was scheduled to return to California in May 2001 for graduation.\n\nLevy was last seen on May 1, 2001. The Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia was first alerted on May 6, when Levy's parents called from Modesto to report that they had not heard from their daughter in five days. Police called hospitals and visited Levy's apartment in Dupont Circle that day, finding no indication of foul play. On May 7, Levy's father told the police that his daughter had been having an affair with a U.S. congressman, and said the next day that he believed the congressman to be U.S. Representative Gary Condit. Levy's aunt also called the police and told them that Chandra had confided in her about the affair. Police obtained a warrant on May 10 to conduct a formal search of Levy's apartment. Investigators found her credit cards, identification and mobile phone left behind in her purse, along with partially packed suitcases. The answering machine was full, with messages left by her relatives and two from Condit. A police sergeant tried to examine Levy's laptop computer and inadvertently corrupted the internet search data, as he was not a trained technician.\n\nComputer experts took a month to reconstruct the data to determine that the laptop was used on the morning of May 1 to search for websites related to Amtrak, Baskin-Robbins, Condit, Southwest Airlines, and a weather report from \"The Washington Post\". Her final search at 12:59 p.m. was for Alsace-Lorraine, a province in France. A particular search at 11:33 a.m. was for information about Rock Creek Park in \"The Washington Post\" \"Entertainment Guide,\" then at 11:34 she clicked a link to bring up a map of the park. Detectives later theorized that she might have met someone at the Pierce-Klingle Mansion which houses the park headquarters. On July 25, 2001, three D.C. police sergeants and 28 police cadets searched along Glover Road in the park but failed to find evidence related to Levy. Later, a second attempt found nothing.\n\nLevy's parents and friends held numerous vigils and news conferences in an attempt to \"bring Chandra home\".\n\nControversy surrounding Levy's disappearance drew the attention of the American news media. Condit, a married man who represented the congressional district in which the Levy family resided, at first denied that he had had an affair with her. Although police stated that Condit was not a suspect, Levy's family said they felt Condit was being evasive and possibly hiding information about the matter.\n\nUnidentified police sources alleged that Condit had admitted to an affair with Levy during an interview with law enforcement officers on July 7, 2001. Condit described her to police as a vegetarian who avoided drinking and smoking. He thought that Levy was going to return to Washington, D.C. after her graduation and was surprised to find out that the lease on her apartment had ended. Investigators searched Condit's apartment on July 10. They questioned flight attendant Anne Marie Smith, who claimed that Condit told her she did not need to speak to the Federal Bureau of Investigation about his personal life. Federal officials began investigating Condit for possible obstruction of justice, as Smith was also involved in an affair with him. (She was not acquainted with Levy.) Upset by leaks to the media, Condit refused to submit to a polygraph test by the D.C. police; his attorney asserted that Condit passed a test administered by a privately hired examiner on July 13. He avoided answering direct questions during a televised interview on August 23, with news anchor Connie Chung on the ABC News program \"Primetime Thursday\". Intensive coverage continued until news of the September 11 attacks superseded the media's coverage of the Levy case.\n\nIn a nationwide Fox News/Opinion Dynamics poll of 900 registered voters conducted in July 2001, 44 percent of American respondents thought that Condit was involved in Levy's disappearance and 27 percent felt that he should resign. Fifty-one percent of the respondents believed that he was acting as if he were guilty; 13 percent felt that he should run again for office. A poll sample taken from Condit's congressional district held a more favorable view of Condit. On March 5, 2002, Condit lost the Democratic primary election for his Congressional seat to his former aide, then-Assemblyman Dennis Cardoza, with the Levy controversy being cited as a contributing factor. He was subpoenaed to appear on April 1, 2002, before a District of Columbia grand jury investigating the disappearance. The date was kept a carefully guarded secret to avoid further leaks. Condit left Congress at the end of his term on January 3, 2003.\n\nOn May 22, 2002, around 9:30 a.m., skeletal remains matching Levy's dental records were discovered by a man walking his dog and looking for turtles in Rock Creek Park, near Broad Branch Creek. Detectives found bones and personal items scattered, but not buried, in a forested area along a steep incline. A sports bra, sweat shirt, leggings and tennis shoes were among the evidence that was recovered. Although police had previously searched over half the 1,754-acre main section of the park (2.74 mi, 7.10 km), the wooded slope where Levy's remains were eventually found had not been searched. Police commanders ordered the search perimeters to 100 yards of each road and trail but a miscommunication had the officers only searching within 100 yards of every road. The remains were found about four miles (6 km) from Levy's apartment.\n\nAfter a preliminary autopsy was performed, District of Columbia police announced that there was sufficient evidence to open a homicide investigation. On May 28, D.C. medical examiner Jonathan L. Arden officially declared Levy's death a homicide, but said, \"There's less to work with here than I would like. It's possible we will never know specifically how she died.\" Arden found damage to her hyoid bone, suggesting possible strangulation, but did not deem it to be conclusive evidence of such a cause of death. On June 6, after the police completed their search, private investigators hired by the Levys found her shin bone with some twisted wire about from the other remains. Police chief Ramsey said, \"It is unacceptable that these items were not located.\"\n\nOn May 28, 2002, the Levy family organized a memorial service at the Modesto Centre Plaza that drew over 1,200 people, some from as far as Los Angeles. Speakers at the 90-minute ceremony included Levy's brother, grandmother, great-aunt and friends. In a eulogy delivered in Hebrew and English by Rabbi Paul Gordon, Levy was described as \"a good person taken from us much too soon\". About a year later, on May 27, 2003, Levy's remains were buried in Lakewood Memorial Park Cemetery at Hughson, California, near her home town of Modesto. Attended by about 40 of Levy's friends and family members, the private ceremony concluded with the release of 12 white doves.\n\nIn September 2001, D.C. police and federal prosecutors were contacted by the lawyer of an informant, held in a D.C. jail, who claimed to have knowledge of Levy's killer. The informant, whose identity was protected for his safety, said that Ingmar Guandique, a 20-year-old illegal immigrant from El Salvador also being held in the jail, told him that Condit paid him $25,000 to kill Levy. Investigators ruled out the story about Condit, because Guandique had already admitted to assaulting two other women in the same park where Levy's remains were found. Guandique failed to show up for work on the day of Levy's disappearance. His former landlady recalled that his face appeared scratched and bruised at around that time. The investigators on the Levy case did not interview the other Rock Creek Park victims. Police chief Ramsey avoided calling Guandique a suspect and described him as a \"person of interest\", telling reporters not to make \"too big a deal\" about him. Assistant chief Terrance W. Gainer said that if Guandique had been considered a suspect, D.C. police would have been after him \"like flies on honey\".\nGuandique denied attacking Levy. On November 28, the FBI had the informant take a polygraph test, which he failed. A polygraph test on Guandique, administered on February 4, 2002, returned inconclusive results that were officially ruled \"not deceptive\". Because neither the informant nor Guandique was fluent in English, D.C. chief detective Jack Barrett said that he would have preferred polygraph tests to have been administered by bilingual examiners, who were unavailable at the time. When Judge Noel Anketell Kramer was asked about Guandique's potential connection to the Levy homicide, she responded, \"This is such a satellite issue. To me it doesn't have anything to do with this case.\" Kramer sentenced Guandique to 10 years in prison for his attacks on two other women at Rock Creek Park. Guandique was sent to the U.S. Penitentiary, Big Sandy near Inez, Kentucky, and was later transferred to the U.S. Penitentiary at Victorville, California.\nThe Levy homicide remained listed as a \"cold case\" until 2006, when Cathy L. Lanier succeeded Ramsey as D.C. police chief. Lanier replaced the lead detective on the case with three veteran investigators who had more homicide experience. In 2007, the editors of \"The Washington Post\" assigned a new team of reporters to take a year to re-examine the Levy case. The resulting series of articles, published during the summer of 2008, focused on the past failure of the police to fully investigate Guandique's connection to the attacks in Rock Creek Park. In September 2008, investigators searched Guandique's federal prison cell in California and found a photo of Levy that he had saved from a magazine. Police interviewed acquaintances of Guandique and witnesses of the other Rock Creek Park incidents.\n\nOn March 3, 2009, the Superior Court of the District of Columbia issued an arrest warrant for Guandique. He was returned to the custody of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections on April 20 via the Federal Transfer Center in Oklahoma City. Two days later, Guandique was charged in D.C. with Levy's murder. He was indicted by a grand jury on six counts: kidnapping, first-degree murder committed during a kidnapping, attempted first-degree sexual abuse, first-degree murder committed during a sexual offense, attempted robbery, and first-degree murder committed during a robbery. Guandique pleaded not guilty at his arraignment, where a trial date was initially set for January 27, 2010. His lawyers argued that Guandique's federal prison cell was outside the jurisdiction of a court-ordered search. After errors in processing contaminated some of the gathered evidence with DNA from employees of the prosecution, the start date of the trial at the H. Carl Moultrie Courthouse was moved to October 4, 2010.\n\nOn October 18, 2010, jury selection commenced in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia before Judge Gerald I. Fisher. Assistant U.S. Attorney Fernando Campoamor-Sanchez presented the names of potential witnesses for the trial, including FBI agent Brad Garrett and the two women whom Guandique was convicted of assaulting. At the start of the trial, the prosecution's case was expected to take around four weeks and the defense was expected to take one day. On October 25 and 26, Halle Shilling and Christy Wiegand testified about being attacked by Guandique while independently jogging in Rock Creek Park. Wiegand recounted that Guandique grabbed her from behind, dragged her down a ravine and held a knife against her face.\n\nOn October 26, 2010, Levy's then-64-year-old father, Robert, took the stand and refuted statements about his past suspicions of Condit. Robert Levy testified that he told authorities during the early years of the investigation that his daughter Chandra would have been too cautious to jog in the woods alone, but said that he no longer believed this to be true. He said that he also told police that his daughter and Condit had a five-year plan between them to get married. In retrospect, Robert Levy admitted: \"I just said whatever came to mind just to point to him as the villain.\" Levy added that he had been convinced that Condit was \"guilty until we learned about this character here,\" referring to Guandique. On November 1, Condit testified at the trial and was asked on at least three occasions if he and Chandra Levy had been involved in a sexual relationship. He replied, \"I am not going to respond to that question out of privacy for myself and Chandra.\" FBI biologist Alan Giusti testified that semen found on underwear from Levy's apartment contained sperm matching Condit's DNA profile.\nProsecution witness Armando Morales, who shared a cell with Guandique at the U.S. Penitentiary in Kentucky, testified that Guandique was concerned about being transferred between prisons in 2006 because of inmate violence against suspected rapists. Morales stated that Guandique, a fellow member of the Mara Salvatrucha gang, confided to him that he had killed Levy while trying to rob her, but said that he did not rape her. The prosecution rested their case on November 10, while dropping two out of the six charges against Guandique: sexual assault and murder associated with that assault. On November 15, the defense rested its case without calling Guandique to the stand. Other prison witnesses called by the defense refuted Morales' testimony. Jose Manuel Alaniz said that Guandique made no mention of rape or murder while sharing a cell with both Alaniz and Morales at the penitentiary in Kentucky. Alaniz admitted under cross-examination that he \"didn't want to be too nosy\" and was often asleep at the prison while recovering from a gunshot wound. The prosecution dropped two more charges because the statute of limitations had passed: kidnapping and attempted robbery. During closing arguments for the remaining charges of first-degree murder committed during a kidnapping and during a robbery, prosecutor Amanda Haines contended that Guandique bound and gagged Levy after attacking her, leaving her to die of dehydration or exposure in the park. Defense attorney Santha Sonenberg countered with the lack of any DNA evidence connecting Guandique to the crime scene. Calling the prosecution's case \"fiction\", Sonenberg suggested that Levy had been murdered elsewhere, with her dead body being dumped in the park.\n\nThe jury began deliberations on November 17, 2010. Scheduled proceedings of the case met delays because of increased security at the courthouse. After two days of deliberations, all but one juror had voted to convict Guandique. On the third day, the jury asked Judge Gerald Fisher to clarify the definition of assault. Fisher responded that any physical injury could legally be considered an assault, regardless of how small. On November 22, 2010, the jury found Guandique guilty of both remaining counts of first-degree murder. After the trial, a juror said the testimony of Morales was decisive in reaching the verdict. The conviction was called a \"miracle\" for having been reached with only circumstantial evidence. Gladys Weatherspoon, who had previously represented Guandique in the 2001 assault cases, stated that she was troubled by the jury's verdict: \"I just think they were going to convict anyway... They felt bad for that woman, the mom. She's sitting in there every day.\" At a post-trial press conference, Susan Levy said, \"There's always going to be a feeling of sadness. I can surely tell you, it ain't closure.\" Since the conclusion of the trial, Susan Levy has acted to keep photographic evidence of her daughter's remains sealed from the news media.\n\nOn February 1, 2011, Guandique's attorneys requested a new trial on the grounds that the verdict had been improperly attained. The 17-page filing claimed that the prosecutors had appealed to the emotions of the jury, using \"references to facts not in evidence\". The motion also alleged that one juror, who did not take notes, had breached the judge's instructions not to be \"influenced by another juror's notes\". The prosecution opposed a retrial, arguing that the issue regarding the notes was no more than a technicality that did not have a significant effect on the verdict.\n\nGuandique faced a minimum penalty of 30 years to a maximum of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. In seeking the maximum possible sentence, the prosecutors stated that Guandique \"is unable to control himself and thus, will always remain a danger to women\". A memo submitted by the prosecution in February 2011 cited Guandique's harassment of female staff in prison, including soliciting a nurse and masturbating in front of guards. Assistant U.S. Attorney Fernando Campoamor-Sanchez disclosed that he had traveled to El Salvador with a detective to investigate allegations that Guandique had fled his native country because of suspected attacks against local women dating back to 1999. During the sentencing hearing on February 11, Guandique said to Levy's family, \"I am sorry for what happened to your daughter\", and insisted on his innocence. Before Judge Gerald Fisher reminded Susan Levy to address the court instead of the defendant, Levy said to him, \"Did you really take her life? Look me in my eyes and tell me.\" Fisher denied Guandique's motion for retrial and handed down a sentence of 60 years in prison, stating that Guandique \"will be a danger for some time. He's a sexual predator.\"\n\nGuandique repeated his innocence during his sentencing. He has maintained his innocence in the years since the trial.\n\nOn February 25, 2011, public defender James Klein filed an appeal of Guandique's conviction with the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. According to the court's annual report, appeals take an average of 588 days to reach resolution. In December 2012 and January 2013, a set of secret hearings was made known to the public, but the subject of the meetings was sealed by the judge. After a third hearing in February, the judge in the case unsealed transcripts from the previous hearings which revealed that Klein was seeking a new trial based on new evidence in the case. A fourth hearing was scheduled for April 2013.\n\nOn May 22, 2015, prosecutors dropped their opposition to a new trial. This came largely due to defense claims that the prosecution's star witness, Armando Morales, had perjured himself on the stand. The defense contended that prosecutors failed to disclose that Morales was a jailhouse informant with a reputation for being untrustworthy. Morales had denied ever being an informant. The defense also argued that Morales made up Guandique's confession in order to boost his stock with prosecutors. On June 3, 2015, the defense said a new witness, a neighbor, called 911 at 4:37 a.m. on the last day Levy was alive to report hearing a 'blood-curdling scream', possibly coming from Levy's apartment. On June 4, 2015, Judge Gerald Fisher granted a motion for the new trial. On June 12, 2015, Judge Robert E. Morin set the retrial of Guandique for March 1, 2016 but in March, the trial date was moved to October 11, 2016.\n\nIn November 2015, prosecutors told a D.C. Superior Court judge that their office failed to turn over documents to the defense before the defendant's first trial. In December 2015, defense attorneys argued in new court filings that the charges should be dismissed because of prosecutorial errors.\n\nOn July 28, 2016, prosecutors announced that they would not proceed with the case against Guandique and would, instead, seek to have him deported. According to \"The Washington Post\", prosecutors lost confidence in the case after learning that Morales, who now lives in Maryland, was secretly recorded admitting lying on the witness stand during the 2010 trial. Babs Proller, the woman who made the recording, turned it over to the police. The U.S. Attorney's Office stated only that based on new information that had come to light during the previous week, there was no longer enough evidence to go forward with the retrial.\n\nThe disappearance of Chandra Levy became a national topic of the news media in the summer of 2001, with 63 percent of Americans closely following the case. The media swamped Levy's parents from the moment they decided to go to Washington, D.C., in search of their daughter. According to Condit, there were about a hundred reporters camped out in front of his apartment during the morning of September 11, 2001, but they all left after news spread about that day's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. Media critics and cable news executives later cited the Levy case, as well as the concurrent sensationalist coverage of a string of shark attacks, as a reflection of the manner of news coverage in the United States before the September 11 attacks had taken priority.\n\nIn 2002, D.C. newspaper \"Roll Call\" first reported the possible connection of Ingmar Guandique to the case, with little effect on the news media's focus on Condit. Conservative commentator Michelle Malkin noted the lack of headlines that an illegal immigrant had been questioned in the Levy case. She said that in her review of 115 news items from the Lexis-Nexis database, not a single mention of Guandique referred to his status as a \"criminal illegal alien\". She called the \"glaring omission\" of his status \"a newsworthy act of negligence\". She wrote that only the very conservative \"Human Events\" reported that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had approved his working legally while applying for temporary protected status. That application was ultimately denied, but not before he had assaulted two other women at Rock Creek Park.\n\nIn 2005, investigative journalist Dominick Dunne said on \"Larry King Live\" that he believed Gary Condit knew more information about the Levy case than he had been disclosing. Condit filed two lawsuits against Dunne, forcing him into an undisclosed financial settlement on one of them. In 2008, U.S. District Judge Peter Leisure dismissed the other suit that alleged slander, because \"The context in which Dunne's statements were made demonstrates that they were part of a discussion about 'speculation' in the media and inaccurate media coverage.\"\n\nDuring the summer of 2008, \"The Washington Post\" ran a 13-part series billed, in part, as \"a tale of the tabloid and mainstream press pack journalism that helped derail the investigation\". The two investigative reporters behind the \"Post\" series, Scott Higham and Sari Horwitz, wrote a book detailing their investigation. The book, \"Finding Chandra\", was published in May 2010. Commentators, including \"The Washington Post\" Metro reporter Robert Pierre, wrote that emphasis on a glamorous white murder victim, when \"about 200 people are killed in this city every year, most of them black and male\", was \"absolutely absurd and dare I say, racist, at its core\".\n\nThe media were criticized for their \"rush to judgment\" in suggesting, sometimes blatantly, that Condit was guilty of the murder, especially in the early days of the investigation. Some of the reporters camped in front of Condit's Washington apartment house were quoted as saying that they would remain there \"until he resigns\". When Ingmar Guandique was convicted in November 2010 of murdering Levy, Condit's lawyer Bert Fields remarked, \"It's a complete vindication but that comes a little late. Who gives him his career back?\"\n\nOn the 17th anniversary of the murder, Levy's mother continued to push for further investigation into her daughter's death. \n\nLevy's death has had a lasting impact, due in part to the efforts of her family and friends. Levy's disappearance came after a number of other high-profile cases that led to the creation of resources for missing young adults. For example, Levy's parents quickly turned for help to the Carole Sund/Carrington Memorial Reward Foundation, a nonprofit group that was established in Modesto after three female hikers disappeared from a 1999 trip to Yosemite National Park and were later found slain. That foundation, which offered the Levys staff support and contributed towards a cash reward for information about Chandra's disappearance, was merged into the Laci & Conner Search and Rescue Fund in 2009; Susan Levy had previously participated in the efforts to find Laci Peterson, another missing woman from Modesto. In 1997, when Kristen Modafferi mysteriously disappeared from the San Francisco Bay Area just three weeks after her 18th birthday, her parents turned to their congresswoman for help they were ineligible to receive from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. As a result, Congress enacted \"Kristen's Law\" in October 2000, which established the National Center for Missing Adults (NCMA) within the U.S. Department of Justice to coordinate such missing person cases. By the time Levy disappeared, institutions were in place to provide her family with support and to assist in a nationwide search to locate her. Although the Levy family moved quickly to mobilize all such available resources, including offering a cash reward for information, hiring their own investigators, and seeking media attention, those efforts to locate Chandra Levy or find her killer were overshadowed by the speculation surrounding her possible relationship with Condit. Susan Levy later joined with Donna Raley, the mother of another young woman who disappeared in 1999 from Modesto, to form \"Wings of Protection\", a support group for people with missing loved ones. The Mary Ann Liebert company, publishers of the \"Journal of Women's Health and Gender-Based Medicine\", presented their annual Criterion Award in May 2002 to Susan Levy for her work with \"Wings of Protection\".\n\n\"Newsweek\" magazine stated that the media may have become more skeptical of \"herd mentality\" and open to alternative suspects after the Levy case. The D.C. police claimed that they would have discovered Levy's body earlier, if not for a miscommunication regarding the scope of the search. Commanders had ordered a search within of each road and trail in Rock Creek Park, but searches were focused within 100 yards of roads only, resulting in the body remaining undiscovered for a longer period of time. Both the Chief of Detectives, Jack Barrett, and the Chief of Police, Charles H. Ramsey, have since left the force in D.C. Ramsey became head of the Philadelphia Police Department; Barrett, who became an analyst for an intelligence support firm in Arlington, Virginia, stated in hindsight that the media had imposed \"enormous amounts of pressure\" on the D.C. police. Morales, who is serving time for conspiracy to distribute methamphetamine and crack cocaine, was scheduled to be released on August 5, 2016. Condit retired from politics and moved with his wife to Phoenix, Arizona, to manage real estate and open two Baskin-Robbins franchises, which have since closed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20756850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20756850", "title": "Collective intelligence", "text": "Collective intelligence\n\nCollective intelligence (CI) is shared or group intelligence that emerges from the collaboration, collective efforts, and competition of many individuals and appears in consensus decision making. The term appears in sociobiology, political science and in context of mass peer review and crowdsourcing applications. It may involve consensus, social capital and formalisms such as voting systems, social media and other means of quantifying mass activity. Collective IQ is a measure of collective intelligence, although it is often used interchangeably with the term collective intelligence. Collective intelligence has also been attributed to bacteria and animals.\n\nIt can be understood as an emergent property from the synergies among: 1) data-information-knowledge; 2) software-hardware; and 3) experts (those with new insights as well as recognized authorities) that continually learns from feedback to produce just-in-time knowledge for better decisions than these three elements acting alone. Or more narrowly as an emergent property between people and ways of processing information. This notion of collective intelligence is referred to as \"symbiotic intelligence\" by Norman Lee Johnson. The concept is used in sociology, business, computer science and mass communications: it also appears in science fiction. Pierre Lévy defines collective intelligence as, \"It is a form of universally distributed intelligence, constantly enhanced, coordinated in real time, and resulting in the effective mobilization of skills. I'll add the following indispensable characteristic to this definition: The basis and goal of collective intelligence is mutual recognition and enrichment of individuals rather than the cult of fetishized or hypostatized communities.\" According to researchers Pierre Lévy and Derrick de Kerckhove, it refers to capacity of networked ICTs (Information communication technologies) to enhance the collective pool of social knowledge by simultaneously expanding the extent of human interactions.\n\nCollective intelligence strongly contributes to the shift of knowledge and power from the individual to the collective. According to Eric S. Raymond (1998) and JC Herz (2005), open source intelligence will eventually generate superior outcomes to knowledge generated by proprietary software developed within corporations (Flew 2008). Media theorist Henry Jenkins sees collective intelligence as an 'alternative source of media power', related to convergence culture. He draws attention to education and the way people are learning to participate in knowledge cultures outside formal learning settings. Henry Jenkins criticizes schools which promote 'autonomous problem solvers and self-contained learners' while remaining hostile to learning through the means of collective intelligence. Both Pierre Lévy (2007) and Henry Jenkins (2008) support the claim that collective intelligence is important for democratization, as it is interlinked with knowledge-based culture and sustained by collective idea sharing, and thus contributes to a better understanding of diverse society.\n\nSimilar to the \"g\" factor (\"g\") for general individual intelligence, a new scientific understanding of collective intelligence aims to extract a general collective intelligence factor c factor for groups indicating a group's ability to perform a wide range of tasks. Definition, operationalization and statistical methods are derived from \"g\". Similarly as \"g\" is highly interrelated with the concept of IQ, this measurement of collective intelligence can be interpreted as intelligence quotient for groups (Group-IQ) even though the score is not a quotient per se. Causes for \"c\" and predictive validity are investigated as well.\n\nWriters who have influenced the idea of collective intelligence include Francis Galton, Douglas Hofstadter (1979), Peter Russell (1983), Tom Atlee (1993), Pierre Lévy (1994), Howard Bloom (1995), Francis Heylighen (1995), Douglas Engelbart, Louis Rosenberg, Cliff Joslyn, Ron Dembo, Gottfried Mayer-Kress (2003).\n\nThe concept (although not so named) originated in 1785 with the Marquis de Condorcet, whose \"jury theorem\" states that if each member of a voting group is more likely than not to make a correct decision, the probability that the highest vote of the group is the correct decision increases with the number of members of the group (see Condorcet's jury theorem). Many theorists have interpreted Aristotle's statement in the Politics that \"a feast to which many contribute is better than a dinner provided out of a single purse\" to mean that just as many may bring different dishes to the table, so in a deliberation many may contribute different pieces of information to generate a better decision. Recent scholarship, however, suggests that this was probably not what Aristotle meant but is a modern interpretation based on what we now know about team intelligence.\n\nA precursor of the concept is found in entomologist William Morton Wheeler's observation that seemingly independent individuals can cooperate so closely as to become indistinguishable from a single organism (1910). Wheeler saw this collaborative process at work in ants that acted like the cells of a single beast he called a superorganism.\n\nIn 1912 Émile Durkheim identified society as the sole source of human logical thought. He argued in \"The Elementary Forms of Religious Life\" that society constitutes a higher intelligence because it transcends the individual over space and time. Other antecedents are Vladimir Vernadsky's concept of \"noosphere\" and H.G. Wells's concept of \"world brain\" (see also the term \"global brain\"). Peter Russell, Elisabet Sahtouris, and Barbara Marx Hubbard (originator of the term \"conscious evolution\") are inspired by the visions of a noosphere – a transcendent, rapidly evolving collective intelligence – an informational cortex of the planet. The notion has more recently been examined by the philosopher Pierre Lévy. In a 1962 research report, Douglas Engelbart linked collective intelligence to organizational effectiveness, and predicted that pro-actively 'augmenting human intellect' would yield a multiplier effect in group problem solving: \"Three people working together in this augmented mode [would] seem to be more than three times as effective in solving a complex problem as is one augmented person working alone\". In 1994, he coined the term 'collective IQ' as a measure of collective intelligence, to focus attention on the opportunity to significantly raise collective IQ in business and society.\n\nThe idea of collective intelligence also forms the framework for contemporary democratic theories often referred to as epistemic democracy. Epistemic democratic theories refer to the capacity of the populace, either through deliberation or aggregation of knowledge, to track the truth and relies on mechanisms to synthesize and apply collective intelligence.\n\nCollective intelligence was introduced into the machine learning community in the late 20th century,<ref name=\"Wolpert arXiv:cs/9905004\"></ref> and matured into a broader consideration of how to \"design collectives\" of self-interested adaptive agents to meet a system-wide goal. This was related to single-agent work on \"reward shaping\" and has been taken forward by numerous researchers in\nthe game theory and engineering communities.\n\nHoward Bloom has discussed mass behavior – collective behavior from the level of quarks to the level of bacterial, plant, animal, and human societies. He stresses the biological adaptations that have turned most of this earth's living beings into components of what he calls \"a learning machine\". In 1986 Bloom combined the concepts of apoptosis, parallel distributed processing, group selection, and the superorganism to produce a theory of how collective intelligence works. Later he showed how the collective intelligences of competing bacterial colonies and human societies can be explained in terms of computer-generated \"complex adaptive systems\" and the \"genetic algorithms\", concepts pioneered by John Holland.\n\nBloom traced the evolution of collective intelligence to our bacterial ancestors 1 billion years ago and demonstrated how a multi-species intelligence has worked since the beginning of life. Ant societies exhibit more intelligence, in terms of technology, than any other animal except for humans and co-operate in keeping livestock, for example aphids for \"milking\". Leaf cutters care for fungi and carry leaves to feed the fungi.\n\nDavid Skrbina cites the concept of a 'group mind' as being derived from Plato's concept of panpsychism (that mind or consciousness is omnipresent and exists in all matter). He develops the concept of a 'group mind' as articulated by Thomas Hobbes in \"Leviathan\" and Fechner's arguments for a collective consciousness of mankind. He cites Durkheim as the most notable advocate of a \"collective consciousness\" and Teilhard de Chardin as a thinker who has developed the philosophical implications of the group mind.\n\nTom Atlee focuses primarily on humans and on work to upgrade what Howard Bloom calls \"the group IQ\". Atlee feels that collective intelligence can be encouraged \"to overcome 'groupthink' and individual cognitive bias in order to allow a collective to cooperate on one process – while achieving enhanced intellectual performance.\" George Pór defined the collective intelligence phenomenon as \"the capacity of human communities to evolve towards higher order complexity and harmony, through such innovation mechanisms as differentiation and integration, competition and collaboration.\" Atlee and Pór state that \"collective intelligence also involves achieving a single focus of attention and standard of metrics which provide an appropriate threshold of action\". Their approach is rooted in scientific community metaphor.\n\nThe term group intelligence is sometimes used interchangeably with the term collective intelligence. Anita Woolley presents Collective intelligence as a measure of group intelligence and group creativity. The idea is that a measure of collective intelligence covers a broad range of features of the group, mainly group composition and group interaction. The features of composition that lead to increased levels of collective intelligence in groups include criteria such as higher numbers of women in the group as well as increased diversity of the group.\n\nAtlee and Pór suggest that the field of collective intelligence should primarily be seen as a human enterprise in which mind-sets, a willingness to share and an openness to the value of distributed intelligence for the common good are paramount, though group theory and artificial intelligence have something to offer. Individuals who respect collective intelligence are confident of their own abilities and recognize that the whole is indeed greater than the sum of any individual parts. Maximizing collective intelligence relies on the ability of an organization to accept and develop \"The Golden Suggestion\", which is any potentially useful input from any member. Groupthink often hampers collective intelligence by limiting input to a select few individuals or filtering potential Golden Suggestions without fully developing them to implementation.\n\nRobert David Steele Vivas in \"The New Craft of Intelligence\" portrayed all citizens as \"intelligence minutemen,\" drawing only on legal and ethical sources of information, able to create a \"public intelligence\" that keeps public officials and corporate managers honest, turning the concept of \"national intelligence\" (previously concerned about spies and secrecy) on its head.\nAccording to Don Tapscott and Anthony D. Williams, collective intelligence is mass collaboration. In order for this concept to happen, four principles need to exist;\n\n\n\n\nA new scientific understanding of collective intelligence defines it as a group's general ability to perform a wide range of tasks. Definition, operationalization and statistical methods are similar to the psychometric approach of general individual intelligence. Hereby, an individual's performance on a given set of cognitive tasks is used to measure general cognitive ability indicated by the general intelligence factor \"g\" extracted via factor analysis. In the same vein as \"g\" serves to display between-individual performance differences on cognitive tasks, collective intelligence research aims to find a parallel intelligence factor for groups \"c\" factor' (also called 'collective intelligence factor' (\"CI\")) displaying between-group differences on task performance. The collective intelligence score then is used to predict how this same group will perform on any other similar task in the future. Yet tasks, hereby, refer to mental or intellectual tasks performed by small groups even though the concept is hoped to be transferrable to other performances and any groups or crowds reaching from families to companies and even whole cities. Since individuals' \"g\" factor scores are highly correlated with full-scale IQ scores, which are in turn regarded as good estimates of \"g\", this measurement of collective intelligence can also be seen as an intelligence indicator or quotient respectively for a group (Group-IQ) parallel to an individual's intelligence quotient (IQ) even though the score is not a quotient per se.\n\nMathematically, \"c\" and \"g\" are both variables summarizing positive correlations among different tasks supposing that performance on one task is comparable with performance on other similar tasks. \"c\" thus is a source of variance among groups and can only be considered as a group's standing on the \"c\" factor compared to other groups in a given relevant population. The concept is in contrast to competing hypotheses including other correlational structures to explain group intelligence, such as a composition out of several equally important but independent factors as found in individual personality research.\n\nBesides, this scientific idea also aims to explore the causes affecting collective intelligence, such as group size, collaboration tools or group members' interpersonal skills. The MIT Center for Collective Intelligence, for instance, announced the detection of \"The Genome of Collective Intelligence\" as one of its main goals aiming to develop a \"taxonomy of organizational building blocks, or genes, that can be combined and recombined to harness the intelligence of crowds\".\n\nIndividual intelligence is shown to be genetically and environmentally influenced. Analogously, collective intelligence research aims to explore reasons why certain groups perform more intelligent than other groups given that \"c\" is just moderately correlated with the intelligence of individual group members. According to Woolley et al.'s results, neither team cohesion nor motivation or satisfaction is correlated with \"c\". However, they claim that three factors were found as significant correlates: the variance in the number of speaking turns, group members' average social sensitivity and the proportion of females. All three had similar predictive power for \"c\", but only social sensitivity was statistically significant (b=0.33, P=0.05).\n\nThe number speaking turns indicates that \"groups where a few people dominated the conversation were less collectively intelligent than those with a more equal distribution of conversational turn-taking\". Hence, providing multiple team members the chance to speak up made a group more intelligent.\n\nGroup members' social sensitivity was measured via the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test (RME) and correlated .26 with \"c\". Hereby, participants are asked to detect thinking or feeling expressed in other peoples' eyes presented on pictures and assessed in a multiple choice format. The test aims to measure peoples' theory of mind (ToM), also called 'mentalizing' or 'mind reading', which refers to the ability to attribute mental states, such as beliefs, desires or intents, to other people and in how far people understand that others have beliefs, desires, intentions or perspectives different from their own ones. RME is a ToM test for adults that shows sufficient test-retest reliability and constantly differentiates control groups from individuals with functional autism or Asperger Syndrome. It is one of the most widely accepted and well-validated tests for ToM within adults. ToM can be regarded as an associated subset of skills and abilities within the broader concept of emotional intelligence.\n\nThe proportion of females as a predictor of \"c\" was largely mediated by social sensitivity (Sobel z = 1.93, P= 0.03) which is in vein with previous research showing that women score higher on social sensitivity tests. While a mediation, statistically speaking, clarifies the mechanism underlying the relationship between a dependent and an independent variable, Wolley agreed in an interview with the \"Harvard Business Review\" that these findings are saying that groups of women are smarter than groups of men. However, she relativizes this stating that the actual important thing is the high social sensitivity of group members.\n\nIt is theorized that the collective intelligence factor \"c\" is an emergent property resulting from bottom-up as well as top-down processes. Hereby, bottom-up processes cover aggregated group-member characteristics. Top-down processes cover group structures and norms that influence a group's way of collaborating and coordinating.\n\nTop-down processes cover group interaction, such as structures, processes, and norms. An example of such top-down processes is conversational turn-taking. Research further suggest that collectively intelligent groups communicate more in general as well as more equally; same applies for participation and is shown for face-to-face as well as online groups communicating only via writing.\n\nBottom-up processes include group composition, namely the characteristics of group members which are aggregated to the team level encompassing. An example of such bottom-up processes is the average social sensitivity or the average and maximum intelligence scores of group members. Furthermore, collective intelligence was found to be related to a group's cognitive diversity including thinking styles and perspectives. Groups that are moderately diverse in cognitive style have higher collective intelligence than those who are very similar in cognitive style or very different. Consequently, groups where members are too similar to each other lack the variety of perspectives and skills needed to perform well. On the other hand, groups whose members are too different seem to have difficulties to communicate and coordinate effectively.\n\nFor most of human history, collective intelligence was confined to small tribal groups in which opinions were aggregated through real-time parallel interactions among members. In modern times, mass communication, mass media, and networking technologies have enabled collective intelligence to span massive groups, distributed across continents and time-zones. To accommodate this shift in scale, collective intelligence in large-scale groups been dominated by serialized polling processes such as aggregating up-votes, likes, and ratings over time. While modern systems benefit from larger group size, the serialized process has been found to introduce substantial noise that distorts the collective output of the group. In one significant study of serialized collective intelligence, it was found that the first vote contributed to a serialized voting system can distort the final result by 34%.\n\nTo address the problems of serialized aggregation of input among large-scale groups, recent advancements collective intelligence have worked to replace serialized votes, polls, and markets, with parallel systems such as \"human swarms\" modeled after synchronous swarms in nature. Based on natural process of Swarm Intelligence, these artificial swarms of networked humans enable participants to work together in parallel to answer questions and make predictions as an emergent collective intelligence. In one high-profile example, a human swarm challenge by CBS Interactive to predict the Kentucky Derby. The swarm correctly predicted the first four horses, in order, defying 542–1 odds and turning a $20 bet into $10,800.\n\nWoolley, Chabris, Pentland, Hashmi, & Malone (2010), the originators of this scientific understanding of collective intelligence, found a single statistical factor for collective intelligence in their research across 192 groups with people randomly recruited from the public. In Woolley et al.'s two initial studies, groups worked together on different tasks from the McGrath Task Circumplex, a well-established taxonomy of group tasks. Tasks were chosen from all four quadrants of the circumplex and included visual puzzles, brainstorming, making collective moral judgments, and negotiating over limited resources. The results in these tasks were taken to conduct a factor analysis. Both studies showed support for a general collective intelligence factor \"c\" underlying differences in group performance with an initial eigenvalue accounting for 43% (44% in study 2) of the variance, whereas the next factor accounted for only 18% (20%). That fits the range normally found in research regarding a general individual intelligence factor \"g\" typically accounting for 40% to 50% percent of between-individual performance differences on cognitive tests.\nAfterwards, a more complex criterion task was absolved by each group measuring whether the extracted \"c\" factor had predictive power for performance outside the original task batteries. Criterion tasks were playing checkers (draughts) against a standardized computer in the first and a complex architectural design task in the second study. In a regression analysis using both individual intelligence of group members and \"c\" to predict performance on the criterion tasks, \"c\" had a significant effect, but average and maximum individual intelligence had not. While average (r=0.15, P=0.04) and maximum intelligence (r=0.19, P=0.008) of individual group members were moderately correlated with \"c\", \"c\" was still a much better predictor of the criterion tasks. According to Woolley et al., this supports the existence of a collective intelligence factor \"c,\" because it demonstrates an effect over and beyond group members' individual intelligence and thus that \"c\" is more than just the aggregation of the individual IQs or the influence of the group member with the highest IQ.\n\nEngel et al. (2014) replicated Woolley et al.'s findings applying an accelerated battery of tasks with a first factor in the factor analysis explaining 49% of the between-group variance in performance with the following factors explaining less than half of this amount. Moreover, they found a similar result for groups working together online communicating only via text and confirmed the role of female proportion and social sensitivity in causing collective intelligence in both cases. Similarly to Wolley et al., they also measured social sensitivity with the RME which is actually meant to measure people's ability to detect mental states in other peoples' eyes. The online collaborating participants, however, did neither know nor see each other at all. The authors conclude that scores on the RME must be related to a broader set of abilities of social reasoning than only drawing inferences from other people's eye expressions.\n\nA collective intelligence factor \"c\" in the sense of Woolley et al. was further found in groups of MBA students working together over the course of a semester, in online gaming groups as well as in groups from different cultures and groups in different contexts in terms of short-term versus long-term groups. None of these investigations considered team members' individual intelligence scores as control variables.\n\nNote as well that the field of collective intelligence research is quite young and published empirical evidence is relatively rare yet. However, various proposals and working papers are in progress or already completed but (supposedly) still in a scholarly peer reviewing publication process.\n\nNext to predicting a group's performance on more complex criterion tasks as shown in the original experiments, the collective intelligence factor \"c\" was also found to predict group performance in diverse tasks in MBA classes lasting over several months. Thereby, highly collectively intelligent groups earned significantly higher scores on their group assignments although their members did not do any better on other individually performed assignments. Moreover, highly collective intelligent teams improved performance over time suggesting that more collectively intelligent teams learn better. This is another potential parallel to individual intelligence where more intelligent people are found to acquire new material quicker.\n\nIndividual intelligence can be used to predict plenty of life outcomes from school attainment and career success to health outcomes and even mortality. Whether collective intelligence is able to predict other outcomes besides group performance on mental tasks has still to be investigated.\n\nGladwell (2008) showed that the relationship between individual IQ and success works only to a certain point and that additional IQ points over an estimate of IQ 120 do not translate into real life advantages. If a similar border exists for Group-IQ or if advantages are linear and infinite, has still to be explored. Similarly, demand for further research on possible connections of individual and collective intelligence exists within plenty of other potentially transferable logics of individual intelligence, such as, for instance, the development over time or the question of improving intelligence. Whereas it is controversial whether human intelligence can be enhanced via training, a group's collective intelligence potentially offers simpler opportunities for improvement by exchanging team members or implementing structures and technologies. Moreover, social sensitivity was found to be, at least temporarily, improvable by reading literary fiction as well as watching drama movies. In how far such training ultimately improves collective intelligence through social sensitivity remains an open question.\n\nThere are further more advanced concepts and factor models attempting to explain individual cognitive ability including the categorization of intelligence in fluid and crystallized intelligence or the hierarchical model of intelligence differences. Further supplementing explanations and conceptualizations for the factor structure of the Genomes of collective intelligence besides a general \"'c\" factor', though, are missing yet.\n\nOther scholars explain team performance by aggregating team members' general intelligence to the team level instead of building an own overall collective intelligence measure. Devine and Philips (2001) showed in a meta-analysis that mean cognitive ability predicts team performance in laboratory settings (.37) as well as field settings (.14) – note that this is only a small effect. Suggesting a strong dependence on the relevant tasks, other scholars showed that tasks requiring a high degree of communication and cooperation are found to be most influenced by the team member with the lowest cognitive ability. Tasks in which selecting the best team member is the most successful strategy, are shown to be most influenced by the member with the highest cognitive ability.\n\nSince Woolley et al.'s results do not show any influence of group satisfaction, group cohesiveness, or motivation, they, at least implicitly, challenge these concepts regarding the importance for group performance in general and thus contrast meta-analytically proven evidence concerning the positive effects of group cohesion, motivation and satisfaction on group performance.\n\nNoteworthy is also that the involved researchers among the confirming findings widely overlap with each other and with the authors participating in the original first study around Anita Woolley.\n\nIn 2001, Tadeusz (Tad) Szuba from the AGH University in Poland proposed a formal model for the phenomenon of collective intelligence. It is assumed to be an unconscious, random, parallel, and distributed computational process, run in mathematical logic by the social structure.\n\nIn this model, beings and information are modeled as abstract information molecules carrying expressions of mathematical logic. They are quasi-randomly displacing due to their interaction with their environments with their intended displacements. Their interaction in abstract computational space creates multi-thread inference process which we perceive as collective intelligence. Thus, a non-Turing model of computation is used. This theory allows simple formal definition of collective intelligence as the property of social structure and seems to be working well for a wide spectrum of beings, from bacterial colonies up to human social structures. Collective intelligence considered as a specific computational process is providing a straightforward explanation of several social phenomena. For this model of collective intelligence, the formal definition of IQS (IQ Social) was proposed and was defined as \"the probability function over the time and domain of N-element inferences which are reflecting inference activity of the social structure\". While IQS seems to be computationally hard, modeling of social structure in terms of a computational process as described above gives a chance for approximation. Prospective applications are optimization of companies through the maximization of their IQS, and the analysis of drug resistance against collective intelligence of bacterial colonies.\n\nOne measure sometimes applied, especially by more artificial intelligence focused theorists, is a \"collective intelligence quotient\" (or \"cooperation quotient\") – which can be normalized from the \"individual\" intelligence quotient (IQ) – thus making it possible to determine the marginal intelligence added by each new individual participating in the collective action, thus using metrics to avoid the hazards of group think and stupidity.\n\n\"Elicitation of point estimates\" – Here, we try to get an estimate (in a single value) of something. For example, estimating the weight of an object, or the release date of a product or probability of success of a project etc. as are seen in prediction markets like Intrade, HSX or InklingMarkets and also in several implementations of crowdsourced estimation of a numeric outcome. Essentially, we try to get the average value of the estimates provided by the members in the crowd.\n\n\"Opinion Aggregation\" – In this situation, we gather opinions from the crowd regarding some idea, issue or product. For example, trying to get a rating (on some scale) of a product sold online (such as Amazon’s star rating system). Here, the emphasis is to collect and simply aggregate the ratings provided by customers/users.\n\n\"Idea Collection\" – In these problems, someone solicits ideas for projects, designs or solutions from the crowd. For example, ideas on solving a data science problem (as in Kaggle) or getting a good design for a T-shirt (as in Threadless) or in getting answers to simple problems that only humans can do well (as in Amazon’s Mechanical Turk). Here, the objective is to gather the ideas and devise some selection criteria to choose the best ideas.\n\nJames Surowiecki divides the advantages of disorganized decision-making into three main categories, which are cognition, cooperation and coordination.\n\nBecause of the Internet's ability to rapidly convey large amounts of information throughout the world, the use of collective intelligence to predict stock prices and stock price direction has become increasingly viable. Websites aggregate stock market information that is as current as possible so professional or amateur stock analysts can publish their viewpoints, enabling amateur investors to submit their financial opinions and create an aggregate opinion. The opinion of all investor can be weighed equally so that a pivotal premise of the effective application of collective intelligence can be applied: the masses, including a broad spectrum of stock market expertise, can be utilized to more accurately predict the behavior of financial markets.\n\nCollective intelligence underpins the efficient-market hypothesis of Eugene Fama – although the term collective intelligence is not used explicitly in his paper. Fama cites research conducted by Michael Jensen in which 89 out of 115 selected funds underperformed relative to the index during the period from 1955 to 1964. But after removing the loading charge (up-front fee) only 72 underperformed while after removing brokerage costs only 58 underperformed. On the basis of such evidence index funds became popular investment vehicles using the collective intelligence of the market, rather than the judgement of professional fund managers, as an investment strategy.\n\nPolitical parties mobilize large numbers of people to form policy, select candidates and finance and run election campaigns. Knowledge focusing through various voting methods allows perspectives to converge through the assumption that uninformed voting is to some degree random and can be filtered from the decision process leaving only a residue of informed consensus. Critics point out that often bad ideas, misunderstandings, and misconceptions are widely held, and that structuring of the decision process must favor experts who are presumably less prone to random or misinformed voting in a given context.\n\nCompanies such as Affinnova (acquired by Nielsen), Google, InnoCentive, Marketocracy, and Threadless have successfully employed the concept of collective intelligence in bringing about the next generation of technological changes through their research and development (R&D), customer service, and knowledge management. An example of such application is Google's Project Aristotle in 2012, where the effect of collective intelligence on team makeup was examined in hundreds of the company's R&D teams.\n\nIn 2012, the \"Global Futures Collective Intelligence System\" (GFIS) was created by The Millennium Project, which epitomizes collective intelligence as the synergistic intersection among data/information/knowledge, software/hardware, and expertise/insights that has a recursive learning process for better decision-making than the individual players alone.\n\nNew media are often associated with the promotion and enhancement of collective intelligence. The ability of new media to easily store and retrieve information, predominantly through databases and the Internet, allows for it to be shared without difficulty. Thus, through interaction with new media, knowledge easily passes between sources resulting in a form of collective intelligence. The use of interactive new media, particularly the internet, promotes online interaction and this distribution of knowledge between users.\n\nFrancis Heylighen, Valentin Turchin, and Gottfried Mayer-Kress are among those who view collective intelligence through the lens of computer science and cybernetics. In their view, the Internet enables collective intelligence at the widest, planetary scale, thus facilitating the emergence of a global brain.\n\nThe developer of the World Wide Web, Tim Berners-Lee, aimed to promote sharing and publishing of information globally. Later his employer opened up the technology for free use. In the early '90s, the Internet's potential was still untapped, until the mid-1990s when 'critical mass', as termed by the head of the Advanced Research Project Agency (ARPA), Dr. J.C.R. Licklider, demanded more accessibility and utility. The driving force of this Internet-based collective intelligence is the digitization of information and communication. Henry Jenkins, a key theorist of new media and media convergence draws on the theory that collective intelligence can be attributed to media convergence and participatory culture . He criticizes contemporary education for failing to incorporate online trends of collective problem solving into the classroom, stating \"whereas a collective intelligence community encourages ownership of work as a group, schools grade individuals\". Jenkins argues that interaction within a knowledge community builds vital skills for young people, and teamwork through collective intelligence communities contribute to the development of such skills. Collective intelligence is not merely a quantitative contribution of information from all cultures, it is also qualitative.\n\nLévy and de Kerckhove consider CI from a mass communications perspective, focusing on the ability of networked information and communication technologies to enhance the community knowledge pool. They suggest that these communications tools enable humans to interact and to share and collaborate with both ease and speed (Flew 2008). With the development of the Internet and its widespread use, the opportunity to contribute to knowledge-building communities, such as Wikipedia, is greater than ever before. These computer networks give participating users the opportunity to store and to retrieve knowledge through the collective access to these databases and allow them to \"harness the hive\" Researchers at the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence research and explore collective intelligence of groups of people and computers.\n\nIn this context collective intelligence is often confused with shared knowledge. The former is the sum total of information held individually by members of a community while the latter is information that is believed to be true and known by all members of the community. Collective intelligence as represented by Web 2.0 has less user engagement than collaborative intelligence. An art project using Web 2.0 platforms is \"Shared Galaxy\", an experiment developed by an anonymous artist to create a collective identity that shows up as one person on several platforms like MySpace, Facebook, YouTube and Second Life. The password is written in the profiles and the accounts named \"Shared Galaxy\" are open to be used by anyone. In this way many take part in being one. Another art project using collective intelligence to produce artistic work is Curatron, where a large group of artists together decides on a smaller group that they think would make a good collaborative group. The process is used based on an algorithm computing the collective preferences In creating what he calls 'CI-Art', Nova Scotia based artist Mathew Aldred follows Pierry Lévy's definition of collective intelligence. Aldred's CI-Art event in March 2016 involved over four hundred people from the community of Oxford, Nova Scotia, and internationally. Later work developed by Aldred used the UNU swarm intelligence system to create digital drawings and paintings. The Oxford Riverside Gallery (Nova Scotia) held a public CI-Art event in May 2016, which connected with online participants internationally.\n\nIn social bookmarking (also called collaborative tagging), users assign tags to resources shared with other users, which gives rise to a type of information organisation that emerges from this crowdsourcing process. The resulting information structure can be seen as reflecting the collective knowledge (or collective intelligence) of a community of users and is commonly called a \"Folksonomy\", and the process can be captured by models of collaborative tagging.\n\nRecent research using data from the social bookmarking website Delicious, has shown that collaborative tagging systems exhibit a form of complex systems (or self-organizing) dynamics. Although there is no central controlled vocabulary to constrain the actions of individual users, the distributions of tags that describe different resources has been shown to converge over time to a stable power law distributions. Once such stable distributions form, examining the correlations between different tags can be used to construct simple folksonomy graphs, which can be efficiently partitioned to obtained a form of community or shared vocabularies. Such vocabularies can be seen as a form of collective intelligence, emerging from the decentralised actions of a community of users. The Wall-it Project is also an example of social bookmarking.\n\nResearch performed by Tapscott and Williams has provided a few examples of the benefits of collective intelligence to business:\n\n\nCultural theorist and online community developer, John Banks considered the contribution of online fan communities in the creation of the Trainz product. He argued that its commercial success was fundamentally dependent upon \"the formation and growth of an active and vibrant online fan community that would both actively promote the product and create content- extensions and additions to the game software\".\n\nThe increase in user created content and interactivity gives rise to issues of control over the game itself and ownership of the player-created content. This gives rise to fundamental legal issues, highlighted by Lessig and Bray and Konsynski, such as intellectual property and property ownership rights.\n\nGosney extends this issue of Collective Intelligence in videogames one step further in his discussion of alternate reality gaming. This genre, he describes as an \"across-media game that deliberately blurs the line between the in-game and out-of-game experiences\" as events that happen outside the game reality \"reach out\" into the player's lives in order to bring them together. Solving the game requires \"the collective and collaborative efforts of multiple players\"; thus the issue of collective and collaborative team play is essential to ARG. Gosney argues that the Alternate Reality genre of gaming dictates an unprecedented level of collaboration and \"collective intelligence\" in order to solve the mystery of the game.\n\nCo-operation helps to solve most important and most interesting multi-science problems. In his book, James Surowiecki mentioned that most scientists think that benefits of co-operation have much more value when compared to potential costs. Co-operation works also because at best it guarantees number of different viewpoints. Because of the possibilities of technology global co-operation is nowadays much easier and productive than before. It is clear that, when co-operation goes from university level to global it has significant benefits.\n\nFor example, why do scientists co-operate? Science has become more and more isolated and each science field has spread even more and it is impossible for one person to be aware of all developments. This is true especially in experimental research where highly advanced equipment requires special skills. With co-operation scientists can use information from different fields and use it effectively instead of gathering all the information just by reading by themselves.\"\n\nMilitary, trade unions, and corporations satisfy some definitions of CI – the most rigorous definition would require a capacity to respond to very arbitrary conditions without orders or guidance from \"law\" or \"customers\" to constrain actions. Online advertising companies are using collective intelligence to bypass traditional marketing and creative agencies.\n\nThe UNU open platform for \"human swarming\" (or \"social swarming\") establishes real-time closed-loop systems around groups of networked users molded after biological swarms, enabling human participants to behave as a unified collective intelligence. When connected to UNU, groups of distributed users collectively answer questions and make predictions in real-time. Early testing shows that human swarms can out-predict individuals. In 2016, an UNU swarm was challenged by a reporter to predict the winners of the Kentucky Derby, and successfully picked the first four horses, in order, beating 540 to 1 odds.\n\nSpecialized information sites such as Digital Photography Review or Camera Labs is an example of collective intelligence. Anyone who has an access to the internet can contribute to distributing their knowledge over the world through the specialized information sites.\n\nIn learner-generated context a group of users marshal resources to create an ecology that meets their needs often (but not only) in relation to the co-configuration, co-creation and co-design of a particular learning space that allows learners to create their own context. Learner-generated contexts represent an \"ad hoc\" community that facilitates coordination of collective action in a network of trust. An example of learner-generated context is found on the Internet when collaborative users pool knowledge in a \"shared intelligence space\". As the Internet has developed so has the concept of CI as a shared public forum. The global accessibility and availability of the Internet has allowed more people than ever to contribute and access ideas. (Flew 2008)\n\nGames such as \"The Sims\" Series, and \"Second Life\" are designed to be non-linear and to depend on collective intelligence for expansion. This way of sharing is gradually evolving and influencing the mindset of the current and future generations. For them, collective intelligence has become a norm. In Terry Flew's discussion of 'interactivity' in the online games environment, the ongoing interactive dialogue between users and game developers, he refers to Pierre Lévy's concept of Collective Intelligence and argues this is active in videogames as clans or guilds in MMORPG constantly work to achieve goals. Henry Jenkins proposes that the participatory cultures emerging between games producers, media companies, and the end-users mark a fundamental shift in the nature of media production and consumption. Jenkins argues that this new participatory culture arises at the intersection of three broad new media trends. Firstly, the development of new media tools/technologies enabling the creation of content. Secondly, the rise of subcultures promoting such creations, and lastly, the growth of value adding media conglomerates, which foster image, idea and narrative flow.\n\nImprovisational actors also experience a type of collective intelligence which they term \"group mind\", as theatrical improvisation relies on mutual cooperation and agreement, leading to the unity of \"group mind\".\n\nGrowth of the Internet and mobile telecom has also produced \"swarming\" or \"rendezvous\" events that enable meetings or even dates on demand. The full impact has yet to be felt but the anti-globalization movement, for example, relies heavily on e-mail, cell phones, pagers, SMS and other means of organizing. The Indymedia organization does this in a more journalistic way. Such resources could combine into a form of collective intelligence accountable only to the current participants yet with some strong moral or linguistic guidance from generations of contributors – or even take on a more obviously democratic form to advance shared goal.\n\nA further application of collective intelligence is found in the \"Community Engineering for Innovations\". In such an integrated framework proposed by Ebner et al., idea competitions and virtual communities are combined to better realize the potential of the collective intelligence of the participants, particularly in open-source R&D.\n\nCollective actions or tasks require different amounts of coordination depending on the complexity of the task. Tasks vary from being highly independent simple tasks that require very little coordination to complex interdependent tasks that are built by many individuals and require a lot of coordination. In the article written by Kittur, Lee and Kraut the writers introduce a problem in cooperation: \"When tasks require high coordination because the work is highly interdependent, having more contributors can increase process losses, reducing the effectiveness of the group below what individual members could optimally accomplish\". Having a team too large the overall effectiveness may suffer even when the extra contributors increase the resources. In the end the overall costs from coordination might overwhelm other costs.\n\nGroup collective intelligence is a property that emerges through coordination from both bottom-up and top-down processes. In a bottom-up process the different characteristics of each member are involved in contributing and enhancing coordination. Top-down processes are more strict and fixed with norms, group structures and routines that in their own way enhance the group's collective work.\n\nTom Atlee reflects that, although humans have an innate ability to gather and analyze data, they are affected by culture, education and social institutions. A single person tends to make decisions motivated by self-preservation. Therefore, without collective intelligence, humans may drive themselves into extinction based on their selfish needs.\n\nPhillip Brown and Hugh Lauder quotes Bowles and Gintis (1976) that in order to truly define collective intelligence, it is crucial to separate 'intelligence' from IQism. They go on to argue that intelligence is an achievement and can only be developed if allowed to. For example, earlier on, groups from the lower levels of society are severely restricted from aggregating and pooling their intelligence. This is because the elites fear that the collective intelligence would convince the people to rebel. If there is no such capacity and relations, there would be no infrastructure on which collective intelligence is built . This reflects how powerful collective intelligence can be if left to develop.\n\nSkeptics, especially those critical of artificial intelligence and more inclined to believe that risk of bodily harm and bodily action are the basis of all unity between people, are more likely to emphasize the capacity of a group to take action and withstand harm as one fluid mass mobilization, shrugging off harms the way a body shrugs off the loss of a few cells.This strain of thought is most obvious in the anti-globalization movement and characterized by the works of John Zerzan, Carol Moore, and Starhawk, who typically shun academics. These theorists are more likely to refer to ecological and collective wisdom and to the role of consensus process in making ontological distinctions than to any form of \"intelligence\" as such, which they often argue does not exist, or is mere \"cleverness\".\n\nHarsh critics of artificial intelligence on ethical grounds are likely to promote collective wisdom-building methods, such as the new tribalists and the Gaians. Whether these can be said to be collective intelligence systems is an open question. Some, e.g. Bill Joy, simply wish to avoid any form of autonomous artificial intelligence and seem willing to work on rigorous collective intelligence in order to remove any possible niche for AI.\n\nIn contrast to these views, Artificial Intelligence companies such as Amazon Mechanical Turk and CrowdFlower are using collective intelligence and crowdsourcing or consensus-based assessment to collect the enormous amounts of data for machine learning algorithms such as Keras and IBM Watson.\n\nGlobal collective intelligence is also seen as the key in solving the challenges that the humankind faces now and in the future. Climate change is an example of a global issue which collective intelligence is currently trying to tackle. With the help of collective intelligence applications such as online crowdsourcing people across the globe are collaborating in developing solutions to climate change.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342843", "title": "Columbarium", "text": "Columbarium\n\nA columbarium (pl. columbaria) is a place for the respectful and usually public storage of cinerary urns (i.e., urns holding a deceased's cremated remains), but can also mean the nesting boxes of pigeons. The term comes from the Latin \"columba\" (dove) and, originally, solely referred to compartmentalized housing for doves and pigeons called a dovecote.\n\nRoman columbaria were often built partly or completely underground. The Columbarium of Pomponius Hylas is an ancient Roman example, rich in frescoes, decorations and precious mosaics.\n\nToday's columbaria can be either free standing units, or part of a mausoleum or another building. Some manufacturers produce columbaria that are built entirely off-site and brought to the cemetery by a large truck. Many modern crematoria have columbaria. Examples of these are the columbaria in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris and Golders Green Crematorium in London.\n\nIn other cases, columbaria are built into church structures. One example is the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels (Los Angeles, California), which houses a number of columbarium niches in the mausoleum built into the lower levels of the Cathedral. The construction of columbaria within churches is particularly widespread in the Czechoslovak Hussite Church. An example can be seen at the Church of St Nicolas in Old Town Square (Prague). In the Roman Catholic Church, although traditional burial is still preferred, cremation is permitted provided that the cremated remains are buried or entombed. As a result, columbaria can be found within some Catholic cemeteries.\n\nColumbaria are often closely similar in form to traditional Buddhist temples, which from ancient times have housed cremated ashes. In Buddhism, ashes of the deceased may be placed in a columbarium (in Chinese, a \"naguta\" (\"bone-receiving pagoda\"); in Japanese, a \"nokotsudo\" (\"bone-receiving hall\"), which can be either attached to or a part of a Buddhist temple or cemetery. This practice allows for the family of the deceased to visit the temple for the conduct of traditional memorials and ancestor rites.\n\nIn the Bet Guvrin area several series of large caves dug into soft rock were found. There were several theories about their original use, for ritual burial, for growing pigeons to be used for ritual sacrifice, or for raising pigeons for fertilizer production. One such cave had been covered by an earthquake close to the time of its original usage and had no signs of secondary usage; neither ashes nor pigeon droppings were found in it.\n\nAmong the archaeologic finds on Masada, a columbarium tower foundation remains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24364159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24364159", "title": "Cover's theorem", "text": "Cover's theorem\n\nCover's Theorem is a statement in computational learning theory and is one of the primary theoretical motivations for the use of non-linear kernel methods in machine learning applications. The theorem states that given a set of training data that is not linearly separable, one can with high probability transform it into a training set that is linearly separable by projecting it into a higher-dimensional space via some non-linear transformation. The theorem is named after the information theorist Thomas M. Cover who stated it in 1965.\n\nThe proof is easy. A deterministic mapping may be used. Indeed, suppose there are formula_1 samples. Lift them onto the vertices of the simplex in the formula_2 dimensional real space. Every partition of the samples into two sets is separable by a linear separator. QED.\n\n"}
{"id": "13583756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13583756", "title": "Cristóbal de Acevedo", "text": "Cristóbal de Acevedo\n\nCristóbal de Acebedo (born c. 1540) was a Spanish painter, active mainly during the Renaissance period.\n\nHe was born likely in Madrid and was a disciple of Bartolomé Carducho in 1585, and painted pictures for many of the convents in the capital.\n"}
{"id": "57476562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57476562", "title": "DPP v Santana-Bermudez", "text": "DPP v Santana-Bermudez\n\nDirector of Public Prosecutions v Santa-Bermudez [2003] EWHC 2908 (Admin), also known as DPP v Santana-Bermudez, is a 2003 decision of the Divisional Court of Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales, considering an appeal by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in a criminal assault case. \n\nThe defendant, Santa-Bermudez, had lied about the presence of sharp objects in his pocket when being searched by a female police constable and the constable was injured. The defendant was charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm but he argued that as he had not actively committed any action that led to the injury, he lacked the required \"actus reus\" for the crime to have been committed. \n\nAlthough convicted at the Magistrates' Court, the defendant appealed to the Crown Court which found in his favour and dismissed the case. The DPP appealed to the High Court, which ruled that the defendant's willful omission, which put the constable in a dangerous situation, was sufficient \"actus reus\" for the crime to have been committed.\n\nIn June 2001, PC Hill was called to Stockwell tube station where she was investigating ticket touts. She found the defendant and searched him under section 1 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. When asked if he had any sharp items on him, the defendant answered in the negative. Upon searching him, PC Hill was pricked by hypodermic needles hidden in his pockets. The defendant was arrested and was later discovered to have HIV and hepatitis C, though PC Hill was not infected.\n\nThe defendant was charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm (ABH) and was found guilty at Horseferry Road Magistrates' Court. He appealed this conviction to Middlesex Crown Court, which heard the appeal in December 2001. Following the prosecution's evidence being given, the defendant's counsel submitted that the defendant had committed no positive act that resulted in ABH, that an omission did not amount to assault, and on that basis there was no case to answer. The panel agreed, allowing the appeal, and quashed the conviction.\n\nThe DPP appealed this decision to the High Court to determine whether an omission did constitute sufficient \"actus reus\" for the crime to be committed.\n\nThe DPP's appeal was heard by Mr Justice Maurice Kay and Mr Justice Mackay, sitting as the Divisional Court of the Queen's Bench Division. The DPP was represented by Rachel Lawrence (daughter of former MP Sir Ivan Lawrence), instructed by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS); she was the same prosecution barrister as had appeared in the Crown Court. The CPS indicated that they would not seek for the case to be remitted to the Crown Court for a retrial; having already been acquitted, the defendant did not appear and was not represented in the High Court.\n\nThe judges considered the DPP's submission that \"Fagan v Metropolitan Police Commissioner\" and \"R v Roberts\" showed that willful omission could be sufficient \"actus reus\". The court also considered the case of \"R v Miller\" where it was held that recklessly failing to take action when the defendant created a dangerous situation was enough for \"actus reus\". \n\nMr Justice Maurice Kay, giving the only reasoned judgment, commented that \"A great deal of undesirable complexity has bedevilled our criminal law as a result of quasi theological distinctions between acts and omissions\". He held that, as the defendant had recklessly given a false statement to PC Hill that put her in a dangerous situation with a foreseeable risk of harm through the omission, the Crown Court was incorrect to allow the motion to dismiss and allowed the appeal. Mr Justice Mackay agreed with the \"ratio decidendi\".\nThe legal principle that an assault can be committed by an omission that was affirmed in this case, was later put into statute law through the passage of the Sexual Offences Act 2003.\n"}
{"id": "54637174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54637174", "title": "Death of Rashan Charles", "text": "Death of Rashan Charles\n\nRashan Charles, a 20-year-old Black British man, died on 22 July 2017 following contact with an officer from the Metropolitan Police in Dalston, England. Charles died after being chased and restrained by a police officer and attempting to swallow a package containing caffeine and Paracetamol.\n\nThis was the second death in little more than a month of a young black man in London following police contact, after the Death of Edson Da Costa. The footage of Charles being restrained was shared on social media As with Da Costa's death, it led to multiple protests. An inquest in June 2018 concluded that Charles had died as a result of the object obstructing his airway, and that the officers were not responsibile.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police said the incident took place after a vehicle stop in Kingsland Road, Dalston at 1:45 am on Saturday, 22 July 2017. Charles fled the vehicle and was pursued by police into a shop, where he placed an object into his mouth and resisted arrest.\n\nThe officer, who wore a body camera, threw Charles to the ground, held him down by the neck, and tried to reach inside his mouth. A member of the public helped him restrain Charles. Charles subsequently \"became ill\", was given emergency treatment at the scene, and was taken by ambulance to Royal London Hospital, where he died later that morning. The object Charles tried to swallow was reportedly recovered at the scene.\n\nThe video of Charles' contact with the police was widely shared on social media platforms. The National Union of Students Black Students' Campaign tweeted that Charles had been \"murdered\" by the Metropolitan Police.\n\nPauline Pearce, a local politician and activist who was known for berating looters during the 2011 London riots, described Charles as \"a darling\". Friends and family of Charles called for action to be taken against the officer involved, suggesting protests could take place otherwise. A friend of Charles told \"The Independent\", \"Rash was unarmed and he was not resisting arrest...I just don't understand the whole taking him down to the ground and choking him and handcuffing him\" and accused police of abusing their authority. \"The Independent\" reported that \"community anger over his death could spill over into violence\".\n\nMore than 300 protesters attended a demonstration organised by 'Hackney Stand Up to Racism and Fascism' on Monday 24 July. The group stated they were \"enormously concerned and angered\" by Charles' death and cited both the Death of Edson Da Costa and of Rashan Charles as examples of \"seemingly endless list of young black men dying at the hands of the authorities\". The protest, a march from the shop where the altercation took place to Stoke Newington police station, was described as mostly peaceful, but several masked activists chanted \"murderers\" at police and hurled broken bottles.\n\nMore protests were held in Dalston and Hackney on Friday, 28 July 2017.\n\nThe Independent Police Complaints Commission (later renamed the Independent Office for Police Conduct in January 2018) started an investigation. The IPCC reported that the item Charles attempted to swallow contained a mixture of caffeine and Paracetamol (acetaminophen) wrapped in plastic. Although these are not illegal to possess in the UK, this combination of drugs has been used as \"cutting\" agents for Class A drugs.\n\nThe full inquest, was held in June 2018 in front of a coroner and jury. The police officers involved in the restraint and arrest of Charles that resulted in his death were given the right to remain anonymous.\n\nOn Wednesday 20 June 2018, the jury returned a verdict of accidental death. The jury concluded that the officers' use of force was justified and that Charles' death was a consequence of the package he had swallowed blocking his airway. While they concluded that the officers failed to follow protocol by not calling for an ambulance sooner, they argued that this would not have saved Charles' life. The verdict was criticized by at least one member of Charles' family.\n\n"}
{"id": "11064834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11064834", "title": "Edward Adam", "text": "Edward Adam\n\nEdward Adam, in 1800, invented still modifications to improve chemical rectification.,\n\n"}
{"id": "16315705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16315705", "title": "Egg tossing (behavior)", "text": "Egg tossing (behavior)\n\nEgg tossing or egg destruction is a behaviour observed in some species of birds where one individual removes an egg from the communal nest; which is related to infanticide. This behaviour is observed in avian species, most commonly females, who are involved with cooperative breeding or brood parasitism. Among colonial non-co-nesting birds, egg-tossing is observed to be performed by an individual of the same species. Tossing of eggs is non-accidental: the intruder rolls the egg to the edge of the nest by repeatedly flicking it with its beak. During co-nesting, before a bird starts laying its own eggs, it tosses out other eggs laid previously by another female. As a result, the last egg-layers may contribute more eggs to the common nest: this will increase the chances that newly laid eggs bearing the genetic material of that female will have a better chance of survival. In some species, egg-tossing is a strategy of clutch coordination: eggs are tossed until all birds in the common nest are ready to proceed with brooding. Preventing early egg-layers from dominating reproduction. Laying eggs late can be detrimental to the offspring once the egg is hatched since it will be smaller than their siblings thus increasing the risk of death. Performing this behaviour increases the offspring per individual compared to those in single pairs and many species have learnt to adapt to increase the chances of their offspring to survive.\n\nSome examples of communal breeders that demonstrate the egg tossing behaviour are: ostriches, grooved-bill anis, acorn woodpeckers, the gray-breasted jay, the guira cuckoo and smoothed-bill anis.\n\nIn communal breeding there are multiple females in a group. This has shown that the number of eggs produced per individual is greater in comparison to single female groups. Reasoning behind this is due to the higher competition between females: to have their own eggs be successfully hatched and from the large amount of egg loss.\n\nThe acorn woodpecker showed that when in a group of 7-8 individuals, the success rate of reproduction increased, but would decrease if more members joined the group. When there were two females in the clutch the success would decrease compared to a single female clutch; since there is a higher competitive and conflict rate.\n\nIn the guira cuckoo, up to 7 females share a nest and perform egg tossing behaviour. Eggs that are laid in the early period of production are more likely to be tossed out of the nest by another female. When the group size increases, the egg tossing behaviour does not increase.\n\nLaying eggs late prevents that individuals eggs being tossed out of the nest, but can have a negative impact on the offspring. Late egg laying causes later hatching which increases the probability of death. These late chicks will be smaller than their nest mates, putting them at risk.\n\nIn the acorn woodpecker it has been observed that due to the egg destruction behaviour it causes the egg laying to be synchronized between females. This synchronization of egg laying allows for all females to have the same opportunity to have a similar number of eggs in the nest. The larger the communal breeding group is the longer it takes for the synchronization to occur.\n\nOstriches are usually found in a group of two to seven and there is only one major hen which will incubate the nest with the single male. The female ostriches will lay their eggs at the same time, leading to having too many eggs in the nest. The major hen is able to detect which eggs belong to her and will push the other eggs on the perimeter of the nest, which is not looked after. This adaption of abandoning these eggs protects the well kept eggs from predators.\n\nIn the grooved bill anis and in the guira cuckoo, these species will stop tossing eggs once they have started to produce eggs in the nest. This behaviour prevents them from unknowingly toss one of their own eggs out of the nest.\n\nA slightly different behaviour is that of brood parasite birds, such as some species of cuckoos. There are two types of brood parasitism, one which the females lay their eggs in the nest of the same species or different species.\nThe common cuckoo watches the nest of a potential host. Once the host leaves the nest the female cuckoo will remove one of the hosts eggs and will replace it with one of hers. The female cuckoo will have no part in taking care of her offspring; she will leave the host's nest and look for another nest which she can lay another egg.\n\nThere are different methods that brood parasites trick the host in raising their child, however some host's have developed counter adaptations to these. The adaptation between the host and brood parasites is an example of co-evolution.\n\nSeveral species of cuckoos and cowbirds.\n"}
{"id": "2708731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708731", "title": "Exploration Systems Architecture Study", "text": "Exploration Systems Architecture Study\n\nThe Exploration Systems Architecture Study (ESAS) is the official title of a large-scale, system level study released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in November 2005 in response to American president George W. Bush's announcement on January 14, 2004 of his goal of returning astronauts to the Moon and eventually Mars — known as the Vision for Space Exploration (and unofficially as \"Moon, Mars and Beyond\" in some aerospace circles, though the specifics of a manned \"beyond\" program remain vague).\n\nRecent (2005–2009) NASA Administrator Michael Griffin ordered a number of changes in the originally planned Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) acquisition strategy designed by his predecessor Sean O'Keefe. Griffin's plans favored a design he had developed as part of a study for the Planetary Society, rather than the prior plans for a Crew Exploration Vehicle developed in parallel by two competing teams. These changes were proposed in an internal study called the Exploration Systems Architecture Study, whose results were officially presented during a press conference held at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. on September 19, 2005.\n\nThe ESAS includes a number of recommendations for accelerating the development of the CEV and implementing Project Constellation, including strategies for flying manned CEV flights as early as 2012 (now pushed back to at least 2015) and methods for servicing the International Space Station (ISS) without the use of the Space Shuttle, using cargo versions of the CEV.\n\nOriginally slated for release as early as July 25, 2005, after the \"Return to Flight\" mission of Discovery, the release of the ESAS was delayed until September 19, reportedly due to poor reviews of the presentation of the plan and some resistance from the Office of Management and Budget.\n\nThe initial CEV “procurement strategies” under Sean O’ Keefe would have seen two “phases” of CEV design. Proposals submitted in May 2005 were to be part of the Phase 1 portion of CEV design, which was to be followed by an orbital or suborbital fly-off of technology demonstrator spacecraft called FAST in 2008. Downselect to one contractor for Phase 2 of the program would have occurred later that year. First manned flight of the CEV would not occur until as late as 2014. In the original plan favored by former NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe, the CEV would launch on an Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV), namely the Boeing Delta IV Heavy or Lockheed Martin Atlas V Heavy EELVs.\n\nHowever, with the change of NASA Administrators, Mike Griffin did away with this schedule, viewing it as unacceptably slow, and moved directly to Phase 2 in early 2006. He commissioned the 60-day internal study for a re-review of the concepts — now known as the ESAS — which favored launching the CEV on a shuttle-derived launch vehicle. Additionally, Griffin planned to accelerate or otherwise change a number of aspects of the original plan that was released last year. Instead of a CEV fly-off in 2008, NASA would have moved to Phase 2 of the CEV program in 2006, with CEV flights to have commenced as early as June 2011.\n\nThe ESAS called for the development of two shuttle-derived launch vehicles to support Project Constellation; one derived from the space shuttle’s solid rocket booster (SRB) to launch the CEV, and an in-line heavy-lift vehicle using SRBs and the shuttle’s external tank to launch the Earth Departure Stage and Lunar Surface Access Module. The performance of the Cargo Shuttle Derived Launch Vehicle (SDLV) would be 125 to 130 metric tons to Low Earth Orbit (LEO). An SDLV would allow a much greater payload per launch than an EELV option.\n\nThe crews that would be launched in the CEV atop a five-segment derivative of the Shuttle's Solid Rocket Booster and a new liquid-propellant upper stage based on the Shuttle's External Tank. Originally to be powered by a single, throw-away version of the Space Shuttle Main Engine, it was later changed (as noted on a space.com article dated on January 20, 2006) to a modernized and uprated version of the J-2 rocket engine (known as the J-2X) used on the S-IVB upper stages used on the Saturn IB and Saturn V rockets. This booster would be capable of placing up to 25 tons into low Earth orbit. The booster would use components that have already been man-rated.\n\nCargo would be launched on a heavy-lift version of the Space Shuttle, which would be an \"in-line\" booster which would mount payloads on top of the booster. The in-line option originally featured five throw-away versions of the SSMEs on the core stage, but was changed later to five RS-68 rocket engines (currently in use on the Delta IV rocket), with higher thrust and lower costs, which required a slight increase in the overall diameter of the core. Two enlarged five-segment SRBs would help the RS-68 engines propel the rocket's second stage, known as the Earth Departure Stage (EDS), and payload into LEO. It could lift about 125 tons to LEO, and is estimated to cost $540 million per launch.\n\nTherefore, the infrastructure at Kennedy Space Center, including the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) and Shuttle launch pads LC-39A and 39B would be maintained and adapted to the needs of the future giant launch vehicle, with an option of constructing two new pads (LC-39C & LC-39D) or resurrecting the former LC-34 or LC-37A pads at the nearby Cape Canaveral Air Force Station used by the Saturn IB for the early Apollo earth orbital missions.\n\nThe ESAS recommends strategies for flying the manned CEV by 2014, and endorses a Lunar Orbit Rendezvous approach to the Moon. The LEO versions of the CEV would carry crews four to six to the ISS. The lunar version of the CEV would carry a crew of four and the Mars CEV would carry six. Cargo could also be carried aboard an unmanned version CEV, similar to the Russian Progress cargo ships. The contractor for the CEV will be Lockheed Martin, which was selected by NASA in September, 2006 and is the current contractor for the Space Shuttle's External Tank and the Atlas V EELV.\n\nThe CEV re-entry module would weigh about 12 tons — almost twice the mass of the Apollo Command Module — and, like Apollo, would be attached to a service module for life support and propulsion. The CEV will be an Apollo-like capsule, with a Viking-type heat shield, not a lifting body or winged vehicle like the current Shuttle. It would land on land rather than water, similar to the Russian Soyuz spacecraft, though it would be capable of a water recovery if an emergency splashdown were needed. Possible landing areas that have been identified include Edwards Air Force Base, California, Carson Flats (Carson Sink), Nevada, and the area around Moses Lake, Washington state. Landing on the west coast would allow the majority of the reentry path to be flown over the Pacific Ocean rather than populated areas. The CEV would have an ablative (Apollo-like) heat shield that would be discarded after each use, and the CEV itself could be reused about 10 times.\n\nAccelerated lunar mission development is slated to start by 2010, once the Shuttle is retired. The Lunar Surface Access Module (LSAM) and heavy-lift boosters would be developed in parallel and would both be ready for flight by 2018. The eventual goal is to achieve a lunar landing by 2020. The LSAM would be much larger than the Apollo Lunar Module and would be capable of carrying up to 23 tons of cargo to the lunar surface to support a lunar outpost. This weight in cargo is greater than the mass of the entire Apollo Lunar Module (LM).\n\nLike the Apollo LM, the LSAM would include a descent stage for landing and an ascent stage for returning to orbit. The crew of four would ride in the ascent stage. The ascent stage would be powered by a methane/oxygen fuel for return to lunar orbit (later changed to liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen, due to the infancy of oxygen/methane rocket propulsion). This would allow a derivative of the same lander to be used on later Mars missions, where methane propellant can be manufactured from the Martian soil in a process known as In-Situ Resource Utilization (ISRU). The LSAM would support the crew of four on the lunar surface for about a week and use advanced roving vehicles to explore the lunar surface. The huge amount of cargo carried by the LSAM would be extremely beneficial for supporting a lunar base and for bringing large amounts of scientific equipment to the lunar surface.\n\nThe lunar mission profile will be a combination of earth orbit rendezvous and lunar orbit rendezvous (LOR) approach. First, the LSAM and the EDS will be launched atop the heavy-lift, Shuttle-derived vehicle. The EDS would be a derivative of the S-IVB upper stage used on the Saturn V rocket and will use a single J-2X engine similar to that used on the SRB-derived booster (originally two J-2X engines were to be used, but the RS-68 engines for the core stage will allow NASA to only use one). The crew will then be launched in the CEV on the SRB-derived booster, and the CEV and LSAM will dock in Earth orbit. The EDS will then send the complex to the Moon. The LSAM will brake the complex into lunar orbit (similar to the Block D rocket on the failed Soviet moonshot attempt in the 1960s and 1970s), where four astronauts will board the LSAM for descent to the lunar surface for a week of exploration. Part of the LSAM could be left behind with cargo to begin establishment of a long-term outpost.\n\nThe article says that both the LSAM and the lunar CEV would carry a crew of four. Griffin has subsequently stated that the entire crew would descend to the lunar surface, leaving the CEV unoccupied. After the time on the lunar surface has been spent, the crew would return to lunar orbit in the ascent stage of the LSAM. The LSAM would dock with the CEV. The crew would return to the CEV and jettison the LSAM, and then the CEV's engine would put the crew on a course for Earth. Then, much like Apollo, the service module would be jettisoned and the CEV would descend for a landing via a system of three parachutes. Two parachutes are enough for landing (although in the western United States rather than the Ocean). The article says that the ESAS contains a recommendation for at least two missions to the moon each year, starting no later than 2018.\n\nUltimately a base would be built, possibly near the Moon's south pole. But this decision has not yet been taken and might depend on potential international and commercial participation to the exploration project.\n\nThe use of scalable CEVs and a lander with methane-fueled engines means that meaningful hardware testing for Mars missions could be done on the Moon (though these have since been changed to hydrogen/LOX, losing commonality). The eventual Mars missions would start to be planned in detail around 2020 and would include the use of Lunar ISRU and also be \"conjunction-class\", meaning that rather than doing a Venus flyby and spending 20–40 days on the Martian surface, the crew would go directly to Mars and back and spend about 500–600 days exploring Mars.\n\nThe ESAS estimates the cost of the manned lunar program through 2025 to be $217 billion, only $7 billion more than NASA's current projected exploration budget through that time. This estimate may be high because it includes the cost of developing a new engine for the EDS, whereas the current plan is to use a J-2 derivative.\n\nThe ESAS proposal was originally said to be achievable using only existing NASA funding, without significant cuts to NASA's other programs, however it soon became apparent that much more money was needed. Supporters of Constellation saw this as a justification for terminating the Shuttle program as soon as possible, and NASA implemented a plan to terminate support for both Shuttle and ISS in 2010. This was about 10 years earlier than planned for both programs, so must be considered a significant cut. This resulted in strong objections from the international partners that the US was not meeting its commitments, and concerns in Congress that the investment in ISS would be wasted.\n\nBeginning April 2006 there were some criticisms on the feasibility of the original ESAS study. These mostly revolved around the use of methane-oxygen fuel. NASA originally sought this combination because it could be \"mined\" in situ from lunar or martian soil – something that could be potentially useful on missions to these celestial bodies. However, the technology is relatively new and untested. It would add significant time to the project and significant weight to the system. In July, 2006, NASA responded to these criticisms by changing the plan to traditional rocket fuels (liquid hydrogen and oxygen for the LSAM and hypergolics for the CEV). This has reduced the weight and shortened the project's timeframe.\n\nHowever the primary criticism of the ESAS was based on its estimates of safety and cost. The authors used the launch failure rate of the Titan III and IV as an estimate for the failure rate of the Delta IV heavy. The Titan combined a core stage derived from an early ICBM with large segmented solid fuel boosters and a hydrogen-fueled upper stage developed earlier. It was a complex vehicle and had a relatively high failure rate. In contrast, the Delta IV Heavy was a \"clean sheet\" design, still in service, which used only liquid propellant. Conversely, the failure rate of the Shuttle SRB was used to estimate the failure rate of the Ares I, however only launches subsequent to the loss of Challenger were considered, and each shuttle launch was considered to be two successful launches of the Ares even though the Shuttle SRBs do not include systems for guidance or roll control.\n\nThe Delta IV is currently launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station Complex 37, and the manufacturer, United Launch Alliance, had proposed launching human flights from there. However, in the estimation of costs, the ESAS assumed that all competing designs would have to be launched from Launch Complex 39, and that the Vehicle Assembly Building, Mobile launcher Platforms and pads A and B would have to be modified to accommodate them. The LC-39 facilities are much larger, more complex, older, and more expensive to maintain than the modern facilities at Complex 37 and are entirely inappropriate for the Delta, which is integrated horizontally and transported unfueled. This assumption was not justified in the report and greatly increased the estimated operational cost for the Delta IV. Finally, the decision in 2011 to add an unmanned test of the Orion on a Delta IV clearly contradicts the ESAS conclusion that this was infeasible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2321666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321666", "title": "Georges Picquart", "text": "Georges Picquart\n\nMarie Georges Picquart (6 September 1854, Strasbourg, France – 19 January 1914, Amiens, France) was a French army officer and Minister of War. He is best known for his role in the Dreyfus Affair.\n\nPicquart began his military career in 1872, graduating from the \"Ecole Spéciale Militaire de Saint-Cyr\" as fifth in his year. Picquart served as an infantry officer in France before seeing service in Indochina. He subsequently studied at the General Staff Academy (\"l'école d'État-major\") where he was second in his class, before becoming a lecturer at the War Academy (\"l'École supérieure de guerre\"). One of his students at the latter institute was Alfred Dreyfus.\n\nPicquart was then appointed to the General Staff in Paris. As a staff officer he acted as reporter of the debates in the first Dreyfus court martial for the then Minister of War and the Chief of the General Staff. Picquart was subsequently promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel on 6 April 1896. He was appointed chief of the army's intelligence section (\"Deuxième Bureau, service de renseignement militaire\") in 1895. The following year Picquart discovered that the memorandum (\"bordereau\") used to convict Captain Alfred Dreyfus, had actually been the work of Major Ferdinand Walsin Esterhazy. Several high-ranking generals warned Colonel Picquart to conceal his discovery but Picquart persisted and continued his investigation. In this he was hindered and sabotaged by subordinate officers, notably Major Henry. As a consequence Picquart was relieved of duty with the Deuxième Bureau and sent (December 1896) to regimental duty, commanding the 4th Regiment of Tirailleurs (native infantry) based at Sousse in French Tunisia.\nAfter the trial of Émile Zola for writing the 1898 open letter \"J'Accuse…!\", Picquart was himself accused of forging the note that had convinced him of Esterhazy's guilt. He was then arrested for forgery and was waiting for a court martial during the period that the French Court of Cassation was reviewing the Dreyfus case. After the second court-martial, held as a consequence of the conclusions of the court, Picquart resigned from the army. However, the exoneration of Dreyfus in 1906 also absolved Picquart, who was, by an act of the Chamber of Deputies, promoted to brigadier-general. That was the rank that an officer of his seniority and experience could normally have expected to reach if his career had not been interrupted by involvement in the Dreyfus affair.\n\nIn 1906, General Picquart entered Georges Clemenceau's first cabinet as Minister of War. He held that position for the entire duration of the Clemenceau Cabinet, from 25 October 1906 to 24 July 1909. Picquart then returned to military service as an Army Corps commander.\n\nA keen amateur pianist, Picquart was a regular visitor to the Chaigneau family, whose daughters formed the Trio Chaigneau. He later helped arrange concerts for them.\n\nWhile still a serving army officer, Picquart died on 19 January 1914 from injuries received in a fall from a horse. He was 59.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5243345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243345", "title": "Greg Chalmers", "text": "Greg Chalmers\n\nGreg J. Chalmers (born 11 October 1973) is an Australian professional golfer who has played on both the European Tour and the PGA Tour.\n\nChalmers was born in Sydney. He won the 1993 Australian Amateur and the 1994 French Amateur.\n\nChalmers turned professional in 1995 and made a strong start to his professional career, winning four times in Australia in the next few years, including the 1998 Australian Open. In Europe he won the second-tier Challenge Tour's Challenge Tour Championship, in 1997 and finished 25th on the European Tour Order of Merit in 1998. The same year he finished fourth at the PGA Tour's Qualifying school to win a PGA Tour card for 1999.\n\nA poor 2004 season saw him lose his card, but he won the 2005 Albertsons Boise Open on the Nationwide Tour and returned to the main PGA Tour in 2006. Chalmers struggled in 2006, making only 8 cuts and did not maintain his status and played on the Nationwide Tour during 2007 and 2008. He finished 8th on the money list in the 2008 season to gain his PGA Tour card for the 2009 season.\n\nIn 2011, Chalmers won the Australian Open for the second time in his career, 13 years after he won his first. He held off late charges by John Senden and Tiger Woods to claim victory. He followed this up with a win at the Australian PGA Championship, to take the second Australian major of the year. He defeated Robert Allenby and Marcus Fraser in a sudden death playoff to take the title. These wins led him to win the PGA Tour of Australasia Order of Merit. He also became only the second player to have a chance of winning the Australian 'triple-crown' but could not claim the Australian Masters title, an event that still eludes him.\n\nIn December 2014, Chalmers won his second Australian PGA Championship title in a sudden death playoff. He came from seven strokes back during the final round after a flawless round of 64 to enter a playoff with Wade Ormsby and Adam Scott on 11 under. In a marathon playoff which was the longest in tournament history, Ormsby was eliminated at the third extra hole, with Chalmers and Scott going as far as seven extra holes. On the seventh estra hole, Scott three putted from 30 feet for bogey to allow Chalmers to take the victory. This was his fifth title on the PGA Tour of Australasia and tenth overall professional level victory. He also claimed the year end Order of Merit title for the second time his career.\n\nChalmers started the 2015-16 PGA Tour season with only veteran member status and alternated between the PGA Tour and Web.com Tour. He earned his first PGA Tour win at the Barracuda Championship after 18 years and 386 PGA Tour starts, which was the most among active PGA Tour players without a win and one of the longest waits in Tour history. Chalmers and 2013 winner Gary Woodland were tied before the 18th hole. Woodland bogeyed the last hole and Chalmers eagled the par-five 18th, which meant a six-point victory under the tournament's Modified Stableford scoring system. Previously, his best PGA Tour finishes were second at the 2000 Kemper Insurance Open and at the 2009 Buick Open. At 42, Chalmers was also the season's oldest Tour winner. He is also only the 12th left-hander to win a PGA Tour event. Prior to his win, Chalmers was 229th in the FedEx Cup and 490th in the world. The win moved him to 231st in the world and earned him a two-year exemption that also included entry into the 2016 Open Championship as an Open Qualifying Series event after the Greenbrier Classic was cancelled. Chalmers finished 142nd in the FedEx Cup and did not qualify for the postseason, but the win made him fully exempt through the 2017–18 season.\n\nChalmers had a career best world ranking was 53rd in 2012. His career best FedEx Cup ranking was 35th in 2012.\n\nOutside of golf, Chalmers runs a Dallas-area charity for autistic children called Maximum Chances, whose name is derived from one of Chalmers' sons.\n\n\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\nAmateur\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1311139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1311139", "title": "Harry Frankfurt", "text": "Harry Frankfurt\n\nHarry Gordon Frankfurt (born May 29, 1929) is an American philosopher. He is professor emeritus of philosophy at Princeton University, where he taught from 1990 until 2002, and previously taught at Yale University, Rockefeller University, and Ohio State University.\n\nFrankfurt was born on May 29, 1929, in Pennsylvania. He obtained his B.A. in 1949 and Ph.D. in 1954 from Johns Hopkins University.\n\nHe is professor emeritus of philosophy at Princeton University and has previously taught at Yale University, Rockefeller University, and Ohio State University.\n\nHis major areas of interest include moral philosophy, philosophy of mind and action, and 17th-century rationalism. His 1986 paper \"On Bullshit\", a philosophical investigation of the concept of \"bullshit\", was republished as a book in 2005 and became a surprise bestseller, leading to media appearances such as Jon Stewart's \"The Daily Show\". In 2006 he released a companion book, \"On Truth\", which explores society's loss of appreciation for truth.\n\nAmong philosophers, he was for a time best known for his interpretation of Descartes's rationalism. His most influential work, however, has been on freedom of the will (on which he has written numerous important papers) based on his concept of higher-order volitions and for developing what are known as \"Frankfurt cases\" or \"Frankfurt counterexamples\" (i.e., thought experiments designed to show the possibility of situations in which a person could not have done other than he/she did, but in which our intuition is to say nonetheless that this feature of the situation does not prevent that person from being morally responsible). Frankfurt is probably the leading living Humean compatibilist, developing Hume's view that to be free is to do what one wants to do. (Others who develop this view are David Velleman, Gary Watson and John Martin Fischer.) Frankfurt's version of compatibilism is the subject of a substantial literature by other philosophy professors. More recently, he has written on love and caring.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has been a Visiting Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford University; he served as President, Eastern Division, American Philosophical Association; and he has received fellowships and grants from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Andrew Mellon Foundation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1381400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381400", "title": "Hemolytic disease of the newborn", "text": "Hemolytic disease of the newborn\n\nHemolytic disease of the newborn, also known as hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn, HDN, HDFN, or erythroblastosis fetalis, is an alloimmune condition that develops in a peripartum fetus, when the IgG molecules (one of the five main types of antibodies) produced by the mother pass through the placenta. Among these antibodies are some which attack antigens on the red blood cells in the fetal circulation, breaking down and destroying the cells (hemolysis). The fetus can develop reticulocytosis and anemia. This fetal disease ranges from mild to very severe, and fetal death from heart failure (hydrops fetalis) can occur. When the disease is moderate or severe, many erythroblasts (immature red blood cells) are present in the fetal blood, and so these forms of the disease can be called \"erythroblastosis fetalis\" (or \"erythroblastosis foetalis\").\n\nHDFN represents a breach of immune privilege for the fetus or some other form of impairment of the immune tolerance of pregnancy. Various types of HDFN are classified by which alloantigen provokes the response. In order of incidence, the types include ABO, anti-RhD, anti-RhE, anti-Rhc, anti-Rhe, anti-RhC, multiantigen combinations, and anti-Kell .\n\nSigns of hemolytic disease of the newborn include a positive direct Coombs test (also called direct agglutination test), elevated cord bilirubin levels, and hemolytic anemia. It is possible for a newborn with this disease to have neutropenia and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia as well. Hemolysis leads to elevated bilirubin levels. After delivery bilirubin is no longer cleared (via the placenta) from the neonate's blood and the symptoms of jaundice (yellowish skin and yellow discoloration of the whites of the eyes, or icterus) increase within 24 hours after birth. Like other forms of severe neonatal jaundice, there is the possibility of the neonate developing acute or chronic kernicterus, however the risk of kernicterus in HDN is higher because of the rapid and massive destruction of blood cells. It is important to note that isoimmunization is a risk factor for neurotoxicity and lowers the level at which kernicterus can occur. Untreated profound anemia can cause high-output heart failure, with pallor, enlarged liver and/or spleen, generalized swelling, and respiratory distress.\n\nHDN can be the cause of hydrops fetalis, an often-severe form of prenatal heart failure that causes fetal edema.\n\nComplications of HDN could include kernicterus, hepatosplenomegaly, inspissated (thickened or dried) bile syndrome and/or greenish staining of the teeth, hemolytic anemia and damage to the liver due to excess bilirubin. Similar conditions include acquired hemolytic anemia, congenital toxoplasma, congenital syphilis infection, congenital obstruction of the bile duct, and cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection.\n\n\nAntibodies are produced when the body is exposed to an antigen foreign to the make-up of the body. If a mother is exposed to a foreign antigen and produces IgG (as opposed to IgM which does not cross the placenta), the IgG will target the antigen, if present in the fetus, and may affect it \"in utero\" and persist after delivery. The three most common models in which a woman becomes sensitized toward (i.e., produces IgG antibodies against) a particular antigen are hemorrhage, blood transfusion, and ABO incompatibility.\n\nFetal-maternal hemorrhage, which is the movement of fetal blood cells across the placenta, can occur during abortion, ectopic pregnancy, childbirth, ruptures in the placenta during pregnancy (often caused by trauma), or medical procedures carried out during pregnancy that breach the uterine wall. In subsequent pregnancies, if there is a similar incompatibility in the fetus, these antibodies are then able to cross the placenta into the fetal bloodstream to attach to the red blood cells and cause their destruction (hemolysis). This is a major cause of HDN, because 75% of pregnancies result in some contact between fetal and maternal blood, and 15-50% of pregnancies have hemorrhages with the potential for immune sensitization. The amount of fetal blood needed to cause maternal sensitization depends on the individual's immune system and ranges from 0.1 mL to 30 mL.\n\nThe woman may have received a therapeutic blood transfusion. ABO blood group system and the D antigen of the Rhesus (Rh) blood group system typing are routine prior to transfusion. Suggestions have been made that women of child-bearing age or young girls should not be given a transfusion with Rhc-positive blood or Kell-positive blood to avoid possible sensitization, but this would strain the resources of blood transfusion services, and it is currently considered uneconomical to screen for these blood groups. HDFN can also be caused by antibodies to a variety of other blood group system antigens, but Kell and Rh are the most frequently encountered.\n\nThe third sensitization model can occur in women of blood type O. The immune response to A and B antigens, that are widespread in the environment, usually leads to the production of IgM or IgG anti-A and anti-B antibodies early in life. Women of blood type O are more prone than women of types A and B to making IgG anti-A and anti-B antibodies, and these IgG antibodies are able to cross the placenta. For unknown reasons, the incidence of maternal antibodies against type A and B antigens of the IgG type that could potentially cause hemolytic disease of the newborn is greater than the observed incidence of \"ABO disease.\" About 15% of pregnancies involve a type O mother and a type A or type B child; only 3% of these pregnancies result in hemolytic disease due to A/B/O incompatibility. In contrast to antibodies to A and B antigens, Rhesus antibodies are generally not produced from exposure to environmental antigens. In cases where there is ABO incompatibility and Rh incompatibility, the risk of alloimmunization is decreased because fetal red blood cells are removed from maternal circulation due to anti-ABO antibodies before they can trigger an anti-Rh response.\n\n\nThe diagnosis of HDN is based on history and laboratory findings:\n\n\"Blood tests done on the newborn baby\"\n\"Blood tests done on the mother\"\n\"Blood tests done on the father\"\n\nTypes of HDN are classified by the type of antigens involved. The main types are ABO HDN, Rhesus HDN, Kell HDN, and other antibodies. ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn can range from mild to severe, but generally it is a mild disease. It can be caused by anti-A and anti-B antibodies. Rhesus D hemolytic disease of the newborn (often called Rh disease) is the most common form of severe HDN. Rhesus c hemolytic disease of the newborn can range from a mild to severe disease - is the third most common form of severe HDN. Rhesus e and rhesus C hemolytic disease of the newborn are rare. Combinations of antibodies, for example, anti-Rhc and anti-RhE occurring together can be especially severe.\n\nAnti-Kell hemolytic disease of the newborn is most commonly caused by anti-K antibodies, the second most common form of severe HDN. Over half of the cases of anti-K related HDN are caused by multiple blood transfusions. Antibodies to the other Kell antigens are rare.\n\nIn cases of Rho(D) incompatibility, Rho(D) immunoglobulin is given to prevent sensitization. However, there is no comparable immunotherapy available for other blood group incompatibilities.\n\nEarly pregnancy\n\nMid- to late- pregnancy\n\nRhesus-negative mothers who are pregnant with a rhesus-positive infant are offered Rho(D) immune globulin (RhIG, or RhoGam) at 28 weeks during pregnancy, at 34 weeks, and within 48 hours after delivery to prevent sensitization to the D antigen. It works by binding any fetal red blood cells with the D antigen before the mother is able to produce an immune response and form anti-D IgG. A drawback to pre-partum administration of RhIG is that it causes a positive antibody screen when the mother is tested, which can be difficult to distinguish from natural immunological responses that result in antibody production. Without Rho(D) immunoglobulin, the risk of isoimmunization is approximately 17%; with proper administration the risk is reduced to less than 0.1-0.2%.\n\nIn some cases, the direct Coombs will be negative but severe, even fatal HDN can occur. An indirect Coombs needs to be run in cases of anti-C, anti-c, and anti-M. Infants with Anti-M are also recommended to receive antigen testing to rule out the presence of HDN.\n\nAfter birth, treatment depends on the severity of the condition, but could include temperature stabilization and monitoring, phototherapy, transfusion with compatible packed red blood, exchange transfusion with a blood type compatible with both the infant and the mother, sodium bicarbonate for correction of acidosis and/or assisted ventilation.\n\nOnce a woman has antibodies, she is at high risk for a future transfusion reaction if she is in need of a blood transfusion. For this reason, she must carry a medical alert card at all times and inform all doctors and emergency personnel of her antibody status. The absence of antibodies however does not preclude a woman from having a transfusion reaction:\n\n\"Acute hemolytic transfusion reactions may be either immune-mediated or nonimmune-mediated. Immune-mediated hemolytic transfusion reactions caused by immunoglobulin M (IgM) anti-A, anti-B, or anti-A,B typically result in severe, potentially fatal complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis. Immune-mediated hemolytic reactions caused by IgG, Rh, Kell, Duffy, or other non-ABO antibodies typically result in extravascular sequestration, shortened survival of transfused red cells, and relatively mild clinical reactions. Acute hemolytic transfusion reactions due to immune hemolysis may occur in patients who have no antibodies detectable by routine laboratory procedures.\"\n\nFor a summary of transfusion reactions in the US, see reference.\n\nIn 2003, the incidence of Rh(D) sensitization in the United States was 6.8 per 1000 live births; 0.27% of women with an Rh incompatible fetus experience alloimmunization.\n\nHemolytic disease of the newborn is most commonly seen in kittens (where it is known as \"fading kitten syndrome\") and foals. It has also been reported in puppies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174845", "title": "Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial", "text": "Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial\n\nHydriotaphia, Urn Burial, or, a Discourse of the Sepulchral Urns lately found in Norfolk is a work by Sir Thomas Browne, published in 1658 as the first part of a two-part work that concludes with \"The Garden of Cyrus\".\n\nIts nominal subject was the discovery of a Roman urn burial in Norfolk. The discovery of these remains prompts Browne to deliver, first, a description of the antiquities found, and then a survey of most of the burial and funerary customs, ancient and current, of which his era was aware.\n\nThe most famous part of the work is the apotheosis of the fifth chapter, where Browne declaims –\n\n\"But man is a Noble Animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave, solemnizing Nativities and Deaths with equal lustre, nor omitting Ceremonies of bravery, in the infamy of his nature. Life is a pure flame, and we live by an invisible Sun within us.\"\n\n\"Urn Burial\" has been admired by Charles Lamb, Samuel Johnson, John Cowper Powys, James Joyce, Jorge Luis Borges, Derek Walcott, and George Saintsbury, who called it \"the longest piece, perhaps, of absolutely sublime rhetoric to be found in the prose literature of the world\", while Ralph Waldo Emerson said that it \"smells in every word of the sepulchre\". Browne's text is alluded to in W. G. Sebald's novel \"The Rings of Saturn\". It is also cited by Penelope Lively to furnish the title of her novel \"Treasures of Time\" and in the text (Ch 3). The English composer William Alwyn wrote his Symphony No. 5, subtitled \"Hydriotaphia\", in homage to Browne's imagery and rhythmic prose. The America composer Douglas J. Cuomo's \"The Fate of His Ashes: Requiem for Victims of Power\" for chorus and organ takes its text from \"Urn Burial.\" Derek Walcott uses an excerpt as the epigraph to his poem \"Ruins of a Great House.\" Alain de Botton references the work in his book \"Status Anxiety\". Borges refers to it in the final line of his short story \"Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius\". It also appears in the novel \"Sanshirō\", written by Natsume Sōseki; Hirota-sensei lent the book to Sanshirô.\n\n"}
{"id": "54647816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54647816", "title": "Infant bathing", "text": "Infant bathing\n\nInfant bathing is the practice and activity of cleaning an infant by bathing. It has been characterized as being \"fun\", but care is recommended when an infant is in or around water. Most drowning deaths in children happen at home, often when a child is left alone while bathing.\n\nBathing accidents can occur. Often these can be prevented. Recommendations include:\n\n\nA baby bath tub with a non-skid design is safe. If the water is deeper than a few inches, the baby may slip into the water and could possibly drown. An infant can easily slip under the water. The infant can be burned if the water temperature is too hot. How often an infant is bathed is a decision made by the parents or caregivers. Two or three times a week is sufficient. Infants can have sensitive skin and mild soap is best. Keeping all towels and soap within reach allows the parent or caregiver to keep a constant eye on the infant. Shampooing with water alone is adequate. Parents or caregivers may wish to be trained in CPR.\n\nCare during infant bathing will maintain infant health. Caregivers can:\n\n\nBesides safe bathing practices, an infant, toddler or child may be unsafe when unsupervised in a bathroom or washroom. Safe practices are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1826969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826969", "title": "International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis", "text": "International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis\n\nThe International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) is an international research organization located in Laxenburg, near Vienna, in Austria. IIASA conducts interdisciplinary scientific studies on environmental, economic, technological and social issues in the context of human dimensions of global change. IIASA’s mission is \"to provide insights and guidance to policymakers worldwide by finding solutions to global and universal problems through applied systems analysis in order to improve human and social wellbeing and to protect the environment.\"\n\nIIASA brings its experience of managing international tensions through science to today's global issues. Its multinational and multidisciplinary teams of researchers have a growing membership, now including the world's four largest economies.\n\nThe institute is currently directed by Pavel Kabat. Nebojsa Nakicenovic is the current Deputy Director General/ Deputy CEO. Past directors have included Howard Raiffa, professor at Harvard's Business School and Kennedy School of Government, Roger Levien, former Vice President for Strategy at Xerox, Leen Hordijk, former Director at the Institute for Environment and Sustainability, Joint Research Centre, European Commission, Ispra, Italy, and Detlof von Winterfeldt, professor at the University of Southern California.\n\nIIASA is a non-governmental institution funded by scientific organizations in its member countries, which currently include: Australia, Austria, Brazil, China, Egypt, Finland, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Republic of Korea, Russia, South Africa, Sweden, Ukraine, and the USA. Funding for the Institute also comes from contracts, grants, and donations from governments, international organizations, academia, business, and individuals.\n\nOn 4October 1972 representatives of the Soviet Union, United States, and 10 other countries from the Eastern and Western blocs met at The Royal Society in London to sign the charter establishing IIASA. It was the culmination of six years’ effort driven forward by both the US President Lyndon Johnson and the USSR Premier Alexei Kosygin. For IIASA it was the beginning of a remarkable project to use scientific cooperation to build bridges across the Cold War divide and to confront growing global problems on a truly international scale. The first scientist had arrived at IIASA in June, 1973.\n\nClearly, success at bridge building and successful science would go hand in hand. But neither was a foregone conclusion. This was the 1970s, and most research organizations focused on national issues. Few encouraged researchers from different countries or disciplines to work together for the greater good.\n\nTo achieve its ambitious research vision, IIASA would have to break down the barriers between nations and disciplines. This it did, building international multidisciplinary teams to confront innumerable global challenges, both long-standing and emerging. For example, a study on water pollution carried out in the 1980s by a team of IIASA chemists, biologists, and economists still forms the basis of modern water policy design in Japan, USA, and the former USSR.\n\nWhen the Cold War ended (in 1991), IIASA’s sponsoring countries could have said “mission accomplished” and disbanded the Institute. IIASA had certainly helped foster mutual understanding among scientists from East and West. But it had also done more than this. IIASA had shown the scientific benefits of bringing together different nationalities and disciplines to work toward common goals. Indeed, this approach has been widely imitated, for example, in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme.\n\nSo instead of closing in the 1990s the Institute broadened its mandate from the East and West to a truly global focus. Today IIASA brings together a wide range of scientific skills to provide science-based insights into critical policy issues in international and national debates on global change.\n\nIIASA research focuses on complex problems that extend beyond a single country or a single discipline.\n\nIn 2010, IIASA launched a new strategic plan for the next ten years, which focuses on three general problem areas: Energy and Climate Change, Food and Water, and Poverty and Equity.\n\nEvery year approximately 200 researchers from over 35 countries research at IIASA. They work on these broader topics within and across 9 research programs: Advanced Systems Analysis, Ecosystems Services and Management, Energy, Evolution and Ecology, Mitigation of Air Pollution and Greenhouse Gases, Risk, Policy and Vulnerability, Transitions to New Technologies, Water, and World Population.\n\nMajor Projects\n\nTen IIASA scientists were among the authors of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (the work of the IPCC, including the contributions of many scientists, was recognised by the joint award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize).\n\nThe Global Energy Assessment, released in 2012. The report was a result of collaborative and integrated work of over 500 authors, analysts and reviewers worldwide who contributed independent, scientifically based and policy-relevant analysis of current and emerging energy issues and options. The assessment provides a thorough assessment of energy-related issues including sustainable development, including poverty eradication, climate change mitigation, health, energy security and energy access. The entire assessment is available online as a PDF.\n\nThe Water Futures and Solutions: World Water Scenarios initiative, launched in 2012, aims to provide a similarly broad assessment of global water challenges, in much the same scope as the Global Energy Assessment.\n\nIIASA researchers are major contributors to Working Groups II and III of the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report.\n\nSince 2010, IIASA is also one of the three \"pillar institutions\" of the Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561299", "title": "James Mason Hutchings", "text": "James Mason Hutchings\n\n\"James Hutchings redirects here. For those of a similar name, see James Hutchins (disambiguation)\"\n\nJames Mason Hutchings (February 10, 1820 – October 31, 1902) was an American businessman and one of the principal promoters of what is now Yosemite National Park.\n\nBorn in England, Hutchings immigrated to the U.S. in 1848, then went to California in 1849 during the Gold Rush. He became wealthy as a miner, lost it all in a bank failure, then became wealthy again from publishing.\n\nIn 1853, he published \"The Miner's Ten Commandments\".\n\nOn July 5, 1855 James Hutchings set out on what would be one of the most historic trips to the region, leading the second tourist party into Yosemite. (The first tourist party, in 1854, was led by Robert C. Lamon, but no account of the trip is known to be written.) He then became one of the first settlers in Yosemite Valley. Hutchings published an illustrated magazine, \"Hutchings' Illustrated California Magazine\" that told the world about Yosemite and the Sierra. It was said \"...upon the return of Hutchings' party, the descriptions staggered the skeptics and silenced the croakers. From this time forward can be considered the commencement of the visits of tourists.\" He was a tireless promoter, of himself and Yosemite. After Yosemite Valley was dedicated as State Park in 1864, Hutchings, through his interpretation of existing preemption laws, believed he was entitled to 160 acres (647,000 m²) of land in the Valley. He sued, unsuccessfully, to have those acres deeded to himself. He did, however, get a generous payment from the state to help compensate for loss of land use. In 1875, he was banished from Yosemite Valley because of his constant challenging of the law prohibiting the construction of buildings on public lands.\n\nHutchings remarried twice and was an innkeeper for the Calaveras Big Tree Grove Hotel, north of Yosemite. Hutchings' prominence in Yosemite Valley allowed him to connect with figures of great importance to the history of Yosemite, including John Muir, Galen Clark and James McCauley.\n\nWhile visiting Yosemite, Hutchings was killed on October 31, 1902 when his horse reared and threw him from his buggy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23000827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23000827", "title": "Japanese submarine I-28", "text": "Japanese submarine I-28\n\nThe Japanese submarine \"I-28\" was one of 20 Type B cruiser submarines of the B1 sub-class built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during the 1940s.\n\nThe Type B submarines were derived from the earlier KD6 sub-class of the and were equipped with an aircraft to enhance their scouting ability. They displaced surfaced and submerged. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of . They had a diving depth of .\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the \"B1\"s had a range of at ; submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with six internal bow torpedo tubes and carried a total of 17 torpedoes. They were also armed with a single /40 deck gun and two single mounts for Type 96 anti-aircraft guns. In the Type Bs, the aircraft hangar was faired into the base of the conning tower. A single catapult was positioned on the forward deck.\n\"I-28\" was commissioned at Kobe, Japan on February 6, 1942. The submarine participated in the Battle of the Coral Sea in May 1942. Returning to base at Truk in the central Pacific, \"I-28\" was torpedoed and sunk with all hands (88 officers and men) by the United States Navy submarine at on 17 May 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "36543947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36543947", "title": "Journal of Traumatic Stress", "text": "Journal of Traumatic Stress\n\nThe Journal of Traumatic Stress is a peer-reviewed academic journal published bimonthly by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies. The editor-in-chief is Daniel Weiss (University of California, San Francisco). The journal covers research on the biopsychosocial aspects of trauma and publishes original articles, brief reports, reviews, commentaries, and special issues devoted to single topics.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2011 impact factor of 2.721, ranking it 22nd out of 109 journals in the category \"Psychology, Clinical\" and 32nd out of 117 journals in the category \"Psychiatry (Social Science)\".\n"}
{"id": "42977658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42977658", "title": "Leonard W. Seymour", "text": "Leonard W. Seymour\n\nLeonard W. Seymour is Professor of Gene Therapy within the University of Oxford's oncology division. As a cancer-oriented translational researcher, he investigates technologies utilized to enhance targeted therapy's (e.g. drugs, genes, oncolytic viruses) delivery and develops related biological therapeutics under the support of Cancer Research UK.\n\nDr. Seymour was born in Plymouth England in 1958 and qualified in Biochemistry at the University of Manchester. He later formed a research group focused on gene delivery at the Cancer Research UK Institute in Birmingham, and then relocated to the University of Oxford in 2003 as Gene Therapy lead for the National Translational Cancer Research Network (NTRAC). There, he took part in forming the British Society for Gene Therapy (BSCGT) as a means to build the translational gene and cell therapy community within the UK.\n\nDr. Seymour served as the first President of the BSGCT from 2003–2009, currently serves as the General Secretary of the European Society for Gene and Cell Therapy, is indexed in Who's Who, and has produced approximately 140 primary scientific publications.\n\nWith Dr. Kerry Fisher, Dr. Seymour formed a biotech spinout company 'Hybrid Systems' which later became ‘PsiOxus Therapeutics Ltd’, with Cancer Research UK and the University of Birmingham. PsiOxus is now developing a cancer-killing 'oncolytic' group B adenovirus 'ColoAd1' in a series of clinical trials to treat cancer. More recently with Dr. Ryan Cawood, Dr. Seymour formed the plasmid expression company Oxford Genetics, aiming to enable major improvements in the efficiency of genetic engineering and synthetic biology.\n"}
{"id": "613965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613965", "title": "Love bombing", "text": "Love bombing\n\nLove bombing is an attempt to influence a person by demonstrations of attention and affection. It can be used in different ways and can be used for either a positive or negative purpose. Members of the Unification Church of the United States (who reportedly coined the expression) use it to convey a genuine expression of friendship, fellowship, interest, or concern. Critics of cults use the phrase with the implication that the \"love\" is feigned and that the practice is psychological manipulation in order to create a feeling of unity within the group against a society perceived as hostile. Psychologists have identified love bombing as a possible part of a cycle of abuse and have warned against it. In 2011 clinical psychologist Oliver James advocated love bombing in his book \"Love Bombing: Reset Your Child's Emotional Thermostat\", as a means for parents to rectify emotional problems in their children. \nThe expression \"love bombing\" was coined by members of the Unification Church of the United States in the 1970s and was also used by members of the Family International.\nIn 1978 Sun Myung Moon, the founder and then leader of the Unification Church, said:\n\nAnthropology professor Geri-Ann Galanti writes: \n\nPsychology professor Margaret Singer popularized the concept. In her 1996 book, \"Cults in Our Midst,\" she writes:\n\nThe expression has also been used to describe the tactics used by pimps and gang members to control their victims, as well as to describe the behavior of an abusive narcissist who tries to win the confidence of a victim. Modern social media can intensify the effect of love bombing since it enables the abuser with nearly constant contact and communication with the victim. \n\nOne of the signs of love bombing in the start of a relationship is much attention in short time, and pressure for very rapid commitment. It is often the first sign of narcissism, and if successful turns to control and degradation. Psychologist Dale Archer identifies \"The Phases of Love Bombing: Idealization, Devaluation, Discard (Repeat).\" He advises: \"Stop, Look, and Listen\" to avoid love bombing and to break off contact with the abuser, if possible, and seek support from family and friends.\n\nExcessive attention and affection does not constitute love bombing if there is no intent or pattern of further abuse. Archer explains: \n\nIn the 2010s British author and psychologist Oliver James recommended love bombing as a technique for parents to help their troubled children. He described it as, “dedicating one-on-one time spoiling and lavishing your child with love, and, within reason, pandering to their every wish.” A reporter for \"The Daily Express\" tried the technique with her son and reported:\n"}
{"id": "37204738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37204738", "title": "Macroethics and microethics", "text": "Macroethics and microethics\n\nMacroethics (from the Greek prefix \"makros-\" meaning \"large\" and \"ethos\" meaning character) is a term coined in the late 20th century to distinguish large-scale ethics from individual ethics, or microethics. It is a type of applied ethics. For example, emerging technologies present both macroethical and microethical challenges. A microethical decision related to nanotechnology would be that a researcher ensures that all experiments be conducted with integrity and results reported honestly and completely. A macroethical decision would be whether certain types of nanotechnologies be avoided until there is sufficient information regarding their risks. An extreme example of macroethical failure is the grey goo scenario.\n\nThe major emphasis in biomedicine, engineering and other technical professions to date has been on issues within a particular profession, with insufficient attention to larger societal problems. Pharmaceuticals present particular macroethical challenges. Drug designers seek to prevent and treatment diseases by modifying of stem cells and producing targeting drugs that have specific targeting mechanisms. However, these technological advances must be balanced possible contravening risks (e.g. side effects, transgenerational adverse impacts in progeny, and unwanted genetic expressions), as well as ethical challenges (e.g. immorality of treating unborn human beings as objects to be harvested). Thus, researchers are obliged to advance technologies, but must do so within acceptable ethical boundaries. If a researcher only acts within the bounds of one's research, i.e. exclusively microethical, the research may still be unacceptable from a societal perspective if it violates macroethical principles.\n"}
{"id": "55584867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55584867", "title": "Mark Baumer", "text": "Mark Baumer\n\nMark Baumer (1983 – 21 January 2017) was a writer and environmental activist. He was walking across the US barefoot, but died when he was struck by an SUV in Florida.\n\nHe self-published several books, including:\n"}
{"id": "404507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404507", "title": "Mel Carnahan", "text": "Mel Carnahan\n\nMelvin Eugene Carnahan (February 11, 1934 – October 16, 2000) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 51st Governor of Missouri from 1993 until his death in a plane crash in 2000. A Democrat, he was elected posthumously to the U.S. Senate; his widow held his seat for two years.\n\nCarnahan was born in Birch Tree, Missouri, and grew up on a small farm near Ellsinore, Missouri, with his only sibling, Robert \"Bob\" Carnahan. He was the son of Kathel (Schupp) and A. S. J. Carnahan, the superintendent of Ellsinore schools who, in 1944, was elected to the United States House of Representatives.\n\nCarnahan moved with his family to Washington, D.C., where he graduated high school and earned a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Business Administration from George Washington University. He entered the United States Air Force, rising to First Lieutenant, and served as a special agent for the Office of Special Investigation. He received a Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the University of Missouri School of Law in Columbia, Missouri, in 1959.\n\nCarnahan's political career started as a member of the Missouri House of Representatives representing the Rolla area. In 1980, Carnahan was elected Missouri State Treasurer. He served in that post from 1981 to 1985. In 1984 he was an unsuccessful candidate for Governor of Missouri, losing the Democratic primary election to then-Lieutenant Governor Kenneth Rothman, who lost the general election that year to state Attorney General John Ashcroft.\n\nIn 1988 he was elected Lieutenant Governor of Missouri. In 1992, he faced Mayor of St. Louis Vincent C. Schoemehl in the Democratic primary for governor. He won the Democratic nomination by a wide margin and went on to easily defeat Republican state Attorney General William L. Webster in the general election. He was elected Governor of Missouri on November 3, 1992, and reelected for a second term on November 5, 1996, defeating Republican State Auditor of Missouri Margaret Kelly.\n\nCarnahan and his family were active members of the First Baptist Church of Rolla, where he served as an ordained deacon and member of the building committee. In 1984, he risked his political career by taking a public stand against Missouri ballot issues, Amendments 5 and 7, which would legalize parimutuel betting and create a state lottery. He was one of only a handful of state elected officials to take such a position; however, both amendments passed.\n\nCarnahan married Jean Carpenter in Washington, D.C. on June 12, 1954. They had four children, all lawyers. Russ Carnahan, a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives for Missouri's 3rd District (2005–2013); Tom Carnahan, founder of Wind Capital Group, which builds wind farms; Robin Carnahan, former Missouri Secretary of State (2005–2013); and Roger \"Randy\" Carnahan, who piloted the plane and perished in the same crash that killed his father.\n\nIn 2000, Carnahan ran in the election against incumbent Republican John Ashcroft to become a United States Senator. It was a heated and intense campaign, in which Carnahan traveled all over Missouri to garner support in what was a very close race. However, early in the evening of October 16, the night before a presidential debate held at Washington University in St. Louis just three weeks before the election, the twin-engine Cessna airplane he was flying on, which was piloted by his son Randy, lost control in rainy and foggy conditions and crashed on a forested hillside near Goldman, Missouri, only about south of St. Louis. All three on board the plane (Mel and Randy Carnahan and Chris Sifford, the governor's campaign advisor and former chief of staff) were killed in the crash.\n\nLieutenant Governor Roger B. Wilson ascended to the governorship and served out the balance of Carnahan's term, which ended in January 2001. Because Missouri election law would not allow Carnahan's name to be removed from the November 7, 2000, ballot, the campaign chose Carnahan's widow, Jean Carnahan, to unofficially become the new Democratic candidate. Wilson promised to appoint her to the seat, if it became vacant as a result of Mel Carnahan's win in the election. Carnahan's campaign continued using the slogan \"I'm Still with Mel.\" A Senate first, Carnahan posthumously won, by a 2% margin. Jean Carnahan was then appointed to the Senate and served until November 2002, when she was defeated by a 1% margin in a special election by Republican James Talent.\n\nCarnahan is not the only candidate to have died during a U.S. Senate race. Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota was killed in a plane crash in 2002, eleven days before his Senate election; Wellstone's party, the DFL, chose former Vice President Walter Mondale to replace Wellstone on the ballot, but Mondale lost narrowly to Republican Norm Coleman. Representative Jerry Litton, also from Missouri, died in one in 1976 the day that he won the Democratic primary and was to be nominated by party officials; on his death, the party ran a second primary, and former Governor Warren E. Hearnes, the runner-up in the first primary, won but was subsequently defeated by Republican John Danforth. Richard \"Dick\" Obenshain of Virginia was killed in a plane crash in 1978 shortly after receiving the Republican nomination; he was replaced by the far less conservative state convention runner-up, former United States Secretary of the Navy John Warner, who proceeded to narrowly defeat (by less than half of a percentage point) former Attorney General of Virginia Andrew P. Miller.\n\nA high school, Carnahan High School of the Future, was named after him in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "26613882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26613882", "title": "Meta-optimization", "text": "Meta-optimization\n\nIn numerical optimization, meta-optimization is the use of one optimization method to tune another optimization method. Meta-optimization is reported to have been used as early as in the late 1970s by Mercer and Sampson for finding optimal parameter settings of a genetic algorithm. \n\nMeta-optimization and related concepts are also known in the literature as meta-evolution, super-optimization, automated parameter calibration, hyper-heuristics, etc.\n\nOptimization methods such as genetic algorithm and differential evolution have several parameters that govern their behaviour and efficiency in optimizing a given problem and these parameters must be chosen by the practitioner to achieve satisfactory results. Selecting the behavioural parameters by hand is a laborious task that is susceptible to human misconceptions of what makes the optimizer perform well.\n\nThe behavioural parameters of an optimizer can be varied and the optimization performance plotted as a landscape. This is computationally feasible for optimizers with few behavioural parameters and optimization problems that are fast to compute, but when the number of behavioural parameters increases the time usage for computing such a performance landscape increases exponentially. This is the curse of dimensionality for the search-space consisting of an optimizer's behavioural parameters. An efficient method is therefore needed to search the space of behavioural parameters.\n\nA simple way of finding good behavioural parameters for an optimizer is to employ another overlaying optimizer, called the meta-optimizer. There are different ways of doing this depending on whether the behavioural parameters to be tuned are real-valued or discrete-valued, and depending on what performance measure is being used, etc.\n\nMeta-optimizing the parameters of a genetic algorithm was done by Grefenstette and Keane, amongst others, and experiments with meta-optimizing both the parameters and the genetic operators were reported by Bäck. Meta-optimization of the COMPLEX-RF algorithm was done by Krus and Andersson, and, where performance index of optimization based on information theory was introduced and further developed. Meta-optimization of particle swarm optimization was done by Meissner et al., Pedersen and Chipperfield, and Mason et al. . Pedersen and Chipperfield applied meta-optimization to differential evolution. Birattari et al. meta-optimized ant colony optimization. Statistical models have also been used to reveal more about the relationship between choices of behavioural parameters and optimization performance, see for example Francois and Lavergne, and Nannen and Eiben. A comparison of various meta-optimization techniques was done by Smit and Eiben.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36470430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36470430", "title": "Mir-598 microRNA precursor family", "text": "Mir-598 microRNA precursor family\n\nIn molecular biology mir-598 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms.\n\nmiR-598 has been shown to directly target and inhibit the Sir2 homolog, silent information regulator one (SRT1) enzyme, in the senescence of human adipose-tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells. Increased miR-598 expression during the senescent state is accompanied by a decreased expression of SRT1, meaning an absence of the inhibited p53 acetylation usually observed with increased STR1 levels. miR-598 acts to modulate cellular senescence. More specifically, its overexpression induces senescence in early-passage cells whilst inhibition conversely sees a partial recovery of the ageing phenotype through increased cellular differentiation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20233605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20233605", "title": "Niels Bätge", "text": "Niels Bätge\n\nNiels Bätge (19 April 1913 in Reval – 12 December 1944 near the Åland Islands) was a German Schnellboot commander with Baltic German origin in World War II and recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. Bätge was promoted to \"Korvettenkapitän\" on 1 September 1943. Shortly after his promotion he took command of the destroyer \"Z35\" on 25 September 1943. The destroyers \"Z35\" and \"Z36\" both ran into a German naval mine in the Gulf of Finland on 12 December 1944. Bätge and 24 members of the crew managed to save themselves in a life boat. However, they all froze to death and were later washed ashore near the Åland Islands.\n\nAt the start of World War II, Bätge was serving in a torpedo boat flotilla; during this period, he commanded the torpedo boat . In October 1940, he was transferred to command a flotilla of E-boats; this newly-formed unit began training in the Baltic before being transferred to the English Channel in May 1941. Bätge's boats were based in Cherbourg and Rotterdam. Upon the 4th Flotilla's arrival, the other three E-boat flotillas in occupied France were transferred to the Baltic in preparation for the invasion of the Soviet Union. Bätge's 4th Flotilla, which had just five boats operational owing to parts shortages and overuse, was to conduct the coastal campaign against Britain by itself. Bätge was instructed to keep his boats in action as much as possible to conceal the fact that the other three flotillas had been withdrawn. Throughout 1941, engine problems plagued the boats of the 4th Flotilla. Bätge had received orders to transfer his boats to Lorient in May to help cover the arrival of the battleship , but bad weather delayed Bätge's departure and \"Bismarck\" was sunk in action. As a result, the 4th Flotilla remained in the Channel. On 30 May, three of the boats laid six mines off Great Yarmouth. The following month, \"Luftwaffe\" reconnaissance aircraft spotted what they believed to be the British aircraft carrier , and Bätge sent four of his boats to attack the vessel on the morning of 3 June. They sank the ship, which turned out to be the merchant ship SS \"Mamari III\", which had been converted into a decoy. Bätge's boats returned to minelaying operations for the rest of June, and these mines claimed three merchant ships that month.\n\nIn February 1942, Bätge's flotilla participated in Operation Cerberus, helping to cover the transfer of the battleships and and the heavy cruiser through the Channel. By this time, his forces had been reinforced by the 2nd and 6th Flotillas. The three flotillas were responsible for escorting the heavy ships through the Dover Strait, and they rendezvoused off Cape Gris Nez.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1057064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1057064", "title": "Novo Nordisk", "text": "Novo Nordisk\n\nNovo Nordisk A/S is a Danish multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Bagsværd, Denmark, with production facilities in eight countries, and affiliates or offices in 75 countries. Novo Nordisk is controlled by majority shareholder Novo Holdings A/S which holds approximately 25% of its shares and a supermajority (75%) of its voting shares.\n\nNovo Nordisk manufactures and markets pharmaceutical products and services. Key products include diabetes care medications and devices. Novo Nordisk is also involved with hemostasis management, growth hormone therapy and hormone replacement therapy. The company makes several drugs under various brand names, including Levemir, Tresiba, NovoLog, Novolin R, NovoSeven, NovoEight and Victoza.\n\nNovo Nordisk employs more than 40,000 people globally, and markets its products in 180 countries. The corporation was created in 1989 through a merger of two Danish companies which date back to the 1920s. The Novo Nordisk logo is the Apis bull, one of the sacred animals of ancient Egypt.\n\nNovo Nordisk is a full member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).\n\nThe company was ranked 25th among 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2010 and 72nd in 2014 by \"Fortune\". In January 2012, Novo Nordisk was named as the most sustainable company in the world by the business magazine Corporate Knights while spin-off company Novozymes was named fourth.\n\nIn 1989, Novo Industri A/S (Novo Terapeutisk Laboratorium) and Nordisk Gentofte A/S (Nordisk Insulinlaboratorium) merged to become Novo Nordisk A/S, the world's largest producer of insulin with headquarters in Bagsværd, Copenhagen.\nIn 1994, Novo Nordisk's existing information technology units was spun out as NNIT A/S. The company was converted into a wholly owned \"aktieselskab\" in 2004 In March 2015, NNIT was floated on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic.\nIn 2000, Novo's enzymes business, Novozymes A/S, was spun-out.\n\nIn 2013, Novo acquired Xellia for $700 million.\nIn 2015, the company announced it would collaborate with Ablynx, using its nanobody technology to develop at least one new drug candidate.\nIn January 2018, Reuters reported that Novo had offered to acquire Ablynx for $3.1 billion - having made an unreported offer in mid December for the company. However the Ablynx board rejected this offer the same day, saying that the price undervalued the business. Ultimately Novo lost out to Sanofi who bid $4.8 billion. Later in the same year the company announced it would acquire Ziylo for around $800 million.\n\nNovo Nordisk is involved in publicly funded collaborative research projects with other industrial and academic partners. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox. The company is expanding its activities in joint research projects within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative of European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and the European Commission.\n\nNovo Nordisk founded the World Diabetes foundation to save the lives of those affected by diabetes in developing countries and supported a UN resolution to fight diabetes, making diabetes the only other disease alongside HIV / AIDS to have a commitment to combat at a UN level.\n\nDiabetes treatments account for 85% of Novo Nordisk’s business. Novo Nordisk works with doctors, nurses, and patients, to develop products for self-managing diabetes conditions. The DAWN (Diabetes Attitudes, Wishes and Needs) 2001 study was a global survey of the psychosocial aspects of living with diabetes. It involved over 5,000 people with diabetes and almost 4,000 care providers. This study was designed to identify barriers to optimal health and quality of life. A follow-up study completed in 2012 involved more than 15,000 people living with, or caring for, those with diabetes. In response to UK findings, a National Action Plan (NAP) was developed, with a multidisciplinary steering committee, to support the delivery of individualized person-centered care in the UK. The NAP seeks to provide a holistic approach to diabetes treatment for patients and their families.\n\nThe i3-diabetes programme is a collaboration between the King's Health Partners, one of only six Academic Health Sciences Centres (AHSCs) in England, and Novo Nordisk. The programme is a five-year collaboration designed to deliver personalised care that will lead to improved outcomes for people living with diabetes, and more efficient and effective ways of caring for people with diabetes.\n\nNovo Nordisk have sponsored the International Diabetes Federation's Unite for Diabetes campaign.\n\nIn March 2014, Novo Nordisk announced a partnership program entitled ‘Cities Changing Diabetes,’ which entails combating urban diabetes. Partnership includes University College London (UCL) and supported by Steno Diabetes Center, as well as a range of local partners including healthcare professionals, city authorities, urban planners, businesses, academics and community leaders.\n\nA November 2014 newspaper article suggested that a recent medical research breakthrough at Harvard University (creating insulin-producing cells from embryonic stem cells) could potentially put Novo Nordisk out of business. Dr Alan Moses, the chief medical officer of Novo Nordisk, commented that the biology of diabetes is incredibly complex but also that Novo Nordisk's mission is to alleviate and cure diabetes. If this new medical advance \"...meant the dissolution of Novo Nordisk, that'd be fine.\"\n\nNovo Nordisk was researching pulmonary delivery systems for diabetic medications, and in the early stages of research into autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases, using technologies such as translational immunology and monoclonal antibodies In September 2014 the company announced a decision to discontinue all research in inflammatory disorders, including the discontinuation of R&D in anti-IL-20 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nIn September 2018 it was reported that the company would lay off 400 administrative staff, laboratory technicians and scientists, in Denmark and China in order to concentrate research and development efforts on “transformational biological and technological innovation”.\n\nIn 2010, Novo Nordisk breached the ABPIs code of conduct by failing to provide information about side-effects of Victoza and by promoting Victoza prior to being granted market authorization.\n\nIn 2013 Novo Nordisk had to pay back DKK 3.6 billion to the Danish tax authorities due to transfer mispricing.\n\nIn March 2013, a debate emerged in which scientists questioned whether the incretin class of diabetes medications – the class to which Victoza belongs – had an increased risk of side effects in the pancreas such as pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. It was concluded that data currently available did not confirm these concerns.\n\nIn October 2013, batches of NovoMix 30 FlexPen and Penfill insulin were recalled in some European countries as their analysis had shown that a small percentage of the products in these batches did not meet the specifications for insulin strength.\n\nIn September 2017, Novo Nordisk agreed to pay $58.7 million to end a United States Department of Justice probe into the lack of FDA disclosure to doctors about the cancer risk for their diabetes drug, Victoza.\n\nNovo Nordisk has sponsored athletes with diabetes, such as Charlie Kimball in auto racing and Team Novo Nordisk in road cycling.\n\n"}
{"id": "12332287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12332287", "title": "Olivia Burges", "text": "Olivia Burges\n\nMillicent Olivia Rawlins (\"née\" Burges; 19 September 1892 – 3 August 1930) was a British Scouting and Guiding advocate. She was secretary to the Girl Guides' and Girl Scouts' first World Camp.\n\nBurges was the first daughter of Colonel William Edward Parry Burges and Millicent Pettingal Burges (\"née\" Miller). She was raised at the family's home in South Gloucestershire, called The Ridge. She had one sister.\n\nBurges married Major Stuart Blundell Rawlins in 1925. They had two sons, Christopher and Philip. At age 37, Burges died giving birth to her third child, a daughter, who also died.\n\nThe Burges family were friends of Robert Baden-Powell, 1st Baron Baden-Powell, who founded Scouting in 1907 and Guiding in 1910, and his wife, Lady Baden-Powell.\n\nIn April 1914, Burges founded a Scout troop at Chipping Sodbury. Assisted by her sister, meetings were initially held at The Ridge. During World War I, the boys became messengers for a regiment quartered in Chipping Sodbury. Records from 1917, describe the Scout troop involved in the 'Air-Craft Defence Scheme'. A list of names and addresses was held at Chipping Sodbury Police Station of all Scouts who owned a bicycle and were able and willing to undertake delivering messages in an emergency.\n\nBurges became involved in Guiding around 1916. For several years, she sat on the Guides' executive committee as head of Rules and Awards.\n\nOlave Baden-Powell and Burges formulated the idea for the first World Camp in September 1923, during the latters stay at the Baden-Powells' home, Pax Hill. Burges agreed to be secretary for the camp. The camp was held from 16–24 July 1924 at Foxlease. At this time, Burges was Deputy Chief Commissioner for the West of England.\n\nAfter her marriage, Burges' involvement in Guiding decreased, but she remained interested in the movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27294113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27294113", "title": "Oneironautics", "text": "Oneironautics\n\nOneironautics [ə.neɪ.roʊ.nɔː.tɪks] refers to the ability to travel within a dream on a conscious basis. Such a traveler in a dream may be called an oneironaut.\n\nA lucid dream is one in which the dreamer is aware of dreaming and may be able to exert some degree of control over the dream's characters, narrative or environment. Early references to the phenomenon are found in ancient Greek texts.\n\nThe idea of one person being able to consciously travel or interact within the dream of another person, known variously as \"dream telepathy\", \"telepathic lucid dreaming\" or \"telepathic dreaming\", has been explored in the realms of science and fantasy fiction; in recent works, such an interaction is often depicted as a computer-mediated psychotherapeutic action, as is the case in \"The Cell\", and \"Paprika\", as well as through the direct intervention of another sleeping person, as in \"Inception\", \"Dreamscape\" and \"Waking Life\". The concept is also included in the fantasy series \"The Wheel of Time\" as an ability \"dreamwalkers\" are able to use.\n\nA trope in such works of fiction explores the ramifications of whether the sleeping protagonist should enter the sleeping brain of another as opposed to allowing another individual to enter one's own brain; the entering of another individual's brain often results in unpleasant surprises, depending upon the mental state of the host or the preparedness of the guest. Roger Zelazny's 1966 sci-fi novella \"The Dream Master\", which applies computer-mediated dream telepathy in a psychotherapeutic setting, focuses on the protagonist's growing struggle to keep his balance as he enters the brain of a fellow psychotherapist who is blind and subconsciously, destructively hungers for the visual stimuli upon which dreams largely depend.\n\n"}
{"id": "37770440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37770440", "title": "Robert Buckle", "text": "Robert Buckle\n\nRobert Bentley Buckle (6 January 1802 – 16 September 1893) was Archdeacon of Dorset from 1836 to 1862.\n\nBuckle was born on 6 January 1802, the fourth son of Edward Buckle of Sowerby, Yorkshire. He was educated at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, graduating BA as 4th Wrangler in 1824. He was elected a Fellow of St John's in 1826. He was Rector of Moreton, Dorset until 1836; and then of Upwey in the same county. He was also a Prebendary of Salisbury Cathedral.\n"}
{"id": "4067801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4067801", "title": "Russian (comics)", "text": "Russian (comics)\n\nThe Russian is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is an enemy of the Punisher.\n\nCreated by Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon, the character made his first appearance in \"The Punisher\" Vol. 5, #8 (November 2000).\n\nThe Russian debuted off-panel in \"The Punisher\" Vol. 5, #8, was fully introduced in the following issue, and appeared in every subsequent one up until his death in Issue #11. In the following series, the character was resurrected as a cyborg, and was featured in \"The Punisher\" Vol. 6, #1-5.\n\nThe Russian received profiles in \"Marvel Encyclopedia\" #5, \"All-New Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" #9, and \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A-Z\" #9\n\nThe earliest known sightings of the Russian occurred while he was vacationing in Afghanistan in the 1980s. He subsequently traveled the world, inserting himself into various conflicts for fun and profit; locations he is said to have fought in include Lebanon, Iraq, Rwanda, East Timor, Chechnya, the Balkans, and Belfast (where he consumed a man on a bet). The Russian's activities led to him being wanted dead or alive by numerous law enforcement agencies, as well as criminal organizations such as the Yakuza.\n\nThe Russian is contacted at his home in Kazakhstan by American crime lord Ma Gnucci, who offers him ten million dollars to kill the Punisher. The Russian agrees to the deal, boards a Russian airliner to North America, crashes it above Canada, and crosses the border into New York City, where he is briefed by Gnucci. The Russian is then brought to the Punisher's current address, and engages the vigilante, their fight (which the Russian dominates) bringing them into the apartment of the Punisher's morbidly obese neighbor, Mr. Bumpo. The Punisher burns the Russian's face with a hot pizza that Bumpo had been dining on, trips him, and then throws Bumpo on top of him. The Russian asphyxiates under Bumpo, and has his head cut off by the Punisher, who uses it to intimidate what remains of Ma Gnucci's forces into surrendering.\n\nThe Russian's remains are recovered by General Kreigkopf, who resurrects him as a cyborg using technology stolen from S.H.I.E.L.D.. Side-effects of the experimental hormone treatments he is given to stabilize his reinvigorated and improved body cause the Russian to develop breasts (which he adores) and an implied form of menstruation, which prompts him to begin wearing women's clothing, including high heels. To test the Russian's capabilities, Kreigkopf approves his request to return to New York City to kill the Punisher, who the Russian throws off of the Empire State Building. The Punisher is saved by Spider-Man, and in the battle that ensues he wields the superhero as a human shield, and uses his web-shooters to knock the Russian off of the skyscraper. The Russian survives crashing through the street below and being hit by a subway train, and retreats to Kreigkopf's base on Grand Nixon Island. The Russian is repaired, and denied another chance to face the Punisher.\n\nThe Russian is placed on a Boeing 747 full of soldiers that Kreigkopf intends to have attack the European Union in Brussels. The Punisher, who had tracked the Russian down, forces the airplane to crash into Grand Nixon Island's fuel depot; the Russian emerges from the wreckage as the only survivor. When Kreigkopf improvises his attack plan by ordering that a French airplane carrying a nuclear warhead be hijacked, the Punisher boards the aircraft, followed by the Russian. The Punisher blows out the back of the Russian's head by shoving a gun into his mouth, then chains him to the atomic bomb and drops it on Grand Nixon. The island and all of the criminals on it are obliterated, as is the Russian, whose last words are, \"Dosvidanja, Big Boy! The Russian really has to hand it to you!\"\n\nIn his first storyline, the Russian possessed tremendous strength and durability; he singlehandedly wipes out a Bravo Force team, unintentionally crushes a man with a friendly gesture, smacks the Punisher with a toilet he had ripped out of its foundation, and tears apart a revolver, while also being unfazed by being kicked in the crotch, stabbed in the stomach, and bludgeoned with a chair. Additionally, he alludes to surviving freefalling from an airplane, and being repeatedly shot in the head. Despite his nigh-invulnerability, the Russian was sensitive to heat, becoming enraged when the Punisher successfully injured him with a stove, and a hot pizza.\n\nWhen General Kreigkopf resurrected the Russian, he had his body augmented with plastics and adamantium, replaced most of his organs with ones taken from animals, and gave him olfactory sensors that increased his sense of smell to the level of a bloodhound's.\n\nIn his initial comic appearances, the Russian was shown to have an obsession with American pop culture. His first thoughts upon being offered $10 million to kill the Punisher was a realization of how many pairs of Levi's and Compact Discs he could buy with that amount. The Russian is also a self-confessed superhero fan. He is the president of \"The Daredevil, Man Without Fear, Fan Club\" of Smolensk. He also wished to gain autographs from the X-Men, the Fantastic Four, and Spider-Man. He also believes Thor would make a good communist because of his big hammer.\n\nA flashback sequence in \"The Punisher\" Vol. 7, #75 depicts the Punisher fighting the Russian, who tries to break his back. The circumstances surrounding the battle, as well as how it is resolved, are not revealed.\n\nIn \"Punisher Noir\", the Russian is a soldier turned independent mercenary who, after World War I, is sent after Frank Castelione, who is on a locomotive headed for England. A fight ensues and moves to the top of the train, where Frank shoves a grenade into the crotch of the Russian's pants, and pushes him off of the vehicle. Years later, the Russian, now identifying as female, helps Jigsaw and Barracuda murder Frank at the behest of mob boss Dutch Schultz.\n\nFrank's son, Frank Castelione Jr., grows up to become the Punisher, and discovers the Russian's connection to his father's death after tracking down and killing Barracuda and Jigsaw. The Punisher confronts the Russian at the Bronx Zoo, and their fight brings them into the reptile exhibit, where the Russian is mauled by alligators. Despite losing an arm, the Russian continues to try to attack the Punisher, who finishes him off by emptying two fully loaded guns into him. Frank, Jr. then stages the scene to make it look like the Russian was the Punisher all along.\n\nThe Russian appears in the 2004 live-action film \"The Punisher\", portrayed by professional wrestler Kevin Nash. He has no onscreen dialogue and is sent by mob boss Howard Saint to dispose of Punisher. Powering through everything that the vigilante throws at him, the Russian beats the Punisher to near death with his bare hands, and numerous objects. The Punisher gains the upper hand when he hurls a pot of pasta in boiling water on the Russian's face; while the Russian is incapacitated by pain, he is knocked down a flight of stairs, the fall breaking his neck.\n\nThe Russian appears in \"The Punisher\" video game, voiced by Darryl Kurylo. In the game, he is working for General Kreigkopf, has lines (most of them relating to his favorite superheroes). The Russian is fought twice as a boss, the second battle ending with him being blown up by a nuclear device that was smuggled onto Grand Nixon Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "52401347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52401347", "title": "Sapundu", "text": "Sapundu\n\nSapundu is the sacrificial pole of the Dayak Ngaju people of Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. The sacrificial pole is usually carved into a human figure or an animal figure. The sapundu is an integral part of the Tiwah dead festival, where animals are tied to it to be sacrificed.\n\nSapundus are traditionally made of ironwood, although today a lighter more common wood are increasingly being used. It is usually about 1.5 - 3 meter height, and has a diameter of between 15-25 cm. Sapundus are carved into different figures e.g. a man or a woman, or sometimes of animals. A sapundu represent a figure that would escort the soul of the dead into the paradise during the tiwah. The type of figures represented by the sapundu is usually a figure that is deemed appropriate to accompany the deceased during their final journey into the paradise. For example, if the deceased was a female, a sacrificial post representing a man is usually prepared for her tiwah, and vice versa. Contemporary sapundu can be very creative. For example, there is a sapundu depicting a young woman in blue jeans and a sleeveless T-shirt wearing a Sony Walkman. Some sapundus contain English inscriptions, e.g. \"Tiwah Party\" or \"God Save Our Soul\". Notches inscribed onto the post are intended to serve as reminders to the souls of the animals, rice, and other goods donated by survivors to ensure the deceased's comfort in the afterlife. \n\nThe following are different kind of sapundu figures found in the Dayak villages along the Kahayan, Central Kalimantan:\n\nMany sapundus are set in front of house courtyard, such as those found in the villages of Central Kalimantan. Some sapundus are kept in Belanga Museum, Palangkaraya, to simulate the tiwah festival; this sapundus are donated by the villagers and are purified accordingly following the traditional rite.\n\nOn the fifth day of the Tiwah festival, buffaloes, pigs or cows are tied to a sapundu to be sacrificed. One animal is tied onto one sapundu. The timing of the killing of the animal is adjusted with the intended length of the Tiwah ceremony; if only one buffalo is to be killed, usually the killing is done one day before the exhumation of the deceased. Multiple animals may require several days or it can be done all at once in one single day. The animal is tied onto the tiwah using a 10-20 meter tree root. A male animal should be tied to a female-gendered sapundu, vice versa. All villagers are allowed to kill the livestock by spearing on them. The blood of the sacrificed livestock will be used to purify various items for the Tiwah, e.g. the sandung bone ossuary. The meat will be give to those performing the killing of the livestock following a strict rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "38707231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38707231", "title": "Snub tetraoctagonal tiling", "text": "Snub tetraoctagonal tiling\n\nIn geometry, the snub tetraoctagonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic plane. It has Schläfli symbol of sr{8,4}.\n\nDrawn in chiral pairs, with edges missing between black triangles:\n\nThe \"snub tetraoctagonal tiling \" is seventh in a series of snub polyhedra and tilings with vertex figure 3.3.4.3.\"n\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57405321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57405321", "title": "Surabaya bombings", "text": "Surabaya bombings\n\nThe 2018 Surabaya bombings were a series of terrorist attacks that initially occurred on 13 May 2018 in three churches in Surabaya, the second largest city in Indonesia. The explosions took place at Immaculate Saint Mary Catholic Church (\"Gereja Katolik Santa Maria Tak Bercela\", SMTB) on Ngagel Madya Street, Indonesia Christian Church (\"Gereja Kristen Indonesia\", GKI) on Diponegoro Street, and Surabaya Central Pentecost Church (\"Gereja Pantekosta Pusat Surabaya\", GPPS) on Arjuno Street. The first explosion took place at the SMTB Church; the second and third explosions followed within an hour.\n\nThe fourth bombing occurred in an apartment complex in Sidoarjo, a regency located south of Surabaya. The explosion happened when the terrorists accidentally set off the bombs inside the room, killing three of them and injuring two children and a teenager. The fifth bombing occurred on the next day at the Surabaya Police Headquarters (\"Mapolrestabes Surabaya\"). Two perpetrators detonated their devices while they were being checked by the police at the entrance. \n\nAs of 1 June 2018, 28 people were killed including the suicide bombers. Around 50 others were injured; several were in critical condition. The attacks occurred just days after the standoff at Mako Brimob in Depok, in which five police officers were killed. The attacks are the deadliest terror attack in Indonesia since the 2002 Bali bombings. \n\nThe bombings were regarded as one of the most sophisticated and complex terror attacks in Indonesia. It was also the first of its kind in Indonesian history in which children as young as nine years old participated.\n\nIt was estimated in 2017 that hundreds of Indonesians went to Syria or Iraq to fight for ISIL before returning to Indonesia. The returning individuals are placed through a deradicalization program by the National Agency for Combating Terrorism, and are put on a watchlist for the agency and local governments alike. Several terrorist attacks, such as the Thamrin attacks, were orchestrated by the returnees or local extremists who pledged alliance to ISIL.\n\nIn 2016, President Joko Widodo requested lawmakers to revise the country's anti-terrorism laws, which were published in 2003 and 2013. He questioned the law's effectiveness, with the government legally being unable to arrest perpetrators of the Thamrin attacks preemptively. The revision encountered resistance, with critics remarking that the law would allow arbitrary arrests. Later on, opposition arose from human rights groups due to the involvement of the Indonesian National Armed Forces in the bill, which would put the armed forces in a law enforcement role. Regardless, the bill continued to press on although it was put on hold in late February 2018 as both the military involvement and the legal definition of terrorism came into debate.\n\nBetween 8 and 10 May 2018, a standoff occurred at the Mobile Brigade Corps' headquarters in Depok, resulting in the deaths of five police officers. While the incident and hostage situation ended with the 155 rioters surrendering, in the aftermath of the event police shot dead four individuals who were suspected terrorists allegedly travelling \"to help the rioting prisoners\". Amaq News Agency claimed ISIL was responsible.\n\nThe first attack occurred on 06:30 WIB (UTC+07:00) in front of the SMTB Church. Eyewitnesses stated that the attack occurred shortly after the first mass. Survivors stated that the perpetrators immediately entered the church without taking the parking ticket first. As people gathered in the hall, several people stated that they saw two people riding a motorcycle were being stopped by a security officer named Aloysius Bayu Rendra Wardhana at the church's entrance. Shortly afterwards, the perpetrators detonated the bomb. The blast immediately killed a child and the security officer.\n\nThe first attack was captured on camera. In the first video, the perpetrators who were riding a motorcycle immediately entered the church without stopping. Immediately after that, they detonated the bomb. The second video showed the bombing from a front door near the entrance. At the time, people were walking out from the church and several others were entering the church as the first mass had finished. The perpetrators immediately detonated their devices as they were stopped by security. As the explosion happened, multiple people inside the church began to panic. Several people who lived nearby mistook the explosion as an earthquake. The church's windows were blown. However, the exterior suffered minimal damage. The building located in the entrance was destroyed. Authorities reported that 5 people and 2 perpetrators were killed in the first attack.\n\nThe second attack occurred around 07:45 at the GKI, located on Diponegoro Street. Eyewitnesses stated that the perpetrators was a woman wearing black veil and black niqāb. She was also carrying two bags. At the time of the incident, she was taking her two children, who were also wearing veils and niqābs. Eyewitnesses stated that the woman was trying to enter the church when a security officer named Yesaya Bayang suddenly blocked her. She then hugged the security officer and detonated the bomb. Not long after that, her children detonated their explosive devices. Explosions were heard as many as five times. The security guard who tried to stop them was critically injured by the blast. No civilians were killed in the second attack however three perpetrators were killed.\n\nThe third attack occurred at the GPPS, located on Arjuno Street on 07:53 WIB. At least two explosions were heard in the third attack, both were caused by the detonation of two explosive devices. The first explosion originated from a car. According to eyewitness, the driver of the car rammed the gate of the entrance and struck the parked vehicles in the church. At the time, people were going to drive their vehicles out from the church's parking lot. The explosion destroyed 5 cars and 30 motorcycles. Two people were initially reported killed. Many were injured, several seriously. Another bomb exploded from the same car. Two other bombs were discovered near the church. A bomb disposal unit was dispatched to defuse the bombs. According to them, two bombs were successfully detonated while the other two malfunctioned. Authorities later stated that 10 civilians and 1 perpetrator were killed in the third attack.\n\nEmergency services arrived approximately two minutes after the first attack. The East Java Regional Police stated that 28 are dead and 43 people were injured, several of them were in critical condition. The police immediately cleared and cordoned the area.\n\nAround 20:00 WIB, a bomb exploded at the Wonocolo apartment complex in the nearby city of Sidoarjo. The incident occurred when the police raided the apartment. Three adults in a single apartment room were killed, while three children occupying the same room survived. All of them were from the same family. According to the regional police chief Inspector General Machfud Arifin, the victims of the blast might have been planning to conduct similar attacks as the one perpetrated at the churches, but the bomb(s) exploded prematurely.\n\nNearby residents stated that they thought the explosion was caused by exploding liquid petroleum gas. Residents who lived in or nearby the apartment complex were evacuated from the vicinity. The police later added that residents were prohibited to return to their homes until further notice. Police later cordoned the area for investigation and roads nearby were closed. Accounts from eyewitnesses revealed that there were two eleven-year-old children who were severely injured in the blast. They were immediately evacuated. At least five explosions were heard.\n\nOn 14 May, multiple suicide bombings occurred at the Surabaya Police headquarters (Mapolrestabes Surabaya) on 08:50 WIB. The East Java Regional Police stated that two bombers detonated their devices at the checkpoint of the police headquarters. Police said ten people (four policemen and six civilians) were wounded. Four suicide bombers were killed.\n\nThe attack, which occurred at the entrance of the police HQ, was captured on camera. The video showed a car entering the checkpoint when suddenly four people, who were riding two motorcycles, entered the area. The video revealed that the motorcycles were halted by a group of policemen. The perpetrators then suddenly detonated their explosive devices. In the video, one of the perpetrators was a woman. \n\nIn the aftermath of the attack, a child aged eight, whom the police suspect was the perpetrators' daughter, was brought to the police station to attack, was found walking and screaming amidst the bodies. Police said she was in critical condition.\n\nPolice immediately closed nearby roads. Businesses and shops were ordered to be close in the vicinity of the area. All kinds of service in the police HQ were temporarily terminated in response to the attack.\n\nAs of 1 June 2018, 15 civilians and 13 suicide bombers were killed. Among them are children aged 11 and 8, who were identified as Evan and Nathan, and two security officers who were trying to stop the perpetrators from entering the church. Aloysius Bayu Rendra Wardhana, a security volunteer and Yesaya Bayang, a security officer, were regarded as heroes by locals for successfully stopping the perpetrators from entering SMTB and GKI Diponegoro respectively. A security officer died on 19 May. One victim succumbed to his injuries 18 days after the bombings.\n\nInjured victims of the blasts were treated in 8 hospitals. The local branch of the Indonesian Red Cross reported an upsurge in blood donations, with 600 people donating blood that day compared to the routine target of 400.\n\nHours after the attacks, the Chief of the Indonesian National Police Tito Karnavian, stated in a news conference that Jamaah Ansharut Daulah, a local branch of the Islamic State, was the group who was responsible for perpetrating the attacks. The group was responsible for the previous church bombing in Samarinda in 2016 and was also blamed for a series of attacks against the Indonesian police in 2016 and 2017.\n\nHe later added that based on eyewitness accounts, the attackers were probably from the same family. Multiple people claimed that prior to the attack, the woman and her two childrens, aged 12 and 9, in the second attack were dropped off from an SUV. According to him, the man who drove the SUV was her husband. He then drove the SUV and rammed it into the GPPS, where the third attack occurred. Their sons were the ones who drove the motorcycle in the first attack.\n\nAccording to official report, the perpetrators had just got back from \"education\" in Syria. The family, according to Tito, was among the 500 people who were monitored by the government.\n\nAustralian counter-terrorism expert Professor Greg Barton of Deakin University stated that the perpetrators are 'self-contained', deliberately cut off every communication with the other members via digital communications to avoid detection from the police. According to him, this was similar to the November 2015 Paris attacks. He later added that the weak anti-terror law in Indonesia caused terrorists in Indonesia to travel to Iraq and Syria with ease, and that those who might have been involved with the Islamic State wouldn't be punished by the authorities. There was also considerable concern on the use of children in terror attacks.\n\nIndonesian National Police revealed that the attacks were directly ordered by ISIL as revenge for the imprisonment of Aman Abdurrahman, the leader of JAD and JAT in Indonesia. Abdurrahman should have been released from jail on August 2017, but he was arrested again by the police as he was alleged to have supplied weapons and funds for the terrorists who executed the 2016 Jakarta attacks. He was in prison at the time for his role in conducting training for terrorists in Aceh.\n\nIn response to his imprisonment, the leadership in JAD was handed to Zainal Anshori. However, Anshori was immediately arrested after authorities stated that he was involved in weapon smuggling in Southern Philippines. This reportedly infuriated the members of the JAD and JAT. In response, the members of the JAD and the JAT started to attack civilians and police officers. The first major attack was the 2018 Mako Brimob standoff, days before the Surabaya bombings.\n\nHours after the incident in Wonocolo, Indonesian police raided a house in Masanganwetan, Sukodono, Sidoarjo. During the raid, a shootout erupted between a suspected terrorist and the police. The terrorist was later shot and killed. He was identified as Budi Satrio. Two men and two women were found on the site and were arrested. The police stated that pipe bombs were found on the site. Several ambulances were dispatched to the area. Three other suspects were arrested in Surabaya, with the police officials claiming that the suspects had planned for further attacks although the locations were not disclosed. In total, the raids in Sidoarjo and Surabaya killed 2 suspects and arrested 7.\n\nWidespread raids and arrests were done by Detachment 88 in Bekasi, Sukabumi, Palembang, Tangerang and Cianjur. In the Cianjur raid, four suspected terrorists were killed after a shootout in a bus terminal. They had carried explosive, bomb-tipped arrows and allegedly planned to attack the Brimob headquarters. According to the police, as many as eight raids were conducted throughout Indonesia. They added that 2 terrorists were killed due to resisting arrest.\n\nOn 15 May, 2 days after the initial bombings, a shootout occurred between Detachment 88 personnel and a group suspected to be affiliated with the bombers in the Manukan Kulon \"kelurahan\" (administrative village) in Surabaya. A man around the age of 40 who was part of the group was killed. In a raid in Tanjung Balai Asahan, North Sumatra, at least 2 people were shot by the police and were later arrested. Three residents of Malang were also arrested.\n\nOn 16 May, another shootout occurred at a house in Kuciran Indah, Tangerang. Another house was raided by the police. 3 people were arrested. The Indonesian police revealed that they were members of the Jakarta JAD. Several people were arrested in East Java, Central Java, West Java and Banten. Another 2 people were arrested in Sidoarjo. An anti-terror operation was also carried out in Probolinggo in a small \"executive\" musalla. Airguns, documents and electronics were recovered from the area. Three people were arrested in the raid. The police announced that they had arrested 33 suspected terrorists across Indonesia. They added that ISIL flags, documents and multiple bombs were also recovered from the nationwide anti-terror operations.\n\nOn the same day, the police defused 31 pipe bombs. The police stated that the total bombs that were recovered are as many as one truck.\n\nOn 1 June, the Indonesian police announced that they had arrested 37 suspects after a series of anti-terror operations across Indonesia. 4 people, who were accused of terrorism, were killed during shootouts. By mid-July, 197 suspected terrorists had been apprehended, of which 20 were killed during the raids.\n\nIn Surabaya, the East Java Regional Police asked for cancellation of all Sunday services for the day in response to the attacks. The Jakarta Metropolitan Police raised Jakarta's terror alert level to the highest level (Level 1), effective from 13 May 2018 at 08:00 local time. The province of Central Java, Yogyakarta and Riau Islands later followed Jakarta's action to raise the terror threat level in their provinces, and the status was set to a national level by the Indonesian National Police. The police spokesman noted that the status was an internal one for police officers and that civilians should go about normally. Police official stated that Jakarta would remain on that level for an indefinite time. As many as 8,000 police personnel were dispatched in Makassar, South Sulawesi to guard churches and vital objects across the city. Police in Malang stated that roughly as many as 250 personnel would be dispatched across Malang to protect the city's churches. The Jakarta Metropolitan Police later lowered the status on 15 May 2018.\n\nThe West Java Regional Police stated that security throughout West Java is tightened in response to the attacks and multiple police personnel would be dispatched across West Java. The security at Ngurah Rai International Airport in Denpasar, Bali would be tightened in response to the attacks. A prompt inspection was conducted at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport in Tangerang.\n\nPolice officers were deployed to the crime scenes to investigate and safeguard the areas, including members of Mobile Brigade Corps (Brimob) and the bomb squad. The police said that evacuation of victims was their primary focus. The bombings also prompted the Surabaya administration to cancel the Rujak Uleg Festival on Kembang Jepun Street, slated to be opened by Mayor of Surabaya Tri Rismaharini at noon, to commemorate the city’s 725th anniversary. In response to the attacks on 13 May, schools across Surabaya were closed on 14 May. Mayor of Surabaya Tri Rismaharini later added that the period would be extended due to security concern.\n\nIn response to the bombings, the Chief of the Indonesian National Police Tito Karnavian stated that this is the time for the revision of the anti-terror bill, later urged the members of the Indonesian House of Representatives to revise the anti-terrorism bill, which was viewed as a weak bill by many. According to Tito, terrorists easily evaded arrests due to the bill. Police couldn't arrest and prevent terror attacks due to the absence of a strong terror bill. The police technically couldn't arrest the terror suspects if the terror attack had not been executed.\n\nMany experts supported and urged the governments to revise the anti-terror bill. Political expert from the Indonesian Political Analysis Institute Maksimus Ramses urged the government to form a special committee for the revision. If the anti-terror bill was revised by the government, the group who was responsible behind the attack Jamaah Ansharut Daulah (JAD) could be listed by the government as a terror group and terror attacks could be quickly prevented.\n\nThe terror threat throughout Indonesia was raised to its highest level. In response to the emergency, Indonesian Minister of Transportation Budi Karya Sumadi ordered the security in every airports and seaports in Indonesia to be heightened to the maximum.\n\nThe Indonesian National Police alongside with the East Java Regional Police confirmed that three families were responsible for the bombings in Surabaya and Sidoarjo.\n\nAmaq News Agency claimed Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) responsibility for the attacks, the bomb that was used during the attacks was TATP or 'Mother of Satan', a type that ISIL had used in Iraq and Syria.\n\nThe church bombers were identified by the police as a family of six, headed by Dita Supriyanto, the father and Puji Kuswati, the mother. They also involved their children, Yusuf Fadil (aged 18), Firman Halim (aged 16), Fadilah Sari (aged 12) and Pamela Rizkita (aged 9). Puji became the first female suicide bomber in Indonesia. Dita was responsible for the third attack where he drove his SUV with highly explosive material to the GPPS. According to the police, the explosion in the third attack was the most powerful. The police stated that the woman was a resident of Banyuwangi, a city located approximately southeast of Surabaya.\n\nThe Indonesian National Police announced that 3 types of bombs were used in the church attacks. According to them, the bomb in the third attack was the most explosive type and the most destructive, powerful enough to destroy dozens of vehicles and set fire to the front portion of the church. The first attack was carried out using motorcycle bomb, the second was using belt bombs, and the third was using a car bomb. The bombs in the second attack were strapped on the three perpetrators, Puji and her 12 and 9 year old daughters. This was evidenced by the examination of their bodies where a specific area (their stomachs area) were torn apart due to the force of the blast. Investigators are still trying to determine the type of bombs that were used in the first attack.\n\nOn the night of 13 May, a house in Wonorejo Asri in Rungkut, Surabaya was stormed by the police. They discovered 3 highly explosive bombs from the house, which were later defused by bomb disposal unit. Arrows and a bow were discovered on the back of the house. The police also recovered several books and documents from the house for investigation purposes. Indonesian National Police later revealed that Dita Supriyanto was the leader of the Surabaya branch of Jamaah Ansharut Daulah (JAD, State's Ansar Pilgrims).\n\nThe East Java Regional Police identified the victims of the fourth bombing as members of a terrorist group that were planning to execute additional terror attacks on churches. All of them are from the same family. The deceased family members are Anton Febryanto, the father and Puspita Sari, the mother. They involved their own children, Rita Aulia Rahman (aged 17) and Ainur Rahman (aged 15), Faizah Putri (aged 11), and Garida Huda Akbar (aged 10). The latter three survived. According to the police, the father was shot and killed by police officers. The explosion happened first. When the police reached the room, Anton threatened to push the trigger.\n\nIndonesian National Police revealed that Anton's family had close ties with Dita Uprianto, the leader of the Surabaya branch of the JAD. Anton also belonged to Jamaah Ansharut Tauhid (JAT, Tawhid's Ansar Pilgrims).\n\nAuthorities confirmed the identities of the Surabaya Police HQ attackers using the family certificate carried by the bombers. They were all from the same family. The father was identified as Tri Murtono (aged 50), the mother was identified as Tri Ernawati (aged 43). They also involved their own two sons, Mohammad Dari Satri (aged 16) and Mohammad Dafa Amin (aged 14). The last one was only identified as Ais, an 8 year old girl who survived the blasts being saved by Rony Faisal. She was seated in the front of her parents when the explosion happened.\n\nThe Indonesian National Police stated that it was the first time in Indonesian history that terrorists used their whole family including their own children to participate in a terror attack. Later reports revealed that some of the children actually had rejected their parents' offer to participate. One of the children, named as Ainur Rahman, the son of the Sidoarjo apartment complex bombing, stated that he constantly reject his parents' offer to join them in the terror attack. He stated that, at the time of the Wonocolo bombing, he didn't know that his parents were producing a bomb inside the house. His siblings also rejected their parents' doctrines. \n\nSimilarly, one of the children of the church bombers, identified as 16-year old Firman Halim, was seen crying approximately a day before the attack. A security officer stated that all four of the church bombers' children were crying at the musalla. Authorities suspected that they cried because they knew that they were all going to blew themselves up in the next day and that they were reluctant to die.\n\nThe Communion of Churches in Indonesia (Persekutuan Gereja-gereja di Indonesia, PGI) and the Bishops' Conference of Indonesia (Konferensi Waligereja Indonesia, KWI) released statements expressing their condolences and requesting political elites to not utilize the incident for political gain. The Indonesian Christian Students' Movement (Gerakan Mahasiswa Kristen Indonesia) called for President Widodo to evaluate the state's security apparatus. \n\nMultiple Muslim clerics, Indonesian political and public figures condemned the attack. Nahdlatul Ulama (NU) general chairman Said Aqil Siradj condemned the attack, remarking that \"Islam condemns any form of violence. There is not a single religion in the world that justifies violence as a way of life.\" Nahdlatul Ulama also requested people to report on actions that may lead to radicalism or terrorism. Ansor Youth Movement, a non-profit Islamic youth organization operating under the NU, strongly condemned the attacks as a vile, vicious attacks against humanity, especially in a place of worship. The organization general chairman Yaqut Cholil Qoumas urged law enforcement officers to tackle the threat of radicalization in social media.\n\nThe Indonesian Ulema Council denounced the attack, stating that the Quran clearly stated that the act of murdering innocents is a serious sin. They later urged the government to tackle Islamic radicalism in Indonesia to prevent such terror attacks. Muhammadiyah condemned the attacks, adding that suicide bombings and killing of innocent people is not jihad. The Surabaya branch of Muhammadiyah dispatched personnel to help the treatment of the victims. \n\nPresident Widodo flew to Surabaya, visiting the bombed churches and the hospitalized victims. Condemning the attacks as \"barbaric acts\", he strongly condemned the perpetrators particularly for their use of under-aged children as suicide bombers. Expressing condolences for the victims, he stated that the bombings were \"a crime against humanity, unrelated with any religion\", adding that he had ordered police chief Tito Karnavian to \"unravel the bombers' network to its roots\". He guaranteed that the government will cover the medical expenses of all the victims. He also stated that he will issue Government regulation in lieu of law (Perpu) if the lawmakers are unable to finalize the revision of anti-terrorism laws by June 2018. The Indonesian Ministry of Health confirmed President's statement that all hospital bills of the victims of the attacks will be paid by the government. Former Indonesian National Armed Forces commander Gatot Nurmantyo also denounced the attacks, stating that the perpetrators were trying to stain the image of Islam.\n\nOne of the most controversial religious figures in Indonesia, Bachtiar Nasir, a prominent member of the GNPF who had pushed for the imprisonment of the Christian–Chinese Governor of Jakarta Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, also condemned the attacks. He stated that Allah will condemn and punish them severely and offered his condolences to the victims of the attacks. \n\nPolitical figures blamed Islamic radicalism as the cause of the attacks. The Indonesian House of Representatives stated that the government needs to do a \"jihad\" against terrorism. Masinton Pasaribu, a representative from the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI–P), stated that the attacks were an inhuman action and an extraordinary crime and the perpetrators should be severely punished. The Prosperous Justice Party (PKS), an Indonesian Islamic party, also condemned the attack and regarded the attack as highly anarchist. Party president Sohibul Iman, stated that all terror attacks are highly despicable, especially in places of worship. Spokesman from Golkar, the second largest party in Indonesia, stated that the attacks were nothing but a cowardice act from several irresponsible people who stained their own religion.\nProminent opposition party figure Fadli Zon also commented on the attacks. However, despite this, he was jeered and heavily criticized by the public as his criticism was viewed by many as an attack to the sitting President. Politicians from his party, Gerindra, joined the condemnation, without attacking the government. Gerindra chairman Prabowo Subianto expressed condolences for the attacks, asking the Indonesian people to maintain unity. While campaigning for the Central Java gubernatorial election in Banyumas, he instructed Gerindra cadres to protect places of worship. Spokesman from Indonesia's Democratic Party, Didi Iriawan, shared the same message. He stated that the attack was unacceptable and called for severe punishment to the perpetrators.\nSeveral vigils were held across Indonesia. Approximately 1,000 people participated in a vigil in Tugu Pahlawan in Surabaya where participants lit candles for the victims of the attacks. Vigils were also held in Bandung, Blitar, and Solo. There was a free distribution of prosthetic from volunteer groups for the survivors of the attacks.\n\nThe U.S. government condemned the attacks and later urged Americans to be aware of the security conditions in Indonesia, stating that they were ready to assist the Indonesian government in investigating the attacks. The U.K. government issued a travel advice for British nationals who were planning to visit Indonesia in response to the bombings. Australia issued similar travel advice for Australians in Indonesia. The Government of Hong Kong issued similar travel advice, stating that \"Residents intending to visit the country or are already there should monitor the situation, exercise caution, attend to personal safety and avoid protests and large gatherings of people.\" The Irish, Canadian, French, Malaysian, Polish, Singaporean, Filipino and Chinese governments also issued travel advice for their citizens.\n\nSingaporean President Halimah Yacob and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong wrote condolences letters to Indonesia, stating that the Government of Singapore strongly condemned the attacks. The Singaporean Ministry of Foreign Affairs later issued travel advice for Singaporeans in Indonesia. Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull condemned the attacks and offered condolences. Similarly, the Japanese government and the European Union offered their condolences and condemned the attacks.\n\nDuring a sermon at Saint Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City, Pope Francis mentioned the attacks and requested prayers. United Nations and Organization for Islamic Cooperation secretary-generals António Guterres and Yousef Al-Othaimeen both also released statements condemning the attacks. Governments of Argentina, Mexico, Panama and Spain also decried the attacks.\n\nFacebook immediately activated its safety check after the attacks. Social media was flooded with Indonesians who voiced their condolences, prayers, frustration, and anger in response to the attacks. The hashtags #PrayForSurabaya, #BersatuLawanTeroris (English: #UnitedAgainstTerrorists), and #KamiTidakTakut (English: #WeAreNotAfraid) immediately went viral on Twitter. In the aftermath of the attacks, hundreds of social media accounts were blocked by Google, Facebook and Twitter. Telegram also blocked 280 accounts.\n\nIndonesian National Police advised people not to share the graphic photos of the victims and the perpetrators of the attacks. The Indonesian Broadcasting Commission (KPI) also advised news stations not to broadcast photos of dead bodies or other graphic materials on television. Several TV stations cancelled their TV programs in response to the bombings. This announcement was stated on air.\n\nIn the wake of the attacks, many people began to accuse the police and the government that the attack was a false flag, which resulted in numerous accounts being reported to the police. A woman was arrested on 14 May 2018 in Sukadana, West Kalimantan for her viral Facebook post accusing the government of having conducted the bombings as a false flag. She was a state junior high school (Sekolah Menengah Pertama Negeri, SMPN) headmaster. On the same day, a representative of a group named 212 Guard (Garda 212) also said that the bombings were false flag made to suppress those who were against the sitting government and demanding new president. The group itself was notorious for pushing the imprisonment of the Christian–Chinese Governor of Jakarta Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, hence their namesake which refers to the December 2016 Jakarta protests. He also said that the terrorists were innocent and should not be blamed for the bombings. The next day, another civil servant was arrested in Lhokseumawe, Aceh for hate speech related to the attacks. On 20 May 2018, a lecturer working at the University of North Sumatra was arrested for saying the same as the aforementioned headmaster. Many politicians, Mohammad Mahfud for instance, condemned those who supported the false flag theory, stating that those people are psychopathic and basically are no different than the terrorists.\n\nHoaxes of bombs being detonated in other locations also spread through the internet. A man was arrested in Duren Sawit subdistrict of Jakarta for creating a post on Facebook saying a church there was attacked as well. He claimed to have intended it as a prank.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the attacks, there were rise in Islamophobia in Indonesia, even among Muslims. These hate crimes, however, were specifically targeted to niqab wearing women and Muslim men with long beard. Reports revealed that niqab wearing women were harassed, stared at and called terrorists. Police stated that these hate crimes couldn't be tolerated, later added that even one of the relatives of the victims of the attacks was a niqab wearing woman.\n\nSeveral social experiments to tackle Islamophobia were later conducted across Indonesia. In Jakarta, a community of niqabis held an act of solidarity to the victims of the attack. They later voiced their support to the police to tackle terrorism.\n\nOn 16 May 2018, a group of men attacked the Riau Regional Police headquarters in Pekanbaru, Riau. The attack started when an SUV rammed into the police station and struck people and vehicles, including two journalists from tvOne and MNCTV. Police said masked men carrying katanas attacked and hacked several people in the station. All but one of the attackers were shot dead. One police officer was killed. Two police officers and two journalists were injured. In the immediate aftermath of the attack, the street where the police HQ located was closed for indefinite time. Bomb disposal unit was called to the area as \"cables and stuffs\" were found inside the SUV.\n\nOne of the attacker who escaped from the site was arrested by the police. The four died attackers were identified as Mursalim, Suwardi, Adi Sufiyan, and Daud. All of them were residents of Dumai. Hours after the attack, raids were carried out across Dumai, which was located around north of the capital of Pekanbaru. Airguns and \"electronics\" were recovered from the sites. They added that the attackers were members of the Islamic State of Indonesia, which affiliates with the Dumai branch of ISIL.\n\nChief of the Indonesian National Police Tito Karnavian stated that there were indications that the attack in Pekanbaru were linked with the Surabaya attacks, later added that the Pekanbaru attack might have been funded by the Surabaya cell.\n\n"}
{"id": "35007323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35007323", "title": "Swiss referendums, 1879", "text": "Swiss referendums, 1879\n\nTwo referendums were held in Switzerland in 1879. A federal law on subsidies for railways in the Alps was passed by 70.7% of voters on 19 January, whilst a referendum on the death penalty on 18 May was passed by 52.5% of voters and a majority of cantons.\n\nThe January referendum on rail subsidies was classed as an optional referendum, which meant that only a majority of the public vote was required for the proposals to be approved. The referendum on the death penalty involved amending article 65 of the federal constitution, and was a mandatory referendum, which required both a majority of voters and cantons to approve the proposals.\n"}
{"id": "33455098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33455098", "title": "Symbolism of terrorism", "text": "Symbolism of terrorism\n\nTerrorism, in some of its definitions, serves to communicate a message from terrorists to a target audience (TA). By extension, symbols play an important role in such communication, through graphics that the organizations use to represent themselves, as well as the meaning and significance behind their choice of targets.\n\nTerrorist organizations use graphic marks and insignias as symbols to represent their ideology, purpose, and goals. These insignias are replete with meaningful symbols that communicate the message, purpose, history, and goals of the organizations. As such, they contribute to the creation of unique organizational culture. A few databases exist which catalog the symbols used in terrorist images and propaganda, the most prominent of which are the International Terrorist Symbols Database and the Islamic Imagery Project. Also exist the academic research \"Terroristica\". \n\nThe International Terrorist Symbols Database is a compilation of insignias from terrorist organizations put together by the Anti-Defamation League. Published on their website, it features profiles of thirty different symbols from groups such as Al Qaeda in Iraq, Hamas, Hezbollah, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and others. Not all of the groups discussed are officially recognized on the U.S. State Department's Foreign Terrorist Organizations list, yet they all have references to attacks made by the organization. Each image profile contains a description of the insignia, an explanation of the symbols involved, and a detailed history of the organization’s history, ideology, goals, leaders, and major attacks. Below are examples of a few of the terrorist images included in the database, along with the corresponding analysis of the symbols involved in the image.\n\nOne of several emblems used by Al Qaeda in Iraq, the adjacent image depicts a gray globe positioned in a black background. On top of the globe is an open Quran, from which a rifle, a fist, and a flag emerge. The yellow writing beneath the globe may be translated as \"Monotheism and Jihad.\"\n\nThe flag represents Al Qaeda in Iraq's goal of creating an Islamic caliphate,while its color denotes the death and the militant means the organization is willing to take to achieve this goal. The rifle and fist are also symbols of militancy. By positioning these symbols on top of the Quran, the image communicates the foundation of their mission in Islam, while the globe indicates their worldwide ambitions for their goals.\n\nThe color green has represented Islam since its founding. Consequently, the green coloring of the central image indicates the organization's tie to Islam. Similar to the symbolism used by Al Qaeda in Iraq, the rifle represents commitment to militancy, while the globe indicates international involvement and ambition for their goals. The Quran indicates both a foundation in Islam, and their goal to found an Islamic state that encompasses Lebanon and Israel. Finally, the Islamic verse, which is from the Quran, bolsters support for their activities by citing a verse that celebrates and supports those who fight for Islam. The database does not analyze the symbolism of the seven-leafed branch,\n\nThe emblem of the Muslim Brotherhood depicts two cross swords beneath a red Quran, both of which are placed within a green circle that sits in a brown square. Inscribed on the Quran is the phrase, \"Truly, it is a generous Quran.\" Below the swords reads, \"Be Prepared.\"\n\nOnce again, the color green, as well as the presence of a Quran, symbolizes the foundation of the Muslim Brotherhood in Islam. The presence of swords indicate militancy, yet the choice to use them in the place of guns symbolizes the Muslim Brotherhood's connection to the historic Islam. The motto \"Be Prepared\" references a verse in the Quran that warns Muslims to be prepared to fight enemies of God. The analysis does not discuss the quote on the Quran.\n\nThe central figure of the image is a yellow tiger, which is surrounded by a ring of bullets and crossed by two rifles. The script both around the tiger, in Tamil, and below the tiger, in English, reads \"Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.\"\n\nEelam is Tamil for the Island of Sri Lanka, which the groups seeks to liberate from the control of the Sinhalese majority. The tiger is a culturally important animal that symbolizes heroism, militancy, and patriotism. Its centrality in this image indicates the desire of the Liberation Tigers to be self-determined and independent. The bullets and rifles indicate their employment of violence as the means to achieve these goals.\n\nThe Islamic Imagery Project is a report published in 2006 by the Combating Terrorism Center, a division of the Department of Social Sciences at the United States Military Academy. At the most basic level, the report is meant to be a practical exploration of the meaning of various jihadi symbols in order to better understand, and counteract, jihadi thought and the influence of these organizations. The forward to the report cites the powerful role “pictures, motifs, and images,” as well as the emotions they evoke, play in gaining a better understanding of the message and purpose of jihad terrorist groups. The preface explains that the authors intend to extend the study of imagery beyond the realm of art history, into modern symbols of violent jihadi groups, which they cite as the primary method these groups promote and reinforce their ideologies:\n\n“Visual motifs accomplish several objectives for jihadi propagandists. First, they create a mental conception of reality for their audiences. The use of carefully edited images evokes existing emotional or historical memories, eliciting an emotional response that may be conscious or subconscious…. Secondly, they help the author, or propagandist, communicate a message, which is often a visual argument for something or against something. Texts and language, including imagery, provide interactive ways for jihadis to engage the ideology itself.”\n\nCritics of the project have deemed it oversimplified, arguing that much more study has yet to go into a symbolic analysis of terrorist imagery. Others have deemed it the best interpretation, in English, of imagery used by terrorist groups.\n\nThe document is a catalog of the 100 most common motifs in jihadist visual propaganda that the Combating Terrorism Center deemed significant. These motifs are sorted into five categories: Nature; Geography, Political Symbols, and States; People; Weapons, Warfare, and the Afterlife; Other. An example of a symbol from each category is provided below.\n\nThe moon is an extremely important symbol in Islam which has astrological, religious, and spiritual significance. Jihadi imagery typically simplifies this complex symbol, using to evoke the notion of the divine and a connection to Islamic identity and, for full moons in particular, the afterlife. When paired with images that reference martyrdom, the moon suggests that there will be a heavenly reward for the martyr. In the example image on the right, the presence of a white horse and clouds around the man's portrait indicate that he is a martyr, and the moon evokes the benefit he will gain for his sacrifice in heaven.\n\nInverted currency is a symbol that seeks to undermine typical power structures of Western countries. Currency is understood by many terrorist groups to represent Western materialism, power, and dominance. It is also an extremely powerful cultural symbol in the West, one that is closely tied to the national identity. Consequently, the inversion of currency by terrorist groups, as seen in the example at right, is a symbolic way of transferring the power of Western nations to the terrorists. By replacing Benjamin Franklin with Osama Bin Laden, the image seeks to symbolically argue that Osama Bin Laden and Al Qaeda have the power to undermine basic sources of American power, and turn the United States against itself.\n\nWoman are commonly a symbol of masculine honor, pride, and purity. They are often depicted as innocent victims that jihadi efforts need to protect from dominance and abuse by the West or other enemies. Often, women are depicted in images as innocent and helpless victims of anti-Muslim oppression, and in need of protection. The intended effect is to create a sense of anger and need to protect one's pride and honor, in order to spur the audience to anger supporting or aiding the jihadi movements. Women are also portrayed as martyrs, in order to make Muslim men feel a sense of shame and oppression that their women are forced to fight against an oppressive force. In this way, it serves to shame men into action as much as it celebrates the sacrifice of the women martyrs.\n\nModern weapons reinforce the violent nature of jihadi warfare and symbolize the use of military technology to gain power and accomplish goals. The Islamic Imagery Project argues that depictions of modern weapons often serve to exaggerate the military technology contained by jihadi groups. They also serve as symbols for modern jihadi victories, such as the defeat of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, reminders that jihad resistance can overcome Western military dominance. Individuals pose with them to represent their association with and loyalty to the jihad movement, and helps them to construct their identities as participants in jihad. As such, they are understood as heroic symbols of participation in resistance to anti-Muslim oppression.\n\nA depiction of clasped hands symbolizes unity among the various jihadi groups and the Muslim community at large. The first example, at the right of the page, is an image published by Al Qaeda that uses handshakes to depict unity between Al Qaeda and other jihadi groups, creating a symbolic connection that ties various branches of the jihadi movement together. The clasped hands in the second example illustrate unity of the Muslim community as a whole. Each of the arms is a slightly different shade, representing the desire to bring the mission to bring the mission of specific jihad movements, which are often nation-based, to the international Muslim community.\n\nTerrorist acts may be considered a form of communication with victims, spectators, and the perpetrators. Attacks often are not interpreted simply as violent acts, but as statements that communicate a specific intended message. Since the rhetoric is largely non-verbal (though many terrorist attacks are followed by claims of responsibility and explanation), symbols play an important role in creating meaningful messages, and consequently become central to the mission and effectiveness of terrorism.\n\nTargets are strategically chosen to both destroy and create symbols that communicate a desired message and create an effect on the audience. O'Hair and Heath argue that \"selection of the targets of terrorism is strategic, made because of their potential rhetorical impact.” This perspective is reinforced in the book \"Understanding Terrorism: Challenges, Perspectives, and Issues,\" in which Gus Martin argues that \"terrorists select their targets because of their symbolic and propaganda value. High-profile, sentimental, or otherwise significant targets are chosen with the expectation that the target's constituency will be moved and that the victims' audience will in some way suffer.\" Locations are chosen because of the symbolism they already contain, and the ability of the terrorist group to manipulate this symbolism through an attack.\n\nThe symbolic choices of terrorist targets are not only meant to send isolated messages, but reflect the greater symbolic rhetoric of terrorism in general. Terrorism, it has been argued, refutes the strategy of gaining ideological victory through a single act. Instead, \"the rhetorical stance of terrorism... is patient, the chipping away at the symbolic or ideological foundation of its targets.” Each target is strategically chosen to fit into the greater message.\n\nBy carefully selecting targets, terrorists use acts of destruction to both destroy and create cultural symbols that promote fear and compliance among their target audience, and that often communicate specific ideological messages. For example, in their book \"Terrorism: Communication and Rhetorical Perspective\", O'Hair et al. describe the choice of the World Trade Center towers as a target for the 9/11 attack: \"The Twin towers of the WTC stood as the very image of globalization, capitalism, and Western economic superiority... their collapse both exposed and symbolized 'the vulnerability of governmental power (Juergensemeyer, 2001, pg. 32), and the fragile nature of the dominant cultural worldview.\" \n\nThe effectiveness of the World Trade Center towers as a symbol is apparent in the discussion that continues about them today.<ref name=\"9/11's Most Controversial Photo\"></ref> Many argue they were chosen because the towers represent Western power, wealth, commerce, and materialism. Not just the activities they represent, but also their stature, made them a good target. The towers dominated the New York City skyline, making their loss, and the symbolic destruction of American commerce and power, all the more visible. Similarly, the Pentagon was a strategic target because of its symbolism as the branch of the American government which protects the country. The terrorists behind 9/11 sought to undermine these greater themes of American life by attacking the symbols that embody them.\n\nUpon their destruction, the World Trade Center towers did not cease to exist as an important cultural symbol. In their book \"Defining Visual Rhetorics\", Charles Hill and Margeurite Helmers discuss the revision of the symbolism of the towers upon their destruction: \"Strong national symbols such as the eagle and the flag are liberally in use in the popular and mass media as a means of gathering together the imagined national community, and to these patriotic and sentimental images the twin towers of the World Trade Center have been added in the way that the red poppy came to symbolize the First World War.\" \n\nThe Oklahoma City bombing is another terrorist attack that has become highly symbolic in the American psyche. As a member of the Patriot Movement, and fearing a New World Order, the choice of the Oklahoma City Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building by Timothy McVeigh was meant to convey a message of resistance to the federal government. McVeigh sought to undermine the role of the Federal Government in society by visually destroying its presence.\n\nDiscussion of symbolism as it relates to the Oklahoma City Bombing now centers around symbols of hope, healing, and recovery. After the bombing, city planners carefully considered what to do with the remains of the building because of the importance it had to the public as a place were many were killed. Some referred to it as “sacred ground.” A memorial, called the “Outdoor Symbolic Memorial” was built on the site. Several monuments make up the memorial: the Gates of Time, which depicts “the innocence of the city before the attack… and the hope that came from the horror in the moments and days following the attack”; the Field of Empty chairs, which lies on the footprint of the building, and is made up of 168 chairs to represent each of the victims; the Survivor tree, a tree which bore the full brunt of the attack and remained standing, transforming it into “a living symbol of resilience.” Despite McVeigh’s intentions to make the Alfred P. Murrah building a visual depiction of the destruction of government, it, along with the public's response to the bombing, has been transformed by the public into a symbol of recovery and healing. Though terrorism seeks to create symbols, their meaning may be changed by similarly symbolic rhetoric created by the victims of the original attack.\n\nPsychology discusses the effect of symbols on the human mind, and gives insight into why the rhetoric of terrorism may be conducted partly through symbols. An overview of the psychology of symbols is relevant to terrorism because it is in the mind that symbols find validation and reality, allowing terrorist attacks create an effect on a wide audience.\n\nThe influence of images on humans has long been studied by art historians. David Freedberg, argues that humans react to images not simply on a cognitive level, but on an emotional one. Additionally, the psychology of persuasion has noted that if people see a symbol of authority, even if they know the groups or person projecting the symbol has no actual authority, they begin to believe that there is real authority in that party. Both of these theories contribute to arguments scholars make about the role of psychology in terrorism by helping to explain why humans react to terrorist attacks.\n\nPsychology also contributes to the understanding of how visual propaganda put forward by terrorist groups contributes to their organization. In the book, “Psychology of Terrorism,” author Randy Borum argues that projecting an image of solidarity and power makes terrorist groups more attractive as social collectives, even if the person joining the group does not at the outset believe in its ideology. A sense of belonging is one of the primary motivating factors for people joining terrorist groups. Many symbols cited by the Islamic Imagery Project and the International Terrorist Symbols Database reference this notion of community or belonging.\n\n\"The communications media, whether consciously or otherwise, has well served the terrorist cause. Political terrorism is now viewed as an instant means of communication and is aided and abetted by contemporary technology, utilizing the dramatic force of the mass media.\" \n\nThe media plays a large role in communicating information about terrorist attacks, and consequently contributes to the propagation of attacks as symbols. Through television, the internet, newspapers, and journals, the media allows the general population to witness terrorism as it occurs, which some have argued makes it iconic and creates an odd fixation on terrorism within the general population.\n\nTerrorism is a topic that fits well into the demands of the news industry. Russell Farnen notes that, “Terrorism is different, dramatic, and potentially violent. It frequently develops over a period of time, occurs in exotic locations, offers a clear confrontation, involves bizarre characters, and is politically noteworthy. Finally, it is of concern to the public.” Some argue that the attention paid to these attacks only gives them credence and power they don’t deserve: “Without massive news coverage the terrorist act would resemble the proverbial tree falling in the forest: if no one learned of an incident, it would be as if it had not occurred.” \n"}
{"id": "32362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32362", "title": "Vampire", "text": "Vampire\n\nA vampire is a being from folklore that subsists by feeding on the vital force (generally in the form of blood) of the living. In European folklore, vampires were undead beings that often visited loved ones and caused mischief or deaths in the neighbourhoods they inhabited when they were alive. They wore shrouds and were often described as bloated and of ruddy or dark countenance, markedly different from today's gaunt, pale vampire which dates from the early 19th century.\n\nVampiric entities have been recorded in most cultures; the term \"vampire\" was popularised in Western Europe after reports of an 18th century mass hysteria of a pre-existing folk belief in the Balkans and Eastern Europe that in some cases resulted in corpses being staked and people being accused of vampirism. Local variants in Eastern Europe were also known by different names, such as \"shtriga\" in Albania, \"vrykolakas\" in Greece and \"strigoi\" in Romania.\n\nIn modern times, the vampire is generally held to be a fictitious entity, although belief in similar vampiric creatures such as the \"chupacabra\" still persists in some cultures. Early folk belief in vampires has sometimes been ascribed to the ignorance of the body's process of decomposition after death and how people in pre-industrial societies tried to rationalise this, creating the figure of the vampire to explain the mysteries of death. Porphyria was linked with legends of vampirism in 1985 and received much media exposure, but has since been largely discredited.\n\nThe charismatic and sophisticated vampire of modern fiction was born in 1819 with the publication of \"The Vampyre\" by John Polidori; the story was highly successful and arguably the most influential vampire work of the early 19th century. Bram Stoker's 1897 novel \"Dracula\" is remembered as the quintessential vampire novel and provided the basis of the modern vampire legend, even though it was published after Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu's 1872 novel \"Carmilla\". The success of this book spawned a distinctive vampire genre, still popular in the 21st century, with books, films, television shows, and video games. The vampire has since become a dominant figure in the horror genre.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" dates the first appearance of the English word \"vampire\" (as \"vampyre\") in English from 1734, in a travelogue titled \"Travels of Three English Gentlemen\" published in \"The Harleian Miscellany\" in 1745. Vampires had already been discussed in French and German literature. After Austria gained control of northern Serbia and Oltenia with the Treaty of Passarowitz in 1718, officials noted the local practice of exhuming bodies and \"killing vampires\". These reports, prepared between 1725 and 1732, received widespread publicity. The English term was derived (possibly via French \"vampyre\") from the German \"Vampir\", in turn derived in the early 18th century from the Serbian \"vampir\" (Cyrillic: вампир).\n\nThe Serbian form has parallels in virtually all Slavic languages: Bulgarian and Macedonian вампир (\"vampir\"), Bosnian: \"vampir\", Croatian \"vampir\", Czech and Slovak \"upír\", Polish \"wąpierz\", and (perhaps East Slavic-influenced) \"upiór\", Ukrainian упир (\"upyr\"), Russian упырь (\"upyr\"), Belarusian упыр (\"upyr\"), from Old East Slavic упирь (\"upir\") (many of these languages have also borrowed forms such as \"vampir/wampir\" subsequently from the West; these are distinct from the original local words for the creature). The exact etymology is unclear. Among the proposed proto-Slavic forms are *ǫpyrь and *ǫpirь.\n\nAnother less widespread theory is that the Slavic languages have borrowed the word from a Turkic term for \"witch\" (e.g., Tatar \"ubyr\"). Czech linguist Václav Machek proposes Slovak verb \"vrepiť sa\" (stick to, thrust into), or its hypothetical anagram \"vperiť sa\" (in Czech, the archaic verb \"vpeřit\" means \"to thrust violently\") as an etymological background, and thus translates \"upír\" as \"someone who thrusts, bites\". An early use of the Old Russian word is in the anti-pagan treatise \"Word of Saint Grigoriy\" (Russian \"Слово святого Григория\"), dated variously to the 11th–13th centuries, where pagan worship of \"upyri\" is reported.\n\nThe notion of vampirism has existed for millennia. Cultures such as the Mesopotamians, Hebrews, Ancient Greeks, and Romans had tales of demons and spirits which are considered precursors to modern vampires. Despite the occurrence of vampire-like creatures in these ancient civilizations, the folklore for the entity known today as the vampire originates almost exclusively from early 18th-century southeastern Europe, when verbal traditions of many ethnic groups of the region were recorded and published. In most cases, vampires are revenants of evil beings, suicide victims, or witches, but they can also be created by a malevolent spirit possessing a corpse or by being bitten by a vampire. Belief in such legends became so pervasive that in some areas it caused mass hysteria and even public executions of people believed to be vampires.\n\nIt is difficult to make a single, definitive description of the folkloric vampire, though there are several elements common to many European legends. Vampires were usually reported as bloated in appearance, and ruddy, purplish, or dark in colour; these characteristics were often attributed to the recent drinking of blood. Blood was often seen seeping from the mouth and nose when one was seen in its shroud or coffin and its left eye was often open. It would be clad in the linen shroud it was buried in, and its teeth, hair, and nails may have grown somewhat, though in general fangs were not a feature. Although vampires were generally described as undead, some folktales spoke of them as living beings.\n\nThe causes of vampiric generation were many and varied in original folklore. In Slavic and Chinese traditions, any corpse that was jumped over by an animal, particularly a dog or a cat, was feared to become one of the undead. A body with a wound that had not been treated with boiling water was also at risk. In Russian folklore, vampires were said to have once been witches or people who had rebelled against the Russian Orthodox Church while they were alive.\n\nCultural practices often arose that were intended to prevent a recently deceased loved one from turning into an undead revenant. Burying a corpse upside-down was widespread, as was placing earthly objects, such as scythes or sickles, near the grave to satisfy any demons entering the body or to appease the dead so that it would not wish to arise from its coffin. This method resembles the ancient Greek practice of placing an obolus in the corpse's mouth to pay the toll to cross the River Styx in the underworld. It has been argued that instead, the coin was intended to ward off any evil spirits from entering the body, and this may have influenced later vampire folklore. This tradition persisted in modern Greek folklore about the \"vrykolakas,\" in which a wax cross and piece of pottery with the inscription \"Jesus Christ conquers\" were placed on the corpse to prevent the body from becoming a vampire.\n\nOther methods commonly practised in Europe included severing the tendons at the knees or placing poppy seeds, millet, or sand on the ground at the grave site of a presumed vampire; this was intended to keep the vampire occupied all night by counting the fallen grains, indicating an association of vampires with arithmomania. Similar Chinese narratives state that if a vampire-like being came across a sack of rice, it would have to count every grain; this is a theme encountered in myths from the Indian subcontinent, as well as in South American tales of witches and other sorts of evil or mischievous spirits or beings.\n\nIn Albanian folklore, the dhampir is the hybrid child of the \"karkanxholl\" (a werewolf-like creature with an iron mail shirt) or the \"lugat\" (a water-dwelling ghost or monster). The dhampir sprung of a karkanxholl has the unique ability to discern the karkanxholl; from this derives the expression \"the dhampir knows the lugat\". The \"lugat\" cannot be seen, he can only be killed by the dhampir, who himself is usually the son of a lugat. In different regions, animals can be revenants as lugats; also, living people during their sleep. \"Dhampiraj\" is also an Albanian surname.\n\nMany rituals were used to identify a vampire. One method of finding a vampire's grave involved leading a virgin boy through a graveyard or church grounds on a virgin stallion—the horse would supposedly balk at the grave in question. Generally a black horse was required, though in Albania it should be white. Holes appearing in the earth over a grave were taken as a sign of vampirism.\n\nCorpses thought to be vampires were generally described as having a healthier appearance than expected, plump and showing little or no signs of decomposition. In some cases, when suspected graves were opened, villagers even described the corpse as having fresh blood from a victim all over its face. Evidence that a vampire was active in a given locality included death of cattle, sheep, relatives or neighbours. Folkloric vampires could also make their presence felt by engaging in minor poltergeist-like activity, such as hurling stones on roofs or moving household objects, and pressing on people in their sleep.\n\nApotropaics—items able to ward off revenants—are common in vampire folklore. Garlic is a common example, a branch of wild rose and hawthorn plant are said to harm vampires, and in Europe, sprinkling mustard seeds on the roof of a house was said to keep them away. Other apotropaics include sacred items, for example a crucifix, rosary, or holy water. Vampires are said to be unable to walk on consecrated ground, such as that of churches or temples, or cross running water.\n\nAlthough not traditionally regarded as an apotropaic, mirrors have been used to ward off vampires when placed, facing outwards, on a door (in some cultures, vampires do not have a reflection and sometimes do not cast a shadow, perhaps as a manifestation of the vampire's lack of a soul). This attribute is not universal (the Greek \"vrykolakas/tympanios\" was capable of both reflection and shadow), but was used by Bram Stoker in \"Dracula\" and has remained popular with subsequent authors and filmmakers.\n\nSome traditions also hold that a vampire cannot enter a house unless invited by the owner; after the first invitation they can come and go as they please. Though folkloric vampires were believed to be more active at night, they were not generally considered vulnerable to sunlight.\n\nMethods of destroying suspected vampires varied, with staking the most commonly cited method, particularly in southern Slavic cultures. Ash was the preferred wood in Russia and the Baltic states, or hawthorn in Serbia, with a record of oak in Silesia. Aspen was also used for stakes, as it was believed that Christ's cross was made from aspen (aspen branches on the graves of purported vampires were also believed to prevent their risings at night). Potential vampires were most often staked through the heart, though the mouth was targeted in Russia and northern Germany and the stomach in north-eastern Serbia.\n\nPiercing the skin of the chest was a way of \"deflating\" the bloated vampire. This is similar to a practice of \"anti-vampire burial\": burying sharp objects, such as sickles, with the corpse, so that they may penetrate the skin if the body bloats sufficiently while transforming into a revenant.\n\nDecapitation was the preferred method in German and western Slavic areas, with the head buried between the feet, behind the buttocks or away from the body. This act was seen as a way of hastening the departure of the soul, which in some cultures, was said to linger in the corpse. The vampire's head, body, or clothes could also be spiked and pinned to the earth to prevent rising.\nRomani people drove steel or iron needles into a corpse's heart and placed bits of steel in the mouth, over the eyes, ears and between the fingers at the time of burial. They also placed hawthorn in the corpse's sock or drove a hawthorn stake through the legs. In a 16th-century burial near Venice, a brick forced into the mouth of a female corpse has been interpreted as a vampire-slaying ritual by the archaeologists who discovered it in 2006. In Bulgaria, over 100 skeletons with metal objects, such as plough bits, embedded in the torso have been discovered.\n\nFurther measures included pouring boiling water over the grave or complete incineration of the body. In the Balkans, a vampire could also be killed by being shot or drowned, by repeating the funeral service, by sprinkling holy water on the body, or by exorcism. In Romania, garlic could be placed in the mouth, and as recently as the 19th century, the precaution of shooting a bullet through the coffin was taken. For resistant cases, the body was dismembered and the pieces burned, mixed with water, and administered to family members as a cure. In Saxon regions of Germany, a lemon was placed in the mouth of suspected vampires.\n\nTales of supernatural beings consuming the blood or flesh of the living have been found in nearly every culture around the world for many centuries. The term \"vampire\" did not exist in ancient times. Blood drinking and similar activities were attributed to demons or spirits who would eat flesh and drink blood; even the devil was considered synonymous with the vampire.\n\nAlmost every nation has associated blood drinking with some kind of revenant or demon, or in some cases a deity. In India, for example, tales of vetālas, ghoul-like beings that inhabit corpses, have been compiled in the \"Baitāl Pacīsī\"; a prominent story in the \"Kathāsaritsāgara\" tells of King Vikramāditya and his nightly quests to capture an elusive one. \"Piśāca\", the returned spirits of evil-doers or those who died insane, also bear vampiric attributes.\n\nThe Persians were one of the first civilisations to have tales of blood-drinking demons: creatures attempting to drink blood from men were depicted on excavated pottery shards. Ancient Babylonia and Assyria had tales of the mythical Lilitu, synonymous with and giving rise to Lilith (Hebrew לילית) and her daughters the Lilu from Hebrew demonology. Lilitu was considered a demon and was often depicted as subsisting on the blood of babies, and estries, female shape-changing, blood-drinking demons, were said to roam the night among the population, seeking victims. According to Sefer Hasidim, estries were creatures created in the twilight hours before . An injured estrie could be healed by eating bread and salt given her by her attacker.\n\nGreco-Roman mythology described the Empusae, the Lamia, and the striges. Over time the first two terms became general words to describe witches and demons respectively. Empusa was the daughter of the goddess Hecate and was described as a demonic, bronze-footed creature. She feasted on blood by transforming into a young woman and seduced men as they slept before drinking their blood. The Lamia preyed on young children in their beds at night, sucking their blood, as did the \"gelloudes\" or Gello. Like the Lamia, the \"striges\" feasted on children, but also preyed on adults. They were described as having the bodies of crows or birds in general, and were later incorporated into Roman mythology as \"strix\", a kind of nocturnal bird that fed on human flesh and blood.\n\nMany myths surrounding vampires originated during the medieval period. The 12th-century English historians and chroniclers Walter Map and William of Newburgh recorded accounts of revenants, though records in English legends of vampiric beings after this date are scant. The Old Norse \"draugr\" is another medieval example of an undead creature with similarities to vampires. Vampire-like beings were rarely written about in Jewish literature; the 16th-century rabbi David ben Solomon ibn Abi Zimra (Radbaz) wrote of an uncharitable old woman whose body was unguarded and unburied for three days after she died and rose as a vampiric entity, killing hundreds of people. He linked this event to the lack of a \"shmirah\" (guarding) after death as the corpse could be a vessel for evil spirits.\n\nVampires proper originate in folklore widely reported from Eastern Europe in the late 17th and 18th centuries. These tales formed the basis of the vampire legend that later entered Germany and England, where they were subsequently embellished and popularized. One of the earliest recordings of vampire activity came from the region of Istria in modern Croatia, in 1672. Local reports cited the local vampire Jure Grando of the village Khring near Tinjan as the cause of panic among the villagers. A former peasant, Jure died in 1656. Local villagers claimed he returned from the dead and began drinking blood from the people and sexually harassing his widow. The village leader ordered a stake to be driven through his heart, but when the method failed to kill him, he was subsequently beheaded with better results.\n\nDuring the 18th century, there was a frenzy of vampire sightings in Eastern Europe, with frequent stakings and grave diggings to identify and kill the potential revenants. Even government officials engaged in the hunting and staking of vampires. Despite being called the Age of Enlightenment, during which most folkloric legends were quelled, the belief in vampires increased dramatically, resulting in a mass hysteria throughout most of Europe. The panic began with an outbreak of alleged vampire attacks in East Prussia in 1721 and in the Habsburg Monarchy from 1725 to 1734, which spread to other localities. Two famous vampire cases, the first to be officially recorded, involved the corpses of Petar Blagojevich and Miloš Čečar from Serbia. Blagojevich was reported to have died at the age of 62, but allegedly returned after his death asking his son for food. When the son refused, he was found dead the following day. Blagojevich supposedly returned and attacked some neighbours who died from loss of blood.\n\nIn the second case, Miloš, an ex-soldier turned farmer who allegedly was attacked by a vampire years before, died while haying. After his death, people began to die in the surrounding area and it was widely believed that Miloš had returned to prey on the neighbours. Another famous Serbian vampire legend recounts the story of a certain Sava Savanović, who lives in a watermill and kills and drinks blood from the millers. The character was later used in a story written by Serbian writer Milovan Glišić and in the Yugoslav 1973 horror film \"Leptirica\" inspired by the story.\n\nThe two incidents were well-documented. Government officials examined the bodies, wrote case reports, and published books throughout Europe. The hysteria, commonly referred to as the \"18th-Century Vampire Controversy\", raged for a generation. The problem was exacerbated by rural epidemics of so-claimed vampire attacks, undoubtedly caused by the higher amount of superstition that was present in village communities, with locals digging up bodies and in some cases, staking them.\n\nIn 1597, King James wrote a dissertation on witchcraft titled \"Daemonologie\" in which he wrote the belief that demons could possess both the living and the dead. Within his classification of demons, he explained the concept through the notion that incubi and succubae could possess the corpse of the deceased and walk the earth. As a devil borrows a dead body, it would seem so visibly and naturally to any man who converses with them and that any substance within the body would remain intolerably cold to others which they abuse.\n\nIn 1645 the Greek librarian of the Vatican, Leo Allatius, produced the first methodological description of the Balkan beliefs in vampires (Greek: vrykolakas) in his work \"De Graecorum hodie quorundam opinationibus\" (\"On certain modern opinions among the Greeks\").\nFrom 1679, Philippe Rohr devotes an essay to the dead who chew their shrouds in their graves, a subject resumed by Otto in 1732, and then by Michael Ranft in 1734. The subject was based on the observation that when digging up graves, it was discovered that some corpses had at some point either devoured the interior fabric of their coffin or their own limbs. Ranft described in his treatise of a tradition in some parts of Germany, that to prevent the dead from masticating they placed a mound of dirt under their chin in the coffin, placed a piece of money and a stone in the mouth, or tied a handkerchief tightly around the throat. In 1732 an anonymous writer writing as \"the doctor Weimar\" discusses the non-putrefaction of these creatures, from a theological point of view. In 1733, Johann Christoph Harenberg wrote a general treatise on vampirism and the Marquis d'Argens cites local cases. Theologians and clergymen also address the topic.\n\nSome theological disputes arose. The non-decay of vampires' bodies could recall the incorruption of the bodies of the saints of the Catholic Church. A paragraph on vampires was included in the second edition (1749) of \"De servorum Dei beatificatione et sanctorum canonizatione\", On the beatification of the servants of God and on canonization of the blessed, written by Prospero Lambertini (Pope Benedict XIV). In his opinion, while the incorruption of the bodies of saints was the effect of a divine intervention, all the phenomena attributed to vampires were purely natural or the fruit of \"imagination, terror and fear\". In other words, vampires did not exist.\n\nDom Augustine Calmet, a French theologian and scholar, published a comprehensive treatise in 1751 titled \"Treatise on the Apparitions of Spirits and on Vampires or Revenants\" which investigated the existence of vampires, demons, and spectres. Calmet conducted extensive research and amassed judicial reports of vampiric incidents and extensively researched theological and mythological accounts as well, using the scientific method in his analysis to come up with methods for determining the validity for cases of this nature. As he stated in his treatise:\n\n[T]hey see, it is said, men who have been dead for several months, come back to earth, talk, walk, infest villages, ill use both men and beasts, suck the blood of their near relations, make them ill, and finally cause their death; so that people can only save themselves from their dangerous visits and their hauntings by exhuming them, impaling them, cutting off their heads, tearing out the heart, or burning them. These revenants are called by the name of oupires or vampires, that is to say, leeches; and such particulars are related of them, so singular, so detailed, and invested with such probable circumstances and such judicial information, that one can hardly refuse to credit the belief which is held in those countries, that these revenants come out of their tombs and produce those effects which are proclaimed of them.\n\nCalmet had numerous readers, including both a critical Voltaire and numerous supportive demonologists who interpreted the treatise as claiming that vampires existed. In the \"Philosophical Dictionary,\" Voltaire wrote:\n\nThe controversy in Austria only ceased when Empress Maria Theresa of Austria sent her personal physician, Gerard van Swieten, to investigate the claims of vampiric entities. He concluded that vampires did not exist and the Empress passed laws prohibiting the opening of graves and desecration of bodies, sounding the end of the vampire epidemics. Other European countries followed suit. Despite this condemnation, the vampire lived on in artistic works and in local folklore.\n\nBeings having many of the attributes of European vampires appear in the folklore of Africa, Asia, North and South America, and India. Classified as vampires, all share the thirst for blood.\n\nVarious regions of Africa have folktales featuring beings with vampiric abilities: in West Africa the Ashanti people tell of the iron-toothed and tree-dwelling \"asanbosam\", and the Ewe people of the \"adze,\" which can take the form of a firefly and hunts children. The eastern Cape region has the \"impundulu,\" which can take the form of a large taloned bird and can summon thunder and lightning, and the Betsileo people of Madagascar tell of the \"ramanga\", an outlaw or living vampire who drinks the blood and eats the nail clippings of nobles.\n\nThe \"Loogaroo\" is an example of how a vampire belief can result from a combination of beliefs, here a mixture of French and African Vodu or voodoo. The term \"Loogaroo\" possibly comes from the French \"loup-garou\" (meaning \"werewolf\") and is common in the culture of Mauritius. The stories of the \"Loogaroo\" are widespread through the Caribbean Islands and Louisiana in the United States. Similar female monsters are the \"Soucouyant\" of Trinidad, and the \"Tunda\" and \"Patasola\" of Colombian folklore, while the Mapuche of southern Chile have the bloodsucking snake known as the \"Peuchen\". \"Aloe vera\" hung backwards behind or near a door was thought to ward off vampiric beings in South American folklore. Aztec mythology described tales of the Cihuateteo, skeletal-faced spirits of those who died in childbirth who stole children and entered into sexual liaisons with the living, driving them mad.\n\nDuring the late 18th and 19th centuries the belief in vampires was widespread in parts of New England, particularly in Rhode Island and eastern Connecticut. There are many documented cases of families disinterring loved ones and removing their hearts in the belief that the deceased was a vampire who was responsible for sickness and death in the family, although the term \"vampire\" was never used to describe the dead. The deadly disease tuberculosis, or \"consumption\" as it was known at the time, was believed to be caused by nightly visitations on the part of a dead family member who had died of consumption themselves. The most famous, and most recently recorded, case of suspected vampirism is that of nineteen-year-old Mercy Brown, who died in Exeter, Rhode Island in 1892. Her father, assisted by the family physician, removed her from her tomb two months after her death, cut out her heart and burned it to ashes.\n\nVampires have appeared in Japanese cinema since the late 1950s; the folklore behind it is western in origin. The Nukekubi is a being whose head and neck detach from its body to fly about seeking human prey at night. Legends of female vampire-like beings who can detach parts of their upper body also occur in the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. There are two main vampire-like creatures in the Philippines: the Tagalog \"Mandurugo\" (\"blood-sucker\") and the Visayan \"Manananggal\" (\"self-segmenter\"). The mandurugo is a variety of the aswang that takes the form of an attractive girl by day, and develops wings and a long, hollow, thread-like tongue by night. The tongue is used to suck up blood from a sleeping victim. The \"manananggal\" is described as being an older, beautiful woman capable of severing its upper torso in order to fly into the night with huge bat-like wings and prey on unsuspecting, sleeping pregnant women in their homes. They use an elongated proboscis-like tongue to suck fetuses from these pregnant women. They also prefer to eat entrails (specifically the heart and the liver) and the phlegm of sick people.\n\nThe Malaysian \"Penanggalan\" is a woman who obtained her beauty through the active use of black magic or other unnatural means, and is most commonly described in local folklore to be dark or demonic in nature. She is able to detach her fanged head which flies around in the night looking for blood, typically from pregnant women. Malaysians hung \"jeruju\" (thistles) around the doors and windows of houses, hoping the \"Penanggalan\" would not enter for fear of catching its intestines on the thorns. The Leyak is a similar being from Balinese folklore of Indonesia. A \"Kuntilanak\" or \"Matianak\" in Indonesia, or \"Pontianak\" or \"Langsuir\" in Malaysia, is a woman who died during childbirth and became undead, seeking revenge and terrorising villages. She appeared as an attractive woman with long black hair that covered a hole in the back of her neck, with which she sucked the blood of children. Filling the hole with her hair would drive her off. Corpses had their mouths filled with glass beads, eggs under each armpit, and needles in their palms to prevent them from becoming \"langsuir.\" This description would also fit the Sundel Bolongs.\n\nJiangshi, sometimes called \"Chinese vampires\" by Westerners, are reanimated corpses that hop around, killing living creatures to absorb life essence (qì) from their victims. They are said to be created when a person's soul (魄 \"pò\") fails to leave the deceased's body. \"Jiang shi\" are usually represented as mindless creatures with no independent thought. This monster has greenish-white furry skin, perhaps derived from fungus or mould growing on corpses. Jiangshi legends have inspired a genre of jiangshi films and literature in Hong Kong and East Asia. Films like \"Encounters of the Spooky Kind\" and \"Mr. Vampire\" were released during the jiangshi cinematic boom of the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn modern fiction, the vampire tends to be depicted as a suave, charismatic villain. Despite the general disbelief in vampiric entities, occasional sightings of vampires are reported. Vampire hunting societies still exist, but they are largely formed for social reasons. Allegations of vampire attacks swept through Malawi during late 2002 and early 2003, with mobs stoning one person to death and attacking at least four others, including Governor Eric Chiwaya, based on the belief that the government was colluding with vampires.\n\nIn early 1970 local press spread rumours that a vampire haunted Highgate Cemetery in London. Amateur vampire hunters flocked in large numbers to the cemetery. Several books have been written about the case, notably by Sean Manchester, a local man who was among the first to suggest the existence of the \"Highgate Vampire\" and who later claimed to have exorcised and destroyed a whole nest of vampires in the area. In January 2005, rumours circulated that an attacker had bitten a number of people in Birmingham, England, fuelling concerns about a vampire roaming the streets. Local police stated that no such crime had been reported and that the case appears to be an urban legend.\nIn 2006, a physics professor at the University of Central Florida wrote a paper arguing that it is mathematically impossible for vampires to exist, based on geometric progression. According to the paper, if the first vampire had appeared on 1 January 1600, and it fed once a month (which is less often than what is depicted in films and folklore), and every victim turned into a vampire, then within two and a half years the entire human population of the time would have become vampires.\n\nIn one of the more notable cases of vampiric entities in the modern age, the \"chupacabra\" (\"goat-sucker\") of Puerto Rico and Mexico is said to be a creature that feeds upon the flesh or drinks the blood of domesticated animals, leading some to consider it a kind of vampire. The \"chupacabra hysteria\" was frequently associated with deep economic and political crises, particularly during the mid-1990s.\n\nIn Europe, where much of the vampire folklore originates, the vampire is usually considered a fictitious being; many communities may have embraced the revenant for economic purposes. In some cases, especially in small localities, beliefs are still rampant and sightings or claims of vampire attacks occur frequently. In Romania during February 2004, several relatives of Toma Petre feared that he had become a vampire. They dug up his corpse, tore out his heart, burned it, and mixed the ashes with water in order to drink it.\n\nIn September / October 2017, mob violence in Malawi related to a vampire scare killed about 6 people accused of being vampires. A similar spate of vigilante violence linked to vampire rumours occurred there in 2002.\n\nVampirism and the vampire lifestyle also represent a relevant part of modern day's occultist movements. The mythos of the vampire, his magickal qualities, allure, and predatory archetype express a strong symbolism that can be used in ritual, energy work, and magick, and can even be adopted as a spiritual system. The vampire has been part of the occult society in Europe for centuries and has spread into the American sub-culture as well for more than a decade, being strongly influenced by and mixed with the neo gothic aesthetics.\n\n\"Coven\" has been used as a collective noun for vampires, possibly based on the Wiccan usage. An alternative collective noun is a \"house\" of vampires.\n\nCommentators have offered many theories for the origins of vampire beliefs and related mass hysteria. Everything ranging from premature burial to the early ignorance of the body's decomposition cycle after death has been cited as the cause for the belief in vampires.\n\nPaul Barber in his book \"Vampires, Burial and Death\" has described that belief in vampires resulted from people of pre-industrial societies attempting to explain the natural, but to them inexplicable, process of death and decomposition.\n\nPeople sometimes suspected vampirism when a cadaver did not look as they thought a normal corpse should when disinterred. Rates of decomposition vary depending on temperature and soil composition, and many of the signs are little known. This has led vampire hunters to mistakenly conclude that a dead body had not decomposed at all or, ironically, to interpret signs of decomposition as signs of continued life.\n\nCorpses swell as gases from decomposition accumulate in the torso and the increased pressure forces blood to ooze from the nose and mouth. This causes the body to look \"plump\", \"well-fed\", and \"ruddy\"—changes that are all the more striking if the person was pale or thin in life. In the Arnold Paole case, an old woman's exhumed corpse was judged by her neighbours to look more plump and healthy than she had ever looked in life. The exuding blood gave the impression that the corpse had recently been engaging in vampiric activity.\n\nDarkening of the skin is also caused by decomposition. The staking of a swollen, decomposing body could cause the body to bleed and force the accumulated gases to escape the body. This could produce a groan-like sound when the gases moved past the vocal cords, or a sound reminiscent of flatulence when they passed through the anus. The official reporting on the Petar Blagojevich case speaks of \"other wild signs which I pass by out of high respect\".\n\nAfter death, the skin and gums lose fluids and contract, exposing the roots of the hair, nails, and teeth, even teeth that were concealed in the jaw. This can produce the illusion that the hair, nails, and teeth have grown. At a certain stage, the nails fall off and the skin peels away, as reported in the Blagojevich case—the dermis and nail beds emerging underneath were interpreted as \"new skin\" and \"new nails\".\n\nIt has also been hypothesized that vampire legends were influenced by individuals being buried alive because of shortcomings in the medical knowledge of the time. In some cases in which people reported sounds emanating from a specific coffin, it was later dug up and fingernail marks were discovered on the inside from the victim trying to escape. In other cases the person would hit their heads, noses or faces and it would appear that they had been \"feeding\". A problem with this theory is the question of how people presumably buried alive managed to stay alive for any extended period without food, water or fresh air. An alternate explanation for noise is the bubbling of escaping gases from natural decomposition of bodies. Another likely cause of disordered tombs is grave robbery.\n\nFolkloric vampirism has been associated with clusters of deaths from unidentifiable or mysterious illnesses, usually within the same family or the same small community. The epidemic allusion is obvious in the classical cases of Petar Blagojevich and Arnold Paole, and even more so in the case of Mercy Brown and in the vampire beliefs of New England generally, where a specific disease, tuberculosis, was associated with outbreaks of vampirism. As with the pneumonic form of bubonic plague, it was associated with breakdown of lung tissue which would cause blood to appear at the lips.\n\nIn 1985 biochemist David Dolphin proposed a link between the rare blood disorder porphyria and vampire folklore. Noting that the condition is treated by intravenous haem, he suggested that the consumption of large amounts of blood may result in haem being transported somehow across the stomach wall and into the bloodstream. Thus vampires were merely sufferers of porphyria seeking to replace haem and alleviate their symptoms.\n\nThe theory has been rebuffed medically as suggestions that porphyria sufferers crave the haem in human blood, or that the consumption of blood might ease the symptoms of porphyria, are based on a misunderstanding of the disease. Furthermore, Dolphin was noted to have confused fictional (bloodsucking) vampires with those of folklore, many of whom were not noted to drink blood. Similarly, a parallel is made between sensitivity to sunlight by sufferers, yet this was associated with fictional and not folkloric vampires. In any case, Dolphin did not go on to publish his work more widely. Despite being dismissed by experts, the link gained media attention and entered popular modern folklore.\n\nRabies has been linked with vampire folklore. Dr Juan Gómez-Alonso, a neurologist at Xeral Hospital in Vigo, Spain, examined this possibility in a report in \"Neurology\". The susceptibility to garlic and light could be due to hypersensitivity, which is a symptom of rabies. The disease can also affect portions of the brain that could lead to disturbance of normal sleep patterns (thus becoming nocturnal) and hypersexuality. Legend once said a man was not rabid if he could look at his own reflection (an allusion to the legend that vampires have no reflection). Wolves and bats, which are often associated with vampires, can be carriers of rabies. The disease can also lead to a drive to bite others and to a bloody frothing at the mouth.\n\nIn his 1931 treatise \"On the Nightmare\", Welsh psychoanalyst Ernest Jones asserted that vampires are symbolic of several unconscious drives and defence mechanisms. Emotions such as love, guilt, and hate fuel the idea of the return of the dead to the grave. Desiring a reunion with loved ones, mourners may project the idea that the recently dead must in return yearn the same. From this arises the belief that folkloric vampires and revenants visit relatives, particularly their spouses, first.\n\nIn cases where there was unconscious guilt associated with the relationship, the wish for reunion may be subverted by anxiety. This may lead to repression, which Sigmund Freud had linked with the development of morbid dread. Jones surmised in this case the original wish of a (sexual) reunion may be drastically changed: desire is replaced by fear; love is replaced by sadism, and the object or loved one is replaced by an unknown entity. The sexual aspect may or may not be present. Some modern critics have proposed a simpler theory: People identify with immortal vampires because, by so doing, they overcome, or at least temporarily escape from, their fear of dying.\n\nThe innate sexuality of bloodsucking can be seen in its intrinsic connection with cannibalism and folkloric one with incubus-like behaviour. Many legends report various beings draining other fluids from victims, an unconscious association with semen being obvious. Finally Jones notes that when more normal aspects of sexuality are repressed, regressed forms may be expressed, in particular sadism; he felt that oral sadism is integral in vampiric behaviour.\n\nThe reinvention of the vampire myth in the modern era is not without political overtones. The aristocratic Count Dracula, alone in his castle apart from a few demented retainers, appearing only at night to feed on his peasantry, is symbolic of the parasitic \"ancien regime\". In his entry for \"Vampires\" in the \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (1764), Voltaire notices how the mid-18th century coincided with the decline of the folkloric belief in the existence of vampires but that now \"there were stock-jobbers, brokers, and men of business, who sucked the blood of the people in broad daylight; but they were not dead, though corrupted. These true suckers lived not in cemeteries, but in very agreeable palaces\".\n\nMarx defined capital as \"dead labour which, vampire-like, lives only by sucking living labour, and lives the more, the more labour it sucks\". Werner Herzog, in his \"Nosferatu the Vampyre\", gives this political interpretation an extra ironic twist when protagonist Jonathon Harker, a middle-class solicitor, becomes the next vampire; in this way the capitalist bourgeois becomes the next parasitic class.\n\nA number of murderers have performed seemingly vampiric rituals upon their victims. Serial killers Peter Kürten and Richard Trenton Chase were both called \"vampires\" in the tabloids after they were discovered drinking the blood of the people they murdered. Similarly, in 1932, an unsolved murder case in Stockholm, Sweden was nicknamed the \"Vampire murder\", because of the circumstances of the victim's death. The late-16th-century Hungarian countess and mass murderer Elizabeth Báthory became particularly infamous in later centuries' works, which depicted her bathing in her victims' blood in order to retain beauty or youth.\n\n\"Vampire lifestyle\" is a term for a contemporary subculture of people, largely within the Goth subculture, who consume the blood of others as a pastime; drawing from the rich recent history of popular culture related to cult symbolism, horror films, the fiction of Anne Rice, and the styles of Victorian England. Active vampirism within the vampire subculture includes both blood-related vampirism, commonly referred to as \"sanguine vampirism\", and \"psychic vampirism\", or supposed feeding from pranic energy.\n\nAlthough many cultures have stories about them, vampire bats have only recently become an integral part of the traditional vampire lore. Vampire bats were integrated into vampire folklore after they were discovered on the South American mainland in the 16th century. There are no vampire bats in Europe, but bats and owls have long been associated with the supernatural and omens, mainly because of their nocturnal habits, and in modern English heraldic tradition, a bat means \"Awareness of the powers of darkness and chaos\".\n\nThe three species of vampire bats are all endemic to Latin America, and there is no evidence to suggest that they had any Old World relatives within human memory. It is therefore impossible that the folkloric vampire represents a distorted presentation or memory of the vampire bat. The bats were named after the folkloric vampire rather than vice versa; the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" records their folkloric use in English from 1734 and the zoological not until 1774. The vampire bat's bite is usually not harmful to a person, but the bat has been known to actively feed on humans and large prey such as cattle and often leaves the trademark, two-prong bite mark on its victim's skin.\n\nThe literary Dracula transforms into a bat several times in the novel, and vampire bats themselves are mentioned twice in it. The 1927 stage production of \"Dracula\" followed the novel in having Dracula turn into a bat, as did the film, where Béla Lugosi would transform into a bat. The bat transformation scene was used again by Lon Chaney Jr. in 1943's \"Son of Dracula\".\n\nThe vampire is now a fixture in popular fiction. Such fiction began with 18th-century poetry and continued with 19th-century short stories, the first and most influential of which was John Polidori's \"The Vampyre\" (1819), featuring the vampire Lord Ruthven. Lord Ruthven's exploits were further explored in a series of vampire plays in which he was the antihero. The vampire theme continued in penny dreadful serial publications such as \"Varney the Vampire\" (1847) and culminated in the pre-eminent vampire novel in history: \"Dracula\" by Bram Stoker, published in 1897.\n\nOver time, some attributes now regarded as integral became incorporated into the vampire's profile: fangs and vulnerability to sunlight appeared over the course of the 19th century, with Varney the Vampire and Count Dracula both bearing protruding teeth, and Murnau's \"Nosferatu\" (1922) fearing daylight. The cloak appeared in stage productions of the 1920s, with a high collar introduced by playwright Hamilton Deane to help Dracula 'vanish' on stage. Lord Ruthven and Varney were able to be healed by moonlight, although no account of this is known in traditional folklore. Implied though not often explicitly documented in folklore, immortality is one attribute which features heavily in vampire film and literature. Much is made of the price of eternal life, namely the incessant need for blood of former equals.\n\nThe vampire or revenant first appeared in poems such as \"The Vampire\" (1748) by Heinrich August Ossenfelder, \"Lenore\" (1773) by Gottfried August Bürger, \"Die Braut von Corinth\" (\"The Bride of Corinth\") (1797) by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Robert Southey's \"Thalaba the Destroyer\" (1801), John Stagg's \"The Vampyre\" (1810), Percy Bysshe Shelley's \"The Spectral Horseman\" (1810) (\"Nor a yelling vampire reeking with gore\") and \"Ballad\" in \"St. Irvyne\" (1811) about a reanimated corpse, Sister Rosa, Samuel Taylor Coleridge's unfinished \"Christabel\" and Lord Byron's \"The Giaour\".\n\nByron was also credited with the first prose fiction piece concerned with vampires: \"The Vampyre\" (1819). This was in reality authored by Byron's personal physician, John Polidori, who adapted an enigmatic fragmentary tale of his illustrious patient, \"Fragment of a Novel\" (1819), also known as \"The Burial: A Fragment\". Byron's own dominating personality, mediated by his lover Lady Caroline Lamb in her unflattering \"roman-a-clef\" \"Glenarvon\" (a Gothic fantasia based on Byron's wild life), was used as a model for Polidori's undead protagonist Lord Ruthven. \"The Vampyre\" was highly successful and the most influential vampire work of the early 19th century.\n\"Varney the Vampire\" was a landmark popular mid-Victorian era gothic horror story by James Malcolm Rymer and Thomas Peckett Prest, which first appeared from 1845 to 1847 in a series of pamphlets generally referred to as \"penny dreadfuls\" because of their inexpensive price and typically gruesome contents. The story was published in book form in 1847 and runs to 868 double-columned pages. It has a distinctly suspenseful style, using vivid imagery to describe the horrifying exploits of Varney. Another important addition to the genre was Sheridan Le Fanu's lesbian vampire story \"Carmilla\" (1871). Like Varney before her, the vampire Carmilla is portrayed in a somewhat sympathetic light as the compulsion of her condition is highlighted.\n\nNo effort to depict vampires in popular fiction was as influential or as definitive as Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897). Its portrayal of vampirism as a disease of contagious demonic possession, with its undertones of sex, blood and death, struck a chord in Victorian Europe where tuberculosis and syphilis were common. The vampiric traits described in Stoker's work merged with and dominated folkloric tradition, eventually evolving into the modern fictional vampire.\n\nDrawing on past works such as \"The Vampyre\" and \"Carmilla\", Stoker began to research his new book in the late 19th century, reading works such as \"The Land Beyond the Forest\" (1888) by Emily Gerard and other books about Transylvania and vampires. In London, a colleague mentioned to him the story of Vlad Ţepeş, the \"real-life Dracula\", and Stoker immediately incorporated this story into his book. The first chapter of the book was omitted when it was published in 1897, but it was released in 1914 as \"Dracula's Guest\".\n\nThe latter part of the 20th century saw the rise of multi-volume vampire epics. The first of these was Gothic romance writer Marilyn Ross's \"Barnabas Collins\" series (1966–71), loosely based on the contemporary American TV series \"Dark Shadows\". It also set the trend for seeing vampires as poetic tragic heroes rather than as the more traditional embodiment of evil. This formula was followed in novelist Anne Rice's highly popular and influential \"Vampire Chronicles\" (1976–2003).\n\nThe 21st century brought more examples of vampire fiction, such as J. R. Ward's Black Dagger Brotherhood series, and other highly popular vampire books which appeal to teenagers and young adults. Such vampiric paranormal romance novels and allied vampiric chick-lit and vampiric occult detective stories are a remarkably popular and ever-expanding contemporary publishing phenomenon. L. A. Banks' \"The Vampire Huntress Legend Series\", Laurell K. Hamilton's erotic \"\" series, and Kim Harrison's \"The Hollows\" series, portray the vampire in a variety of new perspectives, some of them unrelated to the original legends. Vampires in the \"Twilight\" series (2005–2008) by Stephenie Meyer ignore the effects of garlic and crosses and are not harmed by sunlight, although it does reveal their supernatural status. Richelle Mead further deviates from traditional vampires in her \"Vampire Academy\" series (2007–present), basing the novels on Romanian lore with two races of vampires, one good and one evil, as well as half-vampires.\n\nConsidered one of the preeminent figures of the classic horror film, the vampire has proven to be a rich subject for the film and gaming industries. Dracula is a major character in more films than any other but Sherlock Holmes, and many early films were either based on the novel \"Dracula\" or closely derived from it. These included the 1922 German silent film \"Nosferatu\", directed by F. W. Murnau and featuring the first film portrayal of Dracula—although names and characters were intended to mimic \"Dracula\"s, Murnau could not obtain permission to do so from Stoker's widow, and had to alter many aspects of the film. Universal's \"Dracula\" (1931), starring Béla Lugosi as the Count, was the first talking film to portray Dracula. The decade saw several more vampire films, most notably \"Dracula's Daughter\" in 1936.\nThe legend of the vampire continued through the film industry when Dracula was reincarnated in the pertinent Hammer Horror series of films, starring Christopher Lee as the Count. The successful 1958 \"Dracula\" starring Lee was followed by seven sequels. Lee returned as Dracula in all but two of these and became well known in the role. By the 1970s, vampires in films had diversified with works such as \"Count Yorga, Vampire\" (1970), an African Count in 1972's \"Blacula\", the BBC's \"Count Dracula\" featuring French actor Louis Jourdan as Dracula and Frank Finlay as Abraham Van Helsing, and a Nosferatu-like vampire in 1979's \"Salem's Lot\", and a remake of \"Nosferatu\" itself, titled Nosferatu the Vampyre with Klaus Kinski the same year. Several films featured the characterisation of a female, often lesbian, vampire such as Hammer Horror's \"The Vampire Lovers\" (1970), based on \"Carmilla\", though the plotlines still revolved around a central evil vampire character.\nThe Gothic soap opera \"Dark Shadows\", on American television from 1966 to 1971 and produced by Dan Curtis, featured the vampire character Barnabas Collins, portrayed by Canadian actor Jonathan Frid, which proved partly responsible for making the series one of the most popular of its type, amassing a total of 1,225 episodes in its nearly five-year run. The pilot for the later Dan Curtis 1972 television series \"\" revolved around reporter Carl Kolchak hunting a vampire on the Las Vegas Strip. Later films showed more diversity in plotline, with some focusing on the vampire-hunter, such as Blade in the Marvel Comics' \"Blade\" films and the film \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". \"Buffy\", released in 1992, foreshadowed a vampiric presence on television, with adaptation to a long-running hit series of the same name and its spin-off \"Angel\". Still others showed the vampire as protagonist, such as 1983's \"The Hunger\", 1994's \"Interview with the Vampire\" and its indirect sequel of sorts \"Queen of the Damned\", and the 2007 series \"Moonlight\". The 1992 film \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\" became the then-highest grossing vampire film ever.\n\nThis increase of interest in vampiric plotlines led to the vampire being depicted in films such as \"Underworld\" and \"Van Helsing\", and the Russian \"Night Watch\" and a TV miniseries remake of \"Salem's Lot\", both from 2004. The series \"Blood Ties\" premiered on Lifetime Television in 2007, featuring a character portrayed as Henry Fitzroy, illegitimate son of Henry VIII of England turned vampire, in modern-day Toronto, with a female former Toronto detective in the starring role. A 2008 series from HBO, entitled \"True Blood\", gives a Southern Gothic take to the vampire theme.\n\nIn 2008 the BBC Three series \"Being Human\" became popular in Britain. It featured an unconventional trio of a vampire, a werewolf and a ghost who are sharing a flat in Bristol. Another popular vampire-related show is CW's \"The Vampire Diaries\". The continuing popularity of the vampire theme has been ascribed to a combination of two factors: the representation of sexuality and the perennial dread of mortality.\n\nThe role-playing game \"\" has been influential upon modern vampire fiction and elements of its terminology, such as \"embrace\" and \"sire\", appear in contemporary fiction. Popular video games about vampires include \"Castlevania\", which is an extension of the original Bram Stoker novel \"Dracula\", and \"Legacy of Kain\".\n\n"}
{"id": "332989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332989", "title": "Vegetative reproduction", "text": "Vegetative reproduction\n\nVegetative reproduction (also known as vegetative propagation, vegetative multiplication or vegetative cloning) is any form of asexual reproduction occurring in plants in which a new plant grows from a fragment of the parent plant or grows from a specialized reproductive structure.\n\nPlant propagation is the process of plant reproduction of a species or cultivar, and it can be sexual or asexual. It can happen through the use of vegetative parts of the plants, such as leaves, stems, and roots to produce new plants or through growth from specialized vegetative plant parts.\n\nNumerous plants naturally reproduce this way, but it can also be, and frequently is, induced artificially. Over the years, horticulturalists have developed asexual propagation techniques that use vegetative plant parts, to replicate plants in a way that does not often occur naturally.\n\nSuccess rates and difficulty of propagation vary greatly. For example, willow and coleus can be propagated merely by inserting a stem in water or moist soil. On the other hand, monocotyledons, unlike dicotyledons, typically lack a vascular cambium and therefore are harder to propagate.\n\nWhile numerous plants reproduce by vegetative reproduction, they rarely exclusively use that method to reproduce. Although it has numerous advantages, vegetative reproduction is not evolutionary advantageous: it does not allow for genetic diversity and could lead plants to accumulate deleterious mutations. Vegetative reproduction is, however, very useful as plants avoid the cost of sexual reproduction. Plants will resort to vegetative propagation when it allows individuals to produce more offspring per unit of resource than reproduction through seed production. Vegetative propagation is generally associated with juvenility; generally, the more juvenile the plant, the easier it is to propagate vegetatively.\n\nAlthough most plants normally reproduce sexually, many have the ability to reproduce vegetatively, or can be vegetatively propagated if small pieces are subjected to chemical (hormonal) treatments. This is because meristematic cells capable of cellular differentiation are present in many plant tissues.\n\nVegetative propagation is usually considered a cloning method. However, there are several cases where vegetatively propagated plants are genetically identical. Root cuttings of thornless blackberries will revert to thorny type because the adventitious shoot develops from a cell that is genetically thorny. Thornless blackberry is a chimera, with the epidermal layers genetically thornless but the tissue beneath it genetically thorny. Similarly, leaf cutting propagation of certain chimeral variegated plants, such as snake plant (Sansevieria trifasciata), will produce mainly nonvariegated plants.\nGrafting is often not a complete cloning method because seedlings are used as rootstocks. In that case, only the top of the plant is clonal. In some crops, particularly apples, the rootstocks are vegetatively propagated so the entire graft can be clonal if the scion and rootstock are both clones.\nApomixis (including apospory and diplospory) is a type of reproduction that does not involve fertilization. In flowering plants, unfertilized seeds are involved, or plantlets that grow instead of flowers. Hawkweed (\"Hieracium\"), dandelion (\"Taraxacum\"), some citrus (\"Citrus\") and many grasses such as Kentucky bluegrass (\"Poa pratensis\") all use this form of asexual reproduction. Bulbils are sometimes formed instead of the flowers of garlic.\n\nMeristem tissue makes the process of asexual reproduction possible. It is normally found in stems, leaves, and tips of stems and roots and consists of undifferentiated cells that are constantly dividing allowing for plant growth and give rise to plant tissue systems. The meristem tissue's ability to continuously divide allows for vegetative propagation to occur.\n\nAnother important ability that allows for vegetative propagation is the ability to develop adventitious roots which arise from other vegetative parts of the plants such as the stem or leaves. These roots allow for the development of new plants from body parts from other plants .\n\nThere are several advantages of vegetative reproduction, mainly that the produced offspring are practically clones of their parent plants. If a plant has favorable traits, it can continue to pass down its advantageous genetic information to its offspring. This is especially economically advantageous as it allows commercial growers to clone a certain plant to ensure consistency throughout their crops. Vegetative propagation also allows plants to avoid the costly process of producing sexual reproduction organs such as flowers and the subsequent seeds and fruits. For example, developing an ace cultivar is extremely difficult, so, once farmers develop the desired traits in apple, they use grafting and budding to ensure the consistency of the new cultivar and its successful production on a commercial level. However, as can be seen in many variegated plants, this does not always apply, because many plants actually are chimeras and cuttings might reflect the attributes of only one or some of the parent cell lines. Vegetative propagation also allows plants to circumvent the immature seedling phase and reach the mature phase faster. In nature, that increases the chances for a plant to successfully reach maturity, and, commercially, it saves farmers a lot of time and money as it allows for faster crop overturn.\n\nVegetative reproduction offers research advantages in several areas of biology and has practical usage when it comes to afforestation. The most common use made of vegetative propagation by forest geneticists and tree breeders has been to move genes from selected trees to some convenient location, usually designated a gene bank, clone bank, clone-holding orchard, or seed orchard where their genes can be recombined in pedigreed offspring.\n\nA major disadvantage of vegetative propagation is that it prevents species genetic diversity which can lead to reductions in crop yields. The plants are genetically identical and are all, therefore, susceptible to pathogenic plant viruses, bacteria and fungi that can wipe out entire crops.\n\nNatural vegetative propagation is mostly a process found in herbaceous and woody perennial plants, and typically involves structural modifications of the stem, although any horizontal, underground part of a plant (whether stem, leaf, or root) can contribute to vegetative reproduction of a plant. Most plant species that survive and significantly expand by vegetative reproduction would be perennial almost by definition, since specialized organs of vegetative reproduction, like seeds of annuals, serve to survive seasonally harsh conditions. A plant that persists in a location through vegetative reproduction of individuals over a long period of time constitutes a clonal colony.\n\nIn a sense, this process is not one of reproduction but one of survival and expansion of biomass of the individual. When an individual organism increases in size via cell multiplication and remains intact, the process is called \"vegetative growth\". However, in vegetative reproduction, the new plants that result are new individuals in almost every respect except genetic. Of considerable interest is how this process appears to reset the aging clock.\n\nAs aforementioned, plants vegetetatively propagate both artificially and naturally. Most common methods of natural vegetative reproduction involves the development of a new plant from specialized structures of a mature plant. In addition to adventitious roots, roots that arise from plant structures other than the root, such as stems or leaves, modified stems, leaves and roots play an important role in plants' ability to naturally propagate. The most common modified stems, leaves and roots that allow for vegetative propagation are:\n\nRhizomes are stem-like structures that grow horizontally across the ground and from which new roots and shoots may arise. They serve as protein and starch storage units serving as a nutrient source for newly developed plants.\n\nExamples of plants that use rhizomes are ginger, lilies and irises.\n\nAlso known as stolons, runners are modified stems that, unlike rhizomes, grow from existing stems just below the soil surface. As they are propagated, the buds on the modified stems produce roots and stems. Those buds are more separated than the ones found on the rhizome.\n\nExamples of plants that use runners are strawberries and currants.\n\nAs the name suggests, bulbs are inflated parts of the stem within which lie the central shoots of new plants. They are typically underground and are surrounded by plump and layered leaves that provide nutrients to the new plant.\n\nExamples of plants that use bulbs are shallots, lilies and tulips.\n\nThese structures develop from either the stem or the root. Stem tubers grow from rhizomes or runners that swell from storing nutrients while root tubers propagate from roots that are modified to store nutrients and get too large and produce a new plant.\n\nExamples of stem tubers are potatoes and yams and examples of root tubers are sweet potatoes and dahlias.\n\nCorms are solid enlarged underground stems that store nutrients in their fleshy and solid stem tissue and are surrounded by papery leaves. Corms differ from bulbs in that their centers consists of solid tissue while bulbs consist of layered leaves.\n\nExamples of plants that use corms are gladiolus and taro.\n\nAlso known as root sprouts, suckers are plant stems that arise from buds on the base of parent plants stems or on roots.\n\nExamples of plants that use suckers are apple and banana trees.\n\nMiniature structures that arise from meristem in leaf margins that eventually develops roots and drop from the leaves they grew on.\n\nAn example of a plant that uses plantlets is the \"Bryophyllum daigremontianum\" (syn. \"Kalanchoe daigremontianum\"), which is also known as \"mother of thousands\" for its many plantlets.\n\nAdditional offshoots which develop on vegetative stems or flower stalks of several orchids genera.\n\nExamples of plants that use keikis are the \"Phalaenopsis\", \"Epidendrum\", and \"Dendrobium\" genera of orchids.\n\nVegetative propagation of particular cultivars that have desirable characteristics is very common practice. It is used by farmers and horticulturalists to produce better crops with desirable qualities. The most common methods of artificial vegetative propagation are:\n\nA part of the plant, usually a stem or a leaf, is cut off and planted. Adventitious roots grow from cuttings and a new plant eventually develops. Usually those cuttings are treated with hormones before being planted to induce growth.\nExample :rose;hibiscus.\n\nA scion, or a desired cutting, is attached to the stem of another plant that remains rooted in the ground. Eventually both tissue systems become grafted or integrated and a plant with the characteristics of the grafted plant develops.e.g mango, gauva, etc\n\nThis process includes the bending of plant branches or stems so that they touch the ground and are covered with soil. Adventitious roots develops from the underground part of the plant, which is known as the layer. This method of vegetative reproduction also occurs naturally. Another similar method, air layering, involved the scraping and replanting of tree branches which develop into trees.\n\nSuckers grow and form a dense compact mat that is attached to the parent plant. Too many suckers can lead to smaller crop size, so excess suckers are pruned, and mature suckers are transplanted to a new area where they develop into new plants.\n\nPlant cells are taken from various parts of the plant and are cultured and nurtured in a sterilized container. The mass of developed tissue, known as the callus, is then cultured in a hormone-ladened medium and eventually develops into plantlets which are then planted and eventually develop into grown plants.\n\nAn offset is the lower part of a single culm with the rhizome axis basal to it and its roots. Planting of these is the most conventional way of propagating bamboo.\n\nThe process of asexual reproduction through seed, in the absence of meiosis and fertilization, generating clonal progeny of maternal origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "399168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399168", "title": "William Monroe Trotter", "text": "William Monroe Trotter\n\nWilliam Monroe Trotter (sometimes just Monroe Trotter, April 7, 1872 – April 7, 1934) was a newspaper editor and real estate businessman based in Boston, Massachusetts, and an activist for African-American civil rights. He was an early opponent of the accommodationist race policies of Booker T. Washington, and in 1901 founded the \"Boston Guardian,\" an independent African-American newspaper he used to express that opposition. Active in protest movements for civil rights throughout the 1900s and 1910s, he also revealed some of the differences within the African-American community. He contributed to the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).\n\nTrotter was born into a well-to-do family and raised in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. He earned his graduate and post-graduate degrees at Harvard University, and was the first man of color to earn a Phi Beta Kappa key there. Seeing an increase in segregation in northern facilities, he began to engage in a life of activism, to which he devoted his assets. He joined with W. E. B. Du Bois in founding the Niagara Movement in 1905, a forerunner of the NAACP. Trotter's style was often divisive, and he ended up leaving that organization and founding the National Equal Rights League. His protest activities were sometimes seen to be at cross purposes to those of the NAACP.\n\nIn 1914 he had a highly publicized meeting with President Woodrow Wilson, in which he protested Wilson's introduction of segregation into the federal workplace. In Boston, Trotter succeeded in 1910 in shutting down productions of \"The Clansman\" but he was unsuccessful in 1915 with screenings of the movie \"The Birth of a Nation\", which also portrayed the Ku Klux Klan in favorable terms. He was not able to influence the peace talks at the end of World War I, and was in later years a marginalized voice of protest. In an alliance with Roman Catholics, in 1921 he did get a revival screening banned of \"The Birth of a Nation\". He died on his 62nd birthday after a possibly suicidal fall from his Boston home.\n\nWilliam was the third child, and first to survive infancy, of James Monroe Trotter and Virginia (Isaacs) Trotter. His father James was born into slavery in Mississippi; James' mother Letitia was enslaved, and his father was her white master Richard S. Trotter. Letitia, her son and two daughters were freed by their master after his marriage and sent to Cincinnati, Ohio, which had a thriving free black community. After working as a teacher, James Trotter enlisted in the United States Colored Troops during the American Civil War, and was the first man of color to be promoted to lieutenant in the 55th Regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry (Colored).\nVirginia Isaacs, also of mixed race, was born free in 1842 in either Ohio or Virginia. Her mother Ann-Elizabeth Fossett was born into slavery at Monticello, where she was a daughter of Joseph Fossett and Edith Hern Fossett, and great granddaughter of Elizabeth Hemings. Virginia's father Tucker Isaacs was a free person of color. He purchased the freedom of Ann-Elizabeth Fossett, Virginia's mother. The family moved to Chillicothe in the free state of Ohio, where Virginia grew up in its thriving black community. There she met and married James Trotter.\n\nShortly after the Civil War, the Trotters moved from Ohio to settle in Boston, Massachusetts. After their first two children died in infancy, they returned to the Isaacs farm of Virginia's parents, where their son William Monroe Trotter was born on April 7, 1872. When he was seven months old, the family moved back to Boston, where they settled in the South End, far from the predominantly African-American west side of Beacon Hill. The family later moved to suburban Hyde Park, a white neighborhood. The Trotters had two more children, both daughters.\nTrotter's father broke through many racial obstacles placed before him, but was often frustrated in his attempts to gain equal treatment or fair consideration. While serving in the Union Army, he protested the inequality of pay between blacks and whites. In Boston he was the first man of color to be employed by the Post Office Department (now the U.S. Postal Service), a job he left after he was repeatedly passed over for promotion because of discriminatory Republican-led federal government policy. Politically active, the elder Trotter was a leading African-American Democrat in New England. He supported Grover Cleveland for President, and was rewarded in 1886 when Cleveland appointed him Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia, the highest federal position filled by black men at the time. Two other prominent men of color of that era, Fredrick Douglass and Senator Blanche Kelso Bruce, also held the post. The job was a lucrative one, and the Trotter family prospered.\n\nThe young Trotter (who was usually called by his middle name \"Monroe\") grew up in this environment, and was introduced to Archibald Grimké, another politically active African American who also lived in Hyde Park. He excelled in school, graduating from the otherwise all-white Hyde Park High School as valedictorian and president of his high school class. He went on to Harvard University, where he continued to distinguish himself academically. He was awarded merit scholarships after his father died, and was the first man of color to be awarded a Phi Beta Kappa key at Harvard. He earned a bachelor's degree \"magna cum laude\" in 1895 and a Masters in 1896, working a variety of odd jobs to help pay his tuition.\n\nDuring his years at Harvard, he adopted a number of habits which he maintained for much of his life. He organized and led the Total Abstinence League, a temperance organization; he was a teetotaler and never drank alcohol. He was active in the Baptist church, in which he had considered becoming a minister.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Trotter participated in the upper echelons of Negro society in Boston, a number of whose members had ancestors free before the Civil War. He belonged to an exclusive literary society that met at the home of Cambridge educator Maria Baldwin. On June 27, 1899, Trotter married Geraldine Louise (\"Deenie\") Pindell (October 3, 1872 – October 8, 1918), who was from another activist family. He had known her since childhood. She assisted him throughout his career until her death in the 1918 flu pandemic. The couple had no children.\n\nTrotter's career began inauspiciously. His initial attempts to get jobs at established banking and real estate firms were unsuccessful, leading him through a succession of lower-paying clerking jobs. He finally landed a job in a white-owned real estate firm in 1898, but decided the next year to open his own business selling insurance and brokering mortgages. He was not particularly active in agitating for civil rights in these years, although his strong opinions on racial equality were evident in an 1899 paper in which he called on African Americans to seek admission to institutions of higher learning. (It was a common practice of the time to direct African Americans away from higher education opportunities and into industrial training programs.) Trotter's business was relatively successful, and he was able to purchase investment properties.\n\nTrotter was increasingly troubled by what he saw as the accommodationist policies of Booker T. Washington, one of the leading African-American figures of the 1890s and founder of the Tuskegee Institute. Washington's policies were enshrined in the Atlanta Compromise, outlined in an 1895 speech he gave in Atlanta, Georgia. He said that Southern African Americans should not agitate for political rights (such as the right to vote and equal treatment under the law) as long as they were provided economic opportunities and basic rights of due process. Washington actively promoted the idea that African Americans, once they had proven themselves as productive members of society, would be granted full political rights. Trotter, Grimké, W. E. B. Du Bois, and other northern radicals disagreed with these ideas, arguing that it was necessary for African Americans to agitate for equal treatment and full constitutional rights, because doing so would bring other benefits. By the turn of the century, African Americans in the South had been effectively disfranchised by violence around elections, and restrictions in voting registration rules, and, finally, constitutional amendments or new constitutions in southern states.\n\nAlthough Boston was comparatively congenial when compared to other parts of the country, Trotter and others felt that Washington's stance was leading to an increase in more typically Southern racist attitudes in the city. \"The conviction grew upon me\", he wrote, that his business successes could be endangered \"if race prejudice and persecution and public discrimination from mere color was to spread up from the South and result in a fixed caste of color\".\n\nTrotter's racial activism blossomed in 1901. He helped found the Boston Literary and Historical Association, which became, according to biographer Stephen Fox, \"a forum for militant race opinion\". He also joined the Massachusetts Racial Protective Association, another local group that promoted political goals of equality. Under the aegis of the latter group, Trotter in October 1901 gave his first major protest speech, attacking Washington's accommodationist stance: \"In Boston [Washington] said that the Negro should wait for the franchise until he had got property, education and character. Washington's attitude has ever been one of servility.\"\n\nWith George W. Forbes, another Protective Association member, in 1901 Trotter co-founded the \"Guardian\", a weekly newspaper. At first Forbes, an Amherst College graduate with some experience in publishing, was the driving operational force in its production, while Trotter funded the effort and served as its managing editor. The paper became a forum for a more outspoken and forceful approach to gaining racial equality, and its contributors and editorials (which were generally written by Trotter) regularly attacked Washington. The paper's editorial stance brought a stream of criticism from more mainstream African-American publications: the \"New York Age\", calling it \"putrescent\", wrote that \"Editor Trotter ... makes himself smelt if not felt\"; another wrote that the \"Guardian\" was \"carrying its cases too fast and too far\", and that Trotter suffered from a \"mental malady\". The \"Guardian\" had limited circulation, but was highly influential as one of only 200 African-American publications in the country. It suffered financially due to Trotter's poor accounting and inattention due to his heavy schedule. Forbes, who principally worked as a librarian in the city library, left the business in 1904 because of Booker T. Washington's legal assaults on the newspaper and pressure by Washington supporters on his employers. Trotter's wife, and later his sister, assisted in the paper's publication.\n\nTrotter, in a deliberate move, transferred the \"Guardian\" offices in 1907 to the same building that had once housed William Lloyd Garrison's \"Liberator\". Trotter idolized Garrison, a leading abolitionist agitator before the Civil War, and had studied his methods. He was a regular correspondent with Garrison's sons William Jr. and Francis Garrison.\n\nThe \"Guardian\" was always unprofitable, a condition that was exacerbated by Trotter's refusal to take advertising for alcohol and tobacco. He sold off all of his Boston-area properties by 1910 to raise funds for the newspaper, and he was lax in collecting payments from his subscribers. In his later years, the quality of the publication noticeably declined, and its operations were propped up by a local community group's fund-raising activities.\n\nIn the early 1900s Trotter noticed that racial segregation was spreading in Boston: the number of hotels, restaurants, and other public establishments refusing service to African Americans was increasing. He came to realize that, in order to effect real change, the radical message needed to be taken out of Boston, and began organizing protest meetings across New England in 1903. At the suggestion of Trotter, William H. Ferris went to Washington D.C. in January 1903. Ferris gave a presentation critical to Booker T. Washington in front of the Bethel Literary and Historical Society on January 6, 1903. Richard W. Thompson spoke in support of Washington as replies at the Second Baptist Lyceum on January 25 and Jesse Lawson did the same on February 3. In 1999, Jacqueline M. Moore argued that Thompson's paper failed to hold his ground against Ferris, who was present at the talk.\n\nHis long-term objective was to effect policy changes in the National Afro-American Council, then the only national-level organization of African Americans. At the group's annual meeting in Louisville, Kentucky, Trotter and others introduced resolutions calling for more activism, but Booker T. Washington supporters (also known as \"Bookerites\"), who controlled the council, saw to their defeat. One commentator wrote that the \"Boston idiots\" had been treated \"in delightful fashion\". The \"Guardian\" described the convention as \"dominated to death by one man\". The activities of the radicals at the convention did bring them some national press. Trotter continued to criticize Washington in the \"Guardian\"; his attacks were particularly harsh and personal, and brought a bitter tinge to the disagreement.\n\nIn this period, while the Great Migration of African Americans out of the South to the North was beginning, blacks in the two regions dealt with different conditions. The vast majority of the millions of African Americans still lived in the South, many in rural areas where they were the majority population. But they were effectively disfranchised by new electoral rules and state constitutions, utterly closed out of the political process. This situation would continue, despite some temporarily effective court challenges, through the 1960s. Washington believed he had to help this population within the constraints of their environment. At the same time, he secretly funded legal challenges against the voter registration and electoral restrictions. Trotter and other radicals tended to come from the North, where African Americans exercised more rights in daily life, including the suffrage, were more urbanized, and had achieved more in work and education, but were still subject to discrimination.\n\nFollowing their failure to advance the radical agenda in Louisville, Trotter and the other radicals sought a more sympathetic forum in which to attack Booker T. Washington. An opportunity arrived when Washington was set to speak in Boston in July 1903. When the Tuskegee Institute leader was introduced to a visibly hostile crowd, a small riot broke out. Trotter, who had arrived prepared with several provocative questions to ask Washington, attempted to read them over the din of the melee. He was among the arrested, and the \"Boston riot\" received national press coverage. Trotter later claimed that there was no plan to break up the meeting. Bookerites pressed charges against Trotter for disrupting the meeting; defended by Archibald Grimké, Trotter was convicted and spent thirty days in the Charles Street Jail. Although the Bookerites had hoped to discredit the radicals with the trial, they gained them wider publicity. After the trial, Trotter founded the Boston Suffrage League (1903), and when a New England Suffrage League was founded in 1904, Trotter was elected president.\n\nWashington countered Trotter's attacks with a variety of tactics. He took various legal actions against Trotter, including at least one libel suit and criminal charges. In addition, he used his network to apply pressure to Trotter's supporters in their workplaces (in some cases government and academic positions). In addition, he had other sympathizers secretly infiltrate and report on activist meetings organized by Trotter and others. Washington also provided financial support and expertise to start other publications in Boston to counter Trotter's radical voice. As a result of such activities, Trotter's printer dropped the activist and his newspaper as a client. But Trotter found another printer and continued publishing the \"Guardian\" despite the setback.\n\nIn the early months of 1905, Booker T. Washington sought to create an umbrella organization to represent all the major African-American leaders of the day. Du Bois and Grimké were the two most radical leaders invited to its early organizational meetings, but both eventually refused to ally with Washington, whom they saw as dominating the group. Du Bois, Trotter, and two others organized a meeting of radicals from across the nation in western New York. Meeting in July just across the Canada–US border in Fort Erie, Ontario they founded the Niagara Movement. Organized so that no one man could dominate it, the group espoused a radical declaration of principles (authored by Trotter and Du Bois), calling for agitation for equal economic opportunity and exercise of full civil rights for African Americans. The organization was soon divided internally by political and personal disagreements, and Washington worked from outside against its growth.\nDuring the early months of 1906, friction began to develop between Du Bois and Trotter over the admission of women to the organization. Du Bois supported the idea, and Trotter opposed it, but eventually relented. The matter was smoothed over during the 1906 meeting. Their division became more significant when Trotter split with Clement Morgan, a longtime supporter and Movement member, over Massachusetts politics and control of the local Movement chapter. Du Bois sided with Morgan and, when the Movement met in Boston in 1907, he reappointed Morgan to a leading position in the organization. Attempts to heal the rift failed, and Trotter resigned from the Movement. Because of these difficulties, the organization had effectively collapsed by 1908. The break between Trotter and Du Bois was permanent, and they never worked directly together again. Du Bois wrote in 1909 that it was \"utterly impossible to work with Mr. Trotter.\"\n\nDespite the Niagara Movement's failure, its goals had appealed to white supporters of racial equality. They participated in the founding of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), which drew an inter-racial coalition of support. Trotter and Du Bois were both present at meetings in 1909 in which its foundation was laid. Although some of Trotter's proposals were accepted (to address segregated transportation as a grievance), others were not (such as his proposal for a bill to make lynching a federal crime). Trotter was not invited to be on the organization's executive committee; neither was Booker T. Washington, who boycotted the effort.\n\nTrotter never played a significant role in the NAACP, and in its early years actively competed with it. In 1911 Trotter's group and the NAACP both held rallies in Boston to mark the centennial of abolitionist Charles Sumner's birth. Trotter was peripherally involved with the NAACP for a few years, but he did not approve of the amount of white involvement in the interracial group. His feud with Du Bois ran deep, so he rarely contributed to the organization at the national level. He was also troubled by the attitudes expressed in the Boston chapter, which he told NAACP leader Joel Spingarn needed more \"radical, courageous activity.\" He eventually drifted away from the NAACP.\n\nAfter Trotter split from the Niagara Movement, he helped organize a conference of like-minded activists held in Philadelphia in April 1908, and served as the conference chair. In this capacity, he excluded any attendees whose racial ideology he opposed, as well as those who supported Republican William Howard Taft in the upcoming presidential election. (Trotter opposed Taft because he had tired of what he considered the Republican Party \"laissez-faire\" policies on race.) This conference led to the formation of the Negro-American Political League, which eventually became known as the National Equal Rights League (NERL). Trotter described this group as \"of the colored people and for the colored people and led by the colored people.\"\nNERL, which biographer Fox describes as Trotter's \"personal fief\", was unable to attract high-profile membership as the NAACP did. Trotter did not want white members, and was unable to work effectively with other African-American leaders. NERL and the NAACP, while both working toward similar goals, regularly feuded over matters public and personal.\n\nAs the NAACP attracted more money and talent, and became the center of anti-Bookerite civil rights activity, Trotter and the NERL became increasingly marginalized on the left. Trotter would not have as prominent a role in the civil rights dialogue again. By 1921 the League had been reduced to a handful of Trotter supporters.\n\nTrotter's opposition to Booker T. Washington placed him at odds with Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft, Republican presidents who relied on Washington as an adviser and otherwise enjoyed widespread African-American support. Trotter supported the southern Democrat Woodrow Wilson in the 1912 election. Wilson, in a brief meeting with Trotter and other NERL members, made vague statements about fair treatment of African Americans. But, he succumbed to pressure from Southerners in his cabinet and agreed to segregate federal offices. The NAACP and NERL (then known as the National Independent Political League, or NIPL) protested, and Trotter secured a meeting with Wilson at the White House in November 1913. Wilson said that his policies were not segregationist, but Trotter characterized Wilson's denial as \"preposterous\".\n\nTrotter continued his protests, eventually gaining a second invitation to the White House in November 1914. This meeting with Wilson ended with a heated exchange between the two men. Wilson claimed to be dealing with a \"human problem\" from which politics should be left out, and suggested to Trotter's group that they could always vote for someone else in the next election. Trotter continued to argue that the segregationist policy was humiliating to African Americans. Wilson responded, \"If you take it as a humiliation, which it is not intended as, and sow the seed of that impression all over the country, why the consequences will be very serious.\" After Trotter said this was an insult, Wilson angrily ordered him to leave, saying \"If this organization wishes to approach me again, it must choose another spokesman ... your tone, sir, offends me.\"\n\nTrotter's second meeting with the President was widely covered in the press, featured on the front page of the \"New York Times\" and other leading newspapers. A white Texas newspaper described Trotter as \"merely a nigger\" and \"not a Booker T. Washington type of colored man\", and northern papers also criticized him for his \"insolence\" to the president. The \"Boston Evening Transcript\", while observing that Wilson's policy was segregationist and divisive, pointed out that although Trotter was basically correct, he \"offends many of his own color by his ... untactful belligerency\". African Americans were divided in their response to the incident: some claimed that he did not represent them, while others, notably Du Bois, grudgingly admired Trotter's audacity. Du Bois wrote that Wilson was \"insulting & condescending\" in the meeting. Trotter parlayed the publicity into a series of speaking engagements, in which he denied \"that in language, manner, tone, in any respect or to the slightest degree I was impudent, insolent, or insulting to the President.\"\nTrotter continued to protest segregationist policies of the Wilson administration. When the country began large-scale recruiting for the military in World War I, Trotter opposed the establishment of segregated officer training facilities. Through his influence, recruitment of blacks in the Boston area was lower than expected. During World War II, the military integrated the officer corps, and President Harry Truman afterward completed integration of the armed services.\n\nWhen the Great War ended, Trotter sought to use the 1919 Paris Peace Conference as a vehicle to raise international awareness of US government policy toward African Americans. He viewed the reality of segregation as incompatible with Wilson's war vision to \"make the world safe for Democracy.\" Trotter organized a meeting in Washington, DC related to the peace conference; he and ten other African-American delegates were chosen to attend the peace conference. The State Department refused to issue passports to those delegates, or to African Americans planning to attend a Pan-African Congress that Du Bois was organizing to be held concurrently with the peace conference in Paris. Du Bois and other African Americans were supporting African colonies' desire for independence.\n\nTo get to Europe, Trotter posed as a seaman seeking work in New York, and got a job as a cook on the SS \"Yarmouth\" to gain passage to France. He arrived in Paris alone and with little more than his cook's clothing, only to find that the principal peace negotiations had already taken place. The powers did not include any statement of racial equality. Trotter attracted the French press in his accounts of racial mistreatment in the United States, but he could not gain access to any of the official delegations to the peace conference. He also missed Du Bois' Pan-African Congress, which was held in February 1919 while he was still seeking passage.\n\nTrotter returned to the United States in July 1919 to learn of ongoing race riots at major cities across the country. Postwar economic and social tensions had erupted, and blacks fought back against white violence in cities such as Chicago and Omaha. Trotter quickly supported active resistance to white-on-black violence, writing, \"Unless the white American behaves, he will find that in teaching our boys to fight for him he was starting something that he will not be able to stop.\" His writings prompted calls in Congress for the censorship of the Negro press: South Carolina Congressman James F. Byrnes accused Trotter of \"doing his utmost to incite riots and bloodshed.\" Massachusetts Senator Henry Cabot Lodge gave Trotter a chance to testify during Senate deliberations on ratification of the Treaty of Versailles, which Lodge opposed on grounds other than Trotter's. Lodge's opposition was successful: the Senate never ratified the treaty.\n\nTrotter mounted a campaign against Thomas Dixon's play \"The Clansman\" when it opened in Boston in 1910, which portrayed the Ku Klux Klan in heroic terms during Reconstruction. His protests succeeded in closing the production. While on his speaking tour in early 1915, he learned that D. W. Griffith's movie, \"The Birth of a Nation,\" adapted from \"The Clansman\", would be opening in Boston. He rushed back to lead protests against the film. In April, the Tremont Theatre denied Trotter and a group of African Americans tickets to the showing. When they refused to leave the lobby, plainclothes police moved in, sparking a scuffle. Trotter and ten others were arrested; other protests took place both inside and outside the theater. Trotter, united with other factions of the African-American community, tried but could not get the film banned in Boston. This united front, along with the death later in 1915 of Booker T. Washington, reduced for a time the internal hostilities in the Boston African-American community.\n\nThe KKK had a revival for a decade after 1915, especially in industrial cities and the Midwest. In 1921, Trotter was successful in shutting down new screenings of \"The Birth of a Nation\" in Boston; he allied with Roman Catholic organizations, who objected to the KKK's anti-Catholic stance of the 20th century, and were strong in the city as a result of extensive Irish and Italian immigration.\n\nTrotter's wife had died in the 1918 influenza pandemic. She had been a partner in all his activities and he missed her greatly.\nThrough the 1920s and 1930s, Trotter subsided into a genteel poverty, using the \"Guardian\" as an ongoing voice of protest. He lobbied for anti-lynching bills in Congress, with limited success. Even when the House overwhelmingly passed such a bill in 1922, the Southern bloc in the Senate filibustered and effectively killed passage of the bill for three years running. (White Democrats effectively controlled nearly all the Congressional seats apportioned to the total population of the South, after having disfranchised blacks.) They controlled chairmanships of numerous important committees, which were established by seniority.\n\nIn 1923 Trotter eventually came to an uneasy truce with the NAACP. His attempts to promote his style of activism, however, were eclipsed by activities of younger leaders, such as Marcus Garvey, a Jamaican immigrant in New York City and leader of the UNIA.\n\nThrough these years, Trotter routinely wrote in the \"Guardian\" about incidents of racial injustice, including the 1931 trials of the Scottsboro boys. They had been accused and were convicted of raping two white women in Alabama. Historians have concluded they were innocent.\n\nOn the morning of April 7, 1934, his 62nd birthday, William Monroe Trotter died after a fall from the roof of his home in Boston. The cause is uncertain, but it is known that he was depressed and troubled at the time. He may have committed suicide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34605176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34605176", "title": "Zeenat Begum", "text": "Zeenat Begum\n\nZeenat Begum, credited as Zeenat, was an Indian/Pakistani actress and Director.\n\nZeenat Begum was a courtesan and a renowned classical singer. She was discovered by Pandit Amar Nath circa 1937. Her first success as a playback singer came in 1942 when she sang for Govind Ram's Punjabi film \"Mangti\". The film was marked as first Golden Jubilee film produced in Lahore. Her first Hindi film was \"Nishani (1942)\". She sang for other notable films including \"Panchhi (1944)\", \"Shalimar\" (1946), \"Shehar se Door\" (1946) and \"Daasi\" (1944).\n\nZeenat Begum migrated from Lahore to Bombay in 1944. She sang for several music directors in Bombay, including Pandit Husan Lal Bhagat Ram, Ghulam Haidar, Pandit Gobind Ram etc. The last film she sang for in India was \"Mukhda (1951)\". She migrated to Pakistan and joined Lahore Radio station and worked there until the late 1950s.\n\nShe died on 12 November 1966 in Lahore.\n"}
