{"id": "3619752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3619752", "title": "(Don't Go Back To) Rockville", "text": "(Don't Go Back To) Rockville\n\n\"(Don't Go Back To) Rockville\" is the second and final single released by R.E.M. from their second studio album \"Reckoning\". The song failed to chart on either the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 or the UK Singles Charts.\n\nThe song was written by Mike Mills (credited to Berry/Buck/Mills/Stipe), in 1980, as a plea to his then girlfriend, Ingrid Schorr, not to return to Rockville, Maryland, where her parents lived. Schorr, who later became a journalist, has written about her amusement with the factual inaccuracies about her relationship with Mills and the background of the song that often appear in books about the band. Peter Buck has stated that the song was originally performed in a punk/thrash style, and that it was recorded for this single in its now more-familiar country-inspired arrangement as a joke aimed at R.E.M. manager Bertis Downs.\n\nOver time, Mike Mills has taken lead vocals instead of Michael Stipe. On R.E.M.'s appearance on \"VH1 Storytellers\" in 1998, Mills performed the song solo on piano. A live version of the song was released as the B-side to \"Leaving New York\" in 2004 and on \"R.E.M. Live\" in 2007.\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe.\n\nEuropean singles\n\n\nUS singles\n\n\n Recorded at the Theater El Dorado, Paris, France, April 20, 1984.\n"}
{"id": "29785264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29785264", "title": "12th GMA Dove Awards", "text": "12th GMA Dove Awards\n\nThe 12th Annual GMA Dove Awards were held on 1981 recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year 1980. The show was held in Nashville, Tennessee.\n"}
{"id": "9711123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711123", "title": "23rd World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "23rd World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 23rd World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Loncon II, was held 27–30 August 1965 at the Mount Royal Hotel in London, United Kingdom. It was the second Worldcon to be held in London, following the original Loncon in 1957.\n\nThe chairman was Ella Parker. The guest of honour was Brian W. Aldiss. The toastmaster was Tom Boardman. Total attendance was approximately 350.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59306", "title": "494 BC", "text": "494 BC\n\nYear 494 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tricostus and Geminus (or, less frequently, year 260 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 494 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "59337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59337", "title": "503 BC", "text": "503 BC\n\nThe year 503 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lanatus and Tubertus (or, less frequently, year 251 \" Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 503 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "44072855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44072855", "title": "Anastasia (ballet)", "text": "Anastasia (ballet)\n\nAnastasia is a ballet created by Kenneth MacMillan. The first version in one act was premiered in 1967 by the Deutsche Oper Ballet. In 1971 MacMillan expanded the work to three acts for the Royal Ballet; the original one-act version became the final act of the 1971 work.\n\nThe 1967 version uses Bohuslav Martinů's Symphony No. 6 (1953) and untitled electronic music by Fritz Winckel and Rüdiger Rüfer. The three-act version also used Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 1 and Symphony No. 3.\n\nThe ballet is based on the story of Anna Anderson, who purported to be the Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia. After MacMillan's death, DNA tests showed that Anderson was unrelated to the Russian imperial family, but at the time the ballet was created many, including MacMillan, were inclined to accept that she might be the lost Grand Duchess. Anderson was confined for a time to a mental institution in Berlin in 1920. The 1967 ballet depicts her there, painfully attempting to recover her memory. The first two acts of the 1971 version show Anastasia's life (or Anderson's mental image of it) in her privileged surroundings before the Russian Revolution. MacMillan chose Tchaikovsky's music for these acts, to provide a dramatic contrast with the \"musique concrète\" and the edgy Martinů score in the third act.\n\nThe first performance of the single-act version was given at the Deutsche Oper, Berlin on 25 June 1967. The title role of Anastasia/Anderson was danced by Lynn Seymour. The three-act version was premiered by the Royal Ballet at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden on 22 July 1971. Barry Kay designed costumes and scenery for both productions. After MacMillan's death the ballet was revived, with minor changes, under the supervision of his widow Deborah MacMillan in May 1996. New costumes and scenery were designed by Bob Crowley. In that, and later revivals, the title role was performed by Viviana Durante, Leanne Benjamin, Gillian Revie, Mara Galeazzi, Lauren Cuthbertson, Laura Morera, and Natalia Osipova.\n\nDeutsche Oper, Berlin, 25 June 1967\n\nRoyal Opera House, Covent Garden, 22 July 1971:\n\n"}
{"id": "72501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72501", "title": "Annual Customs of Dahomey", "text": "Annual Customs of Dahomey\n\nThe Annual Customs of Dahomey (\"xwetanu\" or \"huetanu\" in Fon) were the main yearly celebration in the Kingdom of Dahomey, held at the capital, Abomey. These ceremonies were largely started under King Agaja around 1730 and involved significant collection and distribution of gifts and tribute, human sacrifice, military parades, and discussions by dignitaries about the future for the kingdom.\n\nTradition amongst the Fon in Western Africa, and among other ethnic groups, often had ceremonies in family lineages where all members of the family would gather for a feast, provide gifts to the eldest member of the family, and discuss issues pertaining to the family. As part of the religious Vodun practiced in the area, gifts and sacrifices to the spirits and ancestors would also be given. King Houegbadja (\"c.\" 1645-1685) changed this widespread practice during his reign by making it so that sacrifices or gifts to spirits would have to be done by the king.\n\nKing Agaja (1718-1740) further centralized the ceremonies under the king and the royal dynasty. Under Agaja, the Annual customs became the central religious ceremony in the kingdom, wide participation by most of the population was required, all family lineages were expected to provide gifts and tribute (sometimes considered taxes) to the ruler, and aspects of animal and human sacrifice were added to the practice. The traditional family lineage ceremonies were not allowed in the kingdom until after the royal ceremony was completed. After Agaja the ceremony grew larger, longer and more lavish by future kings.\n\nThe Annual Customs involved multiple elaborate components and some aspects may have been added in the 19th century. In general, the celebration involved distribution of gifts, human sacrifice, military parades, and political councils. Its main religious aspect was to offer thanks and gain the approval for ancestors of the royal lineage.\n\nAnother function of the Annual Customs was to raise money for the royal family and the kingdom as a whole. Based on the traditional customs of gift-giving to eldest members of lineage lines, the population of the kingdom provided gifts or paid tribute to the king. The king would then display the riches as a sign of the accomplishments of his administration. The wealth was provided and displayed not simply to enrich the kingdom but also to gain the approval of the ancestors. After the display, significant amounts of the gifts were redistributed to the population.\n\nSince Dahomey was a significant military power involved in the slave trade, slaves and human sacrifice became crucial aspects of the ceremony. Captives from war and criminals were killed for the deceased kings of Dahomey. During the ceremony, around 500 prisoners would be sacrificed. As many as 4,000 were reported killed In one of these ceremonies in 1727. Most of the victims were sacrificed through decapitation, a tradition widely used by Dahomean kings, and the literal translation for the Fon name for the ceremony \"Xwetanu\" is \"yearly head business\". In later years this ceremony also included the spilling of human blood from the sacrificed. Related with this, there was also a significant military parade in the ceremonies that further displayed the military might of the kingdom of Dahomey.\n\nOne additional aspect was that the Annual Customs also included a prominent structure for discussion and debate about public policy in the kingdom. In this respect, scholar John C. Yoder has argued that the customs \"served a political function similar to that of parliaments in Western countries\", although still far from the open contests in democracies. The Great Council would convene at the annual customs and bring together important leaders from throughout Dahomey to discuss national policy. The Great Council included a large segment of the population and included women. Debate and discussion would be extensive; low ranking-officials could publicly rebuke high-ranking ones. In the end the king would end the debate by declaring consensus.\n\nIn addition, when a king died, his successor would have to include a significant ceremony in his honor to finish the funeral rites. Until such sacrifices and ceremonies were performed, it was considered that the new king was not approved by the spirits of the ancestors.\n\nItems associated with the Customs are preserved at the Abomey Historical Museum, in the Royal Palaces of Abomey.\n\nBy day, according to Yoder.\n\n\nOfficials largely spent their evenings building coalitions of political support.\n"}
{"id": "857510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857510", "title": "Ashton Court Festival", "text": "Ashton Court Festival\n\nThe Ashton Court Festival was an outdoor music festival held annually in mid-July on the grounds of Ashton Court, just outside Bristol, England. The festival was a weekend event which featured a variety of local bands and national headliners. Mainly aimed at local residents, the festival did not have overnight camping facilities and was financed by donations and benefit gigs.\n\nStarting as a small one-day festival in 1974, the festival grew during succeeding years and was said to be Britain's largest free festival until changes brought on by government legislation resulted in compulsory fees and security fencing being introduced. After problems were caused by a temporary move to Hengrove Park in 2001, due to the foot and mouth crisis, and a washout in 2007, the organisers declared bankruptcy in 2007.\n\nThe first festival was held in 1974, organised by Royce Creasey and friends, as a small event, for the local musicians to entertain the local community. The first festival took place over four successive weekends with bands playing from a stage improvised from a flat bed truck. Bristol City Council donated £50. The following year the festival took place over one weekend and was located near to Ashton Court mansion. After this, new organisers came on board and fund-raising gigs were held enabling the event to grow steadily through the 1970s.\n\nIn 1980, large numbers of people from far afield attended, trees were damaged and burnt and there was illegal camping and lurid press reports of drugs and nudity. It was not until 1983 that the festival recommenced. when it was a one-day event; in 1984 a \"de facto\" two-day event was created by staging it back-to-back with a one-day WOMAD event. The festival took place in a large sloped clearing surrounded on three sides by New Barn Wood and Clarken Coombe. The main stage was placed at the bottom of the slope and the second stage in a natural amphitheatre near the entrance to the clearing. There were many other performance spaces, varying from year to year, including a dance tent, marquees for world music, acoustic acts and performing arts, and the \"Blackout\" tent for experimental music and video, as well as a children's area and funfair rides. Camping on the festival site was not allowed.\n\nIn 2001 the Bristol Community Festival temporarily relocated to Hengrove Park in the south of the city. Ashton Court Estate, which includes a deer park, was closed as a quarantine measure due to the outbreak of foot and mouth disease that affected the United Kingdom that year. The move caused a massive drop in attendance and a heavy financial loss, leading to debts which hung over the organisation. This, along with changes to licensing laws and tightening health and safety requirements, led to a more commercial style of organisation, with a compulsory entrance fee and a strict security presence around the perimeter fence. This attracted criticism from some locals who felt that the \"community\" nature of the festival had been lost. Even so, the festival continued to be run by volunteers on a not-for-profit basis.\n\nIn 2003 the weight and vibrations of crowds returning from the Ashton Court Festival and the Bristol International Balloon Fiesta put such a great strain on the Clifton Suspension Bridge that the Bridge Trustees decided to close the bridge to all traffic, including pedestrians, for the entirety of the festival and most of the Balloon Fiesta in 2004 and 2005.\n\nIn December 2006 it was announced that the festival was in financial crisis and there was uncertainty over whether the 2007 event would take place. The festival planning went ahead with support and donations from a number of Bristol businesses. In June 2007 it was announced that alcohol would not be allowed to be taken on site, but would be available to purchase from official bars within the arena. Also, that everyone attending the festival would be searched on the way in. This announcement caused much controversy.\n\nAlthough locals have long referred to the festival as the \"Ashton Court Festival\", before 2004 it was officially called the Bristol Community Festival. Since then it became increasingly popular, and for several years it was claimed to be Britain's biggest free festival; however, the \"suggested minimum donation\" for entry become a gradually increasing compulsory entry fee. From 2007, children (aged 10–16) also had to pay an entry fee, while under 10s remained free (previously all children got in free), and a new discounted weekend ticket became available. The festival was typically attended by over 60,000 people annually.\n\nIn the festival's last year, 2007, the site was moved to Smythe's field in front of Ashton Court Mansion. On the second day, the event was cancelled due to torrential rain, which made the site inaccessible to emergency vehicles. \"The health and safety of our audience is what is important,\" said organiser Steve Hunt. Over 80 bands were due to perform that day, including Damon Albarn's The Good, the Bad and the Queen. The cancellation increased the pressure on the already strained finances of the festival. On Friday 20 July 2007 Bristol Community Festival Ltd, the not-for-profit company which organised the event, announced that it had started the process of winding up the company due to unsustainable financial losses.\n\nThe festival's music policy always focused on local acts, but since the late 1990s there was a move towards attracting national acts to headline the festival. Major acts at Ashton Court in recent years include:\n\nFollowing the end of Bristol Community Festival, other groups emerged hoping to continue with some sort of summer festival in Bristol. Bristol Music Festival became the Bristol Festival (now BrisFest) and has so far successfully put on four summer festivals, albeit in the city centre. 2011 saw the most successful even yet, with over 25,000 people attending over three days.\n\nBrisFest returned to Ashton Court in 2012 and 2013, however announced in December 2013 that they would not be continuing the festival into 2014.\n\nThe event returned in 2015 and 2016 as part of the \"Let's Rock Bristol\" retro festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58229", "title": "Bacchanalia", "text": "Bacchanalia\n\nThe Bacchanalia were Roman festivals of Bacchus, based on various ecstatic elements of the Greek Dionysia. They seem to have been popular, and well-organised, throughout the central and southern Italian peninsula. They were almost certainly associated with Rome's native cult of Liber, and probably arrived in Rome itself around 200 BC but like all mystery religions of the ancient world, very little is known of their rites.\n\nLivy, writing some 200 years after the event, offers a scandalised, extremely colourful account of the Bacchanalia. Modern scholarship takes a skeptical approach to his allegations of frenzied rites, sexually violent initiations of both sexes, all ages and all social classes, and the cult as a murderous instrument of conspiracy against the state. Livy claims that seven thousand cult leaders and followers were arrested, and that most were executed.\n\nSenatorial legislation to reform the Bacchanalia in 186 BC attempted to control their size, organisation, and priesthoods, under threat of the death penalty. This may have been motivated less by the kind of lurid and dramatic rumours that Livy describes than by the senate's determination to assert its civil and religious authority over Rome and her allies, after the prolonged social, political and military crisis of the Second Punic War. The reformed Bacchanalia rites may have been merged with the Liberalia festival. Bacchus, Liber and Dionysus became virtually interchangeable from the late Republican era onward, and their mystery cults persisted well into the Roman Imperial era.\n\nThe Bacchanalia were Roman festivals of Bacchus, the Greco-Roman god of wine, freedom, intoxication and ecstasy. They were based on the Greek Dionysia and the Dionysian mysteries, and probably arrived in Rome c. 200 BC via the Greek colonies in southern Italy, and from Etruria, Rome's northern neighbour. Like all mystery cults, the Bacchanalia were held in strict privacy, and initiates were bound to secrecy; what little is known of the cult and its rites derives from Greek and Roman literature, plays, statuary and paintings.\n\nLivy, the principal Roman literary source on the early Bacchanalia, as he reports a major political incident involving one form of the cult, names Paculla Annia, a Campanian priestess of Bacchus, as the founder of a private, unofficial Bacchanalia cult in Rome, based at the grove of Stimula, where the western slope of the Aventine Hill descends to the Tiber. The Aventine was an ethnically mixed district, strongly identified with Rome's plebeian class and the ingress of new and foreign cults. The wine and fertility god Liber Pater (\"The Free Father\"), divine patron of plebeian rights, freedoms and augury, had a long-established official cult in the nearby temple he shared with Ceres and Libera. Most Roman sources describe him as Rome's equivalent to Dionysus and Bacchus, both of whom were sometimes titled \"eleutherios\" (liberator).\n\nLivy claims the earliest version as open to women only, and held on three days of the year, in daylight; while in nearby Etruria, north of Rome, a \"Greek of humble origin, versed in sacrifices and soothsaying\" had established a nocturnal version, added wine and feasting to the mix, and thus acquired an enthusiastic following of women and men; Livy says that Paculla Annia corrupted Rome's unofficial but morally acceptable Bacchic cult by introducing the Etruscan version, with five, always nocturnal cult meetings a month, open to all social classes, ages and sexes—starting with her own sons; the new celebrations and initiations featured wine-fueled violence and violent sexual promiscuity, in which the screams of the abused were drowned out by the din of drums and cymbals. Those who resisted or betrayed the cult were disposed of. Under cover of religion, priests and acolytes broke civil, moral and religious laws with impunity. Livy also claims that while the cult held particular appeal to those of uneducated and fickle mind (\"levitas animi\"), such as the young, plebeians, women and \"men most like women\", most of the city's population was involved, and even Rome's highest class was not immune. An ex-initiate and prostitute named Hispala Faecenia, fearing the cult's vengeance for her betrayal but more fearful for her young, upper class client and protegé, told all to the consul Postumius, who presented it to a shocked Roman senate as a dire national emergency. Once investigations were complete, the senate rewarded and protected informants, and suppressed the cult \"throughout Italy\"—or rather, forced its reformation, in the course of which seven thousand persons were arrested, most of whom were executed.\n\nLegislation of 186 survives in the form of an inscription. Known as the \"Senatus consultum de Bacchanalibus\", it brought the Bacchanalia under control of the senate, and thus of the Roman pontifices. The existing cult chapters and colleges were dismantled. Congregations of mixed gender were permitted, but were limited to no more than two men and three women, and any Bacchanalia gathering must seek prior permission from the Senate. Men were forbidden Bacchus' priesthood.\n\nDespite their official suppression, illicit Bacchanals persisted covertly for many years, particularly in Southern Italy, their likely place of origin. The reformed, officially approved Bacchic cults would have borne little resemblance to the earlier crowded, ecstatic and uninhibited Bacchanalia. Similar attrition may have been imposed on Liber's cults; his perceived or actual association with the Bacchanalia may be the reason that his Liberalia \"ludi\" of 17 March were temporarily moved to Ceres' Cerealia of 12–19 April. They were restored when the ferocity of reaction eased, but in approved, much modified form.\nLivy's account of the Bacchanalia has been described as \"tendentious to say the least\". As a political and social conservative, he had a deep mistrust of mystery religions, and probably understood any form of Bacchanalia as a sign of Roman degeneracy. Though most of his \"dramatis personae\" are known historical figures, their speeches are implausibly circumstantial, and his characters, tropes and plot developments draw more from Roman satyr plays than from the Bacchanalia themselves. Paculla Annia is unlikely to have introduced all the changes he attributes to her.\n\nFor Livy, the cult's greatest offences arose from indiscriminate mixing of freeborn Romans of both sexes and all ages at night, a time when passions are easily aroused, especially given wine and unrestricted opportunity. Women at these gatherings, he says, outnumbered men; and his account has the consul Postumius stress the overwhelmingly female nature and organisation of the cult. Yet the \"Senatus consultum de Bacchanalibus\" itself allows women to outnumber men, by three to two, at any permitted gathering; and it expressly forbids Bacchic priesthoods to men. Livy's own narrative names all but one of the offending cult leaders as male, which seems to eliminate any perceived \"conspiracy of women\". Gender seems to have motivated the Senate's response no more than any other cause.\n\nLivy's insistently negative account of the cult's Greek origins and low moral character—not even Bacchus is exempt from this judgment—may have sought to justify its suppression as a sudden \"infiltration of too many Greek elements into Roman worship\". The cult had, however, been active in Rome for many years before its supposedly abrupt discovery, and Bacchic and Dionysiac cults had been part of life in Roman and allied, Greek-speaking Italy for many decades. Greek cults and Greek influences had been part of Rome's religious life since the 5th century BC, and Rome's acquisition of foreign cults—Greek or otherwise—through alliance, treaty, capture or conquest was a cornerstone of its foreign policy, and an essential feature of its eventual hegemony. While the pace of such introductions had gathered rapidly during the 3rd century, contemporary evidence of the Bacchanalia reform betrays no anti-Greek or anti-foreign policy or sentiment.\n\nGruen interprets the \"Senatus consultum\" as a piece of \"realpolitik\", a display of the Roman senate's authority to its Italian allies after the Second Punic War, and a reminder to any Roman politician, populist and would-be generalissimo that the Senate's collective authority trumped all personal ambition. Nevertheless, the extent and ferocity of the official response to the Bacchanalia was probably unprecedented, and betrays some form of moral panic on the part of Roman authorities; Burkert finds \"nothing comparable in religious history before the persecutions of Christians\".\n\nIn modern usage, \"bacchanalia\" can mean any uninhibited or drunken revelry. The bacchanal in art describes any small group of revellers, often including satyrs and perhaps Bacchus or Silenus, usually in a landscape setting. The subject was popular from the Renaissance onwards, and usually included a large degree of nudity among the figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19757948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19757948", "title": "Chithirai festival", "text": "Chithirai festival\n\nChithirai Festival or Chithirai Thiruvizha is an annual celebration celebrated in the city of Madurai during the month of April. It is celebrated during the Tamil month of Chitirai. It is one of the longest celebrated festivals in the world and lasts for one month. The first 15 days of the festival mark the celebrations of the coronation of Goddess Meenakshi and the Marriage of Lord Sundareswara and Goddess Meenakshi, and the next 15 days mark the celebrations of the Journey of Lord Azhagar from Kallazhagar temple in Alagar Koyil to Madurai. This festival attracts around 1 million people from different places of Tamil Nadu and also foreign tourists.\n\nHistorically, they were separate events. They were Meenakshi festival and Alagar festival celebrated on different months as two separate celebrations.\n\nAs per the legend, Meenakshi was the daughter of Pandya king Malayadhwaja Pandian and queen Kanchana Malai. The royal couple didn't have a child for a long time. So, Malayadhwaja Pandian performed special poojas and offered his prayers to God. During the pooja, a small girl came out of the fire and sat on the lap of the king. At that time a divine voice from the sky told them that this child was an incarnation of Shakti (Wife of Lord Shiva) and Lord Shiva himself would come to marry her at the right age. Meenakshi was trained in warfare and she was crowned as the Queen of Pandya kingdom after her father. She conquered the whole world with her extraordinary war skill and at last she went to Kailasham (the abode of Lord Shiva) to conquer it. When Meenakshi confronted Lord Shiva in the battlefield, she fell in love with him and realized that she is an avatar of Shakti.\n\nLord Shiva assured Meenakshi that he will come to Madurai to marry her. As promised Lord Shiva along with all the Devas and rishi's came to Madurai. Lord Shiva married Meenakshi and ruled the Pandya kingdom under the name Sundara Pandyan.\n\nThis is a Separate celebration that was celebrated by Saivaites (Followers of Lord Shiva). The below is the story of Alagar festival that is celebrated by Vaishnavites (Followers of Lord Vishnu).\n\nOnce, Mandooka rishi (a saint) was taking bath in the holy waters of Aagaayagangai in Alagar hills. At that time, the most powerful and short tempered Durvasar Maharishi came by the way. Mandooka rishi hadn't noticed his arrival, But Durvasa took this as an insult. So he cursed Mandooka to become a frog and live in the river Vaigai. Mandooka was worried by the curse and pleaded for mercy. Durvasa told him to go to Vaigai and pray to Lord Alagar to get out of his curse and get back his human body. As advised by Durvasa he went to river Vaigai and lived in the river as a frog and pray lord Alagar.\n\nAlagar was pleased by the prayers of Mandooka rishi and he himself went to river Vaigai to lift the curse off Mandooka rishi. And, as per Mandooka's wish he showed him all his ten avatars and blessed him.\n\nDuring the rule of King Thirumalai Nayakar, both the festivals were merged as one single event to unite the people of the two groups (Saivism and Vaishnavite). Since then they are celebrated as one grand event during the Tamil month of Chithirai and this gives the celebration its famous name Chithirai Festival.\n\nPeople in and around Madurai tell this story as the history of Chithirai Thiruvizha.\n\nThe wedding of Meenakshi with Sundaraswarar (Lord Shiva) was to happen in Madurai. Alagar, the brother of Meenakshi, was invited. He started on a 20 km journey from his abode at Alagar Hills towards Madurai. Alagar decided to travel disguised as a robber, to protect himself and his belongings. At times, he had to hide, to avoid getting arrested by soldiers. This and the dense forest of Alagar Hills delayed his journey further. When he was crossing Vaigai river, he learned that his sister's wedding was over. This made him furious. To pacify, Meenakshi and Lord Shiva came to Vaigai river. He chose to give all the gifts that he carried, to Meenakshi and Sundaraswarar in a Mandapam in the middle of Vaigai river, and returned to Alagar Hill without entering Madurai.\n\nThe following are the list of events in Chithirai festival.\n\nDuring this event the chief priest of Meenakshi temple will hoist the holy flag on the Dwajasthambam(Flag post) of the temple. This event declares the long event open. The flag will stay on the flag post until the end of the festival..\n\nPattabisekam is coronation ceremony. Meenakshi is crowned as the queen of Madurai on this day and she will rule the Pandya Kingdom for the next four months and after that her husband Lord Sunderaswarar will be crowned as the king of Madurai for the next eight months.\n\nAfter Goddess Meenakshi is crowned as the queen of Pandya kingdom she went into war with all the countries in the world and conquered the whole world and she went to Kailaayam (The Place of Lord Shiva in Himalayas) to conquer it. But, on seeing lord shiva on the battlefield she fell in love with him and married him.\n\nMeenakshi Thirukalyanam is the great grand wedding celebration of Meenakshi amman and Lord shiva as Lord Sundereswarar in Madurai. Lord Sundereswarar coming to Madurai to marry Meenakshi is a grand wedding celebration. This tradition is still followed today.\n\nThe day after Meenakshi Thirukalyanam is Ther Thiruvizha procession. The King and Queen of Pandya Kingdom Lord Sunderaswarar and Meenakshi come to see their subjects in a well decorated chariot. It attracts many people in the Masi streets of Madurai as viewers and it is an honor to help pull it.\n\nPart of the Chithirai Thiruvizha of Lord Kallazhagar temple at Alagar Koyil, the ‘Ethir Sevai' began on the fourth day of the festival. On this day, Alagar change his appearance as Kallar (Kallar vedam) when he travels via Kallar Nadu and enters Madurai city and the people of the city welcome him.\n\nAfter the holy marriage of Meenakshi, her brother tries to come to the marriage. Lord Alagar comes from Alagarkoil to Madurai slowly and by making couple of stops on the way. It is considered that when reaching the Vaigai river bank, he hears that marriage is over, so he gets angry and returns to Alagarkoil after giving the gifts to Meenakshi and sundereswarar and this event happens in a mandapam in the middle of river Vaigai.\n\nMadurai Chithirai Thiruvizha 2017 Schedule\n\n"}
{"id": "44950163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44950163", "title": "Combat operations in 2013 during the Battle of Aleppo", "text": "Combat operations in 2013 during the Battle of Aleppo\n\nBeginning in late 2012, fighting intensified around the area of the airport. The al-Nusra Front unilaterally declared a no-fly zone in December and threatened to shoot down commercial aircraft, alleging that the government was using them to transport loyalist troops and military supplies. After multiple attacks on Aleppo International Airport, all flights were suspended on 1 January 2013. Rebels attacked loyalist troops at the airport perimeter, including the nearby Brigade 80. By mid-February, at least 150 people had died in this fighting.\n\nRebel troops attacked Menagh air base. On 30 December, government planes bombed rebel positions after the rebels entered the perimeter. On 14 January rebels had totally surrounded the base. Rebel troops stormed the base on 9 February, prompting retaliatory airstrikes. On 11 February, rebels stormed and took control of Jirah airbase, killing or capturing 40 soldiers. It was reported that rebels were in control of some operational Czech-built Aero L-39 Albatros jets.\n\nThe rebel offensive on the Old City continued in early 2013. On 12 January, army units had secured the areas surrounding the historic Umayyad Mosque, the Citadel and the Justice Palace near the Old City. However, by late February rebels had re-captured the mosque after days of heavy fighting, as government forces retreated to nearby buildings. Clashes continued afterward around the mosque.\n\nOn 15 January, twin blasts occurred at University of Aleppo during the first day of mid-terms, killing at least 87 and wounding more than 150, among them students and civilians. The University dormitories are used by reguees. Activists blamed government warplanes while the government blamed \"terrorists\". The Syrian government representative to the UN stated that 162 had been wounded. In the wake of the bombing, the Russian consulate in Aleppo temporary closed.\n\nBelgian-born French journalist Yves Debay was killed during fighting on 18 January. Syrian State Media reported that rebels fired rockets at a building in the government-controlled Muhafaza Sakaniya neighbourhood, a claim that rebels denied.\n\nOn 22 February, rebels alleged that three \"Scud-type missiles\" landed in the Hamra, Tariq al Bab and Hanano neighbourhoods with 29 confirmed dead and 150 wounded. SOHR later updated the toll, alleging that Scud missile strikes left 58 dead, including 35 children.\n\nOn 29 January, the bodies of approximately 110 men and boys, most with bound hands and shot in the head were found on the banks of the Queiq River in the western district of Bustan al-Qasr, controlled by rebels. The victims were believed to have been detained, executed and dumped by government forces into the river over a period of several weeks. The bodies floated downstream from a government held portion of the river into a rebel area in Bustan al-Qasr. The bodies only became apparent when winter high water resided in late January. In February, a grate was placed over the river in rebel held territory to help catch other bodies floating down. Between February and mid-March, more than 80 additional bodies were dragged from the river. The continual appearance of these bodies the Queiq River to be referred to as \"The River of Martyrs\" by locals.\n\nOn 31 January, government warplanes bombed the Kurdish neighbourhood of Ashrafiyeh, controlled by the Popular Protection Units (YPG), killing at least twenty civilians and injuring 40. Sheikh Maqsoud was also reportedly shelled. Several days prior, on 28 January, a government tank reportedly fired a shell into the Kurdish sector of the city, killing one child and wounding two women.\n\nIn early January 2013, rebels laid siege to the strategic Police Academy in Khan al-Assal on the western outskirts, which was used by the government to shell nearby areas.\n\nOn 2 February, Sheikh Saeed district residents confirmed that rebels had taken control of the district after the Army withdrew, allowing the rebels to secure a key route to Aleppo International Airport. Sheikh Said was the last land route between Aleppo and Nayrab airport. Many of the neighbourhood's residents, who were largely loyal to the government, fled when the army retreated.\n\nOn 24 February, rebels used captured tanks to breach the walls and storm the Police Academy. Rebels took control of several buildings. Fierce clashes reportedly continued thereafter.\n\nOn 1 March, government forces retook Tel Shghaib village, located southeast of Aleppo. The following day, Army forces seized a road to the besieged airport, creating a new supply route for government forces advancing from Hama.\n\nOn 3 March, SOHR stated that 120 soldiers and 80 rebels were killed that week in the battle of the Khan al-Asal Police Academy.\n\nOn 4 March, rebels fully took over the police academy. They reported that about 45 government soldiers were killed, possibly executed, by rebels after they stormed the academy.\n\nDuring March, an eight-day rebel offensive in an attempt to capture the village of Khan al-Assal on the western outskirts of the city was repelled. 200 fighters on both sides were killed in the offensive, including 120 government and 80 rebel fighters. Among government forces killed were 115 policemen, who the government alleged were executed by the opposition after capturing a police academy in Khan al-Assal.\n\nOn 15 March, rebels seized control of an ammunition factory complex and munitions depots in the town of Khan Tuman, southwest of Aleppo. The complex had been used to supply the Army with munitions to regularly shell rebel positions in the surrounding area.\n\nOn 19 March there was a chemical attack in Khan al-Assal, about 15 kilometers west of Aleppo, with about 26 fatalities. It was the first widely reported use of chemical weapons in the war. Both the government and rebels claim that a missile or rocket was used to deliver the agent. The Syrian Information Minister blamed the rebels for the attack, while the rebels blamed the government.\n\nOn the night of 29 March, the opposition Aleppo Media Center claimed that rebel forces had captured Sheikh Maqsoud, which was previously held by both government and Kurdish forces. However, SOHR stated that while rebel forces advanced into the district, they had captured only the eastern part. SOHR also reported that heavy fighting was still ongoing. It was also confirmed that during their advance, rebels had captured and killed the top pro-government Sunni cleric in the district, Hassan Seifeddine. Reports by pro-government Al-Ikhbariya TV and SANA stated he was beheaded and his head was placed on the minaret of the Al-Hassan Mosque. SOHR confirmed that his body had been dragged and paraded in the neighborhood.\n\nOn 31 March, government troops counterattacked. Fighting was concentrated by the Awarded bridge and in the area between eastern Sheikh Maqsoud and the Bustan al-Basha neighborhood. Since the rebel attack on the district started, 43 people had been killed, including 15 civilians, 19 government soldiers and militiamen and 9 rebels.\n\nIt was claimed by YPG fighters in Sheikh Maqsoud that following a long discussion within the group, the (mostly Kurdish) YPG decided to end their neutrality in Aleppo and switch to the rebel side, cooperating with the FSA in their advance through the district where several pro-government militias and intelligence officers were located. However, a day later, a YPG political representative denied the claim and stated that the Kurds had not aligned with the rebels, instead that Kurdish forces fought government troops after the Army attempted to reach Arab parts of the district that had been captured by opposition forces, via the Kurdish areas.\n\nAccording to the YPG, as a result of these clashes, which also included artillery, 15 Syrian soldiers and one YPG fighter, YPG military council member Zekeriya Xelîl, were killed.\n\nOn 2 April, clashes erupted in the strategic village of Aziza, on the southern outskirts, from which rebels were launching attacks against Aleppo international airport and the adjacent military air base. By 6 April, the military had captured the village, pushing the rebels to the outskirts. Around 35 people were killed, including at least 18 civilians and 5 rebels. The capture of the village was seen as a strategic victory for the military because it would allow the Army to protect its supply convoys and have a strategic spot from which they could shell rebel positions.\n\nOn 13 April, nerve gas was reported in Sheikh Maqsood. An anonymous doctor reported three were dead and a dozen wounded. 1,500 doses of atropine were used with a further 2,000 sent by aid agencies. Atropine is a recognised antidote to nerve gases.\nBy 15 April, rebels had reportedly gained full control of the northern entrance to Aleppo, as well as a factory and a weapons storage facility.\n\nOn 16 April, the first Aleppo truce was declared. The temporary truce allowed Red Crescent workers to remove 31 decomposing bodies killed during in the poor al-Sakhour district located in northern Aleppo. Three of the dead were found with tied hands and four were badly burnt.\n\nOn 22 April, two Syrian Christian Orthodox Bishops were kidnapped on their return to Aleppo after completing humanitarian work. State media blamed the rebels while the rebels stated, \"all probabilities are open.\"\n\nOn 23 April rebels took control of a key position at the strategic Mennagh Military airbase, allowing them to enter the airbase after a months-long siege.\n\nOn 24 April, the 11th-century minaret of the rebel-held Great Mosque of Aleppo was destroyed in the fight. Rebels claimed that the Army destroyed the minaret with tank fire to prevent it becoming a sniper position, while the government claimed that it was destroyed by the Nusra Front.\n\nOn 4 May, the Siege of Menagh Air Base continued amid reports that rebels had made further advances. It was claimed that rebels had killed the base commander and also seized the second military detachment of the base. Rebels claimed that a group of pilots had defected and assassinated the base's commanding officer. The defectors told rebels that around 200 soldiers remained on base, garrisoned in the headquarters building and supported by a handful of tanks. Many soldiers resorted to sleeping under tanks, fearing a rebel assault.\n\nOn 9 May, it was reported that air strikes forced rebels to retreat from the air base.\n\nOn 15 May, rebel forces assaulted the main prison in central Aleppo where some 4,000 inmates were held. These include both common and political prisoners. The attack was initiated by twin car bombs at the prison entrance. Rebels secured one compound that housed government forces. The attack bogged down due to the intervention of Syrian tanks and planes. No prisoners were freed.\n\nOn 16 May, rebels were forced to retreat when soldiers began throwing inmate's bodies out of the windows. It was reported that rebel fighters took control of a building inside the prison after blowing up the main gate. Rebel fighters continued to hit the facility with rockets late into the night.\n\nIn early May, clashes started between rebel groups Ghuraba al-Sham and groups operating under Judicial Committee alliance. The latter accused Ghuraba al-Sham, which was in alliance with Jabhat al-Nusra, of going rogue and looting factories. According to various rebel reports Jabhat al-Nusra started weakening after Nusra leader al-Jolani pledged loyalty to Al-Queda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri. Before the announcements rebel fighters of various brigades were leaving for Jabhat al-Nusra, in one day about 120 left. Several rebel officials also commented on their disappearance from much of Aleppo.\n\nA former government scientist claimed that the Syrian government was using chemical weapons in small quantities to slow rebel advances. Amongst these areas were the Sheikh Maksoud district. The scientist, who worked for Centre for Scientific Studies and Research, claimed that the alleged gas attack on Khan al-Asal, Aleppo, on 19 March 2013, was likely tear gas and not nerve gas. A UNHRC report dated 12 February 2014 concluded that the extremely deadly nerve agent sarin was used in the 3/19 Khan al-Asal attack and that the sarin used in that attack, bore the ‘same unique hallmarks’ as the sarin used in the 8/21 al-Ghouta chemical attack.\n\nOn 26 May, 15 inmates were killed, according to SOHR, at the central prison during fighting.\n\nOn 1 June, 50 prisoners were reported to have been executed by government soldiers, while a further 31 were killed by the rebel bombardment of the central prison. 40 government soldiers were killed by rebels.\n\nOn 2 June, a senior commander in the Lebanese movement Hezbollah, said that Assad's forces had called thousands of Hezbollah fighters deeper into Northern Syria, in and around Aleppo, to shore up Assad's overstretched forces and potentially break the stalemate there. It was estimated that around 4,000 Hezbollah fighters responded. Rebels said Hezbollah forces had entered the city on Sunday and were preparing an attack. An unnamed Hezbollah commander stated: “We are going to go after strongholds where they (the FSA) think they are safe. They are going to fall like dominos.”\n\nThe diversion of rebel forces to the Battle of al-Qusayr potentially weakened the rebel grip on Aleppo.\n\nOn 13 June, in a statement on recent clashes in the province of Afrin, in western Kurdistan, People's Defense Units (YPG) Command said that Turkish soldiers attacked the village of Mele Xelîl in Afrin late Wednesday. YPG said, \"The armed groups which first attacked our forces in the villages of Aqîn, Basil and Zarat increased in number as of June 10 when they attacked Meresk and Kefer Mezê villages. The armed groups were strongly responded and defeated by our forces\". The Command remarked that YPG had strengthened its control as armed groups had to withdraw from the region after the clashes one day later. Referring to the Turkish attacks, YPG said \"Troops of the Turkish military launched an attack against the village of Mele Xelîl in Afrin's Cindêris district late Wednesday in support of the armed groups targeting the region of Afrin.\" YPG said Turkish soldiers were repulsed from the region as a result of the response by YPG units.\n\nOn 9 June 2013, the Army announced the start of operation \"Northern Storm\", in an attempt to recapture territory in and around Aleppo. In preparation for the assault the Army reinforced the Shiite villages of Al-Nubbul and Zahra which the government intended to use to advance into Aleppo. Rebel defenses in Salamiyeh, south of Aleppo, were strengthened to prevent tanks from moving from that direction.\n\nBetween 7 and 14 June, Army troops, government militiamen, and reportedly Hezbollah fighters, launched the operation. Over a one-week period, government forces advanced both in Aleppo city and the countryside, pushing back the rebels. However, on 14 June, according to an opposition activist, the tide started reversing, after rebels halted an armoured reinforcement column from Aleppo headed for the two Shiite villages northwest of the city. As of 16 June, the rebels had held back the column for two days. Rebels claimed to have destroyed one tank and killed 20 government soldiers northwest of Maaret al-Arteek. Before the column was stopped, government forces had captured the high ground at Maaret al-Arteek, threatening rebel positions. Rebels were boosted after receiving at least 50 Russian-made Konkurs anti-tank missiles in the previous few days from Saudi Arabia. During 13 June fighting in Aleppo city, government forces temporarily advanced into rebel-held Sakhour district from two directions, but were soon repelled.\nOn 12 June, FSA fighters claimed to have killed 40 Hezbollah and Syrian army soldiers, who were traveling in buses, in an ambush between the villages of al-Bouz and al-Khanasir.\n\nOn 17 June, a car-bomb hit an Army facility in al-Douwairinah district, east of the international airport. Jabhat al-Nusra claimed responsibility for the attack. Some opposition activists claimed the attack killed at least 60 troops. However, according to SOHR, only six soldiers were killed and 15 wounded.\n\nOn 21 June 2013, the FSA said that 13 rebel brigades, amongst them the large Liwa al-Tawhid and the Farouq units, had launched a new offensive. One of the targets was the military research facility in the Rashidin area of New Aleppo. Rebel mortars set it ablaze. The rebels claimed that they were moving forward in Rashidin with the aim of removing military targets including areas used by the army to shell rebel areas.\n\nOn 23 June, 12 government soldiers were killed by a car bomb while 6 rebels from the Islamist Al-Farouq Brigade were killed.\n\nOn 24 June, rebels claimed to have repulsed a loyalist attack crediting their victory to newly arrived anti-tank weapons. Aleppo military council leader Colonel Abdul Jabbar al-Oqaidi claimed, \"The regime pushed forward in the north of the city, but the Free Syrian Army caused a lot of casualties and they went back to their bases.\" The renewed offensive was called \"The Battle of Qadisiyah\", a reference to a battle, from 636 CE, in which an Arab army defeated a Persian army. According to one rebel fighter, the rebels were launching counterattacks in the north east and west of the city, advancing into the agricultural research center.\n\nOn 25 June, rebels advancing in western Aleppo were reportedly engaging in \"tit for tat\" operations against the Army in Rashidin and Ashrafiyeh, according to SOHR.\n\nA numbering of people were killed in the shelling of Aleppo Central Prison on 7 July, though who fired the shells was not immediately known. Syrian government forces retained control over New Aleppo despite initial rebel advances in the area, with the opposing sides entrenched sometimes as close as 200 meters to one another.\n\nAn activist said that an apparent rebel blockade of the southwestern highway was causing fast-emerging food shortages in government-held areas. A rebel source denied that it was intentional, saying that intensified fighting on the highway was to blame, with no vehicle on the highway safe from the fighting. The Southwestern highway is the source of food supplies to western Aleppo, and among the most strategic roads leading into the city.\n\nOn 17 July, rebel fighters were reportedly making small advances in Salaheddine.\n\nOn 21 July, reports emerged that rebel fighters had taken full control of the Aleppo suburb of Khan al-Asal, along with the towns of Mataa and Summakiyah, east of the city. Khan Al-Assal was the last government stronghold west of Aleppo, and rebels claimed that seizing it had given them control of the entire Western Aleppo countryside. Unverified video footage showed the body of the Syrian Army's operations commander in Khan Al-Assal, General Hassan Youssef Hassan who rebels of the Al Ansar brigade claimed they killed in clashes. In the video they also displayed his ID card. Both opposition and government sources reported that about 150 government soldiers were killed during the battle, including 51 who were executed after they had surrendered. The executions were reportedly carried out by members of the Al-Nusra Front and the Ansar al-Khalafa al-Islamiya Briagade.\n\nBy 23 July, some analysts regarded operation \"Northern Storm\" to be a feint, since no large-scale offensive was launched by the Army, with the aim of diverting rebel resources to the Aleppo region while government forces escalated their Siege of Homs in an attempt to clear out the remaining rebel hold-outs in the city center.\n\nOn 31 July, government soldiers attacked rebel positions outside Khan al-Asal after gathering reinforcements for a new assault.\n\nOn 6 August, rebel fighters took full control of the Menagh airbase after an almost 10 months long siege.\n\nOn 16 August, government warplanes bombed the rebel-held Kalassa district, destroying three buildings and killing 15.\n\nOn 23 August, rebels took control of 13 villages in southern and eastern Aleppo.\n\nOn 26 August, rebels took control of the strategic town of Khanasir located between Aleppo and Hama province reportedly killing more than 50 pro government fighters. The town was the Syrian Army's only supply route out of Aleppo, and SOHR claimed that its capture had effectively left pro government forces in Aleppo besieged by rebel forces.\n\nOn 21 September, rebels seized control of several villages south of Aleppo in an offensive aimed at cutting the supply lines of Pro Assad forces from Damascus.\n\nOn 1 October, 16 militants were killed in an ambush while trying to slip into the Salah al-Din district. A number of other militants were also killed in a separate incident during clashes with the Syrian army in the Ansari district, adjacent to Salah al-Din.\n\nOn 3 October, the Syrian Army recaptured the strategic town of Khanasir, after a weeks-long battle pitting Syrian troops against rebels, a monitoring group said. Several days later, the supply line to Aleppo was reopened as army troops advanced in the villages around Khanaser. State agency SANA claimed the Army had restored control over 40 villages in the area and engineering units had dismantled insurgent fortifications, about 600 anti-tank mines and 1,500 explosive devices.\n\nOn 10 October, a rebel advance in Salaheddine led to a large gun battle, which left 10 Syrian government troops dead, along with 6 rebels.\n\nOn 18 October, 20 soldiers and 7 rebels were killed after rebel groups stormed an air defense facility near the towns of Hujaira and Obaida, southwest of Aleppo.\n\nOn 8 November 2013, before sunrise, the Syrian Army launched an attack against \"Base 80\", controlled by the rebels since February 2013, near the Aleppo airport. The Army, backed up by tanks and heavy artillery, unleashed \"the heaviest barrage in more than a year\" according to residents in Aleppo. A rebel fighter said, \"We did not see it coming. The attack came as a real shock to us.\" According to Al-Jazeera, if the Army captured the base, it would cut the rebel supply routes between Aleppo city and the opposition-controlled town of al-Bab, about 30 kilometers from the Turkish border. By morning, the Army took over several areas of \"Base 80\", leaving them in control of large parts of it. Later in the afternoon, rebel forces, including ISIS, received reinforcements and regrouped, after which they attacked the base. During the fighting, two dozen air and artillery strikes struck rebel positions. After dark, rebels counter-attacked and by dawn the next day managed to recapture most of the base, with fighting still occurring around it. During the attack, rebels used GRAD rockets to strike the base.\n\nOn 10 November, fighting still continued around \"Base 80\", with reports of more fighting inside the base itself. During the clashes, rebels targeted two Army armored vehicles, while one rebel tank was destroyed, killing five rebel fighters. By the afternoon, the Army was once again in full control of the base. According to the SOHR, 63 rebels, including at least 11 foreign fighters, and 32 soldiers were killed during the battle. One other report put the number of rebels killed between 60 and 80. Army units were backed-up by Hezbollah fighters and pro-government militias during the assault.\n\nBy 11 November, the Army had captured a series of nearby positions, securing most of the area around Aleppo International Airport.\n\nOn 12 November, government forces, backed by tanks, captured two highrise buildings in the northern Ashrafieh and Bani Zeid districts, and advanced into the two neighborhoods after close-quarter street fighting. On 17 November, Syrian Army troops advanced in the Saif al-Dawlah neighborhood and seized control over a number of sites, with fighting still ongoing in the neighborhood.\n\nBy mid-December, government forces were reportedly in control of 60 percent of the city, according to the Kurdish news agency Rudaw.\n\nIn early December 2013, the Syrian Army launched operation \"Canopus Star\" with the aim to encircle Aleppo and cut rebel supply lines into the city, thus besieging rebel-held areas.\n\nBetween 15 and 28 December 2013, a series of Army helicopter attacks with barrel bombs against rebel-held areas of Aleppo left 517 people dead, including 151 children, 46 women and 46 rebels, according to the SOHR. A rebel commander claimed that by 26 December, more than 1,000 people had been killed in the bombing campaign. On 9 January, aid groups stated more than 700 people had been killed since the start of the bombing campaign.\n\nOn 20 December, Islamist rebels, including members of the Al-Nusra Front, took control over the Kindi hospital, which had been used by government soldiers as a base for several months. Reuters photojournalist Molhem Barakat was killed during the action. At least 20 regular soldiers were killed and dozens were taken prisoner in the fighting which began after two Al-Nusra fighters detonated themselves at checkpoints guarding the hospital. A few days later, government forces stormed and recaptured much of the Bani Zeid neighborhood on the northeastern outskirts of the city.\n\nOn 25 December, pro-government sources claimed that the Syrian Army captured the al-Sheikh Maqsoud and al-Jbanat areas of Aleppo city.\n"}
{"id": "40763511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40763511", "title": "Death of Kendrick Johnson", "text": "Death of Kendrick Johnson\n\nOn January 11, 2013, Kendrick Johnson's body was discovered inside a rolled up mat in the gymnasium of Lowndes High School in Valdosta, in the U.S. state of Georgia, where he was a student. A preliminary investigation and autopsy concluded that the death was accidental. Johnson's family had a private pathologist conduct a second autopsy which concluded that Johnson died from blunt force trauma. On October 31, 2013, the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia announced that his office would open a formal review into Johnson's death. On June 20, 2016, the US DOJ announced that it would not be filing any criminal charges related to Johnson's death. Kendrick Johnson's family filed a $100 million civil lawsuit against 38 individuals. The lawsuit alleged that Johnson's death was a murder and accused the respondents of a conspiracy to cover up the homicide. That lawsuit was subsequently withdrawn. A judge ordered the Johnsons and their attorney to pay more than $292,000 in legal fees to the defendants. The judge in that case accused the Johnson's and their attorney of fabricating evidence to support their claims.\n\nJohnson was found headfirst in the center of a rolled up wrestling mat, in his high school gym, on January 10, 2013. His body was discovered by students who had climbed up to the top of a cluster of mats, each of which stood nearly six feet tall and three feet wide. An autopsy by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) stated that Johnson had died from positional asphyxia, and the case was ruled an accidental death by the Lowndes County Sheriff's Office. \n\nThey hypothesized that Johnson had fallen into the mat while looking for a shoe and died after being unable to get out. Three students told investigators that it was common for some students to store their shoes behind or under the rolled up mats. Johnson was not wearing shoes when he was found. A student at the school said that he shared a pair of Adidas shoes with Johnson, and that after gym class Johnson would always \"go to the mats, jump up and toss the shoes inside the middle of the hole.\"\n\nLt. Stryde Jones, who headed up the investigation for the Lowndes County Sheriff's Office stated: \"We never had credible information that indicated this was anything other than an accident.\" Johnson's family questioned this hypothesis. Unsatisfied with the result of the investigation, Johnson's family hired an independent autopsy conducted by Dr. William R. Anderson with Forensic Dimensions in Heathrow, Florida on June 15th. Dr Anderson's claimed that his findings indicate traces of blunt force trauma to the right neck and soft tissues, and suggested the death was not accidental.\n\nAfter the opinion of the private pathologist was released, Johnson's family stated that they believed Johnson had been murdered. The family retained the services of attorney Benjamin Crump. On October 31, 2013, the U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Georgia announced that the office would open a formal review into the death of Johnson. Benjamin Crump's application to the Georgia court to practice in Georgia representing Kendrick's parents was not ruled on, and he withdrew from representing the Johnson family and is no longer participating in the case.\n\nJohnson's family filed a legal action to open a coroner's inquiry into his death. When the judge in that case delayed a decision, pending the outcome of the U.S. District Attorney review, the family demanded that the governor of Georgia immediately authorize the inquiry instead. The Johnson family, together with the NAACP and other civil rights activists, then held a rally at the state capitol in Atlanta. The governor's office released a statement indicating that they would await the report of the U.S. Attorney.\nThe independent autopsy found, among other things, that Johnson's body was stuffed with newspapers. The funeral home that processed the body following the GBI's autopsy stated that they never received Johnson's organs from the coroner. Johnson's internal organs were said to have been \"destroyed through natural process\" and \"discarded by the prosector before the body was sent back to Valdosta,\" according to the funeral home owner. That left a void, which the funeral home filled. The funeral home owner stated that it is standard practice to fill a void in this fashion, and that cotton or sawdust may also be employed for this purpose. Johnson's family filed a complaint, with a regulatory body, against the funeral home operator.\n\nA subsequent investigation by the Georgia Secretary of State's office found that the funeral home did not follow \"best practice\" and that other material was \"more acceptable than newspaper\". Nonetheless, the investigation cleared the funeral home of any wrongdoing. A spokesperson for the Secretary of State said that the investigation found that the funeral home \"didn't violate any rules\". The Johnson family subsequently filed a civil suit against the funeral home, seeking money damages.\n\nJohnson's family requested that his body be exhumed for a second time and was granted permission by Valdosta city officials. On June 22, 2018, Kendrick Johnson's body was exhumed. \n\nIn November 2013, 290 hours of surveillance tape from 35 cameras that covered the gym area was released to CNN following a court request. A forensic analyst enlisted by CNN found that tapes from two cameras are missing an hour and five minutes of footage, while another set was missing two hours and ten minutes of footage. However, some apparent lapses in coverage were found to result from camera systems that were not synchronized with one another. Time stamps between some separate camera systems differed by as much as 20 minutes for the same time period, giving the impression of a \"gap\" where no gap existed. Other \"missing\" footage was the result of inactivity within the camera's view. Camera systems were motion activated, using a change in light pixels to turn recordings on and off. The area where Johnson's body was discovered, where the gym mats were stored, was outside the range of all of the surveillance cameras.\n\nAttorneys for the Johnson family expressed fears that the camera footage was edited as part of a \"cover-up\". However, a detailed analysis of the camera systems by the \"Valdosta Daily Times\" explained the anomalies, casting significant doubt on the idea of a cover-up. Both the president of the Valdosta-Lowndes County chapter of the SCLC and the former lead investigator for that chapter have stated that they believe the attorneys for the Johnsons have \"not been entirely truthful in their statements\" and that there is no cover-up in this case.\n\nThe family of Kendrick Johnson filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Lowndes County Board of Education, its superintendent and the high school principal. The suit alleged that Johnson \"was violently assaulted, severely injured, suffered great physical pain and mental anguish, and subjected to insult and loss of life\" on January 10, 2013. While the lawsuit did not name the person or persons allegedly involved in the January 10 event, nor identify the race of alleged perpetrators, it implied a race-based dimension to the hypothetical assault. The lawsuit alleged that the defendants were negligent and violated Johnson's constitutional right to equal protection based on race. It alleged that the defendants ignored reports that, previously, Johnson had been repeatedly attacked and harassed by a white student. It alleged that Johnson was attacked on a bus trip, 14 months prior to his death. The lawsuit further alleged that another student \"had a history of provoking and attacking\" Johnson at school, stating that the provocations took place \"in the presence of the coaching staff and employees\" of the school, after his mother complained about previous attacks. The suit also alleged that school officials failed to \"properly monitor the activities of students throughout all areas\" of the campus and to \"maintain a properly functioning video surveillance system.\"\n\nIn August 2014, the parents of Brian and Brandon Bell filed a $5 million lawsuit against \"Ebony Magazine\" after the magazine published a series of articles naming two students as possible suspects in the death. The magazine used pseudonyms but was otherwise accurate in descriptions of the boys, including the fact that their father was an FBI agent. The article used as a source an anonymous email to the sheriff's office alleging that the younger of the two brothers killed Johnson after learning that Johnson had sex with the brother's girlfriend. Rick and Karen Bell assert that their sons were not involved in the death, are not considered suspects, and have been harassed as a result of the publication.\n\nIn January 2015, Kendrick Johnson's family filed a $100 million civil lawsuit in the Superior Court of DeKalb County against 38 individuals. Respondents include three of Johnson's classmates (two or three respondents are unnamed) and local, state, and federal officials: the school superintendent of Lowndes County, the Valdosta-Lowndes crime lab, the police chief of Valdosta, many sheriff's deputies, the city of Valdosta, the state medical examiner, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and its five agents, and an FBI agent. The lawsuit alleged that the FBI agent ordered his two sons and a classmate to attack Johnson. Kendrick Johnson's family alleged that his death was a murder and accused the respondents of a conspiracy to cover up the homicide. Jim Elliott, the Lowndes County Attorney, stated that the allegations are \"unfounded\" and \"baseless\" and that any response would be made in court. All local Superior Court judges recused themselves from presiding over the case preventing the lawsuit from being filed and heard in Lowndes County. The judges' reason was because of their close proximity to the accused. For that reason, Chief Judge Harry J. Altman stated that it was inappropriate for these judges to preside over the case. Shortly before the lawsuit was filed, the U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, Michael J. Moore, said in a statement that a federal investigation was still open and that \"the investigation has proven more complicated and taken longer than originally anticipated.\" U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, Michael J. Moore has since resigned. After Michael Moore resigned, the case was transferred to the Northern District of Ohio under the leadership of Steven Dettlebach. Shortly after receiving the Kendrick Johnson case, U.S. attorney Steven Dettlebach resigned. Despite these resignations, the Department of Justice investigation continued, according to Department of Justice spokesman Michael Tobin.\nIn November 2015, the DOJ filed a motion in the civil case to intervene and stay the case. The U.S. Attorney said allowing evidence discovery in the civil suit to continue would have a “chilling effect” on the federal investigation, which had expanded into investigating possible obstruction and grand jury witness tampering. After the DOJ's motion was denied, Jackie and Kenneth Johnson dismissed their own wrongful death lawsuit, saying that they hoped to refile it after the conclusion of the DOJ's investigation. Jackie and Kenneth Johnson were subsequently sued for more than $850,000 in attorney fees and $1,000,000 in defamation damages.\n\nOn June 20, 2016, the US DOJ announced that they would not be filing any criminal charges related to Johnson's death, stating \"After extensive investigation into this tragic event, federal investigators determined that there is insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that someone or some group of people willfully violated Kendrick Johnson's civil rights or committed any other prosecutable federal crime.\"\n\nOn August 10, 2017, a judge ruled that Johnson's family and their attorney must pay more than $292,000 in legal fees to the dozens of people they accused of foul play in a lawsuit that they previously dropped.\n\n"}
{"id": "35622545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622545", "title": "Detention of Ayub Ali Khan and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath", "text": "Detention of Ayub Ali Khan and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath\n\nMohammed Jaweed Azmath and Ayub Ali Khan (also known as Syed Gul Mohamed Shah) are two Indian men who were wrongly accused of involvement in the September 11 terrorist attacks.\n\nOne day after the September 11th attacks, the men were detained in Texas for possible immigration violations. Their apartment in Jersey City was searched the following weekend. According to the \"Washington Post\", writing one week after the attacks, \"Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, and Ayub Ali Khan, 51, both from India, were taken into custody Wednesday on an Amtrak train in Texas, carrying $5,000 in cash, hair dye and box cutter knives -- weapons said to have been used by the hijackers.\" The subjects were profiled as potential drug smugglers because they purchased train tickets with cash immediately before departure, and appeared nervous when questioned.\n\nAs of October 25, 2001, the men were being held in New York as material witnesses. Investigators said they had offered Azmath, Khan, Zacarias Moussaoui and Nabil al-Marabh \"the prospect of reduced sentences, money, jobs and new identities within the US\" if they assisted investigation into the attacks, while threatening to inject them with a \"truth serum\", identified as sodium pentothal, or to transfer them to countries with more brutal interrogation techniques. \"(see also torture by proxy, extraordinary rendition)\" The four men were cited by a number of media pundits raising discussion of whether torture should be practiced within the United States, and whether it would be effective.\n\nIn December 2001, the \"New York Times\" reported that 'three months of intensive investigation' had failed to link the men with the attack. The men's circumstance appeared to be coincidence - they had lost their employment managing news stands in Newark, and were relocating to Texas to open or work at a fruit stand. They had used box cutters to open bundles of newspapers. After their flight to San Antonio was stopped in St. Louis after the attacks, they boarded a train to complete the trip, which was stopped for a \"routine drug search\".\n\nThough cleared of involvement in the attacks, prosecutors charged them with an unrelated case of \"fraud involving several hundred thousand dollars of unpaid credit card charges.\" The men made a plea bargain, as arguing for their innocence would have left them in jail much longer than confessing their guilt. They had agreed afterward to be deported for immigration violations.\n\nBoth men alleged ill-treatment in custody, the first 12 months of which they spent in solitary confinement. According to Azmath, \"I was made to stand in freezing temperatures in the open for four to five hours a day to force me to confess to a crime I had not committed.\" According to Khan's lawyer, each time he was brought to court he was thrown, while shackled, against a wall. After reaching India they filed suit against the United States.\n\nFollowing their deportation, both men were charged in India with passport violations. According to the \"Times of India\", the men were accused of obtaining fake passports from a corrupt passport agent, and Khan's true name was Gul Mohammed Shah, and Azmath had listed his age as 50 rather than 30. The \"Times\" reported that Azmath's wife, Tasleem Murad, had told them that he was not the first person to misstate his age to obtain a visa and \"He did not have any evil intentions and he has paid for it already.\" An additional issue was that Azmath's wife, being Pakistani, did not have Indian citizenship.\n\nThe 2002 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting was awarded to a September 29 article in the \"Washington Post\" by Dan Eggen and Bob Woodward, which mentioned the detention of Khan and Azmath and reported that an anonymous source said that \"Both men had flight training\".\n"}
{"id": "46204719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46204719", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest's Greatest Hits", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest's Greatest Hits\n\nEurovision Song Contest's Greatest Hits (also known as Eurovision's Greatest Hits) was a live television concert programme organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) to commemorate the Eurovision Song Contest's 60th anniversary. The concert took place on 31 March 2015 at the Eventim Apollo, in Hammersmith, London. Guy Freeman was the executive producer and Geoff Posner the director, both of whom held the same positions as the last time the BBC hosted the Eurovision Song Contest in 1998. Simon Proctor was the senior producer and David Arch was the musical director for the concert. Tickets for the event went on sale at 10am on 6 February 2015.\n\nGraham Norton and Petra Mede hosted the event, which saw fifteen acts from thirteen countries performing their Eurovision entries from yesteryear. During the televised show, video montages for some of the Eurovision Song Contest archives were shown in-between each live performance. The United Kingdom entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2015 was performed at the concert, but never broadcast on the televised show. Riverdance performed a reprise of their 1994 Eurovision Song Contest interval act as part of the anniversary celebrations.\n\nSeveral countries confirmed that they would air the delayed broadcast of the concert on various dates that suited the broadcasters scheduling, including , who first competed in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015 as a wildcard entry. The host broadcaster, BBC, and Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ), simulcast the show on Good Friday, 3 April 2015 across BBC One and RTÉ 2. The Dutch broadcaster, AVROTROS, were the first to announce their decision to not broadcast the event. Other countries also announced their decision to decline broadcasting the event, including , who had an act taking part in the event.\n\nConfirmation was revealed on 3 February 2015 that the concert event was to take place in the Eventim Apollo, in Hammersmith, London. The last time the United Kingdom capital held any Eurovision events was the Eurovision Dance Contest 2007.\n\nIt was announced on 22 October 2014, that the EBU had appointed the United Kingdom's broadcaster, BBC, to co-produce a special anniversary show to celebrate sixty-years of the Eurovision Song Contest, similar to the show \"\" which took place in 2005. The details regarding the title of the show were unknown at the time the announcement was made.\n\nThe EBU later issued the following statement regarding the 60th anniversary: \"There are various exciting proposals from member broadcasters on the table to celebrate the 60th anniversary beyond the contest in May, which are currently in the final stages of being evaluated. A decision is expected shortly, so stay tuned!\". Edgar Böhm, executive producer of the 2015 Eurovision Song Contest said in an interview that the BBC had been chosen to host a special anniversary show. Guy Freeman was appointed as executive producer for the event, assisted by Senior Producer Simon Proctor, the script was co-written by Edward af Sillén, Daniel Réhn and Christine Rose whilst the director was Geoff Posner.\n\nTickets for the anniversary concert went on sale from 10:15am (GMT) on Friday 6 February 2015 via the BBC's Eurovision website and the official Eurovision Song Contest's website.\n\nOn 3 February 2015 it was announced that Graham Norton and Petra Mede would co-host the concert show. Norton, who co-hosted the Eurovision Dance Contest with Claudia Winkleman in and , is also the current Eurovision TV commentator for the United Kingdom. Mede was the host for Melodifestivalen 2009 (Swedish national selection show), host for the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 and co-host of the 2016 Eurovision Song Contest held in Stockholm.\n\nThe concert was recorded live on 31 March 2015 at the Eventim Apollo, London; allowing participating broadcasters the freedom to air the programme on a date and channel that was convenient for their broadcasting schedules. Fifteen artists, representing thirteen countries, consisting of some of Eurovision's Greatest Hits, took part in the sixtieth anniversary gala event. The first-ever winner of the contest (in 1956), Lys Assia, appeared in the audience as a guest of honour. During the broadcast, video montages were shown prior to each entry, showing footage for that particular year's contest, ending with Eurovision Song Contest footage for the entry that was about to perform on stage. Recap montages of Eurovision entries over the last sixty years, were also broadcast in-between performances. These were as follows:\n\nElectro Velvet performed their United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015 entry, \"Still in Love with You\". This performance did not appear on the televised show, but was exclusively done for the audience members of the concert hall itself.\n\nIt was confirmed on 22 March 2015 that the interval act for Eurovision Song Contest's Greatest Hits would be Riverdance. The theatrical show consisting mainly of traditional Irish music and dance, and featured Irish dancing champions Jean Butler and Michael Flatley, with a score composed by Limerick native Bill Whelan, originated as an interval performance during the Eurovision Song Contest 1994.\n\nFifteen Eurovision acts from thirteen countries participated in the anniversary concert. Although there were originally fourteen acts confirmed by the BBC, it was later announced on 5 March 2015 that 's Bobbysocks would join the line-up increasing the total to fifteen. Video montages were shown prior to each entry, showing footage for that particular year's contest, ending with Eurovision Song Contest footage for the entry that was about to perform on stage.\n\nA medley of some of the Eurovision Song Contest's greatest hits were performed in English by all of the participating artists, as a reprise act at the close of the show, including: Anne-Marie David singing 's winning entry of the Eurovision Song Contest 1979, \"Hallelujah\". Swedish trio, Herreys, sang \"Nel blu dipinto di blu\", which finished in third place at the for 's Domenico Modugno. Bucks Fizz's \"Making Your Mind Up\", the winning entry for in , was performed by Bobbysocks. The reprise concluded with Concita Wurst and Dana International leading all of the remaining performers (except Loreen) back on stage to sing ABBA's Eurovision Song Contest 1974 winning entry, \"Waterloo\".\n\nAs the anniversary concert show was not broadcast live, the participating national broadcasters were able to broadcast the show on a date and channel that was convenient for their broadcasting schedules. Some broadcasters – such as Austria and Sweden – recorded additional links and interviews in London for their viewers and these were used as previews for the main show.\n\nThe following countries, listed in order of broadcasting dates, had confirmed that they would broadcast the anniversary show.\n\nThe following list of countries, who are members of the EBU had not announced their plans on whether to broadcast the show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38217", "title": "Fnord", "text": "Fnord\n\n\"Fnord\" () is a word coined in 1965 by Kerry Thornley and Greg Hill in the \"Principia Discordia\". It entered the popular culture after appearing in \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\" (1975) of satirical and parody conspiracy fiction novels by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson. In these novels, the interjection \"fnord\" is given hypnotic power over the unenlightened, and children in grade school are taught to be unable to consciously see the word \"fnord\". For the rest of their lives, every appearance of the word subconsciously generates a feeling of unease and confusion, and prevents rational consideration of the text in which it appears. \n\nThe word has been used in newsgroup and hacker culture to indicate irony, humor, or Surrealism. Placement at the end of a statement in brackets (\"fnord\") explicitly tags the intent, and may be so applied to any random or surreal sentence, coercive subtext, or anything jarringly out of context, intentional or not. It is sometimes used as a metasyntactic variable in programming. Fnord appears in the Church of the SubGenius recruitment film \"Arise!\" and has been used in the SubGenius newsgroup alt.slack.\n\nThe word was coined as a nonsensical term with religious undertones in the Discordian parody of religious texts, \"Principia Discordia\" (1965) by Kerry Thornley and Greg Hill, but was popularized by \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\" (1975) of satirical conspiracy fiction novels by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson. \"Illuminatus!\" was produced, in the United Kingdom, as a cycle of plays by anarchic theatre director Ken Campbell and his Jungian Science Fiction Theatre of Liverpool. The plays further popularized the term.\n\nIn the novel trilogy (and the plays), the interjection \"fnord\" is given hypnotic power over the unenlightened. Under the Illuminati program, children in grade school are taught to be unable to consciously see the word \"fnord\". For the rest of their lives, every appearance of the word subconsciously generates a feeling of unease and confusion, and prevents rational consideration of the text it appears in. The uneasiness and confusion create a perpetual low-grade state of fear in the populace. The government acts on the premise that a fearful populace keeps them in power. \n\nIn the Shea/Wilson construct, fnords— occurrences of the word \"fnord\"— are scattered liberally in the text of newspapers and magazines, causing fear and anxiety in those following current events. However, there are no fnords in the advertisements, encouraging a consumerist society. The exclusion of the text from rational consciousness also enables the Illuminati to publish messages to each other in newspapers, etc., without fear that other people will be aware of them. It is implied in the books that \"fnord\" is not the actual word used for this task, but merely a substitute, since most readers would be unable to see the actual word. \n\nTo \"see the fnords\" means to be unaffected by the supposed hypnotic power of the word or, more loosely, of other fighting words. The term may also be used to refer to the experience of becoming aware of a phenomenon's ubiquity after first observing it. The phrase \"I have seen the fnords\" was graffitied on a British railway bridge throughout the 1980s and 1990s, until the bridge was upgraded. The bridge, located between Earlsdon and Coventry city centre, is known locally as \"Anarchy Bridge\". The bridge and the phrase were mentioned in the novel \"A Touch of Love\" by Jonathan Coe.\n\nThe lack of a clear definition of the word, and its popularity among certain groups on the internet, allowed it to be appropriated as a placeholder word (a metasyntactic variable) in computer programming, particularly by those with ties to Discordianism or the Church of the SubGenius. It has also been found useful as the name for a \"techno cultural\" conference, computer programs, and as a general placeholder word in computing literature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5998098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5998098", "title": "Great Ejection", "text": "Great Ejection\n\nThe Great Ejection followed the Act of Uniformity 1662 in England. Several thousand Puritan ministers were forced out of their positions by Church of England clergy, following the changes after the restoration to power of Charles II. It was a consequence (not necessarily intended) of the Savoy Conference of 1661.\n\nThe Act of Uniformity prescribed that any minister who refused to conform to the \"Book of Common Prayer\" by St. Bartholomew's Day (24 August) 1662 should be ejected from the Church of England. This date became known as Black Bartholomew's Day among dissenters, a reference to the fact that it occurred on the same day as the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre of 1572. Oliver Heywood estimated the number of ministers ejected at 2,500. This group included Richard Baxter, Edmund Calamy the Elder, Simeon Ashe, Thomas Case, John Flavel, William Jenkyn, Joseph Caryl, Thomas Brooks, Thomas Manton, William Sclater, Thomas Doolittle and Thomas Watson. Biographical details of ejected ministers and their fates were later collected by the historian Edmund Calamy, grandson of the elder Calamy.\n\nAlthough there had already been ministers outside the established church, the Great Ejection created an abiding concept of non-conformity. Strict religious tests of the Clarendon code and other Penal Laws left a substantial section of English society excluded from public affairs, and also university degrees, for a century and a half. Culturally, in England and Wales, nonconformism endured longer than that.\n\nThe bicentennial in 1862 led to a sharp debate, with the nonconformist agenda being questioned, and the account in Calamy being reviewed.\n\nIain Murray argues that the issue was deeper than \"phrases in the Book of Common Prayer and forms of church order,\" but regarded the \"nature of true Christianity.\"\n\nThe Bishop of Liverpool, J. C. Ryle, referred to the Ejection as an \"injury to the cause of true religion in England which will probably never be repaired\".\n\nA Service of Reconciliation was held at Westminster Abbey on 7 February 2012 to mark the 350th anniversary of the Great Ejection. Rowan Williams, then Archbishop of Canterbury, preached at the service which was attended by clergy and laity of the Church of England and the United Reformed Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5639396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639396", "title": "Great Fire of Warwick", "text": "Great Fire of Warwick\n\nThe Great Fire of Warwick was a major conflagration that swept through the small town of Warwick, England, beginning at 2:00 p.m. on 5 September 1694 and lasting for six hours. The fire started from a spark from a torch that was being carried up High Street. The town’s small population, the close-packed nature of the environment, and the amount of combustible building material all lead to the fire’s start and spread, and the limited fire-fighting methods of the time helped transform the small torch fire into a catastrophic event.\n\nThe Collegiate Church of St Mary, Warwick was severely damaged by the fire. The fire progressed through Castle Street, Market Street, and High Street until it was halted by the 0.5 metre thick stone walls of the former Lord Leycester Hotel on Jury Street. If the fire had not been stopped by the church and struck the suburbs, it would have burnt all the way to the edge of town. The original estimates had the financial damage totaling around ₤90,000–₤120,000 and the physical damage at around 250–460 houses, but later the Book of Estimates had the damage at 157 houses totaling between ₤40,000–₤60,000.\n\nThe Great Fire of Warwick made builders review the way they constructed buildings. The Fire Act of 1694 established new rules and regulations on architecture. The Act stated that public streets and roads should all be made a certain regulated width. It also provided regulations for a standard house design: two storeys of 10 feet in height each with cellars and garrets. This gave the town of Warwick symmetry, uniformity, and a new flair. The fire caused an urban design revolution of sorts. The post-fire homes in Warwick also got rid of the jetted façades and the concept of timber-framed construction in which floors of buildings overhung each other. The town gave compensation to those whose property was destroyed by the street widening process just so that the Fire Act rules would be followed.\n\nThe beautiful post-fire buildings are credited to Francis and William Smith. In 1695, William was appointed as the surveyor for the fire council. Although he was officially appointed just to follow the council's orders, William took some direction to oversee the rebuilding himself. William throughout his life had a lasting legacy on Warwick, twice serving as the city's mayor from 1713–1714 and 1728–1729. Francis joined his brother in the reconstruction of St. Mary's Church, but later became a successful architect, overseeing the project of the new courthouse. Francis also had a lasting impact on the town. Francis served on the Town Corporation in the 1720s and was the head of maintenance during the 1730s until he died in 1738. The Smith brothers had a lasting impact on the new and beautiful architecture of Warwick and passed on the tradition of architecture to their sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "827481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827481", "title": "Ignition interlock device", "text": "Ignition interlock device\n\nAn ignition interlock device or breath alcohol ignition interlock device (IID or BAIID) is a breathalyzer for an individual's vehicle. It requires the driver to blow into a mouthpiece on the device before starting the vehicle. If the resultant breath-alcohol concentration analyzed result is greater than the programmed blood alcohol concentration (which varies between countries), the device prevents the engine from being started. The interlock device is located inside the vehicle, near the driver’s seat, and is directly connected to the engine’s ignition system.\n\nAn ignition interlock interrupts the signal from the ignition to the starter until a valid breath sample is provided that meets minimal alcohol guidelines in that state. At that point, the vehicle can be started as normal. At random times after the engine has been started, the IID will require another breath sample, referred to as a rolling retest. The purpose of the rolling retest is to prevent someone other than the driver from providing a breath sample. If the breath sample isn't provided, or the sample exceeds the ignition interlock's preset blood alcohol level, the device will log the event, warn the driver, and then start up an alarm in accordance to state regulations (e.g., lights flashing, horn honking) until the ignition is turned off, or a clean breath sample has been provided. A common misconception is that interlock devices will simply turn off the engine if alcohol is detected; this would, however, create an unsafe driving situation and expose interlock manufacturers to considerable liability. Ignition interlock devices do not have an automatic engine shut off feature.\n\nThe first performance based interlocks were developed by Borg-Warner Corp. (now BorgWarner, Inc.), in 1969. In 1981, Jeffrey Feit, a student in New Jersey, placed in a statewide innovation contest with a primitive schematic of a breathalyzer based interlock device. In 1983, Hans Doran, a student in Limerick, presented a working prototype at the Young Scientist competition in Dublin. Alcohol-sensing devices became the standard through the 1980s. They employed semiconductor (nonspecific) alcohol sensors. Semiconductor-type (Taguchi) interlocks were sturdy and got the field moving, but did not hold calibration very well, were sensitive to altitude variation, and reacted positively to non-alcohol sources. Commercialization and more widespread adoption of the device was delayed pending improvement of systems for preventing circumvention. By the early 1990s, the industry began to produce “second generation” interlocks with reliable and accurate fuel cell sensors. All current ignition interlocks are required to meet National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) standards.\n\nModern ignition interlock devices use an ethanol-specific fuel cell for a sensor. A fuel cell sensor is an electrochemical device in which alcohol undergoes a chemical oxidation reaction at a catalytic electrode surface (platinum) to generate an electric current. This current is then measured and converted to an alcohol equivalent reading. Although fuel cell technology is not as accurate or reliable as infrared spectroscopy technology used in evidentiary breathalyzers, they are cheaper and tend to be more specific for alcohol.\n\nThe devices keep a record of the activity on the device and the interlocked vehicle's electrical system. This record, or log, is printed out or downloaded each time the device's sensors are calibrated, commonly at 30-, 60-, or 90-day intervals. Authorities may require periodic review of the log. If violations are detected, then additional sanctions can be implemented.\n\nPeriodic calibration is performed using either a pressurized alcohol–gas mixture at a known alcohol concentration, or with an alcohol wet bath arrangement that contains a known alcohol solution. The costs of installation, maintenance, and calibration are generally paid by the offender. On average, ignition interlock devices are about $70–150 to install and about $60–90 per month for monitoring and calibration.\n\nMany countries are requiring the ignition interlock as a condition for drivers convicted of driving under the influence, especially repeat offenders. Most US states now permit judges to order the installation of an IID as a condition of probation; for repeat offenders, and for first offenders in some states, installation may be mandated by law.\n\nSome IIDs are equipped with cameras, which may be required by the jurisdiction or voluntarily used. The purpose of the camera is to identify \"fail\" results with the driver, which conveniently makes it easier to \"clear\" test failure reports when the \"fail\" result was triggered by a third party.\n\nInterlock devices are used in the states of Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, and New South Wales. Other states are looking into their use.\n\nInterlock systems were introduced in 2017.\n\nLaws permitting judges to impose the use of interlock devices on convicted drunk drivers permitted their use from 2010, however by 2016 it had only been used in 55 cases. The cost, €3,500 to be paid by the driver, is a deterrent to its use. From 2017 the device may be paid from the fines imposed on the driver and in addition it may become compulsory for repeat offenders.\n\nSome provinces, such as Ontario and Quebec, require any person convicted of drunk driving or refusing to provide a breath example, to install an ignition interlock device into any vehicle he or she owns or operates, for a specified period of time (or for life), depending on the number of prior drunk driving offenses.\n\nAfter so many drunk driving convictions, some provinces, such as Nova Scotia, will impose a lifetime driving ban, with no possibility of license reinstatement. Ontario courts, however, have the power to enact lifetime driving bans, with no possibility of reinstatement, after so many Criminal Code driving convictions. Under such circumstances, ignition interlock conditions are not put in place on the person's license.\n\nFrom December 2011 the Netherlands started to use an interlock device for offenders who were caught with a blood alcohol level over a certain limit. The process which had over 5,000 participants was cancelled in 2015 due to legal and technical problems.\n\nAlcohol interlock devices became a sentencing option in New Zealand in August 2012. In December 2012, it was reported that the first device had been installed.\n\nAs of 2012, all 50 states have laws permitting the imposition of ignition-interlock devices as sentencing alternatives for drunken drivers. It is estimated that the United States could be saving 800 lives per year if all convicted drinking drivers were prevented from being involved in a fatal crash. The standard device in the USA consists of a mouthpiece mounted on a handheld unit and a cord that attaches to the vehicle’s ignition system and runs on the battery. The driver is required to blow into the mouthpiece to test his or her alcohol level before starting the car. Devices are required to be installed at a certified service center. Devices are shipped directly to the qualifying service center and are never handled by the customer. The largest ignition interlock device providers are SkyFineUSA, Draeger, Smart Start, Guardian, Intoxalock, and LifeSafer.\n\nMost states impose the installation of ignition interlock devices (IID), with varying thresholds for installation requirements. Criminal process thresholds for installation requirements vary between minimum BAC levels (e.g., 0.20%, or 0.15%) or repeat offense, with about half of the states requiring installation on first offense.\n\nThese ignition interlock sanctions are meant as punishment, but also as a deterrence. When required under a high BAC level or multiple offense threshold, ignition interlock requirements address a strong tendency of repeat offense by drivers with alcoholic use disorder (AUD or alcoholism).\n\nIgnition interlock requirements are also imposed in some instances after positive chemical blood alcohol tests, as a physical deterrent for drivers with alcoholic use disorder, or as a pseudo-civil punishment. Ignition interlock requirements are also imposed in some instances after an implied consent refusal under similar forensic procedures.\n\nIn most US implementations, IIDs are set to a \"zero tolerance\" level (set to either levels consistent with culinary alcohol or measurement errors).\n\nIn operation, the driver blows into the IIDs to enable the car's starter. After a variable time period of approximately 20-40 minutes, the driver is required to re-certify (blow again) within a time period consistent with safely pulling off the roadway. If the driver fails to re-certify within the time period, the car will alarm in a manner similar to setting off the car's imobilizer (but mechanically independent of the immobilizer.\n\nVarious US states have different penalties for disabling IIDs. In some cases, the driver may be penalized if a family member or mechanic disables the IID when not in use by the sanctioned individual, or temporarily for servicing the vehicle. In some implementations, disabling by mechanics and others is either permitted or authorisation easily obtained, but some jurisdictions restrict or deny authorisation. (Such restrictions on mechanics can be problematic, for example, if limited to designated \"licensed mechanics\" or as applied to routine repair procedures requiring operation of the ignition and starter systems.) Some jurisdictions criminalize such temporary bypass of IIDs.\n\nViolations can occur from a driver not having reached the \"zero tolerance\" level, but can also occur from use by other drivers within legal limits, or from test anomalies. In some states, anomalies are routinely discounted, for example as not consistent with patterns of BAC levels or at levels incompatible with life (e.g., significant mouth alcohol - if read as BAC would mean the patient is dead). In some states, \"fail\" readings inconsistent with actual alcohol use can be cleared by a routine process, but other states automatically deem these \"fail\" readings as violations.\n\nProposals (none official) have been made to install IIDs on all new vehicles, set to the legal limit for the driver. Issues to be solved, besides consumer and voter acceptance, include difficulty in obtaining accurate measurements without inconvenience, and a need to achieve Six Sigma (6σ) reliability, in order to not interfere with vehicle usability.\n\nThere are no present plans to introduce universal IID installation in the US.\n\n\"DUI Offenders may be required to obtain an Ignition Interlock Device (IID).\"\n\nArizona mandates a minimum of six months for all DUI offenses, including those not involving alcohol.\n\nAs of July 1, 2010, California implemented a pilot project for DUI sentencing, as a pilot program involving four counties under AB 91: Alameda, Los Angeles, Sacramento, and Tulare. Under the pilot project, if driving on a suspended license due to a DUI conviction, legally the court must impose an ignition interlock device requirement for up to a maximum of three years from the date of conviction. As of July 1, 2010, interlocks are required upon a DUI conviction in the four counties.\n\nIn the four counties under the AB 91 pilot program, all drivers convicted of a DUI offense are required to install IIDs in their vehicles as a condition to receive restricted driving privileges. First offenders convicted of drunk driving are required to install an ignition interlock device in their car for a period of five months and second offenders for a period of one year. Previously, this requirement was only required for third offenders and permitted for second offenders, and then for a three-year period. The California DMV has written guidelines to clear up some ambiguities in the law. Costs associated with ignition interlock devices include $70 – $150 for installation and fees in the range of $60 - $80 per month thereafter.\n\nSB 598 shortens the amount of time certain repeat DUI offenders will have to wait before becoming eligible to apply for restricted California driving privileges. To receive the restricted license, though, these drivers will be required to meet certain criteria, such as the installation of an IID in their vehicles.\n\nUpon conviction of a second DUI within a 5-year period, the violator's license is suspended for no less than 18 months. See O.C.G.A. 40-5-63(a)(2). During the first 120 days of the 18-month suspension, the violator has no limited driving privileges. See 40-5-64(a)(2). Following the 120-day hard suspension, the violator may apply for a 12-month interlock permit, upon the approval by an accountability court or proof of enrollment in a state-licensed substance abuse treatment program. O.C.G.A. 40-5-64(a)(2). During the final two months of the 18-month suspension, the driver in question can have the interlock restriction removed from their limited permit. O.C.G.A. 40-5-64(e)(2). The sentencing court can waive the interlock requirement in cases of financial hardship, but the violator still must serve the 12-month period designated for interlock under a hard suspension. See O.C.G.A. 42-8-111.\n\nStarting January 1, 2006, drivers that had a second or subsequent operating under the influence offense and are eligible for a hardship license or for license reinstatement, are required to have an ignition interlock device attached to their motor vehicle, at their own expense.\n\nIgnition interlocks are required for at least one year for all first-time DWI offenders; subsequent offenses require longer periods of installation. Also, if your license has been revoked for failure to submit to an alcohol test, you can regain your driving privileges if you install an ignition interlock.\n\nDon Prudente from DriveSafe Ignition Interlock of New York, Inc. states that as of August 15, 2010, New York state requires a person sentenced for Driving While Intoxicated have an ignition interlock device installed for at least 6 months on any vehicle they own or operate, and the driver have an \"ignition interlock\" restriction added to their driver license. This was mandated in honor of Leandra Rosado who died riding in a vehicle driven by a drunk driver.\n\nA conviction of Driving While Impaired with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.15 or more or another conviction within the past seven years will require an ignition interlock device to be installed on the vehicle.\n\nEffective July 2, 2009, anyone convicted of a DUI, whether it be a first offense or a subsequent offense, will be required to have an ignition interlock device placed on their car — for 18 months for first time offense.\n\nEffective July 1, 2012, anyone who is convicted of DUI may drive only with an ignition interlock after the first offense, as a condition of a restricted license and is required to have an ignition interlock installed in each vehicle owned by or registered to him after a second offense for a period of six months. The bill also provides that the court may authorize a restricted license for travel to and from the interlock installer and a person can pre-qualify for an ignition interlock prior to conviction.\n\nFirst-time DUI convictions result in one year of a mandatory ignition interlock device. A second conviction requires the IID be installed for at least five years, and on a third offense or greater, the requirement becomes at least ten years. Some convictions of negligent driving or reckless driving can require the convicted person to use an IID for a period of six months or longer.\n\nProposals have been made to install IIDs on all new vehicles, set to the legal limit for the driver. Among others, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) have campaigned for mandatory IID installation for all drivers. Some politicians in Sweden, Japan, Canada, the US, and other countries have called for such devices to be installed as standard equipment in all motor vehicles sold.\n\nIssues to be solved, besides consumer and voter acceptance, include difficulty in obtaining accurate measurements without inconvenience, and a need to achieve Six Sigma (6σ) reliability, in order to not interfere with vehicle usability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4739369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739369", "title": "International Anti-Bribery Act of 1998", "text": "International Anti-Bribery Act of 1998\n\nThe International Anti-Bribery and Fair Competition Act of 1998 () is a United States federal law that amends the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by implementing the provisions of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.\n\nThe act makes it illegal for a citizen or corporation of the United States or a person or corporation acting within the United States to influence, bribe or seek an advantage from a public official of another country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23997268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23997268", "title": "Kepler (opera)", "text": "Kepler (opera)\n\nKepler is an opera by Philip Glass set to a libretto in German and Latin by Martina Winkel. It premiered on 20 September 2009 at the Landestheater in the Austrian city of Linz with Dennis Russell Davies conducting the Bruckner Orchestra. Its libretto is based on the life and work of Johannes Kepler, the 16th and 17th century mathematician and astronomer. The work was commissioned by the Linz Landestheater and Linz09 (a programme celebrating the city's designation as a European Capital of Culture). The opera was performed in the USA for the first time in May 2012 at the Spoleto Festival; it was conducted by John Kennedy and directed by Sam Helfrich, featuring an English translation by Saskia M. Wesnigk-Wood.\n\nThis is the third opera by Glass to be inspired by a physicist, after \"Einstein on the Beach\" (1976) and \"Galileo Galilei\" (2002).\n\n\"Fragments from the life and ideas of the scientist Johannes Kepler are contrasted with segments from the story of creation and poems by Andreas Gryphius, which portray Europe during the Thirty Years War.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292155", "title": "Korean conflict", "text": "Korean conflict\n\nThe Korean conflict is based on the division between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the north and the Republic of Korea in the south, both of which claim to be the government of the entire peninsula. During the Cold War, North Korea was backed by the Soviet Union, China and other communist states, and South Korea was backed by the United States and its capitalist allies. The division of Korea by external powers occurred at the end of World War II in 1945, and tensions erupted into the Korean War, which lasted from 1950 to 1953. When the war ended, the country was devastated, but the division remained. North and South Korea continued a military standoff, with periodic clashes. The conflict survived the collapse of the Eastern Bloc of 1989 to 1991.\n\nThe U.S. maintains a military presence in the South to assist South Korea in accordance with the ROK–US Mutual Defense Treaty. In 1997, U.S. President Bill Clinton described the division of Korea as the \"Cold War's last divide\". In 2002, U.S. President George W. Bush described North Korea as a member of an \"axis of evil\". Facing increasing isolation, North Korea developed missile and nuclear capabilities. \n\nIn 2018, North and South Korea, and the United States, held a series of summits which promised peace and nuclear disarmament. This led to the Panmunjom Declaration on April 27 2018, where the two nations agreed to work together to end the conflict.\n\nKorea was annexed by the Empire of Japan in 1910. In the following decades during the Japanese occupation of Korea, nationalist and radical groups emerged, mostly in exile, to struggle for independence. Divergent in their outlooks and approaches, these groups failed to unite in one national movement. Based in China, the Korean Provisional Government failed to obtain widespread recognition. The many leaders agitating for Korean independence included the conservative and U.S.-educated Syngman Rhee, who lobbied the U.S. government, and the Communist Kim Il-sung, who fought a guerrilla war against the Japanese from neighboring Manchuria to the north of Korea.\n\nFollowing the end of the occupation, many high-ranking Koreans were accused of collaborating with Japanese imperialism. An intense and bloody struggle between various figures and political groups aspiring to lead Korea ensued.\n\nOn August 9, 1945, in the closing days of World War II, the Soviet Union declared war on Japan and advanced into Korea, at the request of the United States. Though the Soviet declaration of war had been agreed by the Allies at the Yalta Conference, the US government had agreed with the Russian government earlier that the Soviet advance would stop at the 38th parallel, which it did. The US government forces arrived a few weeks later and occupied the area south of the 38th parallel, including the capital, Seoul. This was incorporated into General Order No. 1 to Japanese forces after the surrender of Japan on August 15. On August 24, the Red Army entered Pyongyang and established a military government over Korea north of the parallel. American forces landed in the south on September 8 and established the United States Army Military Government in Korea. The American government had not consulted or asked permission of the Korean people or their representatives to conduct this division of the country. The division of the Korean peninsula by the US and Russia would set the stage for the civil war in 1950.\n\nThe Allies had originally envisaged a joint trusteeship which would steer Korea towards independence, but most Korean nationalists wanted independence immediately. Meanwhile, the wartime co-operation between the Soviet Union and the US deteriorated as the Cold War took hold. Both occupying powers began promoting into positions of authority Koreans aligned with their side of politics and marginalizing their opponents. Many of these emerging political leaders were returning exiles with little popular support. In North Korea, the Soviet Union supported Korean Communists. Kim Il-sung, who from 1941 had served in the Soviet Army, became the major political figure. Society was centralized and collectivized, following the Soviet model. Politics in the South were more tumultuous, but the strongly anti-Communist Syngman Rhee, who had been educated in the United States, was positioned as the most prominent politician. The rival leaders, Kim Koo and Lyuh Woon-hyung, were assassinated. Other popular leaders were deemed \"leftists\" by the US occupying forces and fled to the north to escape imprisonment.\n\nAs a result, two antagonistic states emerged, with diametrically opposed political, economic, and social systems. In South Korea, a general election was held on May 10, 1948. The Republic of Korea (or ROK) was established with Syngman Rhee as President, and formally replaced the US military occupation on August 15. In North Korea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (or DPRK) was declared on September 9, with Kim Il-sung, as prime minister. Soviet occupation forces left the DPRK on December 10, 1948. US forces left the ROK the following year, though the US Korean Military Advisory Group remained to train the Republic of Korea Army. The new regimes even adopted different names for Korea: the North choosing \"Choson\", and the South \"Hanguk\".\n\nBoth opposing governments considered themselves to be the government of the whole of Korea (as they do to this day), and both saw the division as temporary. Kim Il-sung lobbied Stalin and Mao for support in a war of reunification. Syngman Rhee repeatedly expressed his desire to conquer the North. In 1948 North Korea, which had almost all of the generators, turned off the electricity supply to the South. In the lead-up to the outbreak of civil war, there were frequent clashes along the 38th parallel, especially at Kaesong and Ongjin, initiated by both sides.\n\nThroughout this period there were uprisings in the South, such as the Jeju Uprising and the Yeosu–Suncheon Rebellion, that were brutally suppressed. In all, over one hundred thousand lives were lost in fighting across Korea before the Korean War began.\n\nBy 1950, North Korea had clear military superiority over the South. The Soviet occupiers had armed it with surplus weaponry and provided training. Many troops returning to North Korea were battle-hardened from their participation in the Chinese Civil War, which had just ended. Kim Il-sung expected a quick victory, predicting that there would be pro-Communist uprisings in the South and that the US would not intervene. Rather than perceiving the conflict as a civil war, however, the West saw it in Cold War terms as Communist aggression, related to recent events in China and Eastern Europe.\n\nNorth Korea invaded the South on June 25, 1950, and swiftly overran most of the country. In September 1950 United Nations force, led by the United States, intervened to defend the South, and following the Incheon Landing and breakout from the Busan Perimeter, rapidly advanced into North Korea. As they neared the border with China, Chinese forces intervened on behalf of North Korea, shifting the balance of the war again. Fighting ended on July 27, 1953, with an armistice that approximately restored the original boundaries between North and South Korea.\n\nKorea was devastated. Around three million civilians and soldiers had been killed. Seoul was in ruins, having changed hands four times. Almost every substantial building in North Korea had been destroyed. As a result, North Koreans developed a deep-seated antagonism towards the US.\n\nNegotiations for an armistice began on July 10, 1951, as the war continued. The main issues were the establishment of a new demarcation line and the exchange of prisoners. After Stalin died, the Soviet Union brokered concessions which led to an agreement on July 27, 1953.\n\nSyngman Rhee opposed the armistice because it left Korea divided. As negotiations drew to a close, he attempted to sabotage the arrangements for the release of prisoners, and led mass rallies against the armistice. He refused to sign the agreement, but reluctantly agreed to abide by it.\n\nThe armistice inaugurated an official ceasefire but did not lead to a peace treaty. It established the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), a buffer zone between the two sides, that intersected the 38th parallel but did not follow it. Despite its name, the border was, and continues to be, one of the most militarized in the world.\n\nNorth Korea announced that it will no longer abide by the armistice at least six times, in the years 1994, 1996, 2003, 2006, 2009, and 2013.\n\nAfter the war, the Chinese forces left, but US forces remained in the South. Sporadic conflict continued between North and South Korea. On October 1, 1953, the United States and South Korea signed a defense treaty. In 1958, the United States stationed nuclear weapons in South Korea. In 1961, North Korea signed mutual defense treaties with the USSR and China. During this period, North Korea was described by former CIA director Robert Gates to be the \"toughest intelligence target in the world\". Alongside the military confrontation, there has been a propaganda war, including balloon propaganda campaigns.\n\nThe opposing regimes aligned themselves with opposing sides in the Cold War. Both sides received recognition as the legitimate government of Korea from the opposing blocs.\n\nNorth Korea presented itself as a champion of orthodox Communism, distinct from the Soviet Union and China. The regime developed the doctrine of Juche or self-reliance, which included extreme military mobilization. In response to the threat of nuclear war, it constructed extensive facilities underground and in the mountains. The Pyongyang Metro opened in the 1970s, with the capacity to double as bomb shelter. Until the early 1970s, North Korea was economically the equal of the South.\n\nSouth Korea became a strongly anti-Communist military dictatorship and was heavily involved in the Vietnam War. North Korea's occupation left behind a guerrilla movement that persisted in the Cholla provinces.\n\nTensions between North and South escalated in the late 1960s with a series of low-level armed clashes known as the Korean DMZ Conflict. In 1966, Kim declared \"liberation of the south\" to be a \"national duty\". In 1968, North Korean commandos launched the Blue House Raid, an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate the South Korean President Park Chung-hee. Shortly after, the US spy ship Pueblo was captured by the North Korean navy. The Americans saw the crisis in terms of the global confrontation with Communism, but, rather than orchestrating the incident, the Soviet government was concerned by it. The crisis was initiated by Kim, inspired by Communist successes in the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1967, Korean-born composer Isang Yun was kidnapped in West Germany by South Korean agents and imprisoned in South Korea for spying for the North. He was released after an international outcry.\n\nIn 1969, North Korea shot down a US EC-121 spy plane over the Sea of Japan, killing all 31 crew on board, which constitutes the largest single loss of US aircrew during the Cold War. In 1969, Korean Air Lines YS-11 was hijacked and flown to North Korea. Similarly, in 1970, the hijackers of Japan Airlines Flight 351 were given asylum in North Korea. In response to the Blue House Raid, the South Korean government set up a special unit to assassinate Kim Il-sung, but the mission was aborted in 1972.\n\nIn 1974 a North Korean sympathizer attempted to assassinate President Park and killed his wife, Yuk Young-soo. In 1976, the Panmunjeom Axe incident led to the death of two US Army officers in the DMZ and threatened to trigger a wider war. In the 1970s, North Korea kidnapped a number of Japanese citizens.\n\nIn 1976, in now-declassified minutes, US Deputy Secretary of Defense William Clements told Henry Kissinger that there had been 200 raids or incursions into North Korea from the South, though not by the U.S. military. According to South Korean politicians who have campaigned for compensation for the survivors, more than 7,700 secret agents infiltrated North Korea from 1953 to 1972, of which about 5,300 are believed not to have returned. Details of only a few of these incursions have become public, including raids by South Korean forces in 1967 that had sabotaged about 50 North Korean facilities. Other missions included targeting advisers from China and the Soviet Union in order to undermine relations between North Korea and its allies.\n\nDuring the 1970s, both North and South began building up their military capacity. It was discovered that North Korea had dug tunnels under the DMZ which could accommodate thousands of troops. Alarmed at the prospect of US disengagement, South Korea began a secret nuclear weapons program which was strongly opposed by Washington.\n\nIn 1977, US President Jimmy Carter proposed the withdrawal of troops from South Korea. There was a widespread backlash in America and in South Korea, and critics argued that this would allow the North to capture Seoul. Carter postponed the move, and his successor Ronald Reagan reversed the policy, increasing troop numbers to forty-three thousand. After Reagan supplied the South with F-16 fighters, and after Kim Il-sung visited Moscow in 1984, the USSR recommenced military aid and co-operation with the North.\n\nUnrest in the South came to a head with the Gwangju Uprising in 1980. The dictatorship equated dissent with North Korean subversion. On the other hand, some young protesters viewed the US as complicit in political repression and identified with the North's nationalist propaganda.\n\nIn 1983 North Korea carried out the Rangoon bombing, a failed assassination attempt against South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan while he was visiting Burma. The bombing of Korean Air Flight 858 in 1987, in the lead up to the Seoul Olympics, led to the US government placing North Korea on its list of terrorist countries.\n\nIn the 1980s, the South Korean government built a 98m tall flagpole in its village of Daeseong-dong in the DMZ. In response, North Korea built a 160m tall flagpole in its nearby village of Kijŏng-dong.\n\nAs the Cold War ended, North Korea lost the support of the Soviet Union and plunged into an economic crisis. With the death of Leader Kim Il-sung in 1994, there were expectations that the North Korean government could collapse and the peninsula would be reunified.\n\nIn response to its increased isolation, North Korea redoubled its efforts to develop nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missiles. In 1994, US President Bill Clinton considered bombing the Yongbyon nuclear reactor, but he later dismissed this option when he was advised that if war broke out, it could cost 52,000 US and 490,000 South Korean military casualties in the first three months, as well as a large number of civilian casualties. Instead, in 1994, the US and North Korea signed an Agreed Framework which aimed to freeze North Korea's nuclear program. In 1998, South Korean President Kim Dae-jung initiated the Sunshine Policy which aimed to foster better relations with the North. However, in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, U.S. President George W Bush denounced the policy, and in 2002 branded North Korea as a member of an \"Axis of Evil\". Six-party talks involving North and South Korea, the United States, Russia, Japan, and China commenced in 2003 but failed to achieve a resolution. In 2006, North Korea announced it had successfully conducted its first nuclear test. The Sunshine Policy was formally abandoned by South Korean President Lee Myung-bak after his election in 2007.\n\nAt the start of the twenty first century, it was estimated that the concentration of firepower in the area between Pyongyang and Seoul was greater than that in central Europe during the Cold War. The North's Korean People's Army was numerically twice the size of South Korea's military and had the capacity to devastate Seoul with artillery and missile bombardment. South Korea's military, however, was assessed as being technically superior in many ways. US forces remained in South Korea and carried out annual military exercises with South Korean forces, including Key Resolve, Foal Eagle, and Ulchi-Freedom Guardian. These have been routinely denounced by North Korea as acts of aggression. Between 1997 and 2016, the North Korea government accused other governments of declaring war against it 200 times. Analysts have described the US garrison as a tripwire ensuring American military involvement, but some have queried whether sufficient reinforcements would be forthcoming.\n\nDuring this period, two North Korean submarines were captured after being stranded on the South Korean coast, one near Gangneung in 1996 and one near Sokcho in 1998. In December 1998, the South Korean navy sank a North Korean semi-submersible in the Battle of Yeosu. In 2001, the Japanese Coast Guard sank a North Korean spy ship in the Battle of Amami-Ōshima.\n\nSouth Korea ceased sending \"North Korea Demolition Agents\" to raid the North in the early 2000s.\n\nConflict intensified near the disputed maritime boundary known as the Northern Limit Line in the Yellow Sea. In 1999 and 2002, there were clashes between the navies of North and South Korea, known as the First and Second battle of Yeonpyeong. On March 26, 2010, a South Korean naval vessel, the ROKS Cheonan, sank, near Baengnyeong Island in the Yellow Sea and a North Korean torpedo was blamed. On November 23, 2010, in response to a joint military exercise, North Korea fired artillery at South Korea's Greater Yeonpyeong island in the Yellow Sea, and South Korea returned fire.\n\nIn 2013, amidst tensions about its missile program, North Korea forced the temporary shutdown of the jointly operated Kaesong Industrial Region. The zone was shut again in 2016. A South Korean parliamentarian was convicted of plotting a campaign of sabotage to support the North in 2013 and jailed for 12 years. In 2014, according to the \"New York Times\", US President Barack Obama ordered the intensification of cyber and electronic warfare to disrupt North Korea's missile testing. However, this account has been disputed by analysts from the Nautilus Institute.\n\nIn 2016, in the face of protests, South Korea decided to deploy the US THAAD anti-missile system. After North Korea's fifth nuclear test in September 2016, it was reported that South Korea had developed a plan to raze Pyongyang if there were signs of an impending nuclear attack from the North. A North Korean numbers station started broadcasting again, after a break of 16 years, apparently sending coded messages to agents in the South. As South Korea was convulsed by scandal, North Korea enthusiastically supported the removal of President Park Geun-hye, intensifying leaflet drops. In turn, Park's supporters accused the opposition Liberty Korea Party of basing its logo on Pyongyang's Juche Tower.\n\nIn March 2017, it was reported that the South Korean government had increased the rewards to North Korean defectors who brought classified information or military equipment with them. It was also reported that in 2016 North Korea hackers had stolen classified South Korean military data, including a plan for the killing of Kim Jong-un. According to cybersecurity experts, North Korea maintained an army of hackers trained to disrupt enemy computer networks and steal both money and sensitive data. In the previous decade, it was blamed for numerous cyber-attacks and other hacking attacks in South Korea and elsewhere , one of which included a hack of Sony Pictures over the release of the 2013 film The Interview, which depicts the assassination of Kim Jong-un.\n\nIn 2017, the incoming U.S. President Donald Trump abandoned the policy of \"strategic patience\" associated with the preceding Obama administration. Later in the year, Moon Jae-in was elected President of South Korea with a promise to return to the Sunshine Policy.\n\nOn July 4, 2017, North Korea successfully conducted its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), named Hwasong-14. It conducted another test on July 28. On August 5, 2017, the UN imposed further sanctions which were met with defiance from the North Korean government. \nFollowing the sanctions, Trump warned that North Korean nuclear threats \"will be met with fire, fury and frankly power, the likes of which the world has never seen before\". In response, North Korea announced that it was considering a missile test in which the missiles would land near the US territory of Guam. On August 29, North Korea fired another missile. Days later with tensions still high, North Korea conducted their sixth nuclear test on September 3. The test was met with international condemnation and resulted in further economic sanctions being taken against North Korea. Just over two weeks after their previous test, North Korea launched another missile. On November 28, North Korea launched another missile, which, according to analysts, would be capable of reaching anywhere in the United States. The test resulted in the United Nations placing further sanctions on the country.\n\nIn January 2018, the Vancouver Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on Security and Stability on Korean Peninsula was co-hosted by Canada and the USA regarding ways to increase the effectiveness of the sanctions on North Korea. The co-chairs (Canadian Foreign Minister Freeland and U.S. Secretary of State Tillerson) issued a summary that emphasized the urgency of persuading North Korea to denuclearize and emphasizing the need for sanctions to create conditions for a diplomatic solution.\n\nWhen Kim Jong-un proposed participating in the 2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea in his New Year's address, the Seoul–Pyongyang hotline was reopened after almost two years. In February, North Korea sent an unprecedented high-level delegation to the Games, headed by Kim Yo-jong, sister of Kim Jong-un, and President Kim Yong-nam, which passed on an invitation to President Moon to visit the North. Kim Jong-un and Moon met at the Joint Security Area on April 27, where they announced that their governments would work toward a denuclearized Korean Peninsula and formalize peace between North and South Korea. On June 12, Kim met with Donald Trump at a summit in Singapore and signed a declaration, affirming the same commitment. Trump announced that he would halt military exercises with South Korea and foreshadowed withdrawing American troops entirely. In September, at a summit with Moon in Pyongyang, Kim agreed to dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons facilities if the United States took reciprocal action. The two governments also announced that they would establish buffer zones on their borders to prevent clashes.\n\nOn November 1, 2018, buffer zones were established across the DMZ to help ensure the end of hostility on land, sea and air. The buffer zones stretch from the north of Deokjeok Island to the south of Cho Island in the West Sea and the north of Sokcho city and south of Tongchon County in the East (Yellow) Sea. In addition, no fly zones were established along the DMZ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649640", "title": "Large Installation System Administration Conference", "text": "Large Installation System Administration Conference\n\nLISA is the Large Installation System Administration Conference, co-sponsored by the computing professional organizations USENIX and its LISA special interest group (formerly known as SAGE).\n\nThe word \"large\" was dropped from the title of the 6th conference in 1992 (though retaining the \"LISA\" name). The full acronym was restored in the title of the 2003 conference and remains in use today. The definition of \"large\" was originally understood to mean sites with over 100 users or over 100 terabytes of storage. \n\nThe LISA conference were first held in 1987. The USENIX web site lists proceedings as far back as 1987, though only those proceedings from 1993 onward are available online. Attendance has recently been in the 1000-2000 range.\n\nThe conference is typically held in the fall in a conference center hotel somewhere in the United States. Between 1987 and 2008, roughly half of them were somewhere in California. It generally runs six days: six days of full-day and half-day tutorial training sessions, three days of technical sessions, and a two-day vendor exhibition. The technical sessions usually include multiple tracks, including a peer reviewed refereed paper track, invited talks, and a \"Guru-Is-In\" Q&A track.\n\nFor many years, the conference often ended with a LISA quiz show trivia contest, but that has been replaced with a plenary session to close out the week.\n\nThe refereed papers are published in a proceedings volume. Many important topics in system administration were first disseminated publicly via LISA papers. \n\n"}
{"id": "5555573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5555573", "title": "Las Cruces Jail", "text": "Las Cruces Jail\n\n\"Las Cruces Jail\" is the first single from the album, \"What the Toll Tells\" by Two Gallants. It was a limited, 7\" single. The album was the 90th release of Saddle Creek Records.\n\nThe song's lyrics are about Billy the Kid's imprisonment near Las Cruces, New Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57423937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57423937", "title": "Lessons in Love and Violence", "text": "Lessons in Love and Violence\n\nLessons in Love and Violence is an opera with music by George Benjamin and libretto by Martin Crimp. The opera, which is based on the story of King Edward II and Piers Gaveston, was premiered at the Royal Opera House London on 10 May 2018, conducted by the composer and directed by Katie Mitchell. The opera was a co-production with Dutch National Opera, Hamburg State Opera, Opéra de Lyon, Lyric Opera of Chicago, Gran Teatre del Liceu, Barcelona, and Teatro Real, Madrid.\n\nThe opera covers the events set out in Christopher Marlowe's play \"Edward II\", which combines the story of Edward and Gaveston (who was murdered in 1312), with the deposition of Edward II by Mortimer (1327) and the overthrow of Mortimer and Edward's queen Isabella of France by Edward III (1330).\n\nThe opera is in two parts, of four and three scenes respectively, and is performed without a break. King Edward is not referred to by name, only as 'the King'. Similarly his wife Queen Isabella is referred to simply as Isabel, and his son, later Edward III, is listed as 'Boy, later Young King'. Both Gaveston and Edward's nemesis Mortimer are named.\n\nScene 1. Mortimer criticizes the King's obsession with his lover, Gaveston, at a time when his people are suffering from war and starvation. The King strips Mortimer of his wealth and lands.\n\nScene 2. Mortimer impresses on Isabel the King's dereliction of his duties by confronting her with representatives of the suffering people. She agrees to support Mortimer's campaign against Gaveston.\n\nScene 3. Gaveston is arrested during an entertainment at the King's residence.\n\nScene 4. The King rejects Isabel when he hears of Gaveston's death.\n\nScene 1. Isabel is now living with Mortimer. They instruct the King's son to assert his royalty by presenting him with a madman who believes that he himself is the true King.\n\nScene 2. The King is in prison. Mortimer persuades him to abdicate. Death, in the guise of Gaveston, claims the King.\n\nScene 3. The King's son, having succeeded to the throne, rejects Isabel and arranges the death of Mortimer.\n\nThe opera received a positive reception in the British press, with some reservations. The review in \"The Guardian\" commented: \"[D]espite the care that has so clearly gone into every aspect of the production, it often seems to be the orchestral music that is really in charge of the drama, as if the usual priorities of opera have been reversed. In the end the terrible story becomes the excuse for some striking music rather than being driven along by it.\" The critic in the \"Daily Telegraph\" commented that he \" left Covent Garden impressed rather than excited or moved. For all the refinements, Benjamin and Crimp haven’t moved on from \"Written on Skin\" [their previous opera] so much as shuffled the cards to play the same game.\" \"The Stage\" however praised the opera: \"George Benjamin’s new work on the subject of Edward II once again shows his operatic mastery.\"\n"}
{"id": "43521481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43521481", "title": "Libya Revolutionaries Operations Room", "text": "Libya Revolutionaries Operations Room\n\nThe Libya Revolutionaries Operations Room (abbreviated LROR; ) is an armed group loyal to Nouri Abusahmain. It has been declared a terrorist organization by the Libyan parliament. It is heavily involved in the Second Libyan Civil War.\n\nThe LROR was established in 2013 by Nouri Abusahmain, who had recently been elected GNC President. He formed the LROR by uniting existing militias under his command. Its official task was to keep order in Tripoli. He allegedly misappropriated 900 million Libyan Dinars (US $720 million) to the benefit of the LROR, but this was not investigated as Abusahmain himself suppressed the inquiry. Soon after being formed, the LROR attempted an Islamist coup when the group kidnapped Prime Minister Ali Zeidan in October 2013. The LROR later set up a branch in Benghazi, purportedly to deal with the deteriorating security situation.\n\nThe LROR was created in the fall of 2013 by GNC President Nouri Abusahmain, who tasked it with providing security to Tripoli. The LROR was later involved in the 10 October kidnapping of Prime Minister Ali Zeidan, who it charged with corruption. Zeidan was later rescued the same day after the building where LROR was keeping him was surrounded by a mixture of local protesters and pro-Zeidan militias.\n\nOn 27 October 2013, Zeidan supporters walked out of a GNC session in protest to last minute changes to the agenda made by Abusahmain. In the changes Abusahmain cancelled a request by GNC members to disestablish the LROR, and also cancelled a request to establish a committee to investigate the allocation by Abusahmain of 900 million Libyan Dinars ($720 million) to the LROR and various other militias. The GNC members had claimed that the allocations made by Abusahmain had been against GNC rules.\n\nOn 3 November 2013, the GNC voted to withdraw the LROR's mandate to provide security for Tripoli. In response to the vote LROR forces surrounded the building where the GNC was meeting in an attempt to intimidate members of the GNC. In a compromise vote the GNC agreed to maintain the LROR's mandate for Tripoli, on the terms that the LROR was brought under the control of the General Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "1289573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289573", "title": "List of school pranks", "text": "List of school pranks\n\nA school prank is a prank primarily occurring in a school setting. The effect and intent of school pranks may range from everyday play and consensual bonding behavior to crimes including hazing, bullying and assault, including sexual assault.\n\nThe objective of the \"circle game\" or \"basic killer\" to form a circle with one's thumb and forefinger (the \"OK\" gesture) on the leg below the waist and get someone else to look at it. If the person looks, the gesture-maker gets to hit them, or is simply considered \"out\" or \"killed\". In some variations the target can put their index finger through the hole without looking at it and thereby win the right to punch the maker of the gesture.\n\nPantsing (also known as \"flagging\", \"depantsing\", \"pantsing\" and various other names) is the act of pulling down a person's trousers and sometimes also the person's underwear, which reveals the person's genitalia. The most common method is to sneak up behind the intended victim, grab the waistband of the garment, and apply a quick downward tug before the victim is aware of the debagger's presence.\n\nThe heel of the victim is trodden upon, which may cause the victim to fall. Stepping on the rear portion of the shoe as the foot lifts and thereby removing it is also a \"heels\" variant known as a \"flat tire\" or \"score\". A variant is to kick their heel forwards as it lifts, known as an \"airwalk\".\n\nThis is a prank done by grasping the victim's forearm firmly in both hands, and then twisting the hands in opposite directions about the victim's arm to stretch their skin, making it red and sore.\n\nKnown primarily as a \"Chinese burn\" or a \"snake bite\" in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand, \"buffalo skin\" in India, \"snake bite\", \"Chinese Sunburn\" or \"Indian rub\" in Canada, and \"Indian burn\", \"Indian sunburn\" or \"Indian rug burn\" in the United States (except in some midwest states such as Wisconsin and Illinois where it is known as a snakebite), \"Indian burn\" in France, \"policeman's glove\" or \"hundred needles\" in Hungary, \"barbed wire\" in the Netherlands, \"needles\" in Romania and Bulgaria and \"Brennessel\" (\"stinging nettle\") in Austria, Switzerland and the southern parts of Germany, \"thousand needle stings\" in the northern parts of Germany, \"manita de puerco\" (pork's little hand) in Mexico, \"little fire\" in the Czech Republic, \"thousand needles\" in Sweden, \"Nettle\" in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia, \"French cuff\" in Norway and Denmark, \"kuuma makkara\" (hot sausage) or \"nokkonen\" (nettle) in Finland and again \"snakebite\" in Flanders.\n\nKancho is a prank played in Japan; it is performed by clasping the hands together so the index fingers are pointing out and attempting to insert them sharply into someone's anal region when the victim is not looking. It is similar to the wedgie or a goosing. Kancho means \"enema\". In South Korea it is known as \"ddong-chim\" This prank is also played in Scotland, in this case known as a 'fishy' or 'jobbie jab'. In Brazil is known as Pula Pirata (literally, Jump Pirate), named after the name which the game Pop-up Pirate is known there.\n\nA note (commonly reading \"Kick me\") is attached to the back of an unsuspecting victim. This prank may be performed with Post-it notes or other items, such as paper and tape. There are also other signs such as Slap Me or Push Me signs too.\n\n\"Mooning\" is displaying one's bared buttocks to someone, so-called because the buttocks are generally not suntanned, so resemble a full moon. It is commonly performed out of windows of moving buses and cars.\n\nSometimes called a \"Monkey Scrub\", \"Hippo Handing\" or \"Russian Haircut\", a noogie is performed when the middle knuckles of the fore and middle fingers are rubbed vigorously against the surface of the scalp, stretching the skin and pulling the hair. A headlock may be applied for more exact or prolonged execution. This will trap the victim. The headlock noogie is called \"La Savonette du Chef\" (\"The chief's bath soap\") in the area around Toulon, France.\nAlso described as a 'Skully' in Australian Playgrounds circa 1980's.\nAn open-hand variant known as the Dutch Rub is performed with the heel of the hand. In Czech Republic noogie is called \"peanut\".\n\nThis prank involves the tying of a victim's shoe laces together, typically while the victim is seated and distracted. The laces may also be tied to a nearby object such as a chair leg. This may cause the victim to unexpectedly trip or stumble when attempting to get up and move. This prank may be combined with a taunt or additional prank designed to provoke the victim into getting up and running after the prankster, resulting in a more pronounced effect. A related but more destructive prank involves secretly cutting the shoelaces with scissors.\n\nAnother variant of this prank involves tying another student's backpack to a table. This is often done at lunch time to cause panic when the bell rings for students to go back to class and the victim only then realizes their predicament.\n\nApple-pie (UK) or short-sheet (US) bed is a prank done at boarding schools, college dorms, camps or on excursions where children sleep in full beds (also common in the military services). A bed sheet is untucked at the head end of the bed and folded, making it look as if it is two sheets (an undersheet and top sheet). The victim will find that he or she cannot get into bed (as doing this \"shortens\" the bed length). Also known as a 'wallet bed' (\"lit en portefeuille\") in France and as an 'apple-pie bed' in the UK. An apple-pie bed sometimes involves sewing up the sheets with a needle and thread so that it is impossible for the prankee to get in, and requires a degree of effort to make the bed usable again.\n\nA \"spitball\" is a clump of paper that the prankster has chewed and made wet with saliva, to be thrown, spat, or blown at a person or object. If not removed from some types of surface, they dry and harden into a sort of paper cement. Small spitballs are often propelled by placing them in a straw or the shaft of a disassembled hollow pen and blowing through the other end. Larger spitballs are sometimes flicked with the fingers, a flexible ruler or through the use of a rubber band. Sometimes, whole sheets of paper are crumpled and inserted into the mouth for a period of up to five minutes to form a large spitball that is usually thrown manually.\n\nThe act of holding the victim upside down and dunking his or her head in a toilet bowl while flushing water. Instances of swirling have been prosecuted in courts.\nAlso known as a \"towel whip\", \"towel whipping\", a \"rat-tail\", or \"rat-tailing\", or \"kangaroo tail\" in Australia, the prankster twists a towel along the diagonal (typically dampened to hold its shape) by spinning it at the corner, making it into a whip with a towel corner at the tip. The prankster then \"snaps\" the towel as if cracking a whip, striking the victim with the end tip of the towel and causing pain. This prank is usually performed in communal showers, where wet towels are plentiful and bare skin provides opportunity to maximize the pain inflicted.\n\nA wedgie (sometimes also known as a \"gotchie\" or \"grundy\" or \"melvin\" and in instances where the undergarments are torn off, a \"Chinese Laundry\") is any one of a variety of pranks involving pulling the victim's underwear up so that it wedges between the buttocks and may even be performed to the extent that the victim's underpants are torn off. The victim's underwear may also be hung on something in a more extreme form of this prank. A wedgie may be performed by one attacker, or by a group. On April 6, 2006, Fox News reported on an Albany, New York teacher who was arrested for endangering the welfare of a child by giving the 10-year-old student a wedgie.\n\nA prank whereby an assailant moistens one of their fingers with saliva, quietly sneaks up behind a victim and inserts the finger into the victim's ear hole. While the wet willy is primarily an elementary school prank, it is occasionally seen in higher institutions of learning, including the post doc level.\n\n"}
{"id": "1561007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561007", "title": "Little Belt affair", "text": "Little Belt affair\n\nThe \"Little Belt\" affair was a naval battle on the night of 16 May 1811. It involved the United States frigate and the British sixth-rate , a sloop-of-war, which had originally been the Danish ship \"Lillebælt\", before being captured by the British in the 1807 Battle of Copenhagen. The encounter took place off the North Carolina coast.\nThe \"Little Belt\" Affair was one of many incidents and events that led to the War of 1812.\n\nThe \"Little Belt\" affair occurred four years after the \"Chesapeake\"–\"Leopard\" affair of 1807, in which had attacked , killing three, wounding eighteen, and putting four of her sailors on trial for desertion. It was fifteen days after an incident involving , a frigate. On 1 May \"Guerriere\" had stopped the brig off Sandy Hook in New Jersey and had impressed Maine citizen John Diggio, the apprentice sailing master of \"Spitfire\". Secretary of the Navy Paul Hamilton had ordered \"President\", along with , to patrol the coastal areas from the Carolinas to New York.\n\nCommodore John Rodgers, commanding the frigate \"President\", had left Annapolis several days earlier and was aware of the \"Guerriere\" incident. He was off the Virginia Capes and sailing up the coast towards New York. \"Little Belt\" was sighted to the east at about noon on 16 May. Believing her to be \"Guerriere\", Rodgers pursued. \"Little Belt\"s captain, Arthur Bingham, had spotted \"President\" one hour earlier. Bingham signaled \"President\" asking for identification but received none. However, he noticed a blue pennant showing the ship's nationality was American. Bingham continued south, but Rodgers continued his pursuit because he wanted to know the stranger's identity. By 15:30, \"President\" was close enough for Rodgers to make out part of the British ship's stern. However, the angle at which he saw her made her appear larger than she was. \"Little Belt\" was much smaller than \"President\", displacing only 460 tons in contrast to \"President\"s 1,576. The sloop mounted 20 guns, while \"President\" carried 56.\n\nThe British and American accounts disagree on what followed. As \"President\" closed with \"Little Belt\", Bingham thought the frigate was manuevering to rake his ship with gunfire. Bingham wore ship three times to avoid the threat. The ships were not within hailing range until long after sunset. At about 10:15, each captain demanded the other identify his ship. Each refused to answer before the other. Each captain later claimed he had been the first to ask. Shortly after this a shot was fired, but it is disputed who shot it. The ships were soon engaged in a battle which the sloop had no chance of winning. After fifteen minutes, most of Bingham's guns had been put out of action, and Rodgers ordered a cease fire. \"President\" returned and Rodgers asked Bingham if he had struck. Bingham replied he had not, and \"President\" withdrew.\n\n\"President\" had only one man injured. \"Little Belt\" suffered nine dead and 23 injured (two of them fatally). The sloop was also badly damaged in the encounter. The next morning, Lieutenant John Creighton went from \"President\" to \"Little Belt\" to lament the affair and offer Bingham space at any American port, which he declined. Bingham asked why \"President\" had attacked his much smaller ship. Creighton said it was because \"Little Belt\" had \"provoked\" the action. Bingham rejected the charge.\n\n\"President\" sailed on to New York City, and \"Little Belt\" went to the North America Station in Halifax, Nova Scotia, escorted by The British and American governments argued about the encounter for months. Rodgers insisted that he had mistaken the sloop for a frigate and was adamant that Bingham had fired first. The Admiralty expressed their confidence in Bingham and promoted him to post-captain on 7 February 1812.\n\nOn 19 August 1812, after war had finally broken out, HMS \"Guerriere\" sailed into her ill-fated action against . Painted across her foretopsail were the words \"NOT THE LITTLE BELT\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7647631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7647631", "title": "Lyrids", "text": "Lyrids\n\nThe April Lyrids (LYR, IAU shower number 6 ) are a meteor shower lasting from April 16 to April 26 each year. The radiant of the meteor shower is located in the constellation Lyra, near this constellation's brightest star, Alpha Lyrae (proper name Vega). Their peak is typically around April 22 each year.\n\nThe source of the meteor shower is particles of dust shed by the long-period Comet C/1861 G1 Thatcher. The April Lyrids are the strongest annual shower of meteors from debris of a long-period comet, mainly because as far as other intermediate long-period comets go (200–10,000 years), this one has a relatively short orbital period of about 415 years. The Lyrids have been observed and reported since 687 BC; no other modern shower has been recorded as far back in time.\n\nThe shower usually peaks on around April 22 and the morning of April 23. Counts typically range from 5 to 20 meteors per hour, averaging around 10. As a result of light pollution, observers in rural areas will see more than observers in a city. Nights without a moon in the sky will reveal the most meteors. April Lyrid meteors are usually around magnitude +2. However, some meteors can be brighter, known as \"Lyrid fireballs\", cast shadows for a split second and leave behind smokey debris trails that last minutes.\n\nOccasionally, the shower intensifies when the planets steer the one-revolution dust trail of the comet into Earth's path, an event that happens about once every 60 years. This results in an April Lyrid meteor outburst. The one-revolution dust trail is dust that has completed one orbit: the stream of dust released in the return of the comet prior to the current 1862 return.This mechanism replaces earlier ideas that the outbursts were due to a cloud of dust moving in a 60-year orbit. In 1982, amateur astronomers counted 90 April Lyrids per hour at the peak and similar rates were seen in 1922. A stronger storm of up to 700 per hour occurred in 1803, observed by a journalist in Richmond, Virginia:\nShooting stars. This electrical [sic] phenomenon was observed on Wednesday morning last at Richmond and its vicinity, in a manner that alarmed many, and astonished every person that beheld it. From one until three in the morning, those starry meteors seemed to fall from every point in the heavens, in such numbers as to resemble a shower of sky rockets ...\nAnother such outburst, and the oldest known, the shower on March 23.7, 687 BC (proleptic Julian calendar) was recorded in \"Zuo Zhuan\", which describes the shower as \"On the 4th month in the summer in the year of xīn-mǎo (of year 7 of King Zhuang of Lu), at night, (the sky is so bright that some) fixed stars become invisible (because of the meteor shower); at midnight, stars fell like rain.\" (夏四月辛卯 夜 恆星不見 夜中 星隕如雨) In the Australian Aboriginal astronomy of the Boorong tribe, the Lyrids represent the scratchings of the Mallee fowl (represented by Vega), coinciding with its nest-building season.\n\n"}
{"id": "23375196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375196", "title": "Michigan Festival of Sacred Music", "text": "Michigan Festival of Sacred Music\n\nThe Michigan Festival of Sacred Music (MFSM) is a biennial music festival in southwest Michigan that shares the music of diverse religious traditions. The festival occurs during the second weekend in November in odd-numbered years. Events include public concerts and presentations, lectures, and related workshops.\n\nThe mission of the Michigan Festival of Sacred Music is to present high quality events which represent different religious traditions, promoting mutual respect and understanding through sharing the music treasured by these traditions, and promoting community interaction.\n\nIn 1998 the Congregation of the First Baptist Church of Kalamazoo, Michigan voted to explore the desirability and feasibility of introducing a biennial festival of sacred music into the Kalamazoo Area. With support from the Irving S. Gilmore and Kalamazoo Community Foundations and input from Kalamazoo-area religious and community leaders, the project got underway in January 1999. An opinion survey to determine its desirability concluded that such a festival is both desirable and feasible. In January 2000 and area-wide representative group met to prepare for its introduction and decided to call it the Michigan Festival of Sacred Music. A Board of Directors was formed with the goal of making the festival a reality in November 2001. \n\nThe first full MFSM festival in 2001 was an overwhelming success, and the Michigan Festival of Sacred Music, now an independent organization, has continued planning and presenting the biennial festivals. It is supported by numerous grants and individual contributions, showing the strong support the festival's goals continue to have. It continues to be led by a Board and Advisory Council made up of community leaders and representatives of many different faiths. In 2004, the MFSM presented its first off-season event, which proved to be a great success. The MFSM plans to continue the presentation of single off-season events.\n\nIn 2007, the MFSM took over co-sponsorship of the Sing-Along Messiah, shared with First Congregational Church. This event, which drew over 500 attendees (including about 40 homeless people) in 2007, generally occurs annually on the Sunday following Thanksgiving. In 2007, the MFSM assumed the co-sponsorship role which had previously been taken by the Kalamazoo Bach Festival Society.\n\nAs attendance increases with each MFSM, the response from the public and the artists themselves shows that the MFSM provides a much-needed channel for mutual understanding of diverse religious traditions and cultures. The first festival, occurring as it did soon after the 2001 terrorist attacks, had a powerful healing quality. As our community continues to try to make sense of events unfolding on the world stage, we find the subsequent festivals to be as meaningful as the first. The high quality of the performing artists and programming makes the festivals valuable aesthetic experiences, as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "42089708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42089708", "title": "NGOM Fest", "text": "NGOM Fest\n\nNGOM Fest is a music festival established in Prizren, Kosovo. The word \"Ngom\" is written in \"Gheg Albanian\" dialect and it means \"Listen to me\" whereas the word \"Fest\" represents the abbreviation of the word \"Festival\". This Festival originates from a group of young and creative people who are active in the social life of \"Prizren\" and \"Kosovo\". The first edition of the festival was held in June 2011 and due to its major success, the activists were more committed in organizing this event. The main objectives of this festival are to promote new bands and artists, build a new perspective for music festivals in Kosovo, and to connect different ethnic groups in \"Kosovo\" and in the region.\n\nThe first edition of the festival took place on June 24, 2011. The success that this festival had in its first year had set a solid base for the future editions. This achievement helped promote cultural inheritance including the sightseeing's of Prizren, qualitative music and aided to raise awareness of environmental issues. At the same time, numerous events concerning different social and cultural issues were held during the course of three days of this festival. The main focus was to address problems that preoccupy the youth and the society in general. During the first edition, this festival was awarded by the Municipality of Prizren with the prize “The Most Massive Event of the Year 2011\".\n\nThe second edition of the festival took place on June 22, 2012. It lasted three days and had six stages. These stages included \"Shatervan\" stage, \"Parkingu\" stage, \"Marash\" stage, \"Ngom Cafe\" stage, \"Promo\" Stage and \"Classical Music\" stage. The activities that were held during the duration of NGOM Fest included Photography exhibition, Workshop for Recycling, Workshop Drums Clinic, Disc Collections - The Old time Music, The city of bicycles, Exhibition with ecycled objects, Cleaning the city and planting seeds, NGOM Caffe, NGOM Shop and NGOM Camp. During the second edition, this festival was awarded by the Municipality of Prizren with the prize \"The Event of the Year\".\n\nThe third edition of NGOM Fest took place in Prizren during a course of three days, from 5 to 7 July 2013. \nThe main focus of 2013’s NGOM Fest edition was electronic music such as \"drum and bass\", \"dubstep\", progressive techno, \"trip hop\", \"break\" and \"rock\" genres such as \"heavy metal\" and \"punk rock\". More than 30 music bands performed in this edition, among them the Turkish band \"Baba Zula\", known for combining traditional Turkish instruments with electronic and reggae instruments. Other artists who performed in NGOM Fest include, Lenzman, the famous Dutch DJ and producer performed drum and bass music and the Kosovar rock band Troja.\n\nThe opening ceremony of the festival starts at 19:00. During this show, secondary school pupils from Kosovo and students of the “Academy of Music in Prishtina” performed classical music. After 20:00 the music starts at the stage in “Marash” and also in the stage of “Shadërvan.” The music continues until the last day at noon. Another scene that is part of NGOM Fest is the‘Promo Scene’ which is designed to promote new musical bands. Thirty bands from Kosova and Albania applied to perform, however only 10 bands were accepted, amongst them, three bands will be selected to record a song in a studio. This activity aims to promote and support the early careers of these new bands.\nEighty volunteers participate in the organization of this festival, by turning Prizren into a city of music and art for three days in a row. The camp in Prizren is located in the center of the city, near the Bistrica. This camp accommodates visitors from all over the countries and houses them at the lowest price.\n\nBesides the music performances, this festival is known for recreational spots, including the Ngom Shop. Another interesting event which takes place during these three days is the exhibition that presents the most beautiful parts of the city and its architecture. This exhibition is placed in Hamam. The food is another exciting part of this musical festival since it represents the traditional cuisine of Prizren and the Albanian culture in general.\n\nMusic in NGOM Fest consists of a variety of genres. Starting from classical music, rock, alternative, pop and including the latest electronic music hits. Separate and different-themed stages were set up for each music genre. Notable performing bands and artists in this festival include: Jericho, Dark Angel, Son of Beat & Japan from Serbia, Bojken Lako from Albania, Jim Rivers from Ukraine, Conquering Lion from the Republic of Macedonia, Filip Motovunski from Croatia, Quantized Music from Greece, Gillespie, Alley Sin from Bulgaria, Triko, Troja, Peni Trio, Jimmy Hagan, Pink Metal, Owlie and many more.\n\n"}
{"id": "45529315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45529315", "title": "Newport Beach Wooden Boat Festival", "text": "Newport Beach Wooden Boat Festival\n\nThe Newport Beach Wooden Boat Festival is an annual event held at the Balboa Yacht Club in Newport Beach, California. The festival celebrates wooden boats of all sizes including wooden canoes, kayaks, and dinghies, as well as yachts and tall ships.\n\nThe first Newport Beach Wooden Boat Festival was held June 6, 2014 and featured 47 boats on display.\n\nAwards are given in the following categories:\n\n\nThe 2105 Newport Beach Wooden Boat Festival was held on June 6, 2015, in conjunction with the 40th anniversary of the Newport Beach Harbor Patrol. The yacht \"America\", for which the America's Cup is named, was on display at the event.\n\nSail:\n"}
{"id": "13419549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13419549", "title": "Opéra de Baugé", "text": "Opéra de Baugé\n\nOpéra de Baugé is an opera festival held each summer near the Loire town of Baugé-en-Anjou, 40 kilometres east of Angers, France.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2011 the festival was held in the gardens of Les Capucins (pictured), a private house and former convent. In 2016 the festival returned to Les Capucins after 4 years in a theatre in the centre of the town.\n\nThe festival is modelled on England's Glyndebourne Festival Opera, and performances feature 90-minute intervals during which members of the audience picnic or dine in the attached restaurant. Many of the cast and orchestra are English, and the performances are surtitled in both English and French. In recent years the festival has drawn an audience of 2,500-3,000 to the town, including large numbers who travel from England.\n\nThe 2016 season featured performancesof L'incoronazione di Poppea (Monteverdi), Albert Herring (Britten) and La Périchole (Offenbach). The works presented in 2017 are Lucia di Lammermoor (Donizetti), La Cenerentola (Rossini) and La clemenza di Tito (Mozart).\n\nThe opera is noted for its authentic performances, with a full orchestra and chorus in support of fully staged productions. The festival has increasingly attracted soloists from across Europe and beyond. Singers have gone on to win prizes including the Kathleen Ferrier Award and positions in the Young Artists Programme at Covent Garden.\n\nBernadette Grimmett has been artistic director of the festival since its inception.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9791427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9791427", "title": "Orson's Shadow", "text": "Orson's Shadow\n\nOrson's Shadow is a play by Austin Pendleton. The play received a Lucille Lortel Award nomination for Outstanding Play and won the Drama League Award for Distinguished Performance.\n\nThe play, based on true events, is set in 1960 London. In his declining years, Orson Welles is directing a production of Eugène Ionesco's \"Rhinoceros\", starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Plowright. Olivier is fresh from his triumphant theatrical portrayal of vaudevillian Archie Rice and is about to reprise the role in the film adaptation of John Osborne's \"The Entertainer\". He and Plowright are in the early stages of a romantic liaison; Olivier's tumultuous marriage to Vivien Leigh is all but ended. Critic Kenneth Tynan also figures in the plot, which debates the merits of stage versus screen, the internal struggle that theatrical performers endure when contemplating a leap to films, and the ways that the studio system frustrated the careers of individual artists.\n\nIt is a study of theatrical egos, each of the protagonists living more on the stage than in real life, each one feeling insecure while jockeying for power.\n\nThe play debuted at the Steppenwolf Theatre in Chicago in January 2000 and was performed at the Old Globe Theatre in San Diego in September of that year.\n\nThe off-Broadway production, directed by David Cromer, opened on March 13, 2005 at the Barrow Street Theatre, where it ran for 349 performances. The cast included Jeff Still as Orson Welles, John Judd as Laurence Olivier, Susan Bennett as Joan Plowright, Lee Roy Rogers as Vivien Leigh, Tracy Letts as Ken Tynan, and Ian Westerfer as the stagehand Sean.\n\nSince its New York City staging, \"Orson's Shadow\" has been mounted by a number of regional theatres, including Marin Theatre Company in Mill Valley, California, Round House Theatre in Bethesda, Maryland, Unicorn Theatre in Kansas City, Missouri, and the Gorilla Theatre in Tampa, Florida.\n\nIn 2006 it received a rehearsed reading at London's Old Vic Theatre, and in July 2015 received its European premiere directed by Alice Hamilton at London's Southwark Playhouse, as part of the Orson Welles centenary. The cast included John Hodgkinson as Orson Welles, Adrian Lukis as Laurence Olivier, Louise Ford as Joan Plowright, Gina Bellman as Vivien Leigh, Edward Bennett as Kenneth Tynan, and Ciaran O'Brien as the stagehand Sean.\n\n"}
{"id": "13755032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755032", "title": "Pasifika Festival", "text": "Pasifika Festival\n\nThe Pasifika Festival is a Pacific Islands-themed festival held annually in Western Springs, Auckland City, New Zealand. Celebrated since 1993, it is the largest festival of its type in the world and attracts over 225,000 visitors every year. \n\nThe event is owned and hosted by Auckland Council.\n\nThe festival presents a wide variety of cultural experiences, including traditional cuisine and performances from Samoa, Tonga, Cook Islands, Fiji, Niue, Tahiti, Tokelau, Tuvalu, Kiribati and the Tangata Whenua (New Zealand Maori).\n\nPasifika Festival 2014 had 11 unique villages showcasing the cultures of 11 Pacific Island nations: Cook Islands, Fiji, Hawaii, Kiribati, Niue, Samoa, Tahiti, Tonga, Tokelau, Tuvalu and Aotearoa. \n\nIn 2015, the festival was moved temporarily to Hayman Park in Manukau after the discovery of Queensland fruit flies in the Grey Lynn area near Western Springs. \n\nIn 2016, it moved back to Western Springs. \n\n"}
{"id": "19927892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19927892", "title": "Prifardd", "text": "Prifardd\n\nY Prifardd, literally \"The Chief Bard\", is the Welsh title given to bards who have won either the chair or the crown in the National Eisteddfod of Wales.\n\nFor lists of chaired and crowned bards, see and .\n"}
{"id": "5612214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612214", "title": "Red Bull Big Wave Africa", "text": "Red Bull Big Wave Africa\n\nThe Red Bull Big Wave Africa is a surfing competition held annually in Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.\n\nThe event is held at \"Dungeons\", just east of The Sentinel, a peak in Hout Bay, Cape Town. The reef has been known since the 80's as a site for large Atlantic swells breaking over a reef. The competition is held between 24 July and 31 August each year, depending on when appropriately large waves are available. Between the first competition, in 1999, and 2007, only three victors had been decided. \n\nIn the 2008 competition, 24 competitors participated. The six finalists were drawn from the United States, Hawaii, Brazil, and South Africa for a first prize of R100 000. The competition was won by South African Grant \"Twiggy\" Baker.\n"}
{"id": "8269074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8269074", "title": "Red Museum", "text": "Red Museum\n\n\"Red Museum\" is the tenth episode of the second season of the science fiction television series \"The X-Files\". It premiered on the Fox network on December 9, 1994. It was written by Chris Carter, directed by Win Phelps, and featured guest appearances by Mark Rolston, Paul Sand, Bob Frazer, and Robert Clothier. The episode helps to explore the series' overarching mythology. \"Red Museum\" earned a Nielsen household rating of 10.4, being watched by 9.9 million households in its initial broadcast. The episode received mixed to negative reviews from critics, with many noting the episode's complexity as a detractor.\n\nThe show centers on FBI special agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) who work on cases linked to the paranormal, called X-Files. In the episode, Mulder and Scully travel to Wisconsin after several teens are found wandering in the woods in their underwear with “He Is One” or “She Is One” scrawled on their backs. However, the duo soon stumble upon a strange cult of vegetarian “walk-ins.”\n\nOriginally, the episode was slated to be a crossover episode with the CBS show \"Picket Fences\". However, the networks nixed the idea before any filming could begin. A facet of the episode, that the adherents of the Red Museum believe that the year 2012 will bring about the dawning of The New Age, is later referenced in the series' finale \"The Truth\", seven seasons later.\n\nFox Mulder and Dana Scully are called in to investigate a number of kidnappings in Delta Glen, Wisconsin where local teenagers are recovered half-naked and drugged with either the phrase \"He is one\" or \"She is one\" written on their backs. Meeting with Sheriff Mazeroski, the agents initially suspect a nearby cult, the Church of the Red Museum, which was founded by vegetarian Richard Odin. Mulder, Scully and Mazeroski attend a ceremony of the Red Museum, causing Mulder to believe that they are walk-ins, people whose souls have been taken over by someone else. One of the kidnap victims claims to have felt an animal spirit enter him.\n\nKatie, the girlfriend of Mazeroski's son Rick, is the latest to be found, and her blood is found to contain an unknown alkaloid substance and high levels of scopolamine, a controlled substance. This appears to link her to Odin, a former doctor. Meanwhile, the agents meet an old man who points to a pair of men injecting growth serum into cattle, which he believes is the cause of the trouble. That night, local doctor Jerrold Larson is killed in a plane crash. An investigation of the site turns up shipping orders that trace back to the kidnapped teens. One of the men injecting the cows is murdered by the Crew Cut Man. The other, a peeping tom named Gerd Thomas, is revealed to be the kidnapper after the agents find a hidden supply of videotapes in the home of one of the victims. Thomas claims that Larson had been turning the children into \"monsters\" with the drugs he had been injecting in them, which he claims to be unknown.\n\nMeanwhile, Rick is murdered by the Crew Cut Man. Having passed by him on the road, Scully recognizes him as the assassin who killed Deep Throat. Her toxicology results on the victims show what she thinks is the mysterious substance known as \"Purity Control\". Mulder theorizes that Larson had been injecting the children with alien DNA, and convinces Mazeroski to round up all of the children who had been receiving treatment from Larson and hide them in the Church of the Red Museum. Mulder tracks the Crew Cut Man down at a beef processing plant that he is about to destroy. While Mulder wants him alive, Mazeroski kills him as revenge for Rick's murder and Deep Throat’s murder as well.\n\nScully reports that the Crew Cut Man had no records on file with the FBI or other agencies. The material injected into the cows and children is found to be an unknown substance. All the children who were inoculated came down with a flu-like illness while those in the Church of the Red Museum did not, causing her to think they were a control group. Scully declares the case open and unsolved.\n\nThe original draft of \"Red Museum\" function as a crossover episode with the CBS show \"Picket Fences\"an idiosyncratic CBS drama that ran from 1992 until 1996 and was set in the fictional Wisconsin town of Rome. This idea came about when David E. Kelley (the series creator of \"Picket Fences\") and Chris Carter (the series creator of \"The X-Files\") were talking in a parking lot about how interesting it would be to have Mulder and Scully visit Rome.\n\nKelley and Carter started to plan out ideas, agreeing that unlike traditional crossovers, the two shows would each air their own episode, featuring characters from the other series. However, CBS vetoed the crossover idea. Executive producer Robert Goodwin said of the experience: \"I spent days on the phone with a producer of \"Picket Fences\". We spent days organizing our schedules. Then at the very last minute, of course, we found out that no one had told CBS, and they said 'Forget it. We're having enough trouble on Friday nights without publicizing \"The X-Files\".' It's too bad.\" The \"Picket Fences\" episode originally intended to crossover with \"The X-Files\" was called \"Away in the Manger\" and aired the week following \"Red Museum.\" While every reference to \"Picket Fences\" was purged from \"The X-Files\" episode, the \"Picket Fences\" episode contains a few subtle references to the happenings in \"Red Museum\", including a mention of Dr. Larson.\n\nProducer and writer Glen Morgan was disappointed with how the Crew Cut Man was killed off in the episode, saying, \"My feeling is that to bring this guy back, his presence should have been better developed, and he's shot off screen. I thought 'Geez, this is the guy who killed Deep Throat, who the audience loved, and it's kind of tossed away.' The episode just seems like half of one thing for a while, then half of something else. I think that was a curious choice for Chris [Carter]. He wanted to take a real left turn, but I'd rather have seen a whole episode about that guy showing up and Mulder getting back at him.\" Morgan's writer partner James Wong disliked the episode, saying, \"I think that was one of the most confusing episodes I've ever seen. It had some really neat ideas in it, but I don't think it pulled together finally.\"\n\nLadner, British Columbia served as a location for Delta Glen, while the beef processing plant was shot in a facility in Cloverdale; local employees at the latter were even used as extras in the butchering and cleaning up scenes. The episode is the first in the series to mention the concept of walk-ins, a plot device that would later be used five seasons later, when the truth about Samantha's abduction was finally revealed.\n\n\"Red Museum\" premiered on the Fox network on December 9, 1994. This episode earned a Nielsen rating of 10.4, with an 18 share, meaning that roughly 10.4 percent of all television-equipped households, and 18 percent of households watching television, were tuned in to the episode. It was viewed by 9.9 million households.\n\nThe episode received mostly mixed to negative reviews from critics. \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave \"Red Museum\" a B, noting that the episode was \"creative if convoluted.\" Reviewer Zack Handlen of \"The A.V. Club\" criticized the way \"Red Museum\" was written, writing that the episode, \"tries the neat trick of combining what appears to be a [Monster-of-the-Week] ep with mythos; the results are intriguing, but not entirely successful.\" He concluded that the episode was \"good\" but ultimately \"forgettable.\" Critical Myth's John Keegan gave the episode 5/10, criticizing the complexity of the plot. He wrote that \"Fairly quickly, \"The X-Files\" gained a reputation for episodes that were so convoluted and confusing that few people could make sense of them. This episode stands as one of the shining examples of that trend, and it’s only appropriate that the episode was written by Chris Carter.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13079722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13079722", "title": "Religious interpretations of the Big Bang theory", "text": "Religious interpretations of the Big Bang theory\n\nSince the emergence of the Big Bang theory as the dominant physical cosmological paradigm, there have been a variety of reactions by religious groups regarding its implications for religious cosmologies. Some accept the scientific evidence at face value, some seek to harmonize the Big Bang with their religious tenets, and some reject or ignore the evidence for the Big Bang theory.\n\nThe Big Bang itself is a scientific theory and as such stands or falls by its agreement with observations. However, as a theory which addresses the nature of the universe since its earliest discernible existence, the Big Bang carries possible theological implications regarding the concept of creation out of nothing. Many atheist philosophers have argued against the idea of the Universe having a beginning - the Universe might simply have existed for all eternity, but with the emerging evidence of the Big Bang theory, many theologians and physicists have viewed it as implicating theism; a popular philosophical argument for the existence of God known as the Kalam cosmological argument rests in the concepts of the Big Bang. In the 1920s and 1930s almost every major cosmologist preferred an eternal steady state Universe, and several complained that the beginning of time implied by the Big Bang imported religious concepts into physics; this objection was later repeated by supporters of the steady state theory, who rejected the implication that the universe had a beginning.\n\nThe view from the Hindu \"Puranas\" is that of an eternal universe cosmology, in which time has no absolute beginning, but rather is infinite and cyclic, rather than a universe which originated from a Big Bang. However, the \"Encyclopædia of Hinduism\", referencing \"Katha Upanishad\" 2:20, states that the Big Bang theory reminds humanity that everything came from the Brahman which is \"subtler than the atom, greater than the greatest.\" It consists of several \"Big Bangs\" and \"Big Crunches\" following each other in a cyclical manner.\n\nThe \"Nasadiya Sukta\", the \"Hymn of Creation\" in the \"Rigveda\" (10:129) mentions the world beginning from a point or bindu, through the power of heat. This can be seen as corresponding to the Big Bang theory.\n\nSeveral prominent modern scientists have remarked that Hinduism (as also Buddhism and Jainism by extension as they share most of these philosophies) is the only religion (or civilization) in all of recorded history, that has timescales and theories in astronomy (cosmology), that appear to correspond to those of modern scientific cosmology, e.g. Carl Sagan, Niels Bohr, Erwin Schrödinger, Werner Heisenberg, Robert Oppenheimer, George Sudarshan, Fritjof Capra etc.\n\nSteady State \n\nSome say there must be more than we \ncan fathom, rather favouring the thought\nthat chance alone cannot explain \na world that's so complex and fraught.\nThey say the Big Bang is a fact,\nthat laws and constants have been so \nsince one exclusive point and moment\nonly fourteen billion years ago.\n\nThe smallest chance becomes a certainty \nin endless time. A boundless trace\nendures and shifts, unseen beyond \nthe red horizon of our little space\nwhere supernovae — little bangs \nof energy and sub-atomics — flow \ninto primordial entropy, and then \nre-form the latest matter that we know.\n\nAt the November 22, 1951, opening meeting of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, Pope Pius XII declared that the Big Bang theory does not conflict with the Catholic concept of creation.\nSome Conservative Protestant Christian denominations have also welcomed the Big Bang theory as supporting a historical interpretation of the doctrine of creation; however, adherents of Young Earth creationism, who advocate a very literal interpretation of the Book of Genesis, reject the theory.\n\nBahá’u’lláh, the founder of the Bahá’í Faith, has taught that the universe has \"neither beginning nor ending\". In the \"Tablet of Wisdom\" (\"Lawh-i-Hikmat\", written 1873–1874). Bahá'u'lláh states: “That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today. The world of existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force and that which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they are different.” The terminology used here refers to ancient Greek and Islamic philosophy (al-Kindi, Avicenna, Fakhr al-Din al-Razi and Shaykh Ahmad). In an early text, Bahá’u’lláh describes the successive creation of the four natures heat and cold (the active force), dryness and moisture (the recipients), and the four elements fire, air, water and earth. About the phrase \"That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today,\" 'Abdu'l-Bahá has stated that it means that the universe is evolving. He also states that \"the substance and primary matter of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and only known through its effects... Ethereal matter is itself both the active force and the recipient... it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world... The ethereal matter is, therefore, the cause, since light, heat, and electricity appear from it. It is also the effect, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible...\".\n\nJean-Marc Lepain, Robin Mihrshahi, Dale E. Lehman and Julio Savi suggest a possible relation of this statement with the Big Bang theory.\n\nWriting for the Kyoto Bulletin of Islamic Area Studies, Haslin Hasan and Ab. Hafiz Mat Tuah wrote that modern scientific ideas on cosmology are creating new ideas on how to interpret the Quran's cosmogonical terms. In particular, some modern-day Muslim groups have advocated for interpreting the term \"al-sama\", traditionally believed to be a reference to both the sky and the seven heavens, as instead referring to the universe as a whole.\n\nMirza Tahir Ahmad, head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community, asserted in his book Revelation, Rationality, Knowledge & Truth that the Big Bang theory was foretold in the Quran. He referenced the verse 30 of the Sūrat al-Anbiyāʼ, which ostensibly mentions the initial singularity:\n\nThis view that the Qu'ran references the initial singularity of the Big Bang is also accepted by many Muslim scholars outside of the Ahmadiyya community such as Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, who is a Sufi scholar, and Muhammad Asad, who was a nondenominational Muslim scholar. Further, some scholars such as Faheem Ashraf of the Islamic Research Foundation International, Inc. and Sheikh Omar Suleiman of the Yaqeen Institute for Islamic Research argue that the scientific theory of an expanding universe is described in Sūrat adh-Dhāriyāt:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2237982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2237982", "title": "Sheikh Anwarul Haq", "text": "Sheikh Anwarul Haq\n\nChief Justice Sheikh Anwarul Haq (‎ ; 11 May 1917 – 3 March 1995), was a Pakistani jurist and an academic who served as the Chief Justice of Pakistan from 23 September 1977 until resigning on 25 March 1981.\n\nEducated as an economist at the DAV College and the Punjab University in Lahore, he served as a civil servant of the Indian Civil Service as an appointee to lead the municipal governance in the British India in 1944. He continued serving in the civil service after the independence of Pakistan as a result of partition of British India in 1947 and subsequently elevated as a judge in the Sindh High Court in 1957.\n\nIn 1962, he was nominated to be served in the Supreme Court and later appointed as Chief Justice of Lahore High Court in 1970 before his reappointment as a Senior Justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan in 1971. He 1972, he earned public and international notability when he co-chaired the War Enquiry Commission with Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman to investigate the economic and military collapse of Pakistan in a war against India in 1971 that led to the succession of East Pakistan as Bangladesh.\n\nHe was known for his judicial conservative philosophical leanings and is noted in country's political history for providing legality for the martial law upheld by chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq to restore law and order, in the light of doctrine of necessity, as part of his conservative leanings. In addition, he also heard the case of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and controversially upheld the capital sentence by the Lahore High Court for authorizing the murder of a political opponent. In 1981, Haq notably refused to take an oath under the imposed PCO, resigning on conscientious grounds.\n\nSheikh Anwarul Haq was born in Jullunder, Punjab, British India on 11 May 1917, to a Punjabi family. S. Anwarul Haq earned early education from Jullunder and Wazirabad, passing his matriculation from Jullunder in 1932. He stood first in matriculation that earned him a scholarship to attend the DAV College in 1932. In 1936, he earned BA in Economics and Political science and went on to attend the D.A.V. College, Lahore of Punjab University, where he earned an MA in Economics in 1938. He ranked first in MA in Economics examination at the Punjab University, setting a new record in that subject.\n\nDuring his time at the Punjab University, Haq participated in a large number of declamation contests and prize debates and was often judged as the best speaker. From 1936–38, he was an activist of All-India Muslim League and was a student advocate of the assertion of the separate identity of Indian Muslims. He attended the All-India Muslim League meeting in Calcutta in December 1937 as a student delegate.\n\nIn 1939, he was selected and joined the Indian Civil Service and went to United Kingdom to be educated in Oxford. Upon returning in 1940, he was appointed Assistant Commissioner at Ferozepur and later appointed as Undersecretary of Punjab and the North-West Frontier from 1942 until 1944. In 1944, he was appointed as Sub Divisional Magistrate at the Dalhousie, India and heard various cases involving the civil lawsuits. During the same time, he was sent to Gurdaspur and was appointed as Deputy Commissioner and later elevated as Session Judge as well as Assistant Commissioner in 1946. For a short brief of time, he served as the deputy commissioner of Hissar (in East Punjab) in 1946, before joining the Cabinet Mission to be served as its Secretary to the Partition Steering Committee for the Punjab in 1947.\n\nAfter the establishment of Pakistan as a result of partition of British India by the British Empire, he opted for Pakistan and appointed as deputy commissioner of Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan. During this time, he worked towards managing the Indian emigrants settling in Pakistan. From 1948–52, he served in the bureaucracy as deputy commissioner of Montgomery and Sialkot.\n\nIn 1952, he joined the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as its deputy secretary until 1954 when he left for the United Kingdom to attend the Imperial Defence College in London. In 1956, he earned the degree and secured his graduation from the Imperial Defence College and subsequently returned to Pakistan. He was appointed as joint secretary in MoD but later moved to Ministry of Law and Justice (MoLJ) to pursue career as federal judge.\n\nIn 1957, he was elevated as district-session judge in Sindh High Court but later moved to Lahore High Court in Punjab in 1958.\n\nIn 1959, he was appointed as a judge in the West Pakistan High Court and moved on to the Supreme Court as a senior justice in 1962. In 1965, he was appointed as the deputy leader of the Pakistan Delegation to the Third Commonwealth and Empire Law Conference held at Sydney, Australia in 1965. In 1967, he was appointed as a member of the Law Reform Commission led by Chief Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius that conducted the various case studies on land reforms in Pakistan.\n\nIn 1969, he was selected to lead a Legal Expert Delegation to Somalia to provide expertise in overviewing the constitutional crises in Somalia. In 1970, he was elevated as Chief Justice of the Lahore High Court by President Yahya Khan who issued the decree, the LFO No. 1970 that dissolved the status of West Pakistan.\n\nHe witnessed the war between India and Pakistan that resulted in the succession of East Pakistan as Bangladesh.\n\nOn 26 December 1971, he was named as a member of the War Enquiry Commission (WEC) alongside with Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman, and the chief justices of the Sindh, Balochistan, and Punjab High Court, formed by the Chief Justice Rahman on the request of then-President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. On 1 January 1972, he was re-elevated as the senior justice at the Supreme Court.\n\nHaq attended the Third Commonwealth and Empire Law Conference in Sydney, Australia in August–September 1965 as leader of the Pakistan delegation. He was interested in academic and educational activities and had been a member of the Syndicates of:\n\nHaq was President of the Himayat-i-Islam Law College, Lahore, and member of the University Law College, Lahore committee for several years. He was acting Vice-Chancellor of Punjab University on multiple occasions. He was appointed as a member of the 1971 War Inquiry Commission from January 1972 to November 1974 along with CJ Hamoodur Rahman. He was also appointed as Chairman of the National Pay Commission and Armed Forces Pay Commission in January 1976. He represented the Pakistan Supreme Court at the centenary celebrations of the Supreme Court of Ghana at Accra in October 1976. He was appointed Chairman of the Commission on the Indus River System in September 1977. He was appointed Chairman of the Civil Services Commission in February 1978. He had been President of the British Universities Alumni Association, Lahore since 1962. He was a guest speaker at a large number of social, intellectual, and cultural functions in Lahore, Rawalpindi, and Karachi.\n\n"}
{"id": "8827430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8827430", "title": "Siege of Eretria", "text": "Siege of Eretria\n\nThe Siege of Eretria took place in 490 BC, during the first Persian invasion of Greece. The city of Eretria, on Euboea, was besieged by a strong Persian force under the command of Datis and Artaphernes.\n\nThe first Persian invasion was a response to Greek involvement in the Ionian Revolt, when the Eretrians and Athenians had sent a force to support the cities of Ionia in their attempt to overthrow Persian rule. The Eretrian and Athenian force had succeeded in capturing and burning Sardis (the regional capital of Persia), but was then forced to retreat with heavy losses. In response to this raid, the Persian king Darius I swore to have revenge on Athens and Eretria.\n\nOnce the Ionian revolt was finally crushed by the Persian victory at the Battle of Lade, Darius began to plan to subjugate Greece. In 490 BC, he sent a naval task force under Datis and Artaphernes across the Aegean to subjugate the Cyclades, and then to make punitive attacks on Athens and Eretria. Reaching Euboea in mid-summer after a successful campaign in the Aegean, the Persians proceeded to put Eretria under siege. The siege lasted six days before a fifth column of Eretrian nobles betrayed the city to the Persians. The city was plundered, and the population was deported to the village Ardericca in Susiana near the Persian capital.\n\nAfter Eretria, the Persian force sailed for Athens, landing at the bay of Marathon. An Athenian army marched to meet them, and won a famous victory at the Battle of Marathon, thereby ending the first Persian invasion.\n\nThe main source for the Greco-Persian Wars is the Greek historian Herodotus. Herodotus, who has been called the 'Father of History', was born in 484 BC in Halicarnassus, Asia Minor (then under Persian overlordship). He wrote his 'Enquiries' (Greek—\"Historia\"; English—\"(The) Histories\") around 440–430 BC, trying to trace the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would still have been relatively recent history (the wars finally ending in 450 BC). Herodotus's approach was entirely novel, and at least in Western society, he does seem to have invented 'history' as we know it. As Holland has it: \"For the first time, a chronicler set himself to trace the origins of a conflict not to a past so remote so as to be utterly fabulous, nor to the whims and wishes of some god, nor to a people's claim to manifest destiny, but rather explanations he could verify personally.\"\n\nSome subsequent ancient historians, despite following in his footsteps, criticised Herodotus, starting with Thucydides. Nevertheless, Thucydides chose to begin his history where Herodotus left off (at the Siege of Sestos), and therefore evidently felt that Herodotus's history was accurate enough not to need re-writing or correcting. Plutarch criticised Herodotus in his essay \"On The Malignity of Herodotus\", describing Herodotus as \"Philobarbaros\" (barbarian-lover), for not being pro-Greek enough, which suggests that Herodotus might actually have done a reasonable job of being even-handed. A negative view of Herodotus was passed on to Renaissance Europe, though he remained well read. However, since the 19th century his reputation has been dramatically rehabilitated by archaeological finds which have repeatedly confirmed his version of events. The prevailing modern view is that Herodotus generally did a remarkable job in his \"Historia\", but that some of his specific details (particularly troop numbers and dates) should be viewed with skepticism. Nevertheless, there are still some historians who believe Herodotus made up much of his story.\n\nThe Sicilian historian Diodorus Siculus, writing in the 1st century BC in his \"Bibliotheca Historica\", also provides an account of the Greco-Persian wars, partially derived from the earlier Greek historian Ephorus. This account is fairly consistent with Herodotus's. The Greco-Persian wars are also described in less detail by a number of other ancient historians including Plutarch, Ctesias of Cnidus, and are alluded by other authors, such as the playwright Aeschylus. Archaeological evidence, such as the Serpent Column, also supports some of Herodotus's specific claims.\n\nThe first Persian invasion of Greece had its immediate roots in the Ionian Revolt, the earliest phase of the Greco-Persian Wars. However, it was also the result of the longer-term interaction between the Greeks and Persians. In 500 BC the Persian Empire was still relatively young and highly expansionistic, but prone to revolts amongst its subject peoples. Moreover, the Persian king Darius was a usurper, and had spent considerable time extinguishing revolts against his rule. Even before the Ionian Revolt, Darius had begun to expand the Empire into Europe, subjugating Thrace, and forcing Macedon to become a vassal of Persia. Attempts at further expansion into the politically fractious world of Ancient Greece may have been inevitable. However, the Ionian Revolt had directly threatened the integrity of the Persian empire, and the states of mainland Greece remained a potential menace to its future stability. Darius thus resolved to subjugate and pacify Greece and the Aegean, and to punish those involved in the Ionian Revolt.\n\nThe Ionian revolt had begun with an unsuccessful expedition against Naxos, a joint venture between the Persian satrap Artaphernes and the Miletus tyrant Aristagoras. In the aftermath, Artaphernes decided to remove Aristagoras from power, but before he could do so, Aristagoras abdicated, and declared Miletus a democracy. The other Ionian cities followed suit, ejecting their Persian-appointed tyrants, and declaring themselves democracies. Artistagoras then appealed to the states of Mainland Greece for support, but only Athens and Eretria offered to send troops.\n\nThe reasons that Eretria sent assistance to the Ionians are not completely clear. Possibly commercial reasons were a factor; Eretria was a mercantile city, whose trade was threatened by Persian dominance of the Aegean. Herodotus suggests that the Eretrians supported the revolt in order to repay the support the Milesians had given Eretria in a past war against Chalcis.\n\nThe Athenians and Eretrians sent a task force of 25 triremes to Asia Minor to aid the revolt. Whilst there, the Greek army surprised and outmaneuvered Artaphernes, marching to Sardis and there burning the lower city. However, this was as much as the Greeks achieved, and they were then pursued back to the coast by Persian horsemen, losing many men in the process. Despite the fact their actions were ultimately fruitless, the Eretrians and in particular the Athenians had earned Darius's lasting enmity, and he vowed to punish both cities. The Persian naval victory at the Battle of Lade (494 BC) all but ended the Ionian Revolt, and by 493 BC, the last hold-outs were vanquished by the Persian fleet. The revolt was used as an opportunity by Darius to extend the empire's border to the islands of the East Aegean and the Propontis, which had not been part of the Persian dominions before. The completion of the pacification of Ionia allowed the Persians to begin planning their next moves; to extinguish the threat to the empire from Greece, and to punish Athens and Eretria.\n\nIn 492 BC, once the Ionian Revolt had finally been crushed, Darius dispatched an to Greece under the command of his son-in-law, Mardonius. Mardonius re-conquered Thrace and compelled Alexander I of Macedon to make Macedon a client kingdom to Persia, before the wrecking of his fleet brought a premature end to the campaign.\nHowever, in 490 BC, following up the successes of the previous campaign, Darius decided to send a maritime expedition led by Artaphernes, (son of the satrap to whom Hippias had fled) and Datis, a Median admiral. Mardonius had been injured in the prior campaign and had fallen out of favor. The was intended to bring the Cyclades into the Persian empire, to punish Naxos (which had resisted a Persian assault in 499 BC) and then to head to Greece to force Eretria and Athens to submit to Darius or be destroyed. After island hopping across the Aegean, including successfully attacking Naxos, the Persian task force arrived off Euboea in mid summer, ready to fulfil their second major objective - to punish Eretria.\n\nWhen the Eretrians had discovered that the Persian task force was heading to attack them, they had appealed to the Athenians to send reinforcements. The Athenians agreed to this, and instructed the 4,000 Athenian colonists from the nearby Euboean city of Chalcis to aid the Eretrians. These colonists had been planted on Chalcidian land after Athens had defeated Chalcis some 20 years previously. However, when these Athenians arrived at Eretria, they were told by a leading citizen, Aeschines, of the divisions amongst the Eretrians, and he advised them to leave and save themselves. The Athenians followed Aeschines' advice and sailed to Oropus, thus avoiding the fate of the Eretrians.\n\nThe Eretrians failed to come to a clear plan of action; in Herodotus's words \"it seems that all the plans of the Eretrians were unsound; they sent to the Athenians for aid, but their counsels were divided\". There were three competing plans - one group wanted to surrender to the Persians, seeking to profit thereby, others wanted to flee to the hills above Eretria, whilst others wanted to fight. However, when the Persians landed in their territory, a consensus was reached not to leave the city but to try to withstand a siege, if possible.\n\nHerodotus does not estimate numbers for the Eretrians. Presumably, the majority of the citizen body would have been involved in the defence of the city, but the population of Eretria at the time cannot be clearly established.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, the fleet sent by Darius consisted of 600 triremes. Herodotus does not estimate the size of the Persian army, only saying that they were a \"large infantry that was well packed\". Among ancient sources, the poet Simonides, another near-contemporary, says the campaign force numbered 200,000; while a later writer, the Roman Cornelius Nepos estimates 200,000 infantry and 10,000 cavalry, of which only 100,000 fought in the battle, while the rest were loaded into the fleet that was rounding Cape Sounion; Plutarch and Pausanias both independently give 300,000, as does the Suda dictionary. Plato and Lysias assert 500,000; and Justinus 600,000.\n\nModern historians have proposed wide-ranging numbers for the infantry, from 20,000–100,000 with a consensus of perhaps 25,000; estimates for the cavalry are in the range of 1,000 \n\nThe Eretrian strategy was to defend their walls, and undergo a siege. Possibly this was the only plan that could be agreed on, or became the default option when no plan was agreed. At any rate, since the Persian army had only suffered two defeats in the last century, and since a Greek army had never successfully fought the Persians, this was probably a sensible strategy. Since the Persians arrived by ship, it is probable they had little siege equipment, and indeed, they had already been foiled in the siege of Lindos earlier in the expedition.\n\nThe Persians landed their army at three separate locations, disembarked, and advanced towards Eretria. The Persians then began besieging the city. Rather than passively besieging the city, the Persians seemed to have vigorously attacked the walls. Herodotus reports that the fighting was fierce and both sides suffered heavy losses. However, after six days of clashes, two eminent Eretrians, Euphorbus and Philagrus, opened the gates for the Persians. Once inside the city, the Persians plundered it, burning temples and sanctuaries in revenge for the burning of Sardis. Those citizens who were captured were enslaved, as Darius had ordered.\n\nAfter staying at Eretria for a few days, the Persians made their way down the coast towards Attica. The Persians dropped the captured Eretrians off on the island of Aegilia, before landing at the bay of Marathon in Attica. The Persians' next target was Athens. However, the Athenians had marched out from Athens to meet the Persians, and blocked the exits from the plains of Marathon. After several days of stalemate, the Athenians finally resolved to attack the Persians, winning a famous victory at the ensuing Battle of Marathon. After the battle, the remaining Persians fled to their ships, picked up the Eretrians from Aegilia, and then sailed back to Asia Minor, thereby ending the campaign, and the first Persian invasion of Greece.\n\nWhen the Persian fleet arrived in Asia Minor, Datis and Artaphernes took the Eretrians before Darius in Susa. The Eretrians were not harmed by Darius who decided to settle them in the town of Ardericca in Cissia. They were still there, using their own language and customs, when Herodotus wrote his history, and were encountered by Alexander the Great during his conquest of Persia a further century later.\n\nIn the meanwhile, Darius began raising a huge new army with which he meant to completely subjugate Greece; however, in 486 BC, his Egyptian subjects revolted, indefinitely postponing any Greek expedition. Darius then died whilst preparing to march on Egypt, and the throne of Persia passed to his son Xerxes I. Xerxes crushed the Egyptian revolt, and very quickly restarted the preparations for the invasion of Greece. The epic second Persian invasion of Greece finally began in 480 BC, and the Persians met with initial success at the battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium. However, defeat at the Battle of Salamis would be the turning point in the campaign, and the next year the expedition was ended by the decisive Greek victory at the Battle of Plataea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42367573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42367573", "title": "Six-Day War (1899)", "text": "Six-Day War (1899)\n\nThe Six-Day War of 1899 was fought between the British Empire and the major punti clans of the New Territories in Hong Kong on 14–19 April 1899. The British quickly and decisively ended armed resistance, but to prevent future resistance made concessions to placate the indigenous inhabitants. Despite losing to the superiorly equipped British military, they had achieved their ultimate goals which is to preserve their land rights, land use, and traditional customs. The special status and rights of the minority indigenous people of Hong Kong are still seen to this day. The casualties were two wounded on the British side and about 500 dead on the Chinese side.\n\nOn 9 June 1898, the British and the Qing government signed the Second Convention of Peking, granting the British a 99-year lease of the New Territories as part of Hong Kong.\n\nFeeling abandoned by the Qing government and fearing for their traditional land rights and land use, the punti Chinese clans mobilised the clan militias which had been trained and equipped to defend against longshore raids by pirates and attempted to resist the British takeover of the territory.\n\nThe war began on 14 April when the insurgents burnt down the masthead the British had prepared for a flag-raising ceremony at the Flagstaff Hill in Tai Po.\n\n125 Indian soldiers of the Royal Hong Kong Regiment was sent to Tai Po on 15 April and were soon besieged by the villagers. They were rescued after the Royal Navy's HMS \"Fame\" shelled the insurgents' position. On 17 April, the British forces launched an attack on the insurgents in Lam Tsuen Valley and chased them up the hill. On 18 April, about 1,600 insurgents assaulted the British troops at Sheung Tsuen but were soon defeated. Further resistance was ended when British artillery was brought up against the punti walled villages, and the insurgents and villagers surrendered on 19 April. Most prominent of the villages in the resistance Kat Hing Wai, of the Tang clan, was symbolically disarmed, by having its main gates dismounted and removed.\n\nAfter the war, Governor Henry Arthur Blake adopted an amiable co-operation policy with the villagers and it remained the official policy of the colonial government on the New Territories throughout almost the entire British rule. The British made the concession of allowing the indigenous inhabitants to retain traditional laws and customs to land inheritance, land usage and marriage, these differed from the laws made for Kowloon and Hong Kong proper and the legacy of which continues to this day.\n"}
{"id": "30928805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30928805", "title": "Spanish Rally Championship", "text": "Spanish Rally Championship\n\nThe Spanish Rally Championship is the most important rally championship in Spain. It was established in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "38071323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38071323", "title": "The Battle of Versailles Fashion Show", "text": "The Battle of Versailles Fashion Show\n\nThe Battle of Versailles Fashion Show was a historical fashion show held on November 28, 1973, in the Palace of Versailles to raise money for its restoration. \n\nCreated by Eleanor Lambert and Versailles curator Gerald Van der Kemp, the show pitted French designers (Yves Saint Laurent, Pierre Cardin, Emanuel Ungaro, Christian Dior, and Hubert de Givenchy) against American designers (Oscar de la Renta, Stephen Burrows, Halston, Bill Blass, and Anne Klein, who brought along her assistant, Donna Karan). \n\nWith a guest list of 700 and notables such as Princess Grace, Marie-Hélène de Rothschild, Jacqueline de Ribes, Gloria Guinness, Andy Warhol and Liza Minnelli, the event became legendary. Each designer was to submit eight designs for consideration. The Parisian designers viewed their competition as mere sportswear designers. The American designers used eleven black models, an unprecedented number at the time. The American designers and their models stole the show, providing a youthful approach and stunning the primarily French audience.\n\nIn 2011, the Huffington Post Game Changer Awards honored the African American models of Versailles with the Style Award. The models included Pat Cleveland, Bethann Hardison, Billie Blair, Jennifer Brice, Alva Chinn, Norma Jean Darden, Charlene Dash, Barbara Jackson, China Machado, Ramona Saunders, and Amina Warsuma.\n\nIn 2012, filmmaker Deborah Riley Draper chronicled the event in the feature documentary, \"Versailles '73: American Runway Revolution\". The film included designer Stephen Burrows, French Chambre Syndicale President Didier Grumbach, and many of the models, journalists and guest who attended the event in 1973.\n\nIn 2016 another documentary \"Battle at Versailles\" was made by the fashion network M2M, chronicling the event. The film was narrated by Stanley Tucci and featured many of the event's participants. \n\n"}
{"id": "1455728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1455728", "title": "The Great Beyond", "text": "The Great Beyond\n\n\"The Great Beyond\" is a song by R.E.M. written specifically for the 1999 film \"Man on the Moon\". It was released as a single the following year for support of the film's soundtrack album. The single reached #3 in the UK singles chart in January 2000, the band's highest-ever chart position in that country. The unedited version is included in two R.E.M. compilations: \"In Time - The Best of R.E.M. 1988-2003\" and \"Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage 1982–2011\". On the \"Man on the Moon\" soundtrack, there is some dialogue from the movie at the end of the track; meanwhile, the single version is a radio edit, with the bridge omitted.\n\nIn the unedited version, at 4:09 and at 4:26, the listener can hear Michael Stipe singing the following lines in the background: \"Here's a little agit for the never-believer, here's a little ghost for the offering\". Both lines were taken from the 1992 R.E.M. song \"Man on the Moon\", also about Andy Kaufman, from which the movie took its title.\n\nThe song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media.\n\nThe song's video was directed by Liz Friedlander. It originally featured footage of Jim Carrey as Andy Kaufman from the 1999 film. Yet, for the \"\" DVD (which accompanied \"In Time\" and collected R.E.M.'s major videos from 1988 to 2003), the video was remixed to feature archived footage of Kaufman himself (similar to the video for \"Man on the Moon\"). The original version can be seen on the \"Man on the Moon\" DVD.\n\nIn June 2003, Michael Stipe sang an \"a capella\" excerpt from the song for a BBC Radio 2 advertisement. He performed it on a stage in an empty theater. Welsh progressive breakbeat producers Hybrid later would use this a cappella to create a bootleg remix.\n\nThe song was covered by The Fray in 2007 for the compilation album \"\".\n\nA live version of this song is included on \"R.E.M. Live\".\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills, and Michael Stipe, except for\n\"The Great Beyond\" written by Peter Buck, Mike Mills, and Michael Stipe.\n\nCassette / US CD\n\nUK CD\n\nMaxi-CD\n\n"}
{"id": "52211987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52211987", "title": "The King's Speech (play)", "text": "The King's Speech (play)\n\nThe King's Speech is a 2012 play written by David Seidler and based on the 2010 Academy Award-winning film of the same name. The play was staged at the Wyndham's Theatre on London's West End and opened on March 27th, 2012 and closed on May 12th, 2012.\n\nThe story of how King George VI overcame his fear of public speaking through the help of Australian speech therapist Lionel Logue was first researched by David Seidler in the 1970s. He had originally conceived the piece as a stage play, and contacted Valentine Logue, Lionel's son, and was able to gather information about the story. Valentine Logue asked Seidler to contact the Queen Mother and ask her for approval of the story being publicized. The Queen responded she did not want the story told until after she died. The Queen Mother died in 2002, and it wasn't until 2005 that Seidler began working on the story again. It was instead conceived as film. The film version of \"The King's Speech\", that starred Colin Firth as King George and Geoffrey Rush as Lionel Logue, was a critical success and won several Oscars including Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best Supporting Actor. The success of the film encouraged producers to bring the story to the stage as originally intended.\n\nThe play made its World Premiere in February 2012 at the Yvonne Arnaud Theatre. It then went on a short tour in the UK and then premiered at the Wyndham's Theatre on the West End.\n\nIn 2015, the play was staged at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre.\nIn 2016, the play was staged in Germany at the Neuss RLT Theatre.\n"}
{"id": "290941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290941", "title": "Triple Entente", "text": "Triple Entente\n\nThe Triple Entente (from French \"entente\" \"friendship, understanding, agreement\") refers to the understanding linking the Russian Empire, the French Third Republic, and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland after the signing of the Anglo-Russian Entente on 31 August 1907. The understanding between the three powers, supplemented by agreements with Japan and Portugal, was a powerful counterweight to the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy.\n\nHowever, Italy did not side with Germany and Austria during World War I and joined the Entente instead in the Treaty of London (1915).\n\nHistorians continue to debate the importance of the alliance system as one of the causes of World War I. At the start of World War I in 1914, all three Triple Entente members entered it as Allied Powers against the Central Powers: Germany and Austria-Hungary.\n\nHowever, the Triple Entente, unlike the Triple Alliance or the Franco-Russian Alliance, was not an alliance of mutual defense. Thus, Britain felt free to make its own foreign policy decisions in the 1914 July Crisis.\n\nRussia had previously been a member of the League of the Three Emperors, an alliance in 1873 with Austria-Hungary and Germany. The alliance was part of German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck′s plan to isolate France diplomatically; he feared that France's revanchist aspirations might make it to regain its losses in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian War. The alliance also served to fight against progressive sentiments, which the conservative rulers found unsettling, such as the First International.\n\nHowever, the League faced great difficulty with the growing tensions between Russia and Austria-Hungary, mainly over the Balkans, where the rise of nationalism and the continued decline of the Ottoman Empire made many former Ottoman provinces struggle for independence.\n\nThe situation in the Balkans, especially in the wake of the Serbo-Bulgarian War and the 1878 Treaty of Berlin, which made Russia feel cheated of its gains made in the Russo-Turkish War, prevented the League from being renewed in 1887. In an attempt to stop Russia from allying with France, Bismarck signed the secret Reinsurance Treaty with Russia in 1887. The treaty assured that both parties would remain neutral if war broke out. The alliance between Russia and France and Bismarck's exclusion of Russia from the German financial market in 1887 prevented the treaty from being renewed in 1890. That ended the alliance between Germany and Russia.\n\nAfter the Reinsurance Treaty was not renewed in 1890, Russian leaders grew alarmed at the country's diplomatic isolation and joined the Franco-Russian Alliance in 1894.\n\nIn 1904, Britain and France signed a series of agreements, the Entente cordiale, mostly in solving colonial disputes. That heralded the end of British splendid isolation and was partly a response to growing German antagonism, as expressed in the expansion of the \"Kaiserliche Marine\" (Imperial Navy) to become a battle fleet that could threaten the supremacy of the British Royal Navy.\n\nThe Entente, unlike the Triple Alliance and the Franco-Russian Alliance, was not an alliance of mutual defence and so Britain was free to make its own foreign policy decisions in 1914. As British Foreign Office Official Eyre Crowe minuted, \"The fundamental fact of course is that the Entente is not an alliance. For purposes of ultimate emergencies it may be found to have no substance at all. For the Entente is nothing more than a frame of mind, a view of general policy which is shared by the governments of two countries, but which may be, or become, so vague as to lose all content\".\n\nIn 1907, Britain and Russia signed the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 to end their rivalry in Central Asia, nicknamed The Great Game.\n\nIn the last decade of the nineteenth century, Britain continued its policy of \"splendid isolation\", with its primary focus on defending its massive overseas empire. However, by the early 1900s, the German threat had increased dramatically, and in Britain thought it was in need of allies. For most of the 19th century, Britain had regarded France and Russia as its two most dangerous rivals, but with the growing threat of Germany, policy began to change for several reasons:\n\n\nDuring the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–1871, Prussia defeated the Second French Empire, resulting in the establishment of the Third Republic. In the Treaty of Frankfurt, Prussia forced France to cede Alsace-Lorraine to the new German Empire. Ever since, relations had been poor.\n\nFrance, worried about the escalating military development of Germany, began building up its own war industries and army to deter to German aggression. Also, France developed a strong bond with Russia by ratifying the Franco-Russian Alliance, which was designed to create a strong counter to the Triple Alliance. France's main concerns were to protect against an attack from Germany and to regain Alsace-Lorraine.\n\nRussia had by far the largest manpower reserves of all the six European powers, but it was also the most backward economically. Russia shared France's worries about Germany. After the Germans started to reorganise the Ottoman army, Russia feared that they would come to control the Dardanelles, a vital trade artery that carried two fifths of Russia's exports.\n\nThere was also Russia's long history of rivalry with Austria-Hungary. Austria-Hungary had recently annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina, greatly angering Russia, which had considered itself the leader of the Slavic world (Pan-Slavism). Russia viewed the invasion as another step towards annexing Serbia and Montenegro.\n\nRussia had also recently lost the humiliating Russo-Japanese War, a cause of the Russian Revolution of 1905 and the apparent transformation into a constitutional monarchy. To counter its enemies militarily and politically, Russia sought to revive the Franco-Russian Alliance.\n\nAlthough it was perceived as useless during the war with Japan, the alliance was valuable in the European theatre. Russia also signed the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 with Britain to counteract the threat of the Triple Alliance.\n\nThe alignment of the autocratic Russian Empire with Europe's two largest democracies was controversial on both sides. Many Russian conservatives mistrusted the secular France and recalled British past diplomatic maneuvers to block Russian influence in the Near East. In turn, prominent French and British journalists, academics and parliamentarians found the reactionary tsarist regime distasteful. Mistrust persisted even during wartime, with British and French politicians expressing relief when Tsar Nicholas II abdicated and was replaced by the Russian Provisional Government after the February Revolution in 1917. An offer of political asylum for the Romanovs was even withdrawn by the British king for fear popular reaction. Also, France never brought up the subject of asylum with the deposed tsar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8376368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8376368", "title": "Venera-D", "text": "Venera-D\n\nVenera-D (, ) is a proposed Russian space mission to Venus that would include an orbiter and a lander to be launched in 2026 or 2031. The orbiter's prime objective is to perform radar remote-sensing observations with the use of a powerful radar. A lander, based on the Venera design, is also planned, capable of operating for a long duration (24 h) on the planet's surface.\n\nThe \"D\" in Venera-D stands for \"dolgozhivushaya,\" which means \"long lasting\" in Russian. Venera-D will be the first Venus probe launched by the Russian Federation (the earlier Venera probes were launched by the former Soviet Union). Venera-D will serve as the flagship for a new generation of Russian-built Venus probes, culminating with a lander capable of withstanding the harsh Venerian environment for more than the 1½ hours logged by the Soviet probes. The surface of Venus experiences average temperatures of 462° Celsius (864 Fahrenheit), crushing 90-bar pressures, and corroding clouds of carbon dioxide laced with sulfuric acid. Venera-D would be launched with either a Proton or Angara A5 rocket.\n\nIn 2003, Venera-D was proposed to the Russian Academy of Sciences for its \"wish list\" of scientific projects to be included into the Federal Space Program in 2006–2015. During the formulation of the mission concept in 2004, the launch of Venera-D was expected in 2013 and its landing on the surface of Venus in 2014. In its original conception, it had a large orbiter, sub-satellite, two balloons, two small landers, and a large, long-lived lander (24 h). By 2011, the mission had been pushed back to 2018, and scaled back to an orbiter with a subsatellite orbiter, and a single lander with an expected 3-hour operation time. By the beginning of 2011, the Venera-D project entered Phase A (Preliminary Design) stage of development. Following the loss of the Phobos-Grunt spacecraft in November 2011 and resulting delays in all Russian planetary projects (with the exception of ExoMars, a joint effort with the European Space Agency), the implementation of the project was again delayed to no earlier than 2026.\n\nLavochkin Association are leading the effort in the development of the mission concept architecture. As of 2018, the second phase of the science activities between NASA and the Russian Space Research Institute (IKI) is currently underway with a focus on refining the science concepts, and the orbiter and lander mission architecture, as well as a detailed examination of the types of aerial platforms that could address key Venus science \"in situ\". It is anticipated that additional workshops will be held as the mission concept develops. From the standpoint of total mass delivered to Venus, the best launch opportunities occur in 2026 and 2031.\n\nThe mission has an emphasis on the atmospheric superrotation, the geological processes that have formed and modified the surface, the mineralogical and elemental composition of surface materials, and the chemical processes related to the interaction of the surface and the atmosphere. \n\n\n\nIn 2014, Russian scientists asked NASA if the U.S. space agency would be interested in collaborating some instruments to the mission. Under this potential collaboration, the study team \"Venera-D Joint Science Definition Team\" (JSDT) was established in 2015. Venera-D could incorporate some US components, including balloons, a subsatellite for plasma measurements, or a long-lived (24 hours) surface station on the lander. Any potential collaboration is still under discussion, and as of 2018, the second phase of the science definition activities between NASA and the Russian Space Research Institute (IKI) is currently underway. The Venera-D JSDT Phase 2 report will be completed by 31 January 2019.\n\nPotential science instruments NASA could contribute include a Raman spectrometer and an Alpha-Proton X-Ray Spectrometer (APXS). Also, the three types of atmospheric maneuverable platforms under consideration by NASA include, super pressure balloons, altitude controlled balloons, the Venus Atmospheric Maneuverable Platform (VAMP) semi-buoyant aircraft, and solar powered aircraft.\n\nUnrelated NASA lander proposals:\n\n"}
{"id": "32818271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32818271", "title": "World Youth Day 2013", "text": "World Youth Day 2013\n\nWorld Youth Day 2013, stylized WYDRio2013, was the 15th international World Youth Day, an international Catholic event focused on religious faith and youth. The host city of World Youth Day 2013 was Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as announced by Pope Benedict XVI at the end of the closing Mass of World Youth Day 2011 in Madrid, Spain. The events were scheduled to be held from 23 July to 28 July 2013.\n\nWorld Youth Day 2013 was the second World Youth Day to be held in South America; the second to be held in Latin America with the first being held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in April 1987; and the third to be held in the Southern Hemisphere. Additionally, World Youth Day 2013 was the first World Youth Day to be held in a country whose primary language is Portuguese, and the first for Pope Francis. On the event attended over 3 million people.\n\nOn 24 August 2011, Pope Benedict XVI announced the theme for World Youth Day 2013. Taken from the Gospel of Matthew, the theme will be \"Go and make disciples of all peoples\" ().\n\nOn Pentecost Sunday, 27 May 2012, the World Youth Day Office released the names of the official patron saints for WYD2013. The saints and blesseds chosen include:\n\nPatrons: Our Lady of Aparecida, Saint Sebastian, Saint Anthony of St. Ann Galvão, Saint Therese of Lisieux, Blessed John Paul II.\n\nIntercessors: Saint Rose de Lima, Saint Teresa of Los Andes, Blessed Laura Vicuña, Saint José de Anchieta, Blessed Albertina Berkenbrock, Blessed Chiara Luce Badano, Blessed Sister Dulce, Blessed Adílio Daronch, Blessed Pier Giorgio Frassati, Blessed Isidore Bakanja, Blessed Frederick Ozanam, Saint George, Saint Andrew Kim and Companions.\n\nDay 2013 logo incorporates colors and famous symbols of Rio de Janeiro, including the Christ the Redeemer statue, the Sugarloaf Mountain, and coastline and water. The logo was designed by Gustavo Huguenin, a native of Cantagalo, Rio de Janeiro. The logo design was based on the official World Youth Day 2013 theme of the Great Commission from the , and includes the use of colours found in Brazilian flag.\n\nThe unveiling of the official logo was postponed by Orani João Tempesta out of respect to the January 2011 natural disasters. The logo was later revealed on 7 February 2012. The official logo was presented to President Dilma Rousseff by Rio de Janeiro governor, Sérgio Cabral Filho on DVD.\n\nThe official song for World Youth Day 2013 was released on 14 September 2012, titled \"Esperança do Amanhecer\".\n\nThe official website for World Youth Day in Rio de Janeiro was www.rio2013.com and offered social networking through Google+, Twitter, Facebook and RSS feed.\n\nFrom 22–29 July 2013, the youth website Xt3.com webcast all the major events live from Rio de Janeiro, allowing pilgrims from all over the world to participate in World Youth Day online.\n\nIn July 2013 it was reported that 320,000 young people had registered for this World Youth Day, although one million had been predicted by the organizers. A Brazilian newspaper reported that Rio organizers had unsuccessfully sought additional funding from government leaders.\n\nA bus-truck crash in western French Guiana (Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni) on 17 July killed 21-year-old Sophie Moriniere, a member of a Paris WYD group, and wounded six others of the 23 young WYD pilgrims from France on the bus. Moriniere had been serving as a special correspondent for Notre Dame Radio. The bus was reportedly on its way to Kourou, French Guiana. Bishop Emmanuel Lafont of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cayenne in Cayenne celebrated a Mass for the crash victims, while Cardinal Andre Vingt-Trois, Cardinal Archbishop of Paris, asked members of his Archdiocese to pray for the victims. Pope Francis's Cardinal Secretary of State, Tarcisio Cardinal Bertone, S.D.B., sent a formal message of condolence.\n\nA travel firm's bankruptcy affected pilgrims in 20 US dioceses.\n\nCardinal Barbarin canceled his participation after suffering a heart incident in Guyane, where 700 French WYD pilgrims were stranded due to airliner failure.\n\n"}
