{"id": "19312323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19312323", "title": "Adhiṣṭhāna", "text": "Adhiṣṭhāna\n\nThe Sanskrit term adhiṣṭhāna (; ; \"kaji\"; \"àtíttǎan\") is the name for initiations or blessings in Vajrayana Buddhism. The term has various meanings, including the raised base on which a temple stands. \n\n\"Adhiṣṭhāna\"(\"m\") is a term with multiple meanings: seat; basis; substratum; ground; support; and abode. The Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English Dictionary Online holds the following semantic field for \"adhiṣṭhāna\":\n\nFrancesca Fremantle gives an etymology of Sanskrit \"adhiṣṭhāna\" and Tibetan \"jinlap\": \"The Sanskrit word literally means \"standing over\" and conveys ideas of taking possession, dwelling within, presence, protection, and sovereignty. The Tibetan literally means \"an engulfing wave or flood of splendor and power.\" \n\nDan Martin opines that the Chinese term for adhiṣṭhāna influenced the Tibetan:\n\nTsultrim Allione points out that in Tibetan Buddhism adhistana blessings are an important part of the pointing-out instruction received from the guru and lineage. Receiving these blessings is dependent on the student having proper motivation, aspiration and intentionality (bodhicitta) and sufficient \"devotion\" (Sanskrit: bhakti). These blessings may be received from the student's guru during initiation, from the yidam during deity yoga, or simply from being in the presence of holy objects such as a stupa.\n\nIn a study of the theory and practice of Shingon Buddhism, an extant non-Himalayan school of Vajrayana, Kiyota (1978: p. 70) identifies three kinds of adhiṣṭhāna: \n\nThe term adhiṣṭhāna is also used to describe the transformative power of the Buddha. According to D. T. Suzuki:\nIn the Indo-Himalayan lineages of Vajrayana, where traditions of Tantra were introduced in the first wave of translations of Sanskrit texts into Old Tibetan from the 8th century onwards, the term chosen by the community of lotsawa \"translators\", which importantly is one of the most concerted translation efforts in documented history, chose to render adhiṣṭhāna as . This metaphorical usage of \"stream, wave, thread, continuum\" is reinforced in philosophy with the mindstream doctrine and its relationship to tantric sādhanā, where it is used in visualizations and invocations, particularly in relation to the Three Vajras of Padmasambhava and depicted in Indo-Tibetan Buddhist and Bon iconography such as representations of the Adi-Buddha and Tapihritsa. Martin Mills, in a modern political and power-relations dissection of \"jinlap\" in relation to hierarchical structures of the Gelug, a Sarma (second-wave) school, holds that:\n\nIn Shingon Buddhism, mantras, mudras and visualization practices aim at achieving \"honzon kaji\" or union with the deity. According to Shingon priest Eijun Eidson:\n\nŚarīra or \"relics\" are held to emanate or incite \"adhiṣṭhāna\" \"blessings, grace\" within the mindstream and experience of those connected to them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32449444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32449444", "title": "Agriculturalism", "text": "Agriculturalism\n\nAgriculturalism, also known as the School of Agrarianism, the School of Agronomists, the School of Tillers, and in Chinese as the \"Nongjia\" (農家/农家), was an early agrarian Chinese philosophy that advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism, and was arguably the world's first Communist and Socialist movement that believed in a Classless society. The Agriculturalists believed that Chinese society should be modeled around that of the early sage king Shennong, a folk hero who was portrayed in Chinese literature as \"working in the fields, along with everyone else, and consulting with everyone else when any decision had to be reached.\" They encouraged farming and agriculture and taught farming and cultivation techniques, as they believed that agricultural development was the key to a stable and prosperous society.\n\nAgriculturalism was suppressed during the Qin Dynasty and most original texts are now lost.\nHowever, concepts originally associated with Agriculturalism have influenced Confucianism, Legalism, and Chinese philosophy as a whole. Agriculturalism has significantly influenced Chinese thought, and has been viewed as an essence of the Chinese identity.\n\nAgriculturalism dates back to the Spring and Autumn period and Warring States period, during a period known as the \"Hundred Schools of Thought\" which flourished from 770 to 221 BC. Throughout this period, competing states, seeking to war with one another and unite China as a single country, patronized philosophers, scholars, and teachers. The competition by scholars for the attention of rulers led to the development of different schools of thought, and the emphasis on recording teachings into books encouraged their spread. The result was an era characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments. The major philosophies of China, Confucianism, Mohism, Legalism, and Taoism, all originated from this period.\n\nChinese tradition attributes the origin of Agriculturalism to the Chinese minister Hou Ji, a figure known for his innovations in agriculture. The Agriculturalists also emphasized the role of Shennong, the divine farmer, a semi-mythical ruler of early China credited by the Chinese as the inventor of agriculture. Shennong was seen as a proto-Agriculturalist, whose governance and focus on agriculture served as a model of the ideal Agriculturalist government.\n\nXu Xing, a philosopher who defended Agriculturalism, settled with a group of followers in the state of Teng in about 315 BC. A disciple of his visited the Confucian philosopher Mencius, and a short report of their conversation discussing Xu Xing's philosophy survives.\n\nThe rise of the Qin Dynasty in 221 BC saw the purge of the Hundred Schools of Thought, including Agriculturalism. The Legalist Qin dynasty was intolerant of other schools of thought, seeking to burn any text that did not adhere to the Legalist philosophy. Because of this, few Agriculturalist texts exist, and most of what is known of Agriculturalism comes from critical assessments by other philosophical schools.\n\nThe bibliography of the Book of Han (2nd century AD) presents Agriculturalism as one of 10 philosophical schools and lists 9 books belonging to that school.\n\nAgriculturalism is primarily a social, economic, and political philosophy. The philosophy is founded on the notion that human society originates with the development of agriculture, and societies are based upon \"people's natural prospensity to farm.\" The Agriculturalists described the ancient political system, seen as ideal, as one where \"the means by which the early sage kings led their people was to put agriculture before all other affairs.. the reason why Hou Ji undertook agriculture was because he considered it to be the root of instructing the masses.\"\n\nTo the Agriculturalists, the ideal society, modeled after that of Shennong's, is communal, agrarian, and egalitarian. The Agriculturalist believed that the ideal government is led by a benevolent king, one who works alongside the people in tilling the fields. The Agriculturalist king is not paid by the government through its treasuries; his livelihood is derived from the profits he earns working in the fields and cooking his own meals, not his leadership. Said Xu Xing, a prominent Agriculturalist:\nUnlike the Confucians, the Agriculturalists did not believe in the division of labour, arguing instead that the economic policies of a country need to be based upon an egalitarian self sufficiency. The Agriculturalists supported the fixing of prices, in which all similar goods, regardless of differences in quality and demand, are set at exactly the same, unchanging price. They suggested that people should be paid the same amount for the same services, a policy criticized by the Confucians as encouraging products of low quality, which \"destroys the earnest standards of craftmanship.\"\n\nAgriculturalism was criticized extensively by rival philosophical schools, including the Mohist Mo Zi, the Confucian Mencius, and Yang Zhu. Mencius criticized its chief proponent Xu Xing for advocating that rulers should work in the fields with their subjects, arguing that the Agriculturalist egalitarianism ignored the division of labour central to society. He points out that other early Chinese rulers did not work in fields, yet were equally as successful and revered as Shennong. Mencius dismisses Xu Xing as a \"Southern barbarian with a twittering tongue.\"\n\nThe Legalist Qin Dynasty purged rival philosophical schools, including Agriculturalism, burning many Agriculturalist texts. However, Agriculturalism in its heyday heavily influenced the agrarian policies of Confucianism, Legalism, and other philosophical schools, so many concepts originally associated with the Agriculturalists continued to exist in Chinese philosophy. The transmission and translation of Chinese philosophical texts in Europe during the 18th century had a heavy influence on the development of Agrarianism in Europe. The French agrarianist philosophy, a predecessor to modern Agrarianism, of François Quesnay and the Physiocrats, are said to have been modeled after the agrarian policies of Chinese philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "5102790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102790", "title": "Alethiology", "text": "Alethiology\n\nAlethiology (or alethology, \"the study of aletheia\") literally means the \"study of truth\", but can more accurately be translated as \"the study of the nature of truth\".|\n\nIt could be argued that \"alethiology\" synonymous with \"epistemology\", the study of knowledge, and that dividing the two is mere semantics, but sometimes a distinction is made between the two. Epistemology is the study of knowledge and its acquisition. Alethiology is specifically concerned with the \"nature\" of truth, which is only one of the areas studied by epistemologists.\n\nThe term \"alethiology\" is rare. The ten-volume \"Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" mentions it only once, in the article \"Lambert, Johann Heinrich (1728–77)\":\nThe Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition describes the discipline as \"…an uncommon expression for the doctrine of truth, used by Sir William Hamilton in his philosophic writings when treating of the rules for the discrimination of truth and error.\"\n\nThe term appears in \"The Banalization of Nihilism\" (pp. 17–18) in contrast to several other types of nihilism, especially epistemological nihilism. The views of several philosophers are then distinguished by reference to 'alethiological nihilism', 'epistemological nihilism' and the like.\n\n"}
{"id": "52077051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52077051", "title": "Ali Oumlil", "text": "Ali Oumlil\n\nAli Oumlil (; born December 25, 1940) is a Moroccan philosopher, thinker, human rights activist, diplomat and political persona.\n\nOumlil was born in Kenitra, Morocco, in 1940. He entered the University of Cairo in 1955 to obtain his bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1960. He then attended the Sorbonne University to work on a doctorate with French scholar and Islamologist Roger Arnaldez focusing on Ibn Khaldun methodology. He completed his doctorate in 1977.\n\nOumlil started in 1962 as assistant professor of Contemporary Arab Thought at the Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.\nIn 1979, Oumlil co-founded the \"Moroccan Association for Human Rights\" (AMDH) in Rabat, which he chaired until 1985. Oumlil went on to co-found the \"Moroccan Human Rights Organization\" (OMDH) in 1988 and served as its chairman from 1990 to 1993. \nHe was also a co-founder and board member of the executive committee of the \"Arab Human Rights Institute\" in Tunis from 1986 to 1994.\nIn 1997-1999, Oumlil presided the Arab Organization for Human Rights in Cairo.\n\nIn 1992, Ali Oumlil was elected Secretary General of the Board of Trustees of the Arab Thought Forum; a leading Pan-Arab think tank presided by the former Crown Prince of Jordan Prince Hassan bin Talal, headquartered in Amman, Jordan. The center is dedicated to advancing cooperation between Arab nations and nations around the world, as well as promoting dialogue between intellectual elites and decision makers thru studies, international seminars, and workshops. The center addresses issues related to education, economy, human development and democracy. Ali Oumlil served as its Secretary General for 4 years.\n\nIn 2000, Ali Oumlil was appointed Extraordinary Ambassador Plenipotentiary to the Arab Republic of Egypt by His Majesty King Mohammed VI of Morocco where he served a 4-year term until 2004. During his tenure in Egypt, Oumlil held concurrently the position of the Moroccan Ambassador to the League of Arab States.\nUpon the end of his tenure as the Moroccan Ambassador to Egypt, Oumlil was appointed Extraordinary Ambassador Plenipotentiary to the Lebanese Republic where he served from September 2004 to October 2016.\n\nOumlil participated in numerous events, including a colloquium organized in 2002 in Cairo, Egypt, under the theme \"Ali Oumlil and the Arab Political Thought\" with participants from Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Tunisia, Jordan, and Morocco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30098782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30098782", "title": "Anna Willess Williams", "text": "Anna Willess Williams\n\nAnna Willess Williams (1857 – April 17, 1926) was a teacher and philosophical writer best known as the model for George T. Morgan's silver dollar design, popularly known as the Morgan dollar.\n\nIn 1876, George T. Morgan began creating a series of new coin designs at the behest of Director of the Mint, Dr. Henry R. Linderman. Morgan opted to use the profile of an American girl to depict Liberty instead of simply creating an imaginary figure for the obverse of his new design. After he rejected several possible candidates, Morgan's friend, artist Thomas Eakins, recommended Anna Williams of Philadelphia. Eakins knew Williams through her father, Henry Williams, and she had posed for several of Eakins's paintings. \n\nWilliams reluctantly sat for five modelling sessions with Morgan in November 1876 after being convinced to do so by friends. Morgan was impressed with her profile, stating that it was the most perfect he had seen in England or America. The silver dollar bearing her likeness was first struck on March 11, 1878. A condition of her sitting for Morgan was that her identity be kept secret, but the subject of the portrait was revealed to be Williams shortly after the dollar was released. Williams was troubled by her newly acquired fame, receiving thousands of letters and visits at both her home and workplace. Williams preferred not to talk about her modelling work with Morgan, dismissing it as an \"incident of my youth.\"\n\nDespite being offered acting jobs, Williams worked as a teacher until her retirement in 1924. She left her job as principal at a girls' house-of-refuge school to become a teacher of kindergarten philosophy at a girls' normal school. Though she was once engaged to an unknown suitor, Williams died, unmarried, on April 17, 1926.\n"}
{"id": "295913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295913", "title": "Carl Hilty", "text": "Carl Hilty\n\nCarl Hilty (28 February 1833 – 12 October 1909) was a Swiss philosopher, writer and lawyer. He famously said \"Peace is only a hair's breadth away from war.\" Although a Christian he was no pacifist but expected the coming world war and was also a high officer in Swiss Army. He was married to German wife Johanna Gaertner. Hilty was a spokesman for women's rights to vote and to be elected, many decades before the subject became mainstream. Hilty argued that Switzerland, as a nation-state comprising several nationalities and languages, had a unique mission of demonstrating that a nation-state could transcend tribal tendencies.\n\nCarl Hilty was born in Ort Werdenberg, Switzerland, and studied at the Universities of Göttingen and\nHeidelberg. To improve languages and see the world, he also spent some time in London and Paris. After that he began his work as a lawyer in Chur where he lived for almost 20 years. In 1874, he became a professor of constitutional law (Staats- und Volkerrecht) at the University of Bern. From 1886, he edited \"Politisches Jahrbuch der schweizerischen Eidgenossenschaft\" (The Journal of Swiss Jurisprudence). In 1890, he became a member of the Nationalrat, the Swiss parliament.\n\nHilty's philosophical concern was practical in nature. He wrote about happiness, the meaning of life and work, developing good habits, time management, and winning the battles of life. He became famous from his writings about happiness, three volumes - first printed in 1891, 95 and 99 - combined ancient stoic thought with Christian belief, following the words Jesus. These books were translated and read all over the world, even by presidents of the USA or the first Kanzler of Germany Adenauer who survived the spiritual desert of Nazi time by reading Carl Hilty.\n\nHilty supported the Salvation Army which opened their services in Zurich. At first he made jokes about their noisy appearance but only a few years later he recognized them as one of the few groups who were able to live Christianity and put the words of Jesus in practice. Hilty was in his time one of the few intellectuals who still believed in the Gospel while most dedicated themselves to the so-called \"monastic\" philosophy following the new sciences after Darwin.\n\nHilty believed in a new reformation beyond the dogmas of churches and politics, after the time of materialism.\n\nHilty's work influenced the thinking of William James.\n\nHe died in Clarens.\n\nAcademic:\n\nPersonal:\n\n"}
{"id": "36327334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36327334", "title": "Carlos Andrés Segovia", "text": "Carlos Andrés Segovia\n\nCarlos Andrés Segovia y Corral (born 22 May 1970 in London, United Kingdom) is a philosopher and a scholar of religious studies.\n\nHe is lecturer in religious studies at Saint Louis University in Madrid, Spain. \n\nWhile over the past ten years he has mostly worked on late-antique religion, his current research focuses instead on the study of religion at the crossroads of contemporary philosophy, cosmopolitics, and postcoloniality. On the one hand, he works on the definitions, forms, contexts, causes, and implications of religious violence against the background of Integrated World Capitalism, and, on the other hand, on non-Western animistic ontologies and the revision of conceptual production in the social sciences and the humanities and its potential delinking from the hegemonic power/knowledge regimes of global neoliberalism. He is also series co- editor of Apocalypticism: Cross-disciplinary Explorations at Peter Lang. \n\nHe is the author of numerous scholarly books and articles, including the monographs: \"The Quranic Noah and the Making of the Islamic Prophet: A Study of Intertextuality and Religious Identity Formation in Late Antiquity\", and \"The Quranic Jesus: A New Interpretation\",\n\nHe is the youngest child of the celebrated classical guitarist Andrés Segovia, the first Marquis of Salobreña.\n\n"}
{"id": "391475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391475", "title": "Category mistake", "text": "Category mistake\n\nA category mistake, or category error, or categorical mistake, or mistake of category, is a semantic or ontological error in which things belonging to a particular category are presented as if they belong to a different category, or, alternatively, a property is ascribed to a thing that could not possibly have that property. An example is the metaphor \"time crawled\", which if taken literally is not just false but a category mistake. To show that a category mistake has been committed one must typically show that once the phenomenon in question is properly understood, it becomes clear that the claim being made about it could not possibly be true.\n\nThe term \"category-mistake\" was introduced by Gilbert Ryle in his book \"The Concept of Mind\" (1949) to remove what he argued to be a confusion over the nature of mind born from Cartesian metaphysics. Ryle alleged that it was a mistake to treat the mind as an object made of an immaterial substance because predications of substance are not meaningful for a collection of dispositions and capacities.\n\nThe phrase is introduced in the first chapter. The first example is of a visitor to Oxford. The visitor, upon viewing the colleges and library, reportedly inquired \"But where is the University?\" The visitor's mistake is presuming that a University is part of the category \"units of physical infrastructure\" rather than that of an \"institution\". Ryle's second example is of a child witnessing the march-past of a division of soldiers. After having had battalions, batteries, squadrons, etc. pointed out, the child asks when is the division going to appear. \"The march-past was not a parade of battalions, batteries, squadrons \"and\" a division; it was a parade of the battalions, batteries and squadrons \"of\" a division.\" (Ryle's italics) His third example is of a foreigner being shown a cricket match. After being pointed out batsmen, bowlers and fielders, the foreigner asks: \"who is left to contribute the famous element of team-spirit?\"\n\nHe goes on to argue that the Cartesian dualism of mind and body rests on a category mistake. In the philosophy of the mind, Ryle's category mistake argument can be used to support eliminative materialism. By using the argument, one can attack the existence of a separate, distinct mind. The argument concludes that minds are not conscious, but a collective predicate for a set of observable behaviour and unobservable dispositions.\n\n"}
{"id": "32945559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32945559", "title": "Cheng–Zhu school", "text": "Cheng–Zhu school\n\nThe Cheng–Zhu school (), is one of the major philosophical schools of Neo-Confucianism, based on the ideas of the Neo-Confucian philosophers Cheng Yi, Cheng Hao, and Zhu Xi. It is also referred to as the Rationalistic School.\n\nZhu Xi's formulation of the Neo-Confucian world view is as follows. He believed that the Dao (Chinese: 道; pinyin: dào; literally \"way\") of Tian (Chinese: 天; pinyin: tiān; literally \"heaven\") is expressed in principle or li (Chinese: 理; pinyin: lǐ), but that it is sheathed in matter or qi (Chinese: 氣; pinyin: qì). In this, his system is based on Buddhist systems of the time that divided things into principle (again, li), and shi (Chinese: 事; pinyin: shì). In the Neo-Confucian formulation, li in itself is pure and almost-perfect, but with the addition of qi, base emotions and conflicts arise. Human nature is originally good, the Neo-Confucians argued (following Mencius), but not pure unless action is taken to purify it. The imperative is then to purify one's li. However, in contrast to Buddhists and Daoists, neo-Confucians did not believe in an external world unconnected with the world of matter. In addition, Neo-Confucians in general rejected the idea of reincarnation and the associated idea of karma.\n\nDifferent Neo-Confucians had differing ideas for how to do so. Zhu Xi believed in gewu (Chinese: 格物; pinyin: géwù), the Investigation of Things, essentially an academic form of observational science, based on the idea that li lies within the world.\n"}
{"id": "2066193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066193", "title": "Daniel Adam z Veleslavína", "text": "Daniel Adam z Veleslavína\n\nDaniel Adam z Veleslavína, literally translated \"Daniel Adam of Veleslavín\", (31 August 1546 – 18 October 1599), was a Czech lexicographer, publisher, translator, and writer. (\"Veleslavína\" is the genitive declension of Veleslavín, a district of today's Greater Prague)\n\nAdam Veleslavín studied at the University of Prague, and from 1569 to 1575 he was professor there. When he married the daughter of the publisher Jiří Melantrich z Aventina (1511–1580), he was forced to leave the university (professors were required to keep celibacy). He started working at the print press and later took it over.\n\nHe and his collaborators translated and published many historical, religious, and scientific books. Adam himself wrote only one book, the \"Kalendář historický\" (\"Historical Calendar,\" 1578 and 1590, an overview of European history).\n\nAdam was a secret member of the Unity of the Brethren. His work of most impact was publishing a Czech translation of the Bible – the \"Bible kralická\" (six volumes, between 1579 and 1594). The language used in the translation was considered the best literary language in the Czech lands and in the area of today's Slovakia (the so-called \"bibličtina\", Bible language).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27514222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514222", "title": "Edmond Pourchot", "text": "Edmond Pourchot\n\nEdmond Pourchot (1651, Poilly – 1734, Paris) was a university professor noted for his controversial advocacy of Cartesianism (and the Cartesian theory of mechanics) in place of Aristotelianism. The change within the University of Paris from Aristotelianism to Cartesianism during the 1690s was important in the history of the development of natural philosophy in France and continental Europe.\n\nPourchot was named Professor of Philosophy in 1677, and he was a long-standing vice-chancellor/rector of the University of Paris, where he taught for 26 years. He authored a popular multi-volume Latin text entitled \"Institutiones philosophicae ad faciliorem veterum, ac recentiorum philosophorum lectionem comparatae\" (Paris, 1695; Paris, 1700; Lyon, 1711; Venice, 1715; Lyon, 1716–1717; Venice, 1730 [standard edition]; Paris & Lyon & Padua, 1733; Padua, 1751; Venice, 1755). This text was well regarded among eminent French intellectuals, and gained followers for Cartesianism in many other countries including Turkey and Poland. He was also a scholar of the Hebrew language. The Latin form of his name was Edmundus Purchotius (Edmundi Purchotii).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13094729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13094729", "title": "Ethical extensionism", "text": "Ethical extensionism\n\nEthical extensionism is an argument in environmental ethics that moral standing ought to be extended to things (animals, plants, species, the earth) that traditionally are not thought of as having moral standing.\n\nFor example, while many cultures differ as to what, exactly, is \"murder\", all cultures take it as wrong to commit murder. An example of ethical extensionism would be to extend to dogs or cats the status of being something that can be murdered, so that it would be wrong under some circumstances to kill a dog or cat.\n\nOn the one hand, ethical extensionism is a broadening of the class of things to which humans may owe an ethical duty.\n\nBut Des Jardins makes the point that most ethical extensionism has been merely broadening the ethical sphere incrementally, a process not agreeable to some environmental ethicists who would prefer more of a total replacement of traditional ethics with an entirely new approach. So, while ethical extensionism can, in principle, broaden the sphere of ethical standing to any arbitrary limits, the extensionist approach is seen by more recent ethical theorists as being inadequate.\n\n"}
{"id": "10274610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274610", "title": "Ethics and Language", "text": "Ethics and Language\n\nEthics and Language is a 1944 book by C. L. Stevenson which was influential in furthering the metaethical view of emotivism first espoused by David Hume.\n"}
{"id": "36972727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36972727", "title": "Faculty of Philosophy, University of Montenegro", "text": "Faculty of Philosophy, University of Montenegro\n\nThe University of Montenegro Faculty of Philosophy (Montenegrin: Filozofski fakultet Univerziteta Crne Gore \"Филозофски факултет Универзитета Црне Горе\") is one of the educational institutions of the University of Montenegro. The building is located in Nikšić, close to the city center.\n\nThe Faculty's history can be traced back to 1947, when the Pedagogical College (Montenegrin: Viša pedagoška škola \"Виша педагошка школа\") was founded in Cetinje. The College was moved to Nikšić in 1963, and renamed the Pedagogical Academy (Pedagoška akademija \"Педагошка академија\"). Between 1977 and 1988, the school was called the Teaching Faculty (Nastavnički fakultet \"Наставнички факултет\").\n\nSince 1988, the Faculty is known by its current name. It officially became part of the University of Montenegro on April 29, 1974, when the \"Agreement on Association into the University of Titograd\" (today's University of Montenegro) was signed with the representatives of the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Economics, the Maritime Studies College from Kotor and three independent scientific institutes from Titograd.\n\nThe Faculty of Philosophy is a complex educational and scientific institution which organizes undergraduate, specialist and postgraduate studies as well as doctoral studies within its main activities.\n\nUndergraduate studies are organized on the following 15 departments of the Faculty of Philosophy:\n\nPostgraduate specialist studies are organized on the following departments:\n\nMaster studies are organized at the following courses of studies:\n\nDoctoral studies are organized on departments of the Faculty:\n"}
{"id": "47680368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47680368", "title": "Faultless disagreement", "text": "Faultless disagreement\n\nA faultless disagreement is a disagreement when Party A states that \"P\" is true, while Party B states that \"non-P\" is true, and both parties are not at fault. Disagreements of this kind may arise in areas of evaluative discourse, such as aesthetics, justification of beliefs or moral values, etc. A representative example is John says Mary prettier that Anne, while Bob claims vice versa. Furthermore, in the case of a faultless disagreement, it is possible that if any party gives up their claim, there will be no improvement in the position of any of them.\n\nWithin the framework of formal logic it is impossible that both \"P\" and \"not-P\" are true, and it was attempted to justify faultless disagreements within the framework of relativism of the Truth, Max Kölbel and Sven Rosenkranz present arguments to the point that genuine faultless disagreements are impossible\n"}
{"id": "24780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24780", "title": "Five precepts", "text": "Five precepts\n\nThe five precepts (; ) or five rules of training (; ) is the most important system of morality for Buddhist lay people. They constitute the basic code of ethics undertaken by lay followers of Buddhism. The precepts are commitments to abstain from killing living beings, stealing, sexual misconduct, lying and intoxication. Within the Buddhist doctrine, they are meant to develop mind and character to make progress on the path to enlightenment. They are sometimes referred to as the śrāvakayāna precepts in the Mahāyāna tradition, contrasting them with the \"bodhisattva\" precepts. The five precepts form the basis of several parts of Buddhist doctrine, both lay and monastic. With regard to their fundamental role in Buddhist ethics, they have been compared with the ten commandments in Christianity or the ethical codes of Confucianism. The precepts have been connected with utilitarianist, deontological and virtue approaches to ethics. They have been compared with human rights because of their universal nature, and some scholars argue they can complement the concept of human rights.\n\nThe five precepts were common to the religious milieu of 6th-century BCE India, but the Buddha's focus on awareness through the fifth precept was unique. As shown in Early Buddhist Texts, the precepts grew to be more important, and finally became a condition for membership of the Buddhist religion. When Buddhism spread to different places and people, the role of the precepts began to vary. In countries where Buddhism had to compete with other religions, such as China, the ritual of undertaking the five precepts developed into an initiation ceremony to become a Buddhist lay person. On the other hand, in countries with little competition from other religions, such as Thailand, the ceremony has had little relation to the rite of becoming Buddhist, as many people are presumed Buddhist from birth.\n\nUndertaking and upholding the five precepts is based on the principle of non-harming (Pāli and ). The Pali Canon recommends one to compare oneself with others, and on the basis of that, not to hurt others. Compassion and a belief in karmic retribution form the foundation of the precepts. Undertaking the five precepts is part of regular lay devotional practice, both at home and at the local temple. However, the extent to which people keep them differs per region and time. People keep them with an intention to develop themselves, but also out of fear of a bad rebirth.\n\nThe first precept consists of a prohibition of killing, both humans and all animals. Scholars have interpreted Buddhist texts about the precepts as an opposition to and prohibition of capital punishment, suicide, abortion and euthanasia. In practice, however, many Buddhist countries still use the death penalty. With regard to abortion, Buddhist countries take the middle ground, by condemning though not prohibiting it. The Buddhist attitude to violence is generally interpreted as opposing all warfare, but some scholars have raised exceptions. The second precept prohibits theft. The third precept refers to adultery in all its forms, and has been defined by modern teachers with terms such as \"sexual responsibility\" and \"long-term commitment\". The fourth precept involves falsehood spoken or committed to by action, as well as malicious speech, harsh speech and gossip. The fifth precept prohibits intoxication through alcohol, drugs or other means. Early Buddhist Texts nearly always condemn alcohol, and so do Chinese Buddhist post-canonical texts. Buddhist attitudes toward smoking differ per time and region, but are generally permissive. In modern times, traditional Buddhist countries have seen revival movements to promote the five precepts. As for the West, the precepts play a major role in Buddhist organizations. They have also been integrated in mindfulness training programs, though many mindfulness specialists do not support this because of the precepts' religious import. Lastly, many conflict prevention programs make use of the precepts.\n\nBuddhist scriptures explain the five precepts as the minimal standard of Buddhist morality. It is the most important system of morality in Buddhism, together with the monastic rules. \"Śīla\" (Sanskrit; ) is used to refer to Buddhist precepts, including the five. But the word also refers to the virtue and morality which lies at the foundation of the spiritual path to enlightenment, which is the first of the three forms of training on the path. Thus, the precepts are rules or guidelines to develop mind and character to make progress on the path to enlightenment. The five precepts are part of the right speech, action and livelihood aspects of the eight-fold path, the core teaching of Buddhism. Moreover, the practice of the five precepts and other parts of \"śīla\" are described as forms of merit-making, means to create good karma. The five precepts have been described as social values that bring harmony to society, and breaches of the precepts described as antithetical to a harmonious society. On a smilar note, in Buddhist texts, the ideal, righteous society is one in which people keep five precepts.\n\nComparing different parts of Buddhist doctrine, the five precepts form the basis of the eight precepts, which are lay precepts stricter than the five precepts, similar to monastic precepts. Secondly, the five precepts form the first half of the ten or eleven precepts for a person aiming to become a Buddha (\"bodhisattva\"), as mentioned in the \"Brahmajala Sūtra\" of the Mahāyāna tradition. Contrasting these precepts with the five precepts, the latter were commonly referred to by Mahāyānists as the \"śrāvakayāna\" precepts, or the precepts of those aiming to become enlightened disciples of a Buddha, but not Buddhas themselves. The teneleven \"bodhisattva\" precepts presuppose the five precepts, and are partly based on them. The five precepts are also partly found in the teaching called the ten good courses of action, referred to in Theravāda () and Tibetan Buddhism (; ). Finally, the first four of the five precepts are very similar to the most fundamental rules of monastic discipline, and may have influenced their development.\n\nIn conclusion, the five precept lie at the foundation of all Buddhist practice, and in that respect, can be compared with the ten commandments in Christianity or the ethical codes of Confucianism.\n\nThe five precepts were part of early Buddhism and are common to nearly all schools of Buddhism. In early Buddhism, the five precepts were regarded as an ethic of restraint, to restrain unwholesome tendencies and thereby purify one's being to attain enlightenment. The five precepts were based on the \"pañcaśīla\", prohibitions for pre-Buddhist Brahmanic priests, which were adopted in many Indic religions around 6th century BCE. The first four Buddhist precepts were nearly identical to these \"pañcaśīla\", but the fifth precept, the prohibition on intoxication, was new in Buddhism: the Buddha's emphasis on awareness () was unique.\n\nIn some schools of ancient Indic Buddhism, Buddhist devotees could choose to adhere to only a number of precepts, instead of the complete five. The schools that would survive in later periods, however, that is Theravāda and Mahāyāna Buddhism, were both ambiguous about this practice. Some early Mahāyāna texts allow it, but some do not; Theravāda texts do not discuss this practice at all.\n\nThe prohibition on killing has motivated early Buddhists to form a stance against animal sacrifice, a common ritual practice in ancient India. According to the Pāli Canon, however, early Buddhists did not adopt a vegetarian lifestyle.\n\nIn Early Buddhist Texts, the role of the five precepts gradually develops. First of all, the precepts are combined with a declaration of faith in the triple gem (the Buddha, his teaching and the monastic community). Next, the precepts develop to become the foundation of lay practice. The precepts are seen a preliminary condition for the higher development of the mind. At a third stage in the texts, the precepts are actually mentioned together with the triple gem, as though they are part of it. Lastly, the precepts, together with the triple gem, become a required condition for the practice of Buddhism, as lay people have to undergo a formal initiation to become a member of the Buddhist religion. When Buddhism spread to different places and people, the role of the precepts began to vary. In countries in which Buddhism was adopted as the main religion without much competition from other religious disciplines, such as Thailand, the relation between the initiation of a lay person and the five precepts has been virtually non-existent, and the taking of the precepts has become a sort of ritual cleansing ceremony. In such countries, people are presumed Buddhist from birth without much of an initiation. The precepts are often committed to by new followers as part of their installment, yet this is not very pronounced. However, in some countries like China, where Buddhism was not the only religion, the precepts became an ordination ceremony to initiate lay people into the Buddhist religion.\n\nIn China, the five precepts were introduced in the first centuries CE, both in their \"śrāvakayāna\" and \"bodhisattva\" formats. During this time, it was particularly Buddhist teachers who promoted abstinence from alcohol (the fifth precept), since Daoism and other thought systems emphasized moderation rather than full abstinence. Chinese Buddhists interpreted the fifth precept strictly, even more so than in Indic Buddhism. For example, the monk Daoshi ( 600–83) dedicated large sections of his encyclopedic writings to abstinence from alcohol. However, in some parts of China, such as Dunhuang, considerable evidence has been found of alcohol consumption among both lay people and monastics. Later, from the 8th century onward, strict attitudes of abstinence led to a development of a distinct tea culture among Chinese monastics and lay intellectuals, in which tea gatherings replaced gatherings with alcoholic beverages, and were advocated as such. These strict attitudes were formed partly because of the religious writings, but may also have been affected by the bloody An Lushan Rebellion of 775, which had a sobering effect on 8th-century Chinese society. When the five precepts were integrated in Chinese society, they were associated and connected with karma, Chinese cosmology and medicine, a Daoist worldview, and Confucian virtue ethics.\n\nIn the Theravāda tradition, the precepts are recited in a standardized fashion, using Pāli language. In Thailand, a leading lay person will normally request the monk to administer the precepts by reciting the following three times:\n\nAfter this, the monk administering the precepts will recite a reverential line of text to introduce the ceremony, after which he guides the lay people in declaring that they take their refuge in the three refuges or triple gem.\n\nHe then continues with reciting the five precepts:\n\nIn the fifth precept \"sura\", \"meraya\" and \"majja\" are kinds of alcoholic beverages. In some modern translations, \"Surāmerayamajjapamādaṭṭhānā\", is rendered more broadly, variously, as, \"intoxicants\" or \"liquor and drugs\", etc.\n\nAfter the lay people have repeated the five precepts after the monk, the monk will close the ceremony reciting:\n\nThe format of the ceremony for taking the precepts occurs several times in the Chinese Buddhist Canon, in slightly different forms.\n\nOne formula of the precepts can be found in the \"Treatise on Taking Refuge and the Precepts\" ():\n\n\nSimilarly, in the Mūla-Sarvāstivāda texts used in Tibetan Buddhism, the precepts are formulated such that one takes the precepts upon oneself for one's entire lifespan, following the examples of the enlightened disciples of the Buddha (\"arahant\").\n\nThe five precepts can be found in many places in the Early Buddhist Texts. The precepts are regarded as means to building good character, or as an expression of such character. The Pāli Canon describes them as means to avoid harm to oneself and others. It further describes them as gifts toward oneself and others. Moreover, the texts say that people who uphold them will be confident in any gathering of people, will have wealth and a good reputation, and will die a peaceful death, reborn in heaven or as a human being. On the other hand, living a life in violation of the precepts is believed to lead to rebirth in an unhappy destination. They are understood as principles that define a person as human in body and mind.\n\nThe precepts are normative rules, but are formulated and understood as \"undertakings\" rather than commandments enforced by a moral authority, according to the voluntary and gradualist standards of Buddhist ethics. They are forms of restraint formulated in negative terms, but are also accompanied by virtues and positive behaviors, which are cultivated through the practice of the precepts. The most important of these virtues is non-harming (Pāli and ), which underlies all of the five precepts. Precisely, the texts say that one should keep the precepts, adhering to the principle of comparing oneself with others:\nIn other words, all living beings are alike in that they want to be happy and not suffer. Comparing oneself with others, one should therefore not hurt others as one would not want to be hurt. Ethicist Pinit Ratanakul argues that the compassion which motivates upholding the precepts comes from an understanding that all living beings are equal and of a nature that they are 'not-self' (). Another aspect that is fundamental to this is the belief in karmic retribution.\n\nIn the upholding or violation of the precepts, intention is crucial. In the Pāli scriptures, an example is mentioned of a person stealing an animal only to set it free, which was not seen as an offense of theft. In the Pāli commentaries, a precept is understood to be violated when the person violating it finds the object of the transgression (e.g. things to be stolen), is aware of the violation, has the intention to violate it, does actually act on that intention, and does so successfully.\n\nUpholding the precepts is sometimes distinguished in three levels: to uphold them without having formally undertaken them; to uphold them formally, willing to sacrifice one's own life for it; and finally, to spontaneously uphold them. The latter refers to the \"arahant\", who is understood to be morally incapable of violating the first four precepts. A layperson who upholds the precepts is described in the texts as a \"jewel among laymen\". On the other hand, the most serious violations of the precepts are the five actions of immediate retribution, which are believed to lead the perpetrator to an unavoidable rebirth in hell. These consist of injuring a Buddha, killing an \"arahant\", killing one's father or mother, and causing the monastic community to have a schism.\n\nLay followers often undertake these training rules in the same ceremony as they take the refuges. Monks administer the precepts to the laypeople, which creates an additional psychological effect. Buddhist lay people may recite the precepts regularly at home, and before an important ceremony at the temple to prepare the mind for the ceremony.\n\nThe five precepts are at the core of Buddhist morality. In field studies in some countries like Sri Lanka, villagers describe them as the core of the religion. Anthropologist found in his fieldwork that most Thai villagers knew the precepts by heart, and many, especially the elderly, could explain the implications of the precepts following traditional interpretations.\n\nNevertheless, Buddhists do not all follow them with the same strictness. Devotees who have just started keeping the precepts will typically have to exercise considerable restraint. When they become used to the precepts, they start to embody them more naturally. Researchers doing field studies in traditional Buddhist societies have found that the five precepts are generally considered demanding and challenging. For example, in a 1997 survey in Thailand, only 13.8% of the respondents indicated they adhered to the five precepts in their daily lives, with the fourth and fifth precept least likely to be adhered to. Yet, people do consider the precepts worth striving for, and do uphold them out of fear of bad karma and being reborn in hell, or because they believe in that the Buddha issued these rules, and that they therefore should be maintained. Anthropologist Melford Spiro found that Burmese Buddhists mostly upheld the precepts to avoid bad karma, as opposed to expecting to gain good karma. Religion scholar Winston King observed from his field studies that the moral principles of Burmese Buddhists were based on personal self-developmental motives rather than other-regarding motives. Religion scholar Richard Jones concludes that the moral motives of Buddhists in adhering to the precepts are based on the idea that renouncing self-service, ironically, serves oneself.\n\nIn East Asian Buddhism, the precepts are intrinsically connected with the initiation as a Buddhist lay person. Early Chinese translations such as the \"Upāsaka-śila Sūtra\" hold that the precepts should only be ritually transmitted by a monastic. The texts describe that in the ritual the power of the Buddhas and \"bodhisattvas\" is transmitted, and helps the initiate to keep the precepts. This \"lay ordination\" ritual usually occurs after a stay in a temple, and often after a monastic ordination has taken place. The ordained lay person is then given a religious name. The restrictions that apply are similar to a monastic ordination, such as permission from parents.\n\nIn the Theravāda tradition, the precepts are usually taken \"each separately\" (), to indicate that if one precept should be broken, the other precepts are still intact. In very solemn occasions, or for very pious devotees, the precepts may be taken as a group rather than each separately. This does not mean, however, that only some of the precepts can be undertaken; they are always committed to as a complete set. In East Asian Buddhism, however, the vow of taking the precepts is considered a solemn matter, and it is not uncommon for lay people to undertake only the precepts that they are confident they can keep. The act of taking a vow to keep the precepts is what makes it karmically effective: Spiro found that someone who did not violate the precepts, but did not have any intention to keep them either, was not believed to accrue any religious merit. On the other hand, when people took a vow to keep the precepts, and then broke them afterwards, the negative karma was considered larger as in the case no vow was taken to keep the precepts.\n\nSeveral modern teachers such as Thich Nhat Hanh and Sulak Sivaraksa have written about the five precepts in a wider scope, with regard to social and institutional relations. In these perspectives, mass production of weapons or spreading untruth through media and education also violate the precepts. On a similar note, human rights organizations in Southeast Asia have attempted to advocate respect for human rights by referring to the five precepts as guiding principles.\n\nThe first precept prohibits the taking of life of a sentient being. It is violated when someone intentionally and successfully kills such a sentient being, having understood it to be sentient and using effort in the process. Causing injury goes against the spirit of the precept, but does, technically speaking, not violate it. The first precept includes taking the lives of animals, even small insects. However, it has also been pointed out that the seriousness of taking life depends on the size, intelligence, benefits done and the spiritual attainments of that living being. Killing a large animal is worse than killing a small animal (also because it costs more effort); killing a spiritually accomplished master is regarded as more severe than the killing of another \"more average\" human being; and killing a human being is more severe than the killing an animal. But all killing is condemned. Virtues that accompany this precept are respect for dignity of life, kindness and compassion, the latter expressed as \"trembling for the welfare of others\". A positive behavior that goes together with this precept is protecting living beings. Positive virtues like sympathy and respect for other living beings in this regard are based on a belief in the cycle of rebirththat all living beings must be born and reborn. The concept of the fundamental Buddha nature of all human beings also underlies the first precept.\n\nThe description of the first precept can be interpreted as a prohibition of capital punishment. Suicide is also seen as part of the prohibition. Moreover, abortion goes against the precept, since in an act of abortion, the criteria for violation are all met. In Buddhism, human life is understood to start at conception. A prohibition of abortion is mentioned explicitly in the monastic precepts, and several Buddhist tales warn of the harmful karmic consequences of abortion. Bioethicist Damien Keown argues that Early Buddhist Texts do not allow for exceptions with regard to abortion, as they consist of a \"consistent' (i.e. exceptionless) pro-life position\". Keown further proposes that that a middle way approach to the five precepts is logically hard to defend. Asian studies scholar Giulo Agostini argues, however, that Buddhist commentators in India from the 4th century onward thought abortion did not break the precepts under certain circumstances.\n\nOrdering another person to kill is also included in this precept, therefore requesting or administering euthanasia can be considered a violation of the precept, as well as advising another person to commit abortion. With regard to euthanasia and assisted suicide, Keown quotes the Pāli \"Dīgha Nikāya\" that says a person upholding the first precept \"does not kill a living being, does not cause a living being to be killed, does not approve of the killing of a living being\". Keown argues that in Buddhist ethics, regardless of motives, death can never be the aim of one's actions.\n\nInterpretations of how Buddhist texts regard warfare are varied, but in general Buddhist doctrine is considered to oppose all warfare. In many \"Jātaka\" tales, such as that of Prince Temiya, as well as some historical documents, the virtue of non-violence is taken as an opposition to all war, both offensive and defensive. At the same time, though, the Buddha is often shown not to explicitly oppose war in his conversations with political figures. Buddhologist André Bareau points out that the Buddha was reserved in his involvement of the details of administrative policy, and concentrated on the moral and spiritual development of his disciples instead. He may have believed such involvement to be futile, or detrimental to Buddhism. Nevertheless, at least one disciple of the Buddha is mentioned in the texts who refrained from retaliating his enemies because of the Buddha, that is King Pasenadi (). The texts are ambiguous in explaining his motives though. In some later Mahāyāna texts, such as in the writings of Asaṅga, examples are mentioned of people who kill those who persecute Buddhists. In these examples, killing is justified by the authors because protecting Buddhism was seen as more important than keeping the precepts. Another example that is often cited is that of King Duṭṭhagāmaṇī, who is mentioned in the post-canonical Pāli Mahāvaṃsa chronicle. In the chronicle, the king is saddened with the loss of life after a war, but comforted by a Buddhist monk, who states that nearly everyone who was killed did not uphold the precepts anyway. Buddhist studies scholar Lambert Schmithausen argues that in many of these cases Buddhist teachings like that of emptiness were misused to further an agenda of war or other violence.\n\nField studies in Cambodia and Burma have shown that many Buddhists considered the first precept the most important, or the most blamable. In some traditional communities, such as in Kandal Province in pre-war Cambodia, as well as Burma in the 1980s, it was uncommon for Buddhists to slaughter animals, to the extent that meat had to be bought from not-Buddhists. In his field studies in Thailand in the 1960s, Terwiel found that villagers did tend to kill insects, but were reluctant and self-conflicted with regard to killing larger animals. In Spiro's field studies, however, Burmese villagers were highly reluctant even to kill insects.\n\nEarly Buddhists did not adopt a vegetarian lifestyle. Indeed, in several Pāli texts vegetarianism is described as irrelevant in the spiritual purification of the mind. There are prohibitions on certain types of meat, however, especially those which are condemned by society. The idea of abstaining from killing animal life has also led to a prohibition on professions that involve trade in flesh or living beings, but not to a full prohibition of all agriculture that involves cattle. In modern times, referring to the law of supply and demand or other principles, some Theravādin Buddhists have attempted to promote vegetarianism as part of the five precepts. For example, the Thai Santi Asoke movement practices vegetarianism.\n\nFurthermore, among some schools of Buddhism, there has been some debate with regard to a principle in the monastic discipline. This principle states that a Buddhist monk cannot accept meat if it comes from animals especially slaughtered for him. Some teachers have interpreted this to mean that when the recipient has no knowledge on whether the animal has been killed for him, he cannot accept the food either. Similarly, there has been debate as to whether laypeople should be vegetarian when adhering to the five precepts. Though vegetarianism among Theravādins is generally uncommon, it has been practiced much in East Asian countries, as some Mahāyāna texts, such as the \"Mahāparanirvana Sūtra\" and the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", condemn the eating of meat. Nevertheless, even among Mahāyāna Buddhistsand East Asian Buddhiststhere is disagreement on whether vegetarianism should be practiced. In the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", biological, social and hygienic reasons are given for a vegetarian diet; however, historically, a major factor in the development of a vegetarian lifestyle among Mahāyāna communities may have been that Mahāyāna monastics cultivated their own crops for food, rather than living from alms. Already from the 4th century CE, Chinese writer Xi Chao understood the five precepts to include vegetarianism.\nApart from trade in flesh or living beings, there are also other professions considered undesirable. Vietnamese teacher Thich Nhat Hanh gives a list of examples, such as working in the arms industry, the military, police, producing or selling poison or drugs such as alcohol and tobacco.\n\nIn general, the first precept has been interpreted by Buddhists as a call for non-violence and pacifism. But there have been some exceptions of people who did not interpret the first precept as an opposition to war. For example, in the twentieth century, some Japanese Zen teachers wrote in support of violence in war, and some of them argued this should be seen as a means to uphold the first precept. There is some debate and controversy surrounding the problem whether a person can commit suicide, such as self-immolation, to reduce other people's suffering in the long run, such as in protest to improve a political situation in a country. Teachers like the Dalai Lama and Shengyan have rejected forms of protest like self-immolation, as well as other acts of self-harming or fasting as forms of protest.\n\nAlthough capital punishment goes against the first precept, as of 2001, many countries in Asia still maintained the death penalty, including Sri Lanka, Thailand, China and Taiwan. In some Buddhist countries, such as Sri Lanka and Thailand, capital punishment was applied during some periods, while during other periods no capital punishment was used at all. In other countries with Buddhism, like China and Taiwan, Buddhism, or any religion for that matter, has had no influence in policy decisions of the government. Countries with Buddhism that have abolished capital punishment include Cambodia and Hong Kong.\n\nIn general, Buddhist traditions oppose abortion. In many countries with Buddhist traditions such as Thailand, Taiwan, Korea and Japan, however, abortion is a widespread practice, whether legal or not. Many people in these countries consider abortion immoral, but also think it should be less prohibited. Ethicist Roy W. Perrett, following Ratanakul, argues that this field research data does not so much indicate hypocrisy, but rather points at a \"middle way\" in applying Buddhist doctrine to solve a moral dilemma. Buddhists tend to take \"both sides\" on the pro-lifepro-choice debate, being against the taking of life of a fetus in principle, but also believing in compassion toward mothers. Similar attitudes may explain the Japanese \"mizuko kuyō\" ceremony, a Buddhist memorial service for aborted children, which has led to a debate in Japanese society concerning abortion, and finally brought the Japanese to a consensus that abortion should not be taken lightly, though it should be legalized. This position, held by Japanese Buddhists, takes the middle ground between the Japanese neo-Shinto \"pro-life\" position, and the liberationist, \"pro-choice\" arguments. Keown points out, however, that this compromise does not mean a Buddhist middle way between two extremes, but rather incorporates two opposite perspectives. In Thailand, women who wish to have abortion usually do so in the early stages of pregnancy, because they believe the karmic consequences are less then. Having had abortion, Thai women usually make merits to compensate for the negative karma.\n\nThe second precept prohibits theft, and involves the intention to steal what one perceives as not belonging to oneself (\"what is not given\") and acting successfully upon that intention. The severity of the act of theft is judged by the worth of the owner and the worth of that which is stolen. Underhand dealings, fraud, cheating and forgery are also included in this precept. Accompanying virtues are generosity, renunciation, and right livelihood, and a positive behavior is the protection of other people's property.\n\nThe second precept includes different ways of stealing and fraud. Borrowing without permission is sometimes included, as well as gambling. Psychologist Vanchai Ariyabuddhiphongs did studies in the 2000s and 2010s in Thailand and discovered that people who did not adhere to the five precepts more often tended to believe that money was the most important goal in life, and would more often pay bribes than people who did adhere to the precepts. On the other hand, people who observed the five precepts regarded themselves as wealthier and happier than people who did not observe the precepts.\n\nProfessions that are seen to violate the second precept include working in the gambling industry or marketing products that are not actually required for the customer.\n\nThe third precept condemns adultery with women that are \"claimed\" or \"acquired\", or, in other words, it condemns \"going with the wife of another\". The precept also includes women who are engaged with another man, young women that are still \"protected by any relative\", and women who are prostitutes. Moreover, rape and incest are also breaches of this precept. In later texts, details such as intercourse at an inappropriate time or inappropriate place are also counted as breaches of the third precept. Masturbation goes against the spirit of the precept, though in the early texts it is not prohibited for laypeople.\n\nThe third precept is explained as leading to greed in oneself and harm to others. The transgression is regarded as more severe if the other person is a good person. Virtues that go hand-in-hand with the third precept are contentment, especially with one's partner, and recognition and respect for faithfulness in a marriage.\n\nThe third precept is interpreted as avoiding to harm another by using sensuality in the wrong way. This means not engaging with inappropriate partners, but also respecting one's personal commitment to a relationship. In some traditions, the precept also condemns adultery with a woman when her husband agrees with the act, since the nature of the act itself is condemned. Furthermore, flirting with a married woman may also be regarded as a violation. Though prostitution is discouraged in the third precept, it is usually not actively prohibited by Buddhist teachers. With regard to applications of the principles of the third precept, the precept, or any Buddhist principle for that matter, is usually not connected with a stance against contraception. In traditional Buddhist societies such as Sri Lanka, pre-marital sex is considered to violate the precept, though this is not always adhered to by people who already intend to marry.\n\nIn the interpretation of modern teachers, the precept includes any person in a sexual relationship with another person, as they define the precept by terms such as \"sexual responsibility\" and \"long-term commitment\". Some modern teachers include masturbation as a violation of the precept, others include certain professions, such as those that involve sexual exploitation, prostitution or pornography, and professions that promote unhealthy sexual behavior, such as in the entertainment industry.\n\nThe fourth precept involves falsehood spoken or committed to by action. Avoiding other forms of wrong speech are also considered part of this precept, consisting of malicious speech, harsh speech and gossip. A breach of the precept is considered more serious if the falsehood is motivated by an ulterior motive (rather than, for example, \"a small white lie\"). The accompanying virtue is being honest and dependable, and involves honesty in work, truthfulness to others, loyalty to superiors and gratitude to benefactors. In Buddhist texts, this precept is considered most important next to the first precept, because a lying person is regarded to have no shame, and therefore capable of many wrongs. Untruthfulness is not only to be avoided because it harms others, but also because it goes against the Buddhist ideal of finding the truth.\n\nThe fourth precept includes avoidance of lying and harmful speech. Some modern teachers such as Thich Nhat Hanh interpret this to include avoiding spreading false news and uncertain information. Work that involves data manipulation, false advertising or online scams can also be regarded as violations. Terwiel reports that among Thai Buddhists, the fourth precept is also seen to be broken when people insinuate, exaggerate or speak abusively or deceitfully.\n\nThe fifth precept prohibits intoxication through alcohol, drugs or other means, and its virtues are mindfulness and responsibility, applied to food, work, behavior, and with regard to the nature of life. Awareness, meditation and heedfulness can also be included here. Medieval Pāli commentator Buddhaghosa writes that whereas violating the first four precepts may be more or less blamable depending on the person or animal affected, the fifth precept is always \"greatly blamable\", as it hinders one from understanding the Buddha's teaching and may lead one to \"madness\". In ancient China, Daoshi described alcohol as the \"doorway to laxity and idleness\" and as a cause of suffering. Nevertheless, he did describe certain cases when drinking was considered less of a problem, such as in the case of a queen distracting the king by alcohol to prevent him from murder. However, Daoshi was generally strict in his interpretations: for example, he allowed medicinal use of alcohol only in extreme cases. Early Chinese translations of the Tripitaka describe negative consequences for people breaking the fifth precept, for themselves and their families. The Chinese translation of the \"Upāsikaśila Sūtra\", as well as the Pāli version of the Sigālovāda Sutta, speak of ill consequences such as loss of wealth, ill health, a bad reputation and \"stupidity\", concluding in a rebirth in hell. The \"Dīrghāgama\" adds to that that alcohol leads to quarreling, negative states of mind and damage to one's intelligence. The Mahāyāna \"Brahmajāla Sūtra\" describes the dangers of alcohol in very strong terms, including the selling of alcohol. Similar arguments against alcohol can be found in Nāgārjuna's writings. The strict interpretation of prohibition of alcohol consumption can be supported by the \"Upāli Sūtra\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s statement that a disciple of the Buddha should not drink any alcohol, \"even a drop on the point of a blade of grass\". However, in the writing of some Abhidharma commentators, consumption was condemned or condoned, depending on the intention with which alcohol was consumed.\n\nAs for the fifth precept, this is regarded as important, because drinking alcohol is condemned for the sluggishness and lack of self-control it leads to, which might lead to breaking the other precepts. In Spiro's field studies, violating the fifth precept was seen as the worst of all the five precepts by half of the monks interviewed, citing the harmful consequences. Nevertheless, in practice it is often disregarded by lay people. In Thailand, drinking alcohol is fairly common, even drunkenness. Among Tibetans, drinking beer is common, though this is only slightly alcoholic. Medicinal use of alcohol is generally not frowned upon, and in some countries like Thailand and Laos, smoking is usually not regarded as a violation of the precept. Thai and Laotian monks have been known to smoke, though monks who have received more training are less likely to smoke. On a similar note, as of 2000, no Buddhist country prohibited the sale or consumption of alcohol, though in Sri Lanka Buddhist revivalists attempted unsuccessfully to get a full prohibition passed in 1956. Moreover, pre-Communist Tibet used to prohibit smoking in some areas of the capital. Monks were prohibited from smoking, and the import of tobacco was banned.\n\nThich Nhat Hanh also includes the aspect of mindful consumption in this precept, which consists of unhealthy food, unhealthy entertainment and unhealthy conversations, among others.\n\nIn modern times, adherence to the precepts among Buddhists is less strict than it traditionally was. This is especially true for the third precept. For example, in Cambodia in the 1990s and 2000s, standards with regard to sexual restraint were greatly relaxed. Some Buddhist movements and communities have tried to go against the modern trend of less strict adherence to the precepts. In Cambodia, a millenarian movement led by Chan Yipon promoted the revival of the five precepts. And in the 2010s, the Supreme Sangha Council in Thailand ran a nationwide program called \"The Villages Practicing the Five Precepts\", aiming to encourage keeping the precepts, with an extensive classification and reward system.\n\nIn many Western Buddhist organizations, the five precepts play a major role in developing ethical guidelines. Furthermore, Buddhist teachers such as Philip Kapleau, Thich Nhat Hanh and Robert Aitken have promoted mindful consumption in the West, based on the five precepts. In another development in the West, some scholars working in the field of mindfulness training have proposed that the five precepts be introduced as a component in such trainings. Specifically, to prevent organizations from using mindfulness training to further an economical agenda with harmful results to its employees, the economy or the environment, the precepts could be used as a standardized ethical framework. As of 2015, several training programs made explicit use of the five precepts as secular, ethical guidelines. However, many mindfulness training specialists consider it problematic to teach the five precepts as part of training programs in secular contexts because of their religious origins and import.\n\nPeace studies scholar Theresa Der-lan Yeh notes that the five precepts address physical, economical, familial and verbal aspects of interaction, and remarks that many conflict prevention programs in schools and communities have integrated the five precepts in their curriculum. On a similar note, peace studies founder Johan Galtung describes the five precepts as the \"basic contribution of Buddhism in the creation of peace\".\n\nStudying lay and monastic ethical practice in traditional Buddhist societies, Spiro argued ethical guidelines such as the five precepts are adhered to as a means to a higher end, that is, a better rebirth or enlightenment. He therefore concluded that Buddhist ethical principles like the five precepts are similar to Western utilitarianism. Keown, however, has argued that the five precepts are regarded as rules that cannot be violated, and therefore may indicate a deontological perspective in Buddhist ethics. On the other hand, he has suggested that Aristoteles' virtue ethics could apply as well, since the precepts are considered good in themselves, and mutually dependent on other aspects of the Buddhist path of practice.\n\nKeown has further argued that the five precepts are very similar to human rights, with regard to subject matter and with regard to their universal nature. Other scholars, as well as Buddhist writers and human rights advocates, have drawn similar comparisons. For example, the following comparisons are drawn:\n\nKeown summarizes the relationship between Buddhist precepts and human rights as \"look[ing] both ways along the juridical relationship, both what one is due to do, and to what is due to one\". On a similar note, Cambodian human rights advocates have argued that for human rights to be fully implemented in society, the strengthening of individual morality must also be addressed. Buddhist monk and scholar Phra Payutto sees the Human Rights Declaration as an unfolding and detailing of the principles that are found in the five precepts, in which a sense of ownership is given to the individual, to make legitimate claims on one's rights. He believes that human rights should be seen as a part of human development, in which one develops from moral discipline (), to concentration () and finally wisdom (). He does not believe, however, that human rights are natural rights, but rather human conventions. Buddhism scholar Somparn Promta disagrees with him. He argues that human beings do have natural rights from a Buddhist perspective, and refers to the \"attūpanāyika-dhamma\", a teaching in which the Buddha prescribes a kind of golden rule of comparing oneself with others. (\"See §Principles, above.\") From this discourse, Promta concludes that the Buddha has laid down the five precepts in order to protect individual rights such as right of life and property: human rights are implicit within the five precepts. Academic Buntham Phunsap argues, however, that though human rights are useful in culturally pluralistic societies, they are in fact not required when society is based on the five precepts. Phunsap therefore does not see human rights as part of Buddhist doctrine.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1259241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1259241", "title": "Habitat fragmentation", "text": "Habitat fragmentation\n\nHabitat fragmentation describes the emergence of discontinuities (fragmentation) in an organism's preferred environment (habitat), causing population fragmentation and ecosystem decay. Causes of habitat fragmentation include geological processes that slowly alter the layout of the physical environment\n(suspected of being one of the major causes of speciation),and human activity such as land conversion, which can alter the environment much faster and causes the extinction of many species.\n\nThe term habitat fragmentation includes five discrete phenomena:\n\n\"fragmentation ... not only causes loss of the amount of habitat, but by creating small, isolated patches it also changes the properties of the remaining habitat\" (van den Berg et al. 2001). Habitat fragmentation is the landscape level of the phenomenon, and patch level process. Thus meaning, it covers; the patch areas, edge effects, and patch shape complexity.\n\nIn scientific literature, there is some debate whether the term \"habitat fragmentation\" applies in cases of habitat loss, or whether the term primarily applies to the phenomenon of habitat being cut into smaller pieces without significant reduction in habitat area. Scientists who use the stricter definition of \"habitat fragmentation\" per se would refer to loss of habitat area as \"habitat loss\" and explicitly mention both terms if describing a situation where the habitat becomes less connected and there is less overall habitat.\n\nEvidence of habitat destruction through natural processes such as volcanism, fire, and climate change is found in the fossil record. For example, habitat fragmentation of tropical rainforests in Euramerica 300 million years ago led to a great loss of amphibian diversity, but simultaneously the drier climate spurred on a burst of diversity among reptiles.\n\nHabitat fragmentation is frequently caused by humans when native plants is cleared for human activities such as agriculture, rural development, urbanization and the creation of hydroelectric reservoirs. Habitats which were once continuous become divided into separate fragments. After intensive clearing, the separate fragments tend to be very small islands isolated from each other by cropland, pasture, pavement, or even barren land. The latter is often the result of slash and burn farming in tropical forests. In the wheat belt of central western New South Wales, Australia, 90% of the native vegetation has been cleared and over 99% of the tall grass prairie of North America has been cleared, resulting in extreme habitat fragmentation.\n\nThere are two types of processes that can lead to habitat fragmentation. There are exogenous processes and endogenous processes. Endogenous are process that develop as a part of a species biology so they typically include changes in biology, behavior and interactions within or between species. Endogenous threats can result in changes to breeding patterns or migration patterns and are often triggered by exogenous processes. Exogenous processes are independent of species biology and can include habitat degradation, habitat subdivision or habitat isolation. These processes can have a substantial impact on endogenous processes by fundamentally altering species behavior. Habitat subdivision or isolation can lead to changes in dispersal or movement of species including changes to seasonal migration. These changes can lead to decrease in a density of species, increased competition or even increased predation.\n\nOne of the major ways that habitat fragmentation affects biodiversity is by reducing the amount of suitable habitat available for organisms. Habitat fragmentation often involves both habitat destruction and the subdivision of previously continuous habitat. Plants and other sessile organisms are disproportionately affected by some types of habitat fragmentation because they cannot respond quickly to the altered spatial configuration of the habitat.\n\nHabitat loss, which can occur through the process of habitat fragmentation, is considered to be the greatest threat to species. But, the effect of the configuration of habitat patches within the landscape, independent of the effect of the amount of habitat within the landscape (referred to as fragmentation per se), has been suggested to be small. A review of empirical studies found that, of the 381 reported significant effect of habitat fragmentation per se on species occurrences, abundances or diversity in the scientific literature, 76% were positive whereas 24% were negative. Despite these results, the scientific literature tends to emphasize negative effects more than positive effects. Positive effects of habitat fragmentation per se imply that several small patches of habitat can have higher conservation value than a single large patch of equivalent size. Land sharing strategies could therefore have more positive impacts on species than land sparing strategies.\nArea is the primary determinant of the number of species in a fragment and the relative contributions of demographic and genetic processes to the risk of global population extinction depend on habitat configuration, stochastic environmental variation and species features. Minor fluctuations in climate, resources, or other factors that would be unremarkable and quickly corrected in large populations can be catastrophic in small, isolated populations. Thus fragmentation of habitat is an important cause of species extinction. Population dynamics of subdivided populations tend to vary asynchronously. In an unfragmented landscape a declining population can be \"rescued\" by immigration from a nearby expanding population. In fragmented landscapes, the distance between fragments may prevent this from happening. Additionally, unoccupied fragments of habitat that are separated from a source of immigrants by some barrier are less likely to be repopulated than adjoining fragments. Even small species such as the Columbia spotted frog are reliant on the rescue effect. Studies showed 25% of juveniles travel a distance over 200m compared to 4% of adults. Of these, 95% remain in their new locale, demonstrating that this journey is necessary for survival.\n\nAdditionally, habitat fragmentation leads to edge effects. Microclimatic changes in light, temperature and wind can alter the ecology around the fragment, and in the interior and exterior portions of the fragment. Fires become more likely in the area as humidity drops and temperature and wind levels rise. Exotic and pest species may establish themselves easily in such disturbed environments, and the proximity of domestic animals often upsets the natural ecology. Also, habitat along the edge of a fragment has a different climate and favours different species from the interior habitat. Small fragments are therefore unfavourable for species which require interior habitat. The percentage preservation of contiguous habitats is closely related to both genetic and species biodiversity preservation. Generally a 10% remnant contiguous habitat will result in a 50% biodiversity loss.\n\nHabitat fragmentation is often a cause of species becoming threatened or endangered. The existence of viable habitat is critical to the survival of any species, and in many cases the fragmentation of any remaining habitat can lead to difficult decisions for conservation biologists. Given a limited amount of resources available for conservation is it preferable to protect the existing isolated patches of habitat or to buy back land to get the largest possible continuous piece of land. In rare cases a conservation reliant species may gain some measure of disease protection by being distributed in isolated habitats. This ongoing debate is often referred to as SLOSS (Single Large or Several Small).\n\nOne solution to the problem of habitat fragmentation is to link the fragments by preserving or planting corridors of native vegetation. In some cases, a bridge or underpass may be enough to join two fragments. This has the potential to mitigate the problem of isolation but not the loss of interior habitat.\n\nAnother mitigation measure is the enlargement of small remnants in order to increase the amount of interior habitat. This may be impractical since developed land is often more expensive and could require significant time and effort to restore.\n\nThe best solution is generally dependent on the particular species or ecosystem that is being considered. More mobile species, like most birds, do not need connected habitat while some smaller animals, like rodents, may be more exposed to predation in open land. These questions generally fall under the headings of metapopulations island biogeography.\n\nAs the remaining habitat patches are smaller, they tend to support smaller populations of fewer species. Small populations are at an increased risk of a variety of genetic consequences that influence their long-term survival. Remnant populations often contain only a subset of the genetic diversity found in the previously continuous habitat. Processes that act upon underlying genetic diversity such as adaptation have a smaller pool of fitness-maintaining alleles to survive in the face of environmental change.\n\nGene flow occurs when individuals of the same species exchange genetic information through reproduction. Populations can maintain genetic diversity through migration. When a habitat becomes fragmented and reduced in area, gene flow and migration is typically reduced. Fewer individuals will migrate into the remaining fragments, and small disconnected populations that may have once been part of a single large population will become reproductively isolated. Scientific evidence that gene flow is reduced due to fragmentation depends on the study species. While trees that have long-range pollination and dispersal mechanisms may not experience reduced gene flow following fragmentation, most species are at risk of reduced gene flow following habitat fragmentation.\n\nReduced gene flow, and reproductive isolation can result in inbreeding between related individuals. Inbreeding does not always result in negative fitness consequences, but when inbreeding is associated with fitness reduction it is called inbreeding depression. Inbreeding becomes of increasing concern as the level of homozygosity increases, facilitating the expression of deleterious alleles that reduce the fitness. Habitat fragmentation can lead to inbreeding depression for many species due to reduced gene flow. Inbreeding depression is associated with conservation risks, like local extinction.\n\nSmall populations are more susceptible to genetic drift. Genetic drift is random changes to the genetic make up of populations and always leads to reductions in genetic diversity. The smaller the population is, the more likely genetic drift will be a driving force of evolution rather than natural selection. Because genetic drift is a random process, it does not allow species to become more adapted to their environment. Habitat fragmentation is associated with increases to genetic drift in small populations which can have negative consequences for the genetic diversity of the populations.\n\nIn order for populations to evolve in response to natural selection, they must be large enough that natural selection is a stronger evolutionary force than genetic drift. Recent studies on the impacts of habitat fragmentation on adaptation in some plant species have suggested that organisms in fragmented landscapes may be able to adapt to fragmentation. However, there are also many cases where fragmentation reduces adaptation capacity because of small population size.\n\nSome species that have experienced genetic consequences due to habitat fragmentation are listed below: \nAlthough the way habitat fragmentation affects the genetics and extinction rates of species has been heavily studied, fragmentation has also been shown to affect species' behaviours and cultures as well. This is important because social interactions have the ability to determine and have an effect on a species' fitness and survival. Habitat fragmentation alters the resources available and the structure of habitats, as a result alters the behaviours of species and the dynamics between differing species. Behaviours affected can be within a species such as reproduction, mating, foraging, species dispersal, communication and movement patterns or can be behaviours between species such as predator prey relationships. \nHabitat fragmentation due to anthropogenic activities has been shown to greatly affect the predator-prey dynamics of many species by altering the amount of species and the members of those species. This affects the natural predator-prey relationships between animals in a given community and forces them to alter their behaviours and interactions, therefore resetting the so called \"behavioral space race\" . The way in which fragmentation changes and re-shapes these interactions can occur in many different forms. Most prey species have patches of land that are refuge from their predators, allowing them the safety to reproduce and raise their young. Human introduced structures such as roads and pipelines alter these areas by facilitating predator activity in these refuges, increasing predator-prey overlap . The opposite could also occur in the favour of prey, increasing prey refuge and subsequently decreasing predation rates. Fragmentation may also increase predator abundance or predator efficiency and therefore increase predation rates in this manner . Several other factors can also increase or decrease the extent to which the shifting predator-prey dynamics affect certain species, including how diverse a predators diet is and how flexible habitat requirements are for predators and prey . Depending on which species are affected and these other factors, fragmentation and its resulting effects on predator-prey dynamics may contribute to a species extinction . In response to these new environmental pressures, new adaptive behaviours may be developed. Prey species may adapt to increased risk of predation with strategies such as altering mating tactics or changing behaviours and activities related to food and foraging .\nIn the boreal woodland caribous of British Columbia the effects of fragmentation are clearly demonstrated. The species refuge area is peatland bog which has been interrupted by linear features such as roads and pipelines. These features have allowed their natural predators, the wolf and the black bear to more efficiently travel over landscapes and between patches of land.Since their predators can more easily access the caribous' refuge, the females of the species attempt to avoid the area, affecting their reproductive behaviours and offspring produced.\nFragmentation affecting the communication behaviours of birds has been well studied in Dupont's Lark. The Larks primarily reside in regions of Spain and are a small passerine bird which use songs as a means of cultural transmission between members of the species . The Larks have two distinct vocalizations, the song and the territorial call. The territorial call is used by males to defend and signal territory from other male Larks and is shared between neighbouring territories when males respond to a rivals song . Occasionally it is used as a threat signal to signify an impending attack on territory . A large song repertoire can enhance a males ability to survive and reproduce as he has a greater ability to defend his territory from other males, and a larger number of males in the species means a larger variety of songs being transmitted . Fragmentation of the Dupont's Lark territory from agriculture, forestry and urbanization appears to have a large effect on their communication structures . Males only perceive territories of a certain distance to be rivals and so isolation of territory from others due to fragmentation leads to a decrease in territorial calls as the males no longer have any reason to use it or have any songs to match .\n\nForest fragmentation is a form of habitat fragmentation where forests are reduced (either naturally or man-made) to relatively small, isolated patches of forest known as forest fragments or forest remnants. The intervening matrix that separates the remaining woodland patches can be natural open areas, farmland, or developed areas. Following the principles of island biogeography, remnant woodlands act like islands of forest in a sea of pastures, fields, subdivisions, shopping malls, etc. These fragments will then begin to undergo the process of ecosystem decay.\n\nForest fragmentation also includes less subtle forms of discontinuities such as utility right-of-ways (ROWs). Utility ROWs are of ecological interest because they have become pervasive in many forest communities, spanning areas as large as 5 million acres in the United States. Utility ROWs include electricity transmission ROWs, gas pipeline and telecommunication ROWs. Electricity transmission ROWs are created to prevent vegetation interference with transmission lines. Some studies have shown that electricity transmission ROWs harbor more plant species than adjoining forest areas, due to alterations in the microclimate in and around the corridor. Discontinuities in forest areas associated with utility right-of-ways can serve as biodiversity havens for native bees and grassland species, as the right-of-ways are preserved in an early successional stage.\n\nForest fragmentation is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity in forests, especially in the tropics. The problem of habitat destruction that caused the fragmentation in the first place is compounded by:\n\nThe effect of fragmentation on the flora and fauna of a forest patch depends on a) the size of the patch, and b) its degree of isolation. Isolation depends on the distance to the nearest similar patch, and the contrast with the surrounding areas. For example, if a cleared area is reforested or allowed to regenerate, the increasing structural diversity of the vegetation will lessen the isolation of the forest fragments. However, when formerly forested lands are converted permanently to pastures, agricultural fields, or human-inhabited developed areas, the remaining forest fragments, and the biota within them, are often highly isolated.\n\nForest patches that are smaller or more isolated will lose species faster than those that are larger or less isolated. A large number of small forest \"islands\" typically cannot support the same biodiversity that a single contiguous forest would hold, even if their combined area is much greater than the single forest. However, forest islands in rural landscapes greatly increase their biodiversity.\n\nTwo approaches that are typically used to understand habitat fragmentation and its ecological impacts.\n\nThe species-oriented approach focuses specifically on individual species and how they each respond to their environment and habitat changes with in it.\nThis approach can be limited because it does only focus on individual species and does not allow for a broad view of the impacts of habitat fragmentation across species.\n\nThe pattern-oriented approach is based on land cover and its patterning in correlation with species occurrences. One model of study for landscape patterning is the patch-matrix-corridor model developed by Richard Forman The pattern-oriented approach focuses on land cover defined by human means and activities. This model has stemmed from island biogeography and tries to infer causal relationships between the defined landscapes and the occurrence of species or groups of species within them. The approach has limitations in its collective assumptions across species or landscapes which may not account for variations amongst them.\n\nThe other model is the variegation model. Variegated landscapes retain much of their natural vegetation but are intermixed with gradients of modified habitat This model of habitat fragmentation typically applies to landscapes that are modified by agriculture. In contrast to the fragmentation model that is denoted by isolated patches of habitat surrounded by unsuitable landscape environments, the variegation model applies to landscapes modified by agriculture where small patches of habitat remain near the remnant original habitat. In between these patches are a matrix of grassland that are often modified versions of the original habitat. These areas do not present as much of a barrier to native species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53745916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53745916", "title": "Hamidullah Farooqi", "text": "Hamidullah Farooqi\n\nHamidullah Farooqi (born 1954 in Herat, Afghanistan) is an Afghan economist. He has written several research papers and served in higher positions within the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan’s government. Farooqi serves as the Chancellor of Kabul University and Advisor Minister to President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani on Higher Education. He previously served as Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation from March 2009 to January 2010 in the cabinet of former President Hamid Karzai.\n\nFarooqi earned his Baccalaureate in General Science from Habibia High School, Kabul, Afghanistan in 1972. In 1976, he completed an undergraduate degree from Kabul University in Economics in Trade and Commerce Development. He completed his master's degree M.A. in General Economics and Business Administration at Queens College in New York in 1995. His Master’s thesis was “North American Free Trade Agreement”. Farooqi received a Certificate on Foreign Trade (UN Fellowship) from the International Institute of Foreign Trade in New Delhi, India in 1982.\n\nFarooqi was appointed as Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in March 2009 to January 2010. During his tenure, he worked on strategic planning for the ministry in order to put ministry resources on a professional track for restructuring and reforming the country’s transport infrastructure, shaping and improving the capacity of the ministry. Farooqi completed a process of determining strategic goals and objectives in terms of delivery to the public. He improved bureaucracy and management as well as modernizing the transportation system. He participated in major conferences such as Afghanistan the Link between the Middle East, South, and Central Asia (2010); South Asia-China Economy and Trade Cooperation, Confucius University of Kathmandu (2010); and SPECA conference, Baku – Azerbaijan, (2010).\n\nFarooqi joined Kabul University faculty as a lecturer in Economics in July 2003. Later, he was promoted to a professorship and started reforming Kabul University’s system. He participated on behalf of Kabul University in South Asia - China cultures and Economic Forum in Kathmandu – Nepal (2010). \n\nFarooqi was designated an Advisor Minister to the President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani. Currently, he serves as Advisor Minister to the President of Afghanistan in Higher Education. His focus is on improving quality and modernizing Afghanistan in general and higher education in order to make it productive and responsive to the needs of the people and the institutions of Afghanistan. He also continues to make inroads in the international community.\n\nFarooqi was appointed Chairman, Oversight Committee for MoD Logistics Contracts in February 2015.\n\n\nHe published papers on several topics for Kabul University, including: \n\n 3. http://afghanistantimes.af/ministry-of-economy-kabul-university-agreed-on-future-collaboration/\n"}
{"id": "10177560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10177560", "title": "Hans-Martin Sass", "text": "Hans-Martin Sass\n\nHans-Martin Sass (born December 1935), is a bioethicist.\nHe is a Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Ruhr University, Bochum, Germany, and a Senior Research Scholar Emeritus at the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University, Washington DC.\n\nHe holds academic positions at People's University of China and Peking Union Medical College in Beijing, China, and at the Bochum Center for Medical Ethics, which he helped found in 1985, in Bochum, Germany. He is editor of the \"Ethik in der Praxis / Practical Ethics\" series at Lit Verlag (Münster, Germany) and the Medizinethische Materialien, Bochum. He is the author of over 250 articles and books. He was a member of the International Bioethics Committee of UNESCO and is a member of many international and national advisory bodies and to philosophical and bioethical journals.\n\nAn expert in European continental philosophy, he has published widely on Hegel, Marx, 19th- and 20th-century German philosophy, and liberal political theory. During his research, teaching, and consulting in cultural risk assessment, research ethics, clinical ethics, and public-health ethics, Dr. Sass developed cross-cultural perspectives in the major fields of bioethics (based on concepts of personal and professional responsibility), regulated markets, mutual trust, and partnership ethics.\n\nDr. Sass is a \"Rechtsritter\" (\"Knight of Justice\") of the \"Johanniterorden\", the Order of Saint John (Bailiwick of Brandenburg).\n\nHis main focus in bioethics is on the transition from paternalistic models of patient care towards partnership models between providers and customers of health care. He has developed a widely used and translated ‘Interactive Post-Hippocratic Action Guide’ and other models for communication-in-trust and cooperation-in-trust interactions of individual, institutional and corporate persons in risk assessment, research and business ethics. His proposed virtues and principles for cross-cultural health care ethics include for the patient the balance between quality of life and length of life, individual self-determination and compliance with expert advice, for the expert the balance between professional responsibility and respect for clients’/patients’ autonomy, do-no-harm and do-good; trust, truthfulness and a prudent mix of solidarity and subsidiarity are important for all parties involved in the care for health, quality and happiness of life. He proposes that most ethical issues should be decided by risk-competent and health-literate citizens rather than bureaucracies and legislation, but that governments and institutions have the responsibility to introduce and to support health information and health competence as an essential part of educating risk-competent citizens for the 21st century. \nAs to health care reform and health education he defines in criticizing the WHO approach: Health is not just a status; rather the balanced result of health-literate and risk-competent care of one's own physical, emotional, and social well-being and well-feeling, achieved in competent understanding, modification and enhancement of individual genetic, social and environmental properties, with the support of health care professionals and through equal access health care services, including information, predictive and preventive medicine. He also is concerned that modern principles of bioethics do not put enough emphasis on professionalism and compassion in expert services and on developing and supporting better communication-in-trust and cooperation-in-trust models of provider-customer interactions. His most recent work include studies in cross-cultural bioethics and fundamentally common issues in different cultures of bioethics. \n\n"}
{"id": "39292005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39292005", "title": "Ibn Hindu", "text": "Ibn Hindu\n\nAbū Al-Faraj ʿAlī ibn al-Husayn ibn Hindū (d. 1019-1032) was a Persian poet, a man of letters, and a practitioner of Galenic medicine coming from Rey. Scholars have posited multiple explanations for his name, including that he was Persian and from Hindujān, his possible Indian heritage, and that he was an Arab descendant from the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nHis philosophical and medical training was extensive and he studied under Abu al-Hassan al-Amiri, Abū Al-Khayr al-Hasan ibn Siwār, and Abū al-Khayr ibn al-Khammār. He traveled to Arraiján in 965, where he continued his services for the Buwayhids.\n\nHe wrote in Arabic. He was most famous for his works of poetry than as a physician. He was also held in high esteem by his students who would travel to study with him. He was employed at 'Adud al-Dawla's \"dīwān.\" His approach to religion has been described as open-minded.\n\nIbn Hindū. Miftah al-tibb wa-minhaj al-tullab. [The key to the science of medicine and the students' guide]. Mohaghegh M, Daneshpajuh MT, eds. Tehran: Institute of Islamic Studies, McGill University Tehran Branch, in collaboration with Tehran University, 1989.\n\nLater translated by Aidi Tibi as \"The Key to Medicine and a Guide for Students.\" The book, espousing the virtues of medicine, has three primary arguments. The first is to demonstrate the noble qualities of being a physician, and to locate the role of physicians within a hierarchy of prestigious professions. The second is to reinforce a hierarchy between those who see reason and accept medicine and the erroneous logic of disbeliever. And finally, ibn Hindū seeks to show the superiority of Dogmatists over Methodists and Empiricists.\n\nThe above work makes mention to the existence of \"A Treatise Encouraging the Study of Philosophy\", but only a few excerpts of it survive today.\n\nAbū al-Faraj ibn Hindū, \"al-Kalim al-rūḥānīyah fī al-ḥikam al-Yūnānīyah\" (Bayrūt, 2001).\n"}
{"id": "43371242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43371242", "title": "International Society for Stem Cell Research", "text": "International Society for Stem Cell Research\n\nThe International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR) is an independent 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization based in Skokie, Illinois, United States. The organization's mission is to promote and foster the exchange and dissemination of information and ideas relating to stem cells, to encourage the general field of research involving stem cells, and to promote professional and public education in all areas of stem cell research and application.\n\nThe International Society for Stem Cell Research was officially incorporated on March 30, 2001, to foster the exchange of information on stem cell research. Leonard Zon, professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School, served as the organization's first president.\n\nIn June 2003, the International Society for Stem Cell Research held its first convention. More than 600 scientists attended, many of whom expressed frustration over restrictions that President George W. Bush's administration had placed on the field of stem-cell research, slowing the pace of research. Scientists who were leaders in their fields are prohibited from using funding from the National Institutes of Health to conduct certain experiments that could provide significant medical achievements.\n\nIn 2013, the Society's official journal, \"Stem Cell Reports\", was established; it is published monthly by Cell Press on the Society's behalf.\n\nIn March 2015, scientists, including an inventor of CRISPR, urged a worldwide moratorium on germline gene therapy, writing \"scientists should avoid even attempting, in lax jurisdictions, germline genome modification for clinical application in humans\" until the full implications \"are discussed among scientific and governmental organizations\".\n\nAfter the publication that a Chinese group had used CRISPR to modify a gene in human embryos, the group repeated their call for a moratorium on \"attempts at human clinical germ-line genome editing while extensive scientific analysis of the potential risks is conducted, along with broad public discussion of the societal and ethical implications.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13487278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13487278", "title": "Intuition (Bergson)", "text": "Intuition (Bergson)\n\nIntuition is the philosophical method of French philosopher Henri Bergson.\n\nIn \"An Introduction to Metaphysics\", Bergson introduces two ways in which an object can be known: absolutely and relatively. Pertaining to each mode of knowledge is a method through which it can be gained. The latter’s method is what Bergson calls analysis, while the method of intuition belongs to the former.\n\nIntuition is an experience of sorts, which allows us to in a sense enter into the things in themselves. Thus he calls his philosophy the true empiricism. In the following article, analysis and the relative will be explained as a preliminary to understanding intuition, and then intuition and the absolute will be expounded upon.\n\nAnalysis is always an analysis ad infinitum and one can never reach the absolute. It consists in dividing the object based on the chosen viewpoint and translating the divided fragments into symbols, wherein a spectre of the original can be reconstructed. These symbols always distort the part of the object they represent, as they’re generalized to include it and every other part they represent. Thus they ignore the object’s uniqueness.\n\nThis is natural, however, as language is the product of commonsense, which is never disinterested. Thus, for example, mobility is translated into a trajectory line and treated as a row of divisible, immobile points. Symbols are generally always spatial and immobile. This allows science to be predictive and our actions to assert themselves on fixed points.\n\nWithin philosophy, however, problems arise when the symbols are treated as the objects they represent and when, through composition, the original is expected to be found within the simulacrum. An example of this is the substance theory of rationalists and the bundle theory of empiricists. Empiricists, searching for the substance within the gaps of the composition, fill them in within even more symbols. Unwilling to continue filling in the gaps ad infinitum, they renounce that there is a substance and maintain the properties, or symbols, which are not to be confused with parts, are all that there are. The rationalists, on the other hand, are unwilling to relinquish substance. Thus they transform it into an unknowable container in which properties reside. Trying to obtain the unity of the object, they allow their substance to contain more and more properties, until eventually it can contain everything, including God and nature. Bergson likened this to a piece of gold for which one can never make up the change.\n\nHenri Bergson defined metaphysics as the science that dispenses with symbols to grasp the absolute. Hence metaphysics involves an inversion of the habitual modes of thought and is in need of its own method, which he identified as intuition.\n\nHenri Bergson defined intuition as a simple, indivisible experience of sympathy through which one is moved into the inner being of an object to grasp what is unique and ineffable within it. The absolute that is grasped is always perfect in the sense that it is perfectly what it is, and infinite in the sense that it can be grasped as a whole through a simple, indivisible act of intuition, yet lends itself to boundless enumeration when analysed.\n\nTwo images Henri Bergson gave in his essay \"An Introduction to Metaphysics\" may aid us in comprehending the ideas of intuition, analyses, the absolute and the relative. The first image is a city reconstructed with juxtaposed photographs taken from every viewpoint and angle. The reconstruction can never give us the dimensional value of walking through the actual city. This can only ever be grasped through a simple intuition. The same goes for the experience of reading a single line of Homer. If you wish to explain this experience to someone who cannot speak ancient Greek, you may translate the line and lay commentary upon commentary, but this commentary shall never grasp the dimensional value of experiencing the poem in its original language.\n\nIt can be seen then that intuition is a method that aims at getting back to and knowing the things themselves, in all their uniqueness and ineffable originality. The one thing it is certain one can grasp from within through sympathy is the self. Intuition therefore begins with placing oneself within the Duration.\n\nFrom within the Duration, one may augment it to contain other Durations one can enter into. Like an infinite spectrum of shades gradually running into one another, one finds themselves within orange, stuck between its darkest and lightest shades. One may move up to yellow or down to red, just as one may move up to spirit or down to matter.\n\nThe method then consists in placing oneself within the Duration, which always contains a sense of all the other Durations within the absolute Duration. From here, one should expand their Duration into a continuous heterogeneity. Once this is done, one differentiates two extremities within the Duration to create a dualism, just as one differentiates between red and yellow within the colour spectrum, before showing they are in fact one.\n\nIt may now be understood that Henri Bergson was dissatisfied with Kantianism, which limited the bounds of reason to such an extent that it deemed knowledge of the absolute an impossibility. His method of intuition can in fact be seen as a response to Immanuel Kant, who believed that we can only know the world as it appears to us, not as it is in itself. He maintained that the attempt to know the absolute always resulted in antinomies, a kind of philosophical paradox caused by the limits of reason.\n\nBergson responds by saying that the antinomies are the result of analysis, not intuition. An example of this is Duration itself, which Bergson maintains isn’t a multiplicity or a unity. Depending on the viewpoint from which one begins, he will either reconstruct the absolute Duration as a unity or a multiplicity. Hence the antinomy of substance pluralism and substance monism, which can only be resolved through showing they are two representations of the same thing via a simple act of intuition. Thus real philosophy consists in placing oneself above the fray of oppositional schools of thought.\n"}
{"id": "35552667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35552667", "title": "J. Peter Burgess", "text": "J. Peter Burgess\n\nJ. Peter Burgess (born 1 June 1961 in Munich, Germany) is a philosopher and political scientist. He is Professor and Chair of Geopolitics of Risk at the Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, Adjunct Professor at the Center for Advanced Security Theory (CAST), University of Copenhagen and Associate Researcher at the Centre for Law, Science, Technology and Society Studies (LSTS) at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. He is Series Editor of the Routledge New Security Studies collection. His research and writing concern the meeting place between science, culture and politics in particular in Europe, focusing most recently on the theory and ethics of security and insecurity. He has published 11 books and over 75 articles in the fields of philosophy, political science, gender studies, cultural history, security studies and cultural theory. He has contributed to research and educational policy in Norway, France, Poland and the European Commission. In addition, he has developed and directed a number of comprehensive collaborative research projects with Norwegian and European partners.\n\nBurgess grew up in the U.S. Midwest and studied Mechanical Engineering and Applied Physics at the University of Colorado, Boulder, graduating with a B.S. in 1983. He then turned his attention to European literature and literary theory, completing a B.A. in English Literature at the University of Iowa in 1984, an A.M. at the University of Chicago in Comparative Literature in 1986 and an M.Phil. at Columbia University in French and Comparative Literature in 1989. In 1985 he began a series of intermittent studies in semiotics at the University of Paris VI (1988–1989) and philosophy at the Free University of Berlin (1989–1990). He completed a D.E.A. in philosophy at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris and a Doctorate in philosophy from Université François Rabelais de Tours in 2010 with a thesis on the politics of Hegel’s dialectic.\n\nBurgess worked as teacher of philosophy at the Lycée Français d’Oslo and Adjunct Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Oslo in 1992-1994 before becoming a Lecturer and Researcher at Volda University College where he remained in several capacities until 1998. His research in this period focused on theories of cultural and national identity and led to a variety of publications on Norwegian nation-building, culture and language politics. \nIn 1998-2000 he was Jean Monnet Fellow at the European University Institute, Florence. Here research expanded to questions of the European identity and the language politics of Vico. During this period he also began a collaborative project on security identity at the Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO). In 2001, Burgess was named Editor of \"Security Dialogue\" at PRIO and undertook a long-term reform of the journal, lifting it to its current status as among the most prominent journals in security studies in the world. In 2004, Burgess was named Leader of PRIO’s Security Programme, which he led until 2011. His research in this period focused on theoretical and ethical issues connected to risk, uncertainty, security and insecurity, with a particular attention to European politics. He has argued in a number of works for the cultural, societal and philosophical foundations of security. During this period Burgess rose to spearhead PRIO’s European research portfolio. He has been actively involved in funding and execution of over 35 Norwegian and European research projects.\n\nBurgess has held adjunct positions at the Centre for Development and the Environment at the University of Oslo (2003–2004), as Visiting Professor at the Fondation national de sciences politiques (Sciences Po) (2004–2005), Adjunct Professor at Collegium Civitas, Warsaw (2007–2010), Adjunct Professor at Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) (2008–2010), and Senior Researcher at the Institute for European Studies, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (2009–2011).\n\nSince 2007, Burgess has actively participated in the formation of the European security research policy and the shaping of European research programmes, participating in policy formation working groups and projects in and around the European institutions. He was an active participant in ESRIF, the European Security Research and Innovation Forum, contributing directly to the main elements of its final report, published in 2009. He has been a central member of the European Commission’s Working Group on the Societal Impact of Security Research and authored a number of contributions to security research policy in the Seventh Framework Programme and Horizon 2020. He is currently Chairman of the Ethics Advisory Group of the European Data Protection Supervisor.\n\nJ. Peter Burgess is married to Karen Lieve Ria Hostens, Cooperation Delegate for the International Committee of the Red Cross, and father to three children. He lives in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35550327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35550327", "title": "Jerzy Wróblewski", "text": "Jerzy Wróblewski\n\nJerzy Wróblewski (5 September 1926 in Wilno - 31 May 1990 in Switzerland) was a Polish legal theorist and a professor at the University of Łódź.\n\nWróblewski graduated at the Jagiellonian University in 1947 with master's degree in law and completed postgraduate studies in philosophy. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 1949, he moved to the University of Łódź in 1951, where he was appointed head of chair of the theory of state and law. He achieved habilitation in 1970. He remained at Łódź till his death, where he performed a number of functions: pro-dean of the Faculty of Law (1953-1955, and 1958-1962), dean of the Faculty of Law (1955-1956, and 1962-1964), pro-rector (1965-1968), and rector (1981-1984).\n\nHe served as a judge of the State Tribunal of the Republic of Poland. He was a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Finnish Society of Sciences and Letters. Wróblewski published in jurisprudence and in the organization of state administration.\n\nThe following list contains English editions of J. Wróblewski's books and separately published works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15736", "title": "Johannes Kepler", "text": "Johannes Kepler\n\nJohannes Kepler (; ; December 27, 1571 – November 15, 1630) was a German mathematician, astronomer, and astrologer.\n\nKepler is a key figure in the 17th-century scientific revolution. He is best known for his laws of planetary motion, based on his works \"Astronomia nova\", \"Harmonices Mundi\", and \"Epitome of Copernican Astronomy\". These works also provided one of the foundations for Isaac Newton's theory of universal gravitation.\n\nKepler was a mathematics teacher at a seminary school in Graz, where he became an associate of Prince Hans Ulrich von Eggenberg. Later he became an assistant to the astronomer Tycho Brahe in Prague, and eventually the imperial mathematician to Emperor Rudolf II and his two successors Matthias and Ferdinand II. He also taught mathematics in Linz, and was an adviser to General Wallenstein. Additionally, he did fundamental work in the field of optics, invented an improved version of the refracting telescope (the Keplerian telescope), and was mentioned in the telescopic discoveries of his contemporary Galileo Galilei. He was a corresponding member of the Accademia dei Lincei in Rome.\n\nKepler lived in an era when there was no clear distinction between astronomy and astrology, but there was a strong division between astronomy (a branch of mathematics within the liberal arts) and physics (a branch of natural philosophy). Kepler also incorporated religious arguments and reasoning into his work, motivated by the religious conviction and belief that God had created the world according to an intelligible plan that is accessible through the natural light of reason. Kepler described his new astronomy as \"celestial physics\", as \"an excursion into Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\"\", and as \"a supplement to Aristotle's \"On the Heavens\"\", transforming the ancient tradition of physical cosmology by treating astronomy as part of a universal mathematical physics.\n\nKepler was born on December 27, the feast day of St John the Evangelist, 1571, in the Free Imperial City of Weil der Stadt (now part of the Stuttgart Region in the German state of Baden-Württemberg, 30 km west of Stuttgart's center). His grandfather, Sebald Kepler, had been Lord Mayor of the city. By the time Johannes was born, he had two brothers and one sister and the Kepler family fortune was in decline. His father, Heinrich Kepler, earned a precarious living as a mercenary, and he left the family when Johannes was five years old. He was believed to have died in the Eighty Years' War in the Netherlands. His mother, Katharina Guldenmann, an innkeeper's daughter, was a healer and herbalist. Born prematurely, Johannes claimed to have been weak and sickly as a child. Nevertheless, he often impressed travelers at his grandfather's inn with his phenomenal mathematical faculty.\n\nHe was introduced to astronomy at an early age, and developed a love for it that would span his entire life. At age six, he observed the Great Comet of 1577, writing that he \"was taken by [his] mother to a high place to look at it.\" In 1580, at age nine, he observed another astronomical event, a lunar eclipse, recording that he remembered being \"called outdoors\" to see it and that the moon \"appeared quite red\". However, childhood smallpox left him with weak vision and crippled hands, limiting his ability in the observational aspects of astronomy.\n\nIn 1589, after moving through grammar school, Latin school, and seminary at Maulbronn, Kepler attended Tübinger Stift at the University of Tübingen. There, he studied philosophy under Vitus Müller and theology under Jacob Heerbrand (a student of Philipp Melanchthon at Wittenberg), who also taught Michael Maestlin while he was a student, until he became Chancellor at Tübingen in 1590. He proved himself to be a superb mathematician and earned a reputation as a skilful astrologer, casting horoscopes for fellow students. Under the instruction of Michael Maestlin, Tübingen's professor of mathematics from 1583 to 1631, he learned both the Ptolemaic system and the Copernican system of planetary motion. He became a Copernican at that time. In a student disputation, he defended heliocentrism from both a theoretical and theological perspective, maintaining that the Sun was the principal source of motive power in the universe. Despite his desire to become a minister, near the end of his studies, Kepler was recommended for a position as teacher of mathematics and astronomy at the Protestant school in Graz. He accepted the position in April 1594, at the age of 23.\n\nKepler's first major astronomical work, \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" (\"The Cosmographic Mystery\") [1596], was the first published defense of the Copernican system. Kepler claimed to have had an epiphany on July 19, 1595, while teaching in Graz, demonstrating the periodic conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter in the zodiac: he realized that regular polygons bound one inscribed and one circumscribed circle at definite ratios, which, he reasoned, might be the geometrical basis of the universe. After failing to find a unique arrangement of polygons that fit known astronomical observations (even with extra planets added to the system), Kepler began experimenting with 3-dimensional polyhedra. He found that each of the five Platonic solids could be inscribed and circumscribed by spherical orbs; nesting these solids, each encased in a sphere, within one another would produce six layers, corresponding to the six known planets—Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. By ordering the solids selectively—octahedron, icosahedron, dodecahedron, tetrahedron, cube—Kepler found that the spheres could be placed at intervals corresponding to the relative sizes of each planet's path, assuming the planets circle the Sun. Kepler also found a formula relating the size of each planet's orb to the length of its orbital period: from inner to outer planets, the ratio of increase in orbital period is twice the difference in orb radius. However, Kepler later rejected this formula, because it was not precise enough.\n\nAs he indicated in the title, Kepler thought he had revealed God's geometrical plan for the universe. Much of Kepler's enthusiasm for the Copernican system stemmed from his theological convictions about the connection between the physical and the spiritual; the universe itself was an image of God, with the Sun corresponding to the Father, the stellar sphere to the Son, and the intervening space between to the Holy Spirit. His first manuscript of \"Mysterium\" contained an extensive chapter reconciling heliocentrism with biblical passages that seemed to support geocentrism.\n\nWith the support of his mentor Michael Maestlin, Kepler received permission from the Tübingen university senate to publish his manuscript, pending removal of the Bible exegesis and the addition of a simpler, more understandable description of the Copernican system as well as Kepler's new ideas. \"Mysterium\" was published late in 1596, and Kepler received his copies and began sending them to prominent astronomers and patrons early in 1597; it was not widely read, but it established Kepler's reputation as a highly skilled astronomer. The effusive dedication, to powerful patrons as well as to the men who controlled his position in Graz, also provided a crucial doorway into the patronage system.\n\nThough the details would be modified in light of his later work, Kepler never relinquished the Platonist polyhedral-spherist cosmology of \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". His subsequent main astronomical works were in some sense only further developments of it, concerned with finding more precise inner and outer dimensions for the spheres by calculating the eccentricities of the planetary orbits within it. In 1621, Kepler published an expanded second edition of \"Mysterium\", half as long again as the first, detailing in footnotes the corrections and improvements he had achieved in the 25 years since its first publication.\n\nIn terms of the impact of \"Mysterium\", it can be seen as an important first step in modernizing the theory proposed by Nicolaus Copernicus in his \"De Revolutionibus orbium coelestium\". Whilst Copernicus sought to advance a heliocentric system in this book, he resorted to Ptolemaic devices (viz., epicycles and eccentric circles) in order to explain the change in planets' orbital speed, and also continued to use as a point of reference the center of the earth's orbit rather than that of the sun \"as an aid to calculation and in order not to confuse the reader by diverging too much from Ptolemy.\" Modern astronomy owes much to \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\", despite flaws in its main thesis, \"since it represents the first step in cleansing the Copernican system of the remnants of the Ptolemaic theory still clinging to it.\" \n\nIn December 1595, Kepler was introduced to Barbara Müller, a 23-year-old widow (twice over) with a young daughter, Regina Lorenz, and he began courting her. Müller, an heiress to the estates of her late husbands, was also the daughter of a successful mill owner. Her father Jobst initially opposed a marriage. Even though Kepler had inherited his grandfather's nobility, Kepler's poverty made him an unacceptable match. Jobst relented after Kepler completed work on \"Mysterium\", but the engagement nearly fell apart while Kepler was away tending to the details of publication. However, Protestant officials—who had helped set up the match—pressured the Müllers to honor their agreement. Barbara and Johannes were married on April 27, 1597.\n\nIn the first years of their marriage, the Keplers had two children (Heinrich and Susanna), both of whom died in infancy. In 1602, they had a daughter (Susanna); in 1604, a son (Friedrich); and in 1607, another son (Ludwig).\nFollowing the publication of \"Mysterium\" and with the blessing of the Graz school inspectors, Kepler began an ambitious program to extend and elaborate his work. He planned four additional books: one on the stationary aspects of the universe (the Sun and the fixed stars); one on the planets and their motions; one on the physical nature of planets and the formation of geographical features (focused especially on Earth); and one on the effects of the heavens on the Earth, to include atmospheric optics, meteorology, and astrology.\n\nHe also sought the opinions of many of the astronomers to whom he had sent \"Mysterium\", among them Reimarus Ursus (Nicolaus Reimers Bär)—the imperial mathematician to Rudolph II and a bitter rival of Tycho Brahe. Ursus did not reply directly, but republished Kepler's flattering letter to pursue his priority dispute over (what is now called) the Tychonic system with Tycho. Despite this black mark, Tycho also began corresponding with Kepler, starting with a harsh but legitimate critique of Kepler's system; among a host of objections, Tycho took issue with the use of inaccurate numerical data taken from Copernicus. Through their letters, Tycho and Kepler discussed a broad range of astronomical problems, dwelling on lunar phenomena and Copernican theory (particularly its theological viability). But without the significantly more accurate data of Tycho's observatory, Kepler had no way to address many of these issues.\n\nInstead, he turned his attention to chronology and \"harmony,\" the numerological relationships among music, mathematics and the physical world, and their astrological consequences. By assuming the Earth to possess a soul (a property he would later invoke to explain how the sun causes the motion of planets), he established a speculative system connecting astrological aspects and astronomical distances to weather and other earthly phenomena. By 1599, however, he again felt his work limited by the inaccuracy of available data—just as growing religious tension was also threatening his continued employment in Graz. In December of that year, Tycho invited Kepler to visit him in Prague; on January 1, 1600 (before he even received the invitation), Kepler set off in the hopes that Tycho's patronage could solve his philosophical problems as well as his social and financial ones.\n\nOn February 4, 1600, Kepler met Tycho Brahe and his assistants Franz Tengnagel and Longomontanus at Benátky nad Jizerou (35 km from Prague), the site where Tycho's new observatory was being constructed. Over the next two months, he stayed as a guest, analyzing some of Tycho's observations of Mars; Tycho guarded his data closely, but was impressed by Kepler's theoretical ideas and soon allowed him more access. Kepler planned to test his theory from \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" based on the Mars data, but he estimated that the work would take up to two years (since he was not allowed to simply copy the data for his own use). With the help of Johannes Jessenius, Kepler attempted to negotiate a more formal employment arrangement with Tycho, but negotiations broke down in an angry argument and Kepler left for Prague on April 6. Kepler and Tycho soon reconciled and eventually reached an agreement on salary and living arrangements, and in June, Kepler returned home to Graz to collect his family.\n\nPolitical and religious difficulties in Graz dashed his hopes of returning immediately to Brahe; in hopes of continuing his astronomical studies, Kepler sought an appointment as a mathematician to Archduke Ferdinand. To that end, Kepler composed an essay—dedicated to Ferdinand—in which he proposed a force-based theory of lunar motion: \"In Terra inest virtus, quae Lunam ciet\" (\"There is a force in the earth which causes the moon to move\"). Though the essay did not earn him a place in Ferdinand's court, it did detail a new method for measuring lunar eclipses, which he applied during the July 10 eclipse in Graz. These observations formed the basis of his explorations of the laws of optics that would culminate in \"Astronomiae Pars Optica\".\n\nOn August 2, 1600, after refusing to convert to Catholicism, Kepler and his family were banished from Graz. Several months later, Kepler returned, now with the rest of his household, to Prague. Through most of 1601, he was supported directly by Tycho, who assigned him to analyzing planetary observations and writing a tract against Tycho's (by then deceased) rival, Ursus. In September, Tycho secured him a commission as a collaborator on the new project he had proposed to the emperor: the \"Rudolphine Tables\" that should replace the \"Prutenic Tables\" of Erasmus Reinhold. Two days after Tycho's unexpected death on October 24, 1601, Kepler was appointed his successor as the imperial mathematician with the responsibility to complete his unfinished work. The next 11 years as imperial mathematician would be the most productive of his life.\n\nKepler's primary obligation as imperial mathematician was to provide astrological advice to the emperor. Though Kepler took a dim view of the attempts of contemporary astrologers to precisely predict the future or divine specific events, he had been casting well-received detailed horoscopes for friends, family, and patrons since his time as a student in Tübingen. In addition to horoscopes for allies and foreign leaders, the emperor sought Kepler's advice in times of political trouble. Rudolph was actively interested in the work of many of his court scholars (including numerous alchemists) and kept up with Kepler's work in physical astronomy as well.\n\nOfficially, the only acceptable religious doctrines in Prague were Catholic and Utraquist, but Kepler's position in the imperial court allowed him to practice his Lutheran faith unhindered. The emperor nominally provided an ample income for his family, but the difficulties of the over-extended imperial treasury meant that actually getting hold of enough money to meet financial obligations was a continual struggle. Partly because of financial troubles, his life at home with Barbara was unpleasant, marred with bickering and bouts of sickness. Court life, however, brought Kepler into contact with other prominent scholars (Johannes Matthäus Wackher von Wackhenfels, Jost Bürgi, David Fabricius, Martin Bachazek, and Johannes Brengger, among others) and astronomical work proceeded rapidly.\n\nAs Kepler slowly continued analyzing Tycho's Mars observations—now available to him in their entirety—and began the slow process of tabulating the \"Rudolphine Tables\", Kepler also picked up the investigation of the laws of optics from his lunar essay of 1600. Both lunar and solar eclipses presented unexplained phenomena, such as unexpected shadow sizes, the red color of a total lunar eclipse, and the reportedly unusual light surrounding a total solar eclipse. Related issues of atmospheric refraction applied to \"all\" astronomical observations. Through most of 1603, Kepler paused his other work to focus on optical theory; the resulting manuscript, presented to the emperor on January 1, 1604, was published as \"Astronomiae Pars Optica\" (The Optical Part of Astronomy). In it, Kepler described the inverse-square law governing the intensity of light, reflection by flat and curved mirrors, and principles of pinhole cameras, as well as the astronomical implications of optics such as parallax and the apparent sizes of heavenly bodies. He also extended his study of optics to the human eye, and is generally considered by neuroscientists to be the first to recognize that images are projected inverted and reversed by the eye's lens onto the retina. The solution to this dilemma was not of particular importance to Kepler as he did not see it as pertaining to optics, although he did suggest that the image was later corrected \"in the hollows of the brain\" due to the \"activity of the Soul.\" Today, \"Astronomiae Pars Optica\" is generally recognized as the foundation of modern optics (though the law of refraction is conspicuously absent). With respect to the beginnings of projective geometry, Kepler introduced the idea of continuous change of a mathematical entity in this work. He argued that if a focus of a conic section were allowed to move along the line joining the foci, the geometric form would morph or degenerate, one into another. In this way, an ellipse becomes a parabola when a focus moves toward infinity, and when two foci of an ellipse merge into one another, a circle is formed. As the foci of a hyperbola merge into one another, the hyperbola becomes a pair of straight lines. He also assumed that if a straight line is extended to infinity it will meet itself at a single point at infinity, thus having the properties of a large circle.\n\nIn October 1604, a bright new evening star (SN 1604) appeared, but Kepler did not believe the rumors until he saw it himself. Kepler began systematically observing the nova. Astrologically, the end of 1603 marked the beginning of a fiery trigon, the start of the about 800-year cycle of great conjunctions; astrologers associated the two previous such periods with the rise of Charlemagne (c. 800 years earlier) and the birth of Christ (c. 1600 years earlier), and thus expected events of great portent, especially regarding the emperor. It was in this context, as the imperial mathematician and astrologer to the emperor, that Kepler described the new star two years later in his \"De Stella Nova\". In it, Kepler addressed the star's astronomical properties while taking a skeptical approach to the many astrological interpretations then circulating. He noted its fading luminosity, speculated about its origin, and used the lack of observed parallax to argue that it was in the sphere of fixed stars, further undermining the doctrine of the immutability of the heavens (the idea accepted since Aristotle that the celestial spheres were perfect and unchanging). The birth of a new star implied the variability of the heavens. In an appendix, Kepler also discussed the recent chronology work of the Polish historian Laurentius Suslyga; he calculated that, if Suslyga was correct that accepted timelines were four years behind, then the Star of Bethlehem—analogous to the present new star—would have coincided with the first great conjunction of the earlier 800-year cycle.\nThe extended line of research that culminated in \"Astronomia nova\" (\"A New Astronomy\")—including the first two laws of planetary motion—began with the analysis, under Tycho's direction, of Mars' orbit. Kepler calculated and recalculated various approximations of Mars' orbit using an equant (the mathematical tool that Copernicus had eliminated with his system), eventually creating a model that generally agreed with Tycho's observations to within two arcminutes (the average measurement error). But he was not satisfied with the complex and still slightly inaccurate result; at certain points the model differed from the data by up to eight arcminutes. The wide array of traditional mathematical astronomy methods having failed him, Kepler set about trying to fit an ovoid orbit to the data.\n\nIn Kepler's religious view of the cosmos, the Sun (a symbol of God the Father) was the source of motive force in the solar system. As a physical basis, Kepler drew by analogy on William Gilbert's theory of the magnetic soul of the Earth from \"De Magnete\" (1600) and on his own work on optics. Kepler supposed that the motive power (or motive \"species\") radiated by the Sun weakens with distance, causing faster or slower motion as planets move closer or farther from it. Perhaps this assumption entailed a mathematical relationship that would restore astronomical order. Based on measurements of the aphelion and perihelion of the Earth and Mars, he created a formula in which a planet's rate of motion is inversely proportional to its distance from the Sun. Verifying this relationship throughout the orbital cycle, however, required very extensive calculation; to simplify this task, by late 1602 Kepler reformulated the proportion in terms of geometry: \"planets sweep out equal areas in equal times\"—Kepler's second law of planetary motion.\n\nHe then set about calculating the entire orbit of Mars, using the geometrical rate law and assuming an egg-shaped ovoid orbit. After approximately 40 failed attempts, in early 1605 he at last hit upon the idea of an ellipse, which he had previously assumed to be too simple a solution for earlier astronomers to have overlooked. Finding that an elliptical orbit fit the Mars data, he immediately concluded that \"all planets move in ellipses, with the sun at one focus\"—Kepler's first law of planetary motion. Because he employed no calculating assistants, however, he did not extend the mathematical analysis beyond Mars. By the end of the year, he completed the manuscript for \"Astronomia nova\", though it would not be published until 1609 due to legal disputes over the use of Tycho's observations, the property of his heirs.\n\nIn the years following the completion of \"Astronomia Nova\", most of Kepler's research was focused on preparations for the \"Rudolphine Tables\" and a comprehensive set of ephemerides (specific predictions of planet and star positions) based on the table (though neither would be completed for many years). He also attempted (unsuccessfully) to begin a collaboration with Italian astronomer Giovanni Antonio Magini. Some of his other work dealt with chronology, especially the dating of events in the life of Jesus, and with astrology, especially criticism of dramatic predictions of catastrophe such as those of Helisaeus Roeslin.\n\nKepler and Roeslin engaged in a series of published attacks and counter-attacks, while physician Philip Feselius published a work dismissing astrology altogether (and Roeslin's work in particular). In response to what Kepler saw as the excesses of astrology on the one hand and overzealous rejection of it on the other, Kepler prepared \"Tertius Interveniens\" [Third-party Interventions]. Nominally this work—presented to the common patron of Roeslin and Feselius—was a neutral mediation between the feuding scholars, but it also set out Kepler's general views on the value of astrology, including some hypothesized mechanisms of interaction between planets and individual souls. While Kepler considered most traditional rules and methods of astrology to be the \"evil-smelling dung\" in which \"an industrious hen\" scrapes, there was an \"occasional grain-seed, indeed, even a pearl or a gold nugget\" to be found by the conscientious scientific astrologer. Conversely, Sir Oliver Lodge observed that Kepler was somewhat disdainful of astrology, as Kepler was \"continually attacking and throwing sarcasm at astrology, but it was the only thing for which people would pay him, and on it after a fashion he lived.\"\n\nIn the first months of 1610, Galileo Galilei—using his powerful new telescope—discovered four satellites orbiting Jupiter. Upon publishing his account as \"Sidereus Nuncius\" [Starry Messenger], Galileo sought the opinion of Kepler, in part to bolster the credibility of his observations. Kepler responded enthusiastically with a short published reply, \"Dissertatio cum Nuncio Sidereo\" [Conversation with the Starry Messenger]. He endorsed Galileo's observations and offered a range of speculations about the meaning and implications of Galileo's discoveries and telescopic methods, for astronomy and optics as well as cosmology and astrology. Later that year, Kepler published his own telescopic observations of the moons in \"Narratio de Jovis Satellitibus\", providing further support of Galileo. To Kepler's disappointment, however, Galileo never published his reactions (if any) to \"Astronomia Nova\".\n\nAfter hearing of Galileo's telescopic discoveries, Kepler also started a theoretical and experimental investigation of telescopic optics using a telescope borrowed from Duke Ernest of Cologne. The resulting manuscript was completed in September 1610 and published as \"Dioptrice\" in 1611. In it, Kepler set out the theoretical basis of double-convex converging lenses and double-concave diverging lenses—and how they are combined to produce a Galilean telescope—as well as the concepts of real vs. virtual images, upright vs. inverted images, and the effects of focal length on magnification and reduction. He also described an improved telescope—now known as the \"astronomical\" or \"Keplerian telescope\"—in which two convex lenses can produce higher magnification than Galileo's combination of convex and concave lenses.\n\nAround 1611, Kepler circulated a manuscript of what would eventually be published (posthumously) as \"Somnium\" [The Dream]. Part of the purpose of \"Somnium\" was to describe what practicing astronomy would be like from the perspective of another planet, to show the feasibility of a non-geocentric system. The manuscript, which disappeared after changing hands several times, described a fantastic trip to the moon; it was part allegory, part autobiography, and part treatise on interplanetary travel (and is sometimes described as the first work of science fiction). Years later, a distorted version of the story may have instigated the witchcraft trial against his mother, as the mother of the narrator consults a demon to learn the means of space travel. Following her eventual acquittal, Kepler composed 223 footnotes to the story—several times longer than the actual text—which explained the allegorical aspects as well as the considerable scientific content (particularly regarding lunar geography) hidden within the text.\n\nAs a New Year's gift that year (1611), he also composed for his friend and some-time patron, Baron Wackher von Wackhenfels, a short pamphlet entitled \"Strena Seu de Nive Sexangula\" (\"A New Year's Gift of Hexagonal Snow\"). In this treatise, he published the first description of the hexagonal symmetry of snowflakes and, extending the discussion into a hypothetical atomistic physical basis for the symmetry, posed what later became known as the Kepler conjecture, a statement about the most efficient arrangement for packing spheres.\n\nIn 1611, the growing political-religious tension in Prague came to a head. Emperor Rudolph—whose health was failing—was forced to abdicate as King of Bohemia by his brother Matthias. Both sides sought Kepler's astrological advice, an opportunity he used to deliver conciliatory political advice (with little reference to the stars, except in general statements to discourage drastic action). However, it was clear that Kepler's future prospects in the court of Matthias were dim.\n\nAlso in that year, Barbara Kepler contracted Hungarian spotted fever, then began having seizures. As Barbara was recovering, Kepler's three children all fell sick with smallpox; Friedrich, 6, died. Following his son's death, Kepler sent letters to potential patrons in Württemberg and Padua. At the University of Tübingen in Württemberg, concerns over Kepler's perceived Calvinist heresies in violation of the Augsburg Confession and the Formula of Concord prevented his return. The University of Padua—on the recommendation of the departing Galileo—sought Kepler to fill the mathematics professorship, but Kepler, preferring to keep his family in German territory, instead travelled to Austria to arrange a position as teacher and district mathematician in Linz. However, Barbara relapsed into illness and died shortly after Kepler's return.\n\nKepler postponed the move to Linz and remained in Prague until Rudolph's death in early 1612, though between political upheaval, religious tension, and family tragedy (along with the legal dispute over his wife's estate), Kepler could do no research. Instead, he pieced together a chronology manuscript, \"Eclogae Chronicae\", from correspondence and earlier work. Upon succession as Holy Roman Emperor, Matthias re-affirmed Kepler's position (and salary) as imperial mathematician but allowed him to move to Linz.\n\nIn Linz, Kepler's primary responsibilities (beyond completing the \"Rudolphine Tables\") were teaching at the district school and providing astrological and astronomical services. In his first years there, he enjoyed financial security and religious freedom relative to his life in Prague—though he was excluded from Eucharist by his Lutheran church over his theological scruples. It was also during his time in Linz that Kepler had to deal with the accusation and ultimate verdict of witchcraft against his mother Katharina in the Protestant town of Leonberg. That blow, happening only a few years after Kepler’s excommunication, is not seen as a coincidence but as a symptom of the full-fledged assault waged by the Lutherans against Kepler.\n\nHis first publication in Linz was \"De vero Anno\" (1613), an expanded treatise on the year of Christ's birth; he also participated in deliberations on whether to introduce Pope Gregory's reformed calendar to Protestant German lands; that year he also wrote the influential mathematical treatise \"Nova stereometria doliorum vinariorum\", on measuring the volume of containers such as wine barrels, published in 1615.\n\nOn October 30, 1613, Kepler married the 24-year-old Susanna Reuttinger. Following the death of his first wife Barbara, Kepler had considered 11 different matches over two years (a decision process formalized later as the marriage problem). He eventually returned to Reuttinger (the fifth match) who, he wrote, \"won me over with love, humble loyalty, economy of household, diligence, and the love she gave the stepchildren.\" The first three children of this marriage (Margareta Regina, Katharina, and Sebald) died in childhood. Three more survived into adulthood: Cordula (born 1621); Fridmar (born 1623); and Hildebert (born 1625). According to Kepler's biographers, this was a much happier marriage than his first.\n\nSince completing the \"Astronomia nova\", Kepler had intended to compose an astronomy textbook. In 1615, he completed the first of three volumes of \"Epitome astronomiae Copernicanae\" (\"Epitome of Copernican Astronomy\"); the first volume (books I–III) was printed in 1617, the second (book IV) in 1620, and the third (books V–VII) in 1621. Despite the title, which referred simply to heliocentrism, Kepler's textbook culminated in his own ellipse-based system. The \"Epitome\" became Kepler's most influential work. It contained all three laws of planetary motion and attempted to explain heavenly motions through physical causes. Though it explicitly extended the first two laws of planetary motion (applied to Mars in \"Astronomia nova\") to all the planets as well as the Moon and the Medicean satellites of Jupiter, it did not explain how elliptical orbits could be derived from observational data.\n\nAs a spin-off from the \"Rudolphine Tables\" and the related \"Ephemerides\", Kepler published astrological calendars, which were very popular and helped offset the costs of producing his other work—especially when support from the Imperial treasury was withheld. In his calendars—six between 1617 and 1624—Kepler forecast planetary positions and weather as well as political events; the latter were often cannily accurate, thanks to his keen grasp of contemporary political and theological tensions. By 1624, however, the escalation of those tensions and the ambiguity of the prophecies meant political trouble for Kepler himself; his final calendar was publicly burned in Graz.\n\nIn 1615, Ursula Reingold, a woman in a financial dispute with Kepler's brother Christoph, claimed Kepler's mother Katharina had made her sick with an evil brew. The dispute escalated, and in 1617 Katharina was accused of witchcraft; witchcraft trials were relatively common in central Europe at this time. Beginning in August 1620, she was imprisoned for fourteen months. She was released in October 1621, thanks in part to the extensive legal defense drawn up by Kepler. The accusers had no stronger evidence than rumors. Katharina was subjected to \"territio verbalis\", a graphic description of the torture awaiting her as a witch, in a final attempt to make her confess. Throughout the trial, Kepler postponed his other work to focus on his \"harmonic theory\". The result, published in 1619, was \"Harmonices Mundi\" (\"Harmony of the World\").\n\nKepler was convinced \"that the geometrical things have provided the Creator with the model for decorating the whole world\". In \"Harmony\", he attempted to explain the proportions of the natural world—particularly the astronomical and astrological aspects—in terms of music. The central set of \"harmonies\" was the \"musica universalis\" or \"music of the spheres\", which had been studied by Pythagoras, Ptolemy and many others before Kepler; in fact, soon after publishing \"Harmonices Mundi\", Kepler was embroiled in a priority dispute with Robert Fludd, who had recently published his own harmonic theory.\n\nKepler began by exploring regular polygons and regular solids, including the figures that would come to be known as Kepler's solids. From there, he extended his harmonic analysis to music, meteorology, and astrology; harmony resulted from the tones made by the souls of heavenly bodies—and in the case of astrology, the interaction between those tones and human souls. In the final portion of the work (Book V), Kepler dealt with planetary motions, especially relationships between orbital velocity and orbital distance from the Sun. Similar relationships had been used by other astronomers, but Kepler—with Tycho's data and his own astronomical theories—treated them much more precisely and attached new physical significance to them.\n\nAmong many other harmonies, Kepler articulated what came to be known as the third law of planetary motion. He then tried many combinations until he discovered that (approximately) \"\"The square of the periodic times are to each other as the cubes of the mean distances\".\" Although he gives the date of this epiphany (March 8, 1618), he does not give any details about how he arrived at this conclusion. However, the wider significance for planetary dynamics of this purely kinematical law was not realized until the 1660s. When conjoined with Christiaan Huygens' newly discovered law of centrifugal force, it enabled Isaac Newton, Edmund Halley, and perhaps Christopher Wren and Robert Hooke to demonstrate independently that the presumed gravitational attraction between the Sun and its planets decreased with the square of the distance between them. This refuted the traditional assumption of scholastic physics that the power of gravitational attraction remained constant with distance whenever it applied between two bodies, such as was assumed by Kepler and also by Galileo in his mistaken universal law that gravitational fall is uniformly accelerated, and also by Galileo's student Borrelli in his 1666 celestial mechanics.\n\nIn 1623, Kepler at last completed the \"Rudolphine Tables\", which at the time was considered his major work. However, due to the publishing requirements of the emperor and negotiations with Tycho Brahe's heir, it would not be printed until 1627. In the meantime, religious tension — the root of the ongoing Thirty Years' War — once again put Kepler and his family in jeopardy. In 1625, agents of the Catholic Counter-Reformation placed most of Kepler's library under seal, and in 1626 the city of Linz was besieged. Kepler moved to Ulm, where he arranged for the printing of the \"Tables\" at his own expense.\n\nIn 1628, following the military successes of the Emperor Ferdinand's armies under General Wallenstein, Kepler became an official advisor to Wallenstein. Though not the general's court astrologer per se, Kepler provided astronomical calculations for Wallenstein's astrologers and occasionally wrote horoscopes himself. In his final years, Kepler spent much of his time traveling, from the imperial court in Prague to Linz and Ulm to a temporary home in Sagan, and finally to Regensburg. Soon after arriving in Regensburg, Kepler fell ill. He died on November 15, 1630, and was buried there; his burial site was lost after the Swedish army destroyed the churchyard. Only Kepler's self-authored poetic epitaph survived the times:\n\nKepler's belief that God created the cosmos in an orderly fashion caused him to attempt to determine and comprehend the laws that govern the natural world, most profoundly in astronomy. The phrase \"I am merely thinking God's thoughts after Him\" has been attributed to him, although this is probably a capsulized version of a writing from his hand:\nThose laws [of nature] are within the grasp of the human mind; God wanted us to recognize them by creating us after his own image so that we could share in his own thoughts.\n\nKepler's laws of planetary motion were not immediately accepted. Several major figures such as Galileo and René Descartes completely ignored Kepler's \"Astronomia nova.\" Many astronomers, including Kepler's teacher, Michael Maestlin, objected to Kepler's introduction of physics into his astronomy. Some adopted compromise positions. Ismaël Bullialdus accepted elliptical orbits but replaced Kepler's area law with uniform motion in respect to the empty focus of the ellipse, while Seth Ward used an elliptical orbit with motions defined by an equant.\n\nSeveral astronomers tested Kepler's theory, and its various modifications, against astronomical observations. Two transits of Venus and Mercury across the face of the sun provided sensitive tests of the theory, under circumstances when these planets could not normally be observed. In the case of the transit of Mercury in 1631, Kepler had been extremely uncertain of the parameters for Mercury, and advised observers to look for the transit the day before and after the predicted date. Pierre Gassendi observed the transit on the date predicted, a confirmation of Kepler's prediction. This was the first observation of a transit of Mercury. However, his attempt to observe the transit of Venus just one month later was unsuccessful due to inaccuracies in the Rudolphine Tables. Gassendi did not realize that it was not visible from most of Europe, including Paris. Jeremiah Horrocks, who observed the 1639 Venus transit, had used his own observations to adjust the parameters of the Keplerian model, predicted the transit, and then built apparatus to observe the transit. He remained a firm advocate of the Keplerian model.\n\n\"Epitome of Copernican Astronomy\" was read by astronomers throughout Europe, and following Kepler's death, it was the main vehicle for spreading Kepler's ideas. In the period 1630 - 1650, this book was the most widely used astronomy textbook, winning many converts to ellipse-based astronomy. However, few adopted his ideas on the physical basis for celestial motions. In the late 17th century, a number of physical astronomy theories drawing from Kepler's work—notably those of Giovanni Alfonso Borelli and Robert Hooke—began to incorporate attractive forces (though not the quasi-spiritual motive species postulated by Kepler) and the Cartesian concept of inertia. This culminated in Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\" (1687), in which Newton derived Kepler's laws of planetary motion from a force-based theory of universal gravitation.\n\nBeyond his role in the historical development of astronomy and natural philosophy, Kepler has loomed large in the philosophy and historiography of science. Kepler and his laws of motion were central to early histories of astronomy such as Jean-Étienne Montucla's 1758 \"Histoire des mathématiques\" and Jean-Baptiste Delambre's 1821 \"Histoire de l'astronomie moderne\". These and other histories written from an Enlightenment perspective treated Kepler's metaphysical and religious arguments with skepticism and disapproval, but later Romantic-era natural philosophers viewed these elements as central to his success. \nWilliam Whewell, in his influential \"History of the Inductive Sciences\" of 1837, found Kepler to be the archetype of the inductive scientific genius; in his \"Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences\" of 1840, Whewell held Kepler up as the embodiment of the most advanced forms of scientific method. Similarly, Ernst Friedrich Apelt—the first to extensively study Kepler's manuscripts, after their purchase by Catherine the Great—identified Kepler as a key to the \"Revolution of the sciences\". \nApelt, who saw Kepler's mathematics, aesthetic sensibility, physical ideas, and theology as part of a unified system of thought, produced the first extended analysis of Kepler's life and work.\n\nAlexandre Koyré's work on Kepler was, after Apelt, the first major milestone in historical interpretations of Kepler's cosmology and its influence. In the 1930s and 1940s, Koyré, and a number of others in the first generation of professional historians of science, described the \"Scientific Revolution\" as the central event in the history of science, and Kepler as a (perhaps the) central figure in the revolution. Koyré placed Kepler's theorization, rather than his empirical work, at the center of the intellectual transformation from ancient to modern world-views. Since the 1960s, the volume of historical Kepler scholarship has expanded greatly, including studies of his astrology and meteorology, his geometrical methods, the role of his religious views in his work, his literary and rhetorical methods, his interaction with the broader cultural and philosophical currents of his time, and even his role as an historian of science.\n\nPhilosophers of science—such as Charles Sanders Peirce, Norwood Russell Hanson, Stephen Toulmin, and Karl Popper—have repeatedly turned to Kepler: examples of incommensurability, analogical reasoning, falsification, and many other philosophical concepts have been found in Kepler's work. Physicist Wolfgang Pauli even used Kepler's priority dispute with Robert Fludd to explore the implications of analytical psychology on scientific investigation.\n\nModern translations of a number of Kepler's books appeared in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, the systematic publication of his collected works began in 1937 (and is nearing completion in the early 21st century).\n\nAn edition in eight volumes, \" Kepleri Opera omnia,\" was prepared by Christian Frisch (1807–1881), during 1858 to 1871, on the occasion of Kepler's 300th birthday.\nFrisch's edition only included Kepler's Latin, with a Latin commentary.\n\nA new edition was planned beginning in 1914 by Walther von Dyck (1856–1934). Dyck compiled copies of Kepler's unedited manuscripts, using international diplomatic contacts to convince the Soviet authorities to lend him the manuscripts kept in Leningrad for photographic reproduction. These manuscripts contained several works by Kepler that had not been available to Frisch. Dyck's photographs remain the basis for the modern editions of Kepler's unpublished manuscripts.\n\nMax Caspar (1880–1956) published his German translation of Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" in 1923. \nBoth Dyck and Caspar were influenced in their interest in Kepler by mathematician Alexander von Brill (1842–1935). \nCaspar became Dyck's collaborator, succeeding him as project leader in 1934, establishing the \"Kepler-Kommission\" in the following year. Assisted by Martha List (1908–1992) and Franz Hammer (1898–1979), Caspar continued editorial work during World War II. \nMax Caspar also published a biography of Kepler in 1948. The commission was later chaired by Volker Bialas (during 1976–2003) and Ulrich Grigull (during 1984–1999) and Roland Bulirsch (1998–2014).\n\nKepler has acquired a popular image as an icon of scientific modernity and a man before his time; science popularizer Carl Sagan described him as \"the first astrophysicist and the last scientific astrologer\".\n\nThe debate over Kepler's place in the Scientific Revolution has produced a wide variety of philosophical and popular treatments. One of the most influential is Arthur Koestler's 1959 \"The Sleepwalkers\", in which Kepler is unambiguously the hero (morally and theologically as well as intellectually) of the revolution.\n\nA well-received, if fanciful, historical novel by John Banville, \"Kepler\" (1981), explored many of the themes developed in Koestler's non-fiction narrative and in the philosophy of science. \nSomewhat more fanciful is a recent work of nonfiction, \"Heavenly Intrigue\" (2004), suggesting that Kepler murdered Tycho Brahe to gain access to his data.\n\nIn Austria, Kepler left behind such a historical legacy that he was one of the motifs of a silver collector's coin: the 10-euro Johannes Kepler silver coin, minted on September 10, 2002. The reverse side of the coin has a portrait of Kepler, who spent some time teaching in Graz and the surrounding areas. Kepler was acquainted with Prince Hans Ulrich von Eggenberg personally, and he probably influenced the construction of Eggenberg Castle (the motif of the obverse of the coin). In front of him on the coin is the model of nested spheres and polyhedra from \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\".\n\nThe German composer Paul Hindemith wrote an opera about Kepler entitled \"Die Harmonie der Welt\", and a symphony of the same name was derived from music for the opera.\nPhilip Glass wrote an opera called \"Kepler\" based on Kepler's life (2009).\n\nKepler is honored together with Nicolaus Copernicus with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on May 23.\nDirectly named for Kepler's contribution to science are Kepler's laws of planetary motion, Kepler's Supernova (Supernova 1604, which he observed and described) and the Kepler Solids, a set of geometrical constructions, two of which were described by him, and the Kepler conjecture on sphere packing.\n\n\nA critical edition of Kepler's collected works (\"Johannes Kepler Gesammelte Werke\", KGW) in 22 volumes is being edited by the \"Kepler-Kommission\" (founded 1935) on behalf of the Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften.\n\n\nThe Kepler-Kommission also publishes \"Bibliographia Kepleriana\" (2nd ed. List, 1968), a complete bibliography of editions of Kepler's works, with a supplementary volume to the second edition (ed. Hamel 1998).\n\n\nFrom the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection at the Library of Congress:\n"}
{"id": "52544403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52544403", "title": "John Culp", "text": "John Culp\n\nJohn Culp is a professor who works at the Azusa Pacific University in the Department of Philosophy. He specializes in the philosophy of religion, history of philosophy and Wesleyan theology. He has written for the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47153057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47153057", "title": "Joseph Delboeuf", "text": "Joseph Delboeuf\n\nJoseph Rémi Léopold Delbœuf (September 30, 1831 in Liege, Belgium – August 14, 1896 in Bonn, Germany) was a Belgian philosopher, mathematician, experimental psychologist, hypnotist and psychophysicist. He was a highly respected as a psychologist in his lifetime, the author of an extensive and diverse works, and is known for his work on hypnosis as well as for his important contribution to the debate around the psychophysical.\n\nIn 1860 he became an instructor in the normal school of Liege, and in 1863-66 was professor of philosophy in Ghent. Beginning in 1866, he was professor at University of Liège.\n\nDelboeuf began his psychophysical experimentation on brightness in 1865 with Gustav Fechner. The most important idea that Delboeuf introduced to psychophysics was that of the sense distance (\"contraste sensible\").\n\nDelboeuf is probably best known for his description the Delboeuf illusion in 1893. Many experiments have been performed on this illusion since that time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220183", "title": "Kennisbank Filosofie Nederland", "text": "Kennisbank Filosofie Nederland\n\nThe Kennisbank Filosofie in Nederland (KFN) is a database in which information can be found about philosophy, especially from the Netherlands. The bibliography consists of about 35.000 records of publications on philosophy in the Netherlands and Flanders. This database was based in the first place on Prof. Poortman's 4-vol. work.\n"}
{"id": "27377537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27377537", "title": "Léon Robin", "text": "Léon Robin\n\nLéon Robin (Nantes, 17 January 1866July 1947) was a French philosopher and scholar of Greek philosophy, professor of history of ancient philosophy at the Sorbonne from 1924 to 1936.\n\nRobin, the son of a merchant, began teaching in the Faculty of Letters at Paris in 1913. In 1924 he took up the chair of history of ancient philosophy, which had lapsed after the death of Louis Rodier in 1913. In 1927 he was visiting professor at the University of Pennsylvania. On his retirement from the Paris chair, his successor was Pierre-Maxime Schuhl. Robin subsequently served as Director of the International Institute of Philosophy.\n\nLéon Robin translated the dialogues of Plato into French.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43775402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43775402", "title": "Mark Hawthorne (author)", "text": "Mark Hawthorne (author)\n\nMark Franklyn Hawthorne (born 1962) is an American animal advocate and writer. He is the author of three books: \"Striking at the Roots: A Practical Guide to Animal Activism\" (2007), \"Bleating Hearts: The Hidden World of Animal Suffering\" (2013), and \"A Vegan Ethic: Embracing A Life Of Compassion Toward All\" (2016). In \"A Vegan Ethic,\" he urges vegans to be inclusive in their compassion, explaining that is the only course for activists to take if they want to free nonhuman animals from exploitation—that victory for the animal liberation movement will only come through working for liberation for all marginalized groups.\n\nHawthorne is vegan and has published around 100 articles or entries in books and magazines on vegetarianism and animal rights. He has been writing for magazines since about 1987.\n\nHawthorne is one of several people who provided information used in the writing of the book \"Uncaged: Top Activists Share Their Wisdom on Effective Farm Animal Advocacy\" (2013) by Ben Davidow.\n\nJames E. McWilliams says: \"Bleating Hearts is the most comprehensive single compendium of animal exploitation that exists. ... Hawthorne forces us to expand that vision in ways even experienced ethical vegans will find informative and alarming.\"\n\nHawthorne won the 2003 Mona Schreiber Prize (1st place) for Humorous Fiction and Nonfiction.\n\nIn July 2008, Hawthorne created the Striking at the Roots website which he regularly updates with new essays, reviews, and news.\n\n\"VegNews\" magazine was nominated for the 2010 Maggie Award for Best Feature, for Mark Hawthorne's article \"Dried Up.\" Two years later, \"VegNews\" was nominated for the 2012 Maggie Award for Best Feature Article, for Hawthorne's article \"Injustice for All.\"\n\nHawthorne's parents are John Franklyn Hawthorne and Cheryl Annette Hawthorne. Hawthorne attended Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa, California in 1980-1982. In 1983-1985 he attended California State University, Fullerton where he received a Bachelor of Arts in English.\n\nIn 1992, before he was vegan or an activist, Hawthorne joined two friends in Pamplona, Spain, and took part in the Running of the Bulls. Afterward, he felt ashamed.\n\nAn expanded, 10th-anniversary edition of \"Striking at the Roots: A Practical Guide to Animal Activism\" will be released as a 416-page paperback in November 2018 ().\n\nHawthorne is married to animal activist lauren Ornelas; they live in northern California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331195", "title": "Mass surveillance", "text": "Mass surveillance\n\nMass surveillance is the intricate surveillance of an entire or a substantial fraction of a population in order to monitor that group of citizens. The surveillance is often carried out by local and federal governments or governmental organisations, such as organizations like the NSA and the FBI, but it may also be carried out by corporations (either on behalf of governments or at their own initiative). Depending on each nation's laws and judicial systems, the legality of and the permission required to engage in mass surveillance varies. It is the single most indicative distinguishing trait of totalitarian regimes. It is also often distinguished from targeted surveillance.\n\nMass surveillance has often been cited as necessary to fight terrorism, prevent crime and social unrest, protect national security, and control the population. Conversely, mass surveillance has equally often been criticized for violating privacy rights, limiting civil and political rights and freedoms, and being illegal under some legal or constitutional systems. Another criticism is that increasing mass surveillance could lead to the development of a surveillance state or an electronic police state where civil liberties are infringed or political dissent is undermined by COINTELPRO-like programs. Such a state could be referred to as a totalitarian state.\n\nIn 2013, the practice of mass surveillance by world governments was called into question after Edward Snowden‘s 2013 global surveillance disclosure. Reporting based on documents Snowden leaked to various media outlets triggered a debate about civil liberties and the right to privacy in the Digital Age. Mass surveillance is considered a global issue.\n\nPrivacy International's 2007 survey, covering 47 countries, indicated that there had been an increase in surveillance and a decline in the performance of privacy safeguards, compared to the previous year. Balancing these factors, eight countries were rated as being 'endemic surveillance societies'. Of these eight, China, Malaysia and Russia scored lowest, followed jointly by Singapore and the United Kingdom, then jointly by Taiwan, Thailand and the United States. The best ranking was given to Greece, which was judged to have 'adequate safeguards against abuse'.\n\nMany countries throughout the world have already been adding thousands of surveillance cameras to their urban, suburban and even rural areas. For example, in September 2007 the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) stated that we are \"in danger of tipping into a genuine surveillance society completely alien to American values\" with \"the potential for a dark future where our every move, our every transaction, our every communication is recorded, compiled, and stored away, ready to be examined and used against us by the authorities whenever they want.\"\n\nOn 12 March 2013, Reporters Without Borders published a \"Special report on Internet Surveillance\". The report included a list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in active, intrusive surveillance of news providers, resulting in grave violations of freedom of information and human rights. Five countries were placed on the initial list: Bahrain, China, Iran, Syria, and Vietnam.\n\nBahrain is one of the five countries on Reporters Without Borders' March 2013 list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in active, intrusive surveillance of news providers, resulting in grave violations of freedom of information and human rights. The level of Internet filtering and surveillance in Bahrain is one of the highest in the world. The royal family is represented in all areas of Internet management and has sophisticated tools at its disposal for spying on its subjects. The online activities of dissidents and news providers are closely monitored and the surveillance is increasing.\n\nChina is one of the five countries on Reporters Without Borders' March 2013 list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in active, intrusive surveillance of news providers, resulting in grave violations of freedom of information and human rights. All Internet access in China is owned or controlled by the state or the Communist Party. Many foreign journalists in China have said that they take for granted that their telephones are tapped and their email is monitored.\n\nThe tools put in place to filter and monitor the Internet are collectively known as the Great Firewall of China. Besides the usual routing regulations that allow access to an IP address or a particular domain name to be blocked, the Great Firewall makes large-scale use of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) technology to monitor and block access based on keyword detection. The Great Firewall has the ability to dynamically block encrypted connections. One of the country's main ISPs, China Unicom, automatically cuts a connection as soon as it is used to transmit encrypted content.\n\nThe monitoring system developed by China is not confined to the Great Firewall, monitoring is also built into social networks, chat services and VoIP. Private companies are directly responsible to the Chinese authorities for surveillance of their networks to ensure banned messages are not circulated. The QQ application, owned by the firm Tencent, allows the authorities to monitor in detail exchanges between Internet users by seeking certain keywords and expressions. The author of each message can be identified by his or her user number. The QQ application is effectively a giant Trojan horse. And since March 2012, new legislation requires all new users of micro-blogging sites to register using their own name and telephone number.\n\nSkype, one of the world's most popular Internet telephone platforms, is closely monitored. Skype services in China are available through a local partner, the TOM media group. The Chinese-language version of Skype, known as TOM-Skype, is slightly different from the downloadable versions in other countries. A report by OpenNet Initiative Asia says everyday conversations are captured on servers. Interception and storage of a conversation may be triggered by a sender's or recipient's name or by keywords that occur in the conversation.\n\nOn 30 January, the \"New York Times\" reported that it had been the target of attacks by the Chinese government. The first breach took place on 13 September 2012 when the newspaper was preparing to publish an article about the fortune amassed by the family of outgoing Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. The newspaper said the purpose of attacks was to identify the sources that supplied the newspaper with information about corruption among the prime minister's entourage. The \"Wall Street Journal\" and \"CNN\" also said they had been the targets of cyber attacks from China. In February, Twitter disclosed that the accounts of some 250,000 subscribers had been the victims of attacks from China similar to those carried out on the \"New York Times\". Mandiant, the company engaged by the NYT to secure its network, identified the source of the attacks as a group of hackers it called Advanced Persistent Threat 1, a unit of the People's Liberation Army operating from a 12-story building in the suburbs of Shanghai that had hundreds, possibly thousands, of staff and the direct support of the Chinese government.\n\nBefore the Digital Revolution, one of the world's biggest mass surveillance operations was carried out by the Stasi, the secret police of the former East Germany. By the time the state collapsed in 1989, the Stasi had built up an estimated civilian network of 300,000 informants (approximately one in fifty of the population), who monitored even minute hints of political dissent among other citizens. Many West Germans visiting friends and family in East Germany were also subject to Stasi spying, as well as many high-ranking West German politicians and persons in the public eye.\n\nMost East German citizens were well aware that their government was spying on them, which led to a culture of mistrust: touchy political issues were only discussed in the comfort of their own four walls and only with the closest of friends and family members, while widely maintaining a façade of unquestioning followership in public.\n\nThe right to privacy is a highly developed area of law in Europe. The Data Protection Directive regulates the processing of personal data within the European Union. For comparison, the US has no data protection law that is comparable to this; instead, the US regulates data protection on a sectoral basis.\n\nSince early 2012, the European Union has been working on a General Data Protection Regulation to replace the Data Protection Directive and harmonise data protection and privacy law. On 20 October 2013, a committee at the European Parliament backed the measure, which, if it is enacted, could require American companies to seek clearance from European officials before complying with United States warrants seeking private data. The vote is part of efforts in Europe to shield citizens from online surveillance in the wake of revelations about a far-reaching spying program by the U.S. National Security Agency. European Union justice and rights commissioner Viviane Reding said \"The question has arisen whether the large-scale collection and processing of personal information under US surveillance programmes is necessary and proportionate to meet the interests of national security.\" The EU is also asking the US for changes to US legislation to match the legal redress offered in Europe; American citizens in Europe can go to the courts if they feel their rights are infringed but Europeans without right of residence in America cannot. When the EU / US arrangement to implement International Safe Harbor Privacy Principles were struck down by the European Court of Justice, a new framework for transatlantic data flows, called the \"EU-US Privacy Shield\", was adopted in July 2016.\n\nIn April 2014, the European Court of Justice declared invalid the EU Data Retention Directive. The Court said it violates two basic rights - respect for private life and protection of personal data. The legislative body of the European Union passed the Data Retention Directive on 15 December 2005. It requires that telecommunication operators retain metadata for telephone, Internet, and other telecommunication services for periods of not less than six months and not more than two years from the date of the communication as determined by each EU member state and, upon request, to make the data available to various governmental bodies. Access to this information is not limited to investigation of serious crimes, nor is a warrant required for access.\n\nUndertaken under the \"Seventh Framework Programme\" \"for research and technological development\" (FP7 - Science in Society) some multidisciplinary and mission oriented mass surveillance activities (for example INDECT and HIDE) were funded by the European Commission in association with industrial partners.\n\nThe INDECT Project (\"Intelligent information system supporting observation, searching and detection for security of citizens in urban environment\") develops an intelligent urban environment observation system to register and exchange operational data for the automatic detection, recognition and intelligent processing of all information of abnormal behaviour or violence.\n\nThe main expected results of the INDECT project are:\n\nHIDE (\"Homeland Security, Biometric Identification & Personal Detection Ethics\") was a research project funded by the European Commission within the scope of the Seventh RTD Framework Programme (FP7). The consortium, coordinated by Emilio Mordini, explored the ethical and privacy implications of biometrics and personal detection technologies, focusing on the continuum between personal detection, authentication, identification and mass surveillance.\n\nIn 2002 German citizens were tipped off about wiretapping when a software error led to a phone number allocated to the German Secret Service being listed on mobile telephone bills.\n\nThe Indian parliament passed the Information Technology Act of 2008 with no debate, giving the government fiat power to tap all communications without a court order or a warrant. Section 69 of the act states \"Section 69 empowers the Central Government/State Government/ its authorized agency to intercept, monitor or decrypt any information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer resource if it is necessary or expedient so to do in the interest of the sovereignty or integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or for investigation of any offence.\"\n\nIndia is setting up a national intelligence grid called NATGRID, which would be fully set up by May 2011 where each individual's data ranging from land records, Internet logs, air and rail PNR, phone records, gun records, driving license, property records, insurance, and income tax records would be available in real time and with no oversight. With a UID from the Unique Identification Authority of India being given to every Indian from February 2011, the government would be able track people in real time. A national population registry of all citizens will be established by the 2011 census, during which fingerprints and iris scans would be taken along with GPS records of each household.\n\nAs per the initial plan, access to the combined data will be given to 11 agencies, including the Research and Analysis Wing, the Intelligence Bureau, the Enforcement Directorate, the National Investigation Agency, the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and the Narcotics Control Bureau.\n\nSeveral states within India have already installed CCTV surveillance systems with face matching capabilities using biometrics in Aadhaar. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are using information linked with Aadhaar across different agencies to create a 360-degree profile of a person, calling it the Integration Information Hub. Other states are now planning to follow this model.\n\nIran is one of the five countries on Reporters Without Borders' March 2013 list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in naturally active efforts to news providers . The government runs or controls almost all of the country's institutions for regulating, managing or legislating on telecommunications. The Supreme Council for Cyberspace, which was headed by President Ahmadinejad, was established in March 2012 and now determines digital policy. The construction of a parallel \"Iranian Internet\", with a high connection speed but fully monitored and censored, is almost complete.\n\nThe tools used by the Iranian authorities to monitor and control the Internet include data interception tools capable of Deep Packet Inspection. Interception products from leading Chinese companies such as ZTE and Huawei are in use. The products provided by Huawei to Mobin Net, the leading national provider of mobile broadband, can be used to analyze email content, track browsing history and block access to sites. The products that ZTA sold to the Telecommunication Company of Iran (TCI) offer similar services plus the possibility of monitoring the mobile network. European companies are the source of other spying and data analysis tools. Products designed by Ericsson and Nokia Siemens Networks (later Trovicor) are in use. These companies sold SMS interception and user location products to Mobile Communication Company of Iran and Irancell, Iran's two biggest mobile phone companies, in 2009 and they were used to identify Iranian citizens during the post-election uprising in 2009. The use of Israeli surveillance devices has also been detected in Iran. The network traffic management and surveillance device NetEnforcer was provided by Israel to Denmark and then resold to Iran. Similarly, US equipment has found its way to Iran via the Chinese company ZTE.\n\nIn July 2018, the Malaysian police announced the creation of the Malaysian Internet Crime Against Children Investigation Unit (Micac) that is equipped with real-time mass internet surveillance software developed in the United States and is tasked with the monitoring of all Malaysian internet users, with a focus on pornography and child pornography. The system creates a \"data library\" of users which includes details such as IP addresses, websites, locations, duration and frequency of use and files uploaded and downloaded.\n\nAfter struggling with drug trafficking and criminal groups for decades Mexico has been strengthening their military mass surveillance. Approximately half of the population in Mexico does not support democracy as a form of government, and believe an authoritarian system is better if social matters are solved through it. The relevance of these political beliefs may make it easier for mass surveillance to take spread within the country. \"This does not necessarily mean the end of democratic institutions as a whole—such as free elections or the permanence of critical mass media—but it means strengthening the mechanisms for exercising power that exclude dialogue, transparency and social agreement.\" Developing intelligence agencies has been on Mexico's radar for a while for means of security. \n\nAccording to a 2004 report, the government of the Netherlands carries out more clandestine wire-taps and intercepts than any country, per capita, in the world. The Dutch military intelligence service MIVD operates a satellite ground station to intercept foreign satellite links and also a facility to eavesdrop on foreign high-frequency radio traffic.\n\nHaving attained the nickname ‘surveillance state’, North Korea's government has complete control over all forms of telecommunications and Internet. It is routine to be sent to a prison camp for communicating with the outside world. The government enforces restrictions around the types of appliances North Koreans may own in their home, in case radio or TV sets pick up signals from nearby South Korea, China and Russia. There is no attempt to mask the way this government actively spies on their citizens. In North Korea, an increasing number of citizens do have smartphones. However, these devices are heavily controlled and are being used to censor and observe everything North Koreans do on their phones. Reuters reported in 2015 that Koryolink, North Korea's official mobile phone network, has around 3 million subscribers in a country of 24 million. Obviously, in order to have digital data to draw from, the citizens must have access to phones and other things online.\n\nThe SORM (and SORM-2) laws enable complete monitoring of any communication, electronic or traditional, by eight state agencies, without warrant. These laws seem to be in conflict with Article 23 of the Constitution of Russia which states:\n\nIn 2015, the European Court for Human Rights ruled that the legislation violated Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (\"Zakharov v. Russia\").\n\nYarovaya Law required storage and unconditional access to private communication data for law enforcement.\n\nSingapore is known as a city of sensors. Singapore's surveillance structure spreads widely from Closed-circuit television in public areas even around the neighbourhood, internet monitoring/ traffic monitoring and to the use of surveillance metadata for government initiatives. In Singapore, SIM card registration is mandatory even for prepaid card. Singapore's government have the rights to access communication data. Singapore's largest telecompany, Singtel, has close relations to the government and Singapore's laws are broadly phrased to allow the government to obtain sensitive data such as text-messages, email, call logs and web surfing history from its people without the need for court permission.\n\nThe installation of mass surveillance cameras in Singapore is an effort to act as a deterrence not only for terror attacks but also for public security such as loan sharks, illegal parking and more. As part of Singapore's Smart Nation initiative to build a network of sensors to collect and connect data from city life (including the citizen's movement), the Singapore government rolled out 1000 sensors ranging from computer chips to surveillance cameras, to track almost everything in Singapore from air quality to public safety in 2014.\n\nIn 2016, in a bid to increase security, the Singapore Police Force installed 62,000 police cameras in 10,000 Housing and Development Board (HDB) blocks covering the lifts and multi-storey car parks. With rising security concerns, the number of CCTV cameras in public areas such as monitoring of the public transport system and commercial/ government buildings in Singapore is set to increase.\n\nIn 2018, the Singapore government would be rolling out new and more advanced surveillance systems. Starting with Singapore's maritime borders, new panoramic electro-optic sensors will be put in place on the north and south coasts, monitoring a 360-degree view of the area. A tethered unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) will also be operational, which can be used during search and rescue operations including hostage situations and public order incidents.\n\nAccording to a 2017 report by Privacy International, Spain may be part of a group of 21 European countries that is withholding information, also known as data retention. In 2014, many defense lawyers tried to overturn multiple cases that used mass storage as their evidence to convict, according to the European Agency for Fundamental Rights.\n\nPrior to 2009, the National Defence Radio Establishment (FRA) was limited to wireless signals intelligence (SIGINT), although it was left largely unregulated. In December 2009, new legislation went into effect, allowing the FRA to monitor cable bound signals passing the Swedish border. Communications service providers are legally required, under confidentiality, to transfer cable communications crossing Swedish borders to specific \"interaction points\", where data may be accessed after a court order.\n\nThe FRA has been contested since the change in its legislation, mainly because of the public perception the change would enable mass surveillance. The FRA categorically deny this allegation, as they are not allowed to initialize any surveillance on their own, and has no direct access to communication lines. All SIGINT has to be authorized by a special court and meet a set of narrow requirements, something Minister for Defence Sten Tolgfors have been quoted as saying, \"should render the debate on mass surveillance invalid.\" Due to the architecture of Internet backbones in the Nordic area, a large portion of Norwegian and Finnish traffic will also be affected by the Swedish wiretapping.\n\nSyria is one of the five countries on Reporters Without Borders' March 2013 list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in active, intrusive surveillance of news providers, resulting in grave violations of freedom of information and human rights. Syria has stepped up its web censorship and cyber-monitoring as the country's civil war has intensified. At least 13 Blue Coat proxy servers are in use, Skype calls are intercepted, and social engineering techniques, phishing, and malware attacks are all in use.\n\nThe failed coup attempt June 15, 2016 led to an authoritarian shift that uses mass surveillance to suppress opposite views. Digital surveillance is part of everyday life due to the box the government puts the Turkish citizens in. It is increasingly difficult to release any academic knowledge beyond what the Turkish government wants to be released. They have a digital and physical strong hold over any knowledge that goes against their regime. Today, the surveillance of academicians goes along with the state's oppression in Turkey. It is hard to say what will happen in the next few years in Turkey as they become increasingly more authoritarian. The centralization of state power along with digitalization expands the scope of the state surveillance. The digitalization and the centralization of state power are closely related to the regime of power that becomes prominent in this conjuncture. National security and terrorism are Turkey's main explanations to the world on this topic, although there is clearly more happening there. According to the report of Human Rights Joint Platform published on February 23, 2017, during the nine months period of the state of emergency, the number of dismissed academicians reached 4,811, increasing to 7,619 with the addition of academicians who were working in the universities closed after the failed coup attempt. The extended surveillance in Turkey helped them to control the population at a massive scale.\n\nState surveillance in the United Kingdom has formed part of the public consciousness since the 19th century. The postal espionage crisis of 1844 sparked the first panic over the privacy of citizens. However, in the 20th century, electronic surveillance capabilities grew out of wartime signal intelligence and pioneering code breaking. In 1946, the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) was formed. The United Kingdom and the United States signed the bilateral UKUSA Agreement in 1948. It was later broadened to include Canada, Australia and New Zealand, as well as cooperation with several \"third-party\" nations. This became the cornerstone of Western intelligence gathering and the \"Special Relationship\" between the UK and the USA.\n\nAfter the growth of the Internet and development of the World Wide Web, a series of media reports in 2013 revealed more recent programs and techniques involving GCHQ, such as Tempora.\n\nThe use of these capabilities is controlled by laws made in the UK Parliament. In particular, access to the content of private messages (that is, interception of a communication) must be authorized by a warrant signed by a Secretary of State. In addition European Union data privacy law applies in UK law. The UK exhibits governance and safeguards as well as use of electronic surveillance.\n\nThe Investigatory Powers Tribunal, a judicial oversight body for the intelligence agencies, ruled in December 2014 that the legislative framework in the United Kingdom does not breach the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the Tribunal stated in February 2015 that one particular aspect, the data-sharing arrangement that allowed UK Intelligence services to request data from the US surveillance programs Prism and Upstream, had been in contravention of human rights law prior to this until two paragraphs of additional information, providing details about the procedures and safeguards, were disclosed to the public in December 2014.\n\nIn its December 2014 ruling, the Investigatory Powers Tribunal found that the legislative framework in the United Kingdom does not permit mass surveillance and that while GCHQ collects and analyses data in bulk, it does not practice mass surveillance. A report on Privacy and Security published by the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament also came to this view, although it found past shortcomings in oversight and said the legal framework should be simplified to improve transparency. This view is supported by independent reports from the Interception of Communications Commissioner. However, notable civil liberties groups continue to express strong views to the contrary and plan to appeal the ruling to the European Court of Human Rights, while others have criticised these viewpoints in turn.\n\nThe Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIP or RIPA) is a significant piece of legislation that granted and regulated the powers of public bodies to carry out surveillance and investigation. In 2002 the UK government announced plans to extend the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act so that at least 28 government departments would be given powers to access metadata about citizens' web, e-mail, telephone and fax records, without a warrant and without a subject's knowledge.\n\nThe Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 includes several provisions related to controlling and restricting the collection, storage, retention, and use of information in government databases.\n\nSupported by all three major political parties, the UK Parliament passed the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act in July 2014 to ensure police and security services retain existing powers to access phone and Internet records. \n\nThis was superseded by the Investigatory Powers Act 2016, a comprehensive statute which made public a number of previously secret powers (equipment interference, bulk retention of metadata, intelligence agency use of bulk personal datasets), and enables the Government to require internet service providers and mobile phone companies to maintain records of (but not the content of) customers' Internet connections for 12 months. In addition, it created new safeguards, including a requirement for judges to approve the warrants authorised by a Secretary of State before they come into force. The Act was informed by two reports by David Anderson QC, the UK's Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation: A Question of Trust (2015) and the report of his Bulk Powers Review (2016), which contains a detailed appraisal (with 60 case studies) of the operational case for the powers often characterised as mass surveillance. It may yet require amendment as a consequence of legal cases brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nMany advanced nation-states have implemented laws that partially protect citizens from unwarranted intrusion, such as the Human Rights Act 1998 and Data Protection Act 1998 in the United Kingdom, and laws that require a formal warrant before private data may be gathered by a government.\n\nThe UK is a member of the European Union, participates in its programs, and is subject to EU policies and directives on surveillance.\n\nThe vast majority of video surveillance cameras in the UK are not operated by government bodies, but by private individuals or companies, especially to monitor the interiors of shops and businesses. According to 2011 Freedom of Information Act requests, the total number of local government operated CCTV cameras was around 52,000 over the entirety of the UK. The prevalence of video surveillance in the UK is often overstated due to unreliable estimates being requoted; for example one report in 2002 extrapolated from a very small sample to estimate the number of cameras in the UK at 4.2 million (of which 500,000 in London). More reliable estimates put the number of private and local government operated cameras in the United Kingdom at around 1.85 million in 2011.\n\nHistorically, mass surveillance was used as part of wartime censorship to control communications that could damage the war effort and aid the enemy. For example, during the world wars, every international telegram from or to the United States sent through companies such as Western Union was reviewed by the US military. After the wars were over, surveillance continued in programs such as the Black Chamber following World War I and project Shamrock following World War II. COINTELPRO projects conducted by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) between 1956 and 1971 targeted various \"subversive\" organizations, including peaceful anti-war and racial equality activists such as Albert Einstein and Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nBillions of dollars per year are spent, by agencies such as the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), to develop, purchase, implement, and operate systems such as Carnivore, ECHELON, and NarusInsight to intercept and analyze the immense amount of data that traverses the Internet and telephone system every day.\n\nSince the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a vast domestic intelligence apparatus has been built to collect information using the NSA, FBI, local police, state homeland security offices and military criminal investigators. The intelligence apparatus collects, analyzes and stores information about millions of (if not all) American citizens, many of whom have not been accused of any wrongdoing.\n\nUnder the Mail Isolation Control and Tracking program, the U.S. Postal Service photographs the exterior of every piece of paper mail that is processed in the United States — about 160 billion pieces in 2012. The U.S. Postmaster General stated that the system is primarily used for mail sorting, but the images are available for possible use by law enforcement agencies. Created in 2001 following the anthrax attacks that killed five people, it is a sweeping expansion of a 100-year-old program called \"mail cover\" which targets people suspected of crimes.\n\nThe FBI developed the computer programs \"Magic Lantern\" and CIPAV, which they can remotely install on a computer system, in order to monitor a person's computer activity.\n\nThe NSA has been gathering information on financial records, Internet surfing habits, and monitoring e-mails. They have also performed extensive analysis of social networks such as Myspace.\n\nThe PRISM special source operation system legally immunized private companies that cooperate voluntarily with U.S. intelligence collection. According to \"The Register\", the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 \"specifically authorizes intelligence agencies to monitor the phone, email, and other communications of U.S. citizens for up to a week without obtaining a warrant\" when one of the parties is outside the U.S. PRISM was first publicly revealed on 6 June 2013, after classified documents about the program were leaked to \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" by American Edward Snowden.\n\nThe Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) requires that all U.S. telecommunications and Internet service providers modify their networks to allow easy wiretapping of telephone, VoIP, and broadband Internet traffic.\n\nIn early 2006, \"USA Today\" reported that several major telephone companies were providing the telephone call records of U.S. citizens to the National Security Agency (NSA), which is storing them in a large database known as the NSA call database. This report came on the heels of allegations that the U.S. government had been conducting electronic surveillance of domestic telephone calls without warrants. In 2013, the existence of the Hemisphere Project, through which AT&T provides telephone call data to federal agencies, became publicly known.\n\nTraffic cameras, which were meant to help enforce traffic laws at intersections, may be used by law enforcement agencies for purposes unrelated to traffic violations. Some cameras allow for the identification of individuals inside a vehicle and license plate data to be collected and time stamped for cross reference with other data used by police. The Department of Homeland Security is funding networks of surveillance cameras in cities and towns as part of its efforts to combat terrorism.\n\nThe New York City Police Department infiltrated and compiled dossiers on protest groups before the 2004 Republican National Convention, leading to over 1,800 arrests.\n\nModern surveillance in the United States was thought of more of a wartime effort before Snowden disclosed in depth information about the National Security Agency in June 2013. The constant development and improvements of the Internet and technology has made it easier for mass surveillance to take hold. Such revelations allow critical commentators to raise questions and scrutinize the implementation, use, and abuse of networking technologies, devices, and software systems that partake in a “global surveillant assemblage” (Bogard 2006; Collier and Ong 2004; Haggerty and Ericson 2000; Murakami Wood 2013). The NSA collected millions of Verizon user's telephone records in between 2013-2014. The NSA also collected data through Google and Facebook with a program called 'Prism'. Journalists through Snowden published nearly 7,000 top-secret documents since then, yet the information disclosed seems to be less than 1% of the entire information. Having access to every individual's private records seems to directly contradict the fourth amendment. \n\nVietnam is one of the five countries on Reporters Without Borders' March 2013 list of \"State Enemies of the Internet\", countries whose governments are involved in active, intrusive surveillance of news providers, resulting in grave violations of freedom of information and human rights. Most of the country's 16 service providers are directly or indirectly controlled by the Vietnamese Communist Party. The industry leader, Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications Group, which controls 74 per cent of the market, is state-owned. So is Viettel, an enterprise of the Vietnamese armed forces. FPT Telecom is a private firm, but is accountable to the Party and depends on the market leaders for bandwidth.\n\nService providers are the major instruments of control and surveillance. Bloggers monitored by the government frequently undergo man-in-the-middle attacks. These are designed to intercept data meant to be sent to secure (https) sites, allowing passwords and other communication to be intercepted. According to a July 2012 Freedom House report, 91 percent of survey respondents connected to the Internet on their mobile devices and the government monitors conversations and tracks the calls of \"activists\" or \"reactionaries.\"\n\nAs a result of the digital revolution, many aspects of life are now captured and stored in digital form. Concern has been expressed that governments may use this information to conduct mass surveillance on their populations. Commercial mass surveillance often makes use of copyright laws and \"user agreements\" to obtain (typically uninformed) 'consent' to surveillance from consumers who use their software or other related materials. This allows gathering of information which would be technically illegal if performed by government agencies. This data is then often shared with government agencies - thereby - in practice - defeating the purpose of such privacy protections.\n\nOne of the most common forms of mass surveillance is carried out by commercial organizations. Many people are willing to join supermarket and grocery loyalty card programs, trading their personal information and surveillance of their shopping habits in exchange for a discount on their groceries, although base prices might be increased to encourage participation in the program.\n\nThrough programs like Google's AdSense, OpenSocial and their increasing pool of so-called \"web gadgets\", \"social gadgets\" and other Google-hosted services many web sites on the Internet are effectively feeding user information about sites visited by the users, and now also their social connections, to Google. Facebook also keep this information, although its acquisition is limited to page views within Facebook. This data is valuable for authorities, advertisers and others interested in profiling users, trends and web site marketing performance. Google, Facebook and others are increasingly becoming more guarded about this data as their reach increases and the data becomes more all inclusive, making it more valuable.\n\nNew features like geolocation give an even increased admission of monitoring capabilities to large service providers like Google, where they also are enabled to track one's physical movements while users are using mobile devices, especially those which are syncing without any user interaction. Google's Gmail service is increasingly employing features to work as a stand-alone application which also might activate while a web browser is not even active for synchronizing; a feature mentioned on the Google I/O 2009 developer conference while showing the upcoming HTML5 features which Google and others are actively defining and promoting.\n\nIn 2008 at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Google CEO Eric Schmidt, said: \"The arrival of a truly mobile Web, offering a new generation of location-based advertising, is set to unleash a 'huge revolution'\".\nAt the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on 16 February 2010, Google presented their vision of a new business model for mobile operators and trying to convince mobile operators to embrace location-based services and advertising. With Google as the advertising provider, it would mean that every mobile operator using their location-based advertising service would be revealing the location of their mobile customers to Google.\n\nOrganizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation are constantly informing users on the importance of privacy, and considerations about technologies like geolocation.\n\nComputer company Microsoft patented in 2011 a product distribution system with a camera or capture device that monitors the viewers that consume the product, allowing the provider to take \"remedial action\" if the actual viewers do not match the distribution license.\n\nReporters Without Borders' March 2013 \"Special report on Internet Surveillance\" contained a list of \"Corporate Enemies of the Internet\", companies that sell products that are liable to be used by governments to violate human rights and freedom of information. The five companies on the initial list were: Amesys (France), Blue Coat Systems (U.S.), Gamma (UK and Germany), Hacking Team (Italy), and Trovicor (Germany), but the list was not exhaustive and is likely to be expanded in the future.\n\nA surveillance state is a country where the government engages in pervasive surveillance of large numbers of its citizens and visitors. Such widespread surveillance is usually justified as being necessary for national security, such as to prevent crime or acts of terrorism, but may also be used to stifle criticism of and opposition to the government.\nExamples of early surveillance states include the former Soviet Union and the former East Germany, which had a large network of informers and an advanced technology base in computing and spy-camera technology. But these states did not have today's technologies for mass surveillance, such as the use of databases and pattern recognition software to cross-correlate information obtained by wire tapping, including speech recognition and telecommunications traffic analysis, monitoring of financial transactions, automatic number plate recognition, the tracking of the position of mobile telephones, and facial recognition systems and the like which recognize people by their appearance, gait, DNA profiling, etc.\n\nThe development of smart cities has seen the increased adoption of surveillance technologies by governments, although the primary purpose of surveillance in such cities is to use information and communication technologies to improve the urban environment. The implementation of such technology by a number of cities has resulted in increased efficiencies in urban infrastructure as well as improved community participation. Sensors and systems monitor a smart city's infrastructure, operations and activities and aim to help it run more efficiently. For example, the city could use less electricity; its traffic run more smoothly with fewer delays; its citizens use the city with more safety; hazards can be dealt with faster; citizen infractions of rules can be prevented, and the city's infrastructure; power distribution and roads with traffic lights for example, dynamically adjusted to respond to differing circumstances.\n\nThe development of smart city technology has also led to an increase in potential unwarranted intrusions into privacy and restrictions upon autonomy. The widespread incorporation of information and communication technologies within the daily life of urban residents results in increases in the surveillance capacity of states - to the extent that individuals may be unaware of what information is being accessed, when the access occurs and for what purpose. It is possible that such conditions could give rise to the development of an electronic police state. Shanghai, Amsterdam, San Jose, Dubai, Barcelona, Madrid, Stockholm, and New York are all cities that use various techniques from smart city technology. \n\nAn electronic police state is a state in which the government aggressively uses electronic technologies to record, collect, store, organize, analyze, search, and distribute information about its citizens. Electronic police states also engage in mass government surveillance of landline and cellular telephone traffic, mail, email, web surfing, Internet searches, radio, and other forms of electronic communication as well as widespread use of video surveillance. The information is usually collected in secret.\n\nThe crucial elements are not politically based, so long as the government can afford the technology and the populace will permit it to be used, an electronic police state can form. The continual use of electronic mass surveillance can result in constant low-level fear within the population, which can lead to self-censorship and exerts a powerful coercive force upon the populace.\n\nSeventeen factors for judging the development of an electronic police state were suggested in \"The Electronic Police State: 2008 National Rankings\":\n\nThe list includes factors that apply to other forms of police states, such as the use of identity documents and police enforcement, but go considerably beyond them and emphasize the use of technology to gather and process the information collected.\n\nThe concept of being monitored by our government collects a large audience of curious citizens. Mass surveillance has been prominently featured in a wide array of books, films, and other media. Advances in technology over the last century have led to possible social control through the Internet and the conditions of late capitalism. Many directors and writers have been enthralled with the potential stories that could come from mass surveillance. Perhaps the most iconic example of fictional mass surveillance is George Orwell's 1949 novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", which depicts a dystopian surveillance state. \n\nHere are a few other works that focus on mass surveillance:\n\n"}
{"id": "17627612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17627612", "title": "Merger doctrine (property law)", "text": "Merger doctrine (property law)\n\nIn the law of real property, the merger doctrine stands for the proposition that the contract for the conveyance of property merges into the deed of conveyance; therefore, any guarantees made in the contract that are not reflected in the deed are extinguished when the deed is conveyed to the buyer of the property.\n\nThe merger doctrine traditionally applies only to covenants of title; covenants relating to the physical condition of the property (say, a promise that the furnace is in good working order) will not merge, and will not extinguish. The parties may by contract abrogate the doctrine and provide that some or all terms of the contract survive the closing and delivery of the deed.\n\nMerger also refers to the doctrine whereby \"a fee simple estate, once fragmented into present and future interests, can thereafter be reconstituted. 'Merger is the absorption of a lesser estate by a greater estate, and takes place when two distinct estates of greater and lesser rank meet in the same person or class of persons at the same time without any intermediate estate.'\n\" Similarly, a merger doctrine extinguishes an easement by necessity to a landlocked piece of property once that property is sold to one of the adjoining owners, thus extinguishing the necessity. The lack of any property interest removes the necessity and the easement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16111556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16111556", "title": "Michael of Massa", "text": "Michael of Massa\n\nMichael of Massa (; Michael Beccucci de Massa) (died 1337) was an Italian Augustinian Hermit and theologian. He is known both as a scholastic philosopher and as an author of contemplative works.\n\nHe wrote a \"Sentences\" commentary, probably through the 1320s and 1330s, and left unfinished.\n\nHis \"Vita Christi\" was a major influence on the more famous work of the same name by Ludolph of Saxony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39254690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39254690", "title": "Michel Feher", "text": "Michel Feher\n\nMichel Feher (born 1956) is a Belgian philosopher and cultural theorist who writes in English and French. He is the founding editor of Zone Books and the co-founder and president of Cette France-là, Paris, a monitoring group on French immigration policy. Feher writes for a number of outlets and has a semi-regular blog with the French journal Mediapart. He has held the positions of Professor and Visiting Lecturer at various universities, including École Nationale Supérieure in Paris, the University of California, Berkeley, and most recently, Goldsmiths, University of London.\n\nTogether with Wendy Brown, Michel Feher is co-editor of Zone Books' series Near Futures. In 2016, Feher co-edited \"Europe at a Crossroads\" with William Callison, Milad Odabaei and Aurélie Windels, the first issue of Near Futures Online, the digital companion to Zone’s Near Futures series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292149", "title": "Motoori Norinaga", "text": "Motoori Norinaga\n\nNorinaga was born in what is now Matsusaka in Ise Province (now part of Mie Prefecture) as the second son of an Otsu merchant house (the film director Yasujirō Ozu was a descendant of the same line). After his elder brother’s death, Norinaga succeeded to the Ozu line. At one stage he was adopted out to a paper-making family but the bookish boy was not suited to business.\n\nIt was at his mother's suggestion that, at the age of 22, Norinaga went to Kyoto to study medicine. In Kyoto, he also studied Chinese and Japanese philology under the neo-Confucianist Hori Keizan. It was at this time that Norinaga became interested in the Japanese classics and decided to enter the field of Kokugaku under the influence of Ogyū Sorai and Keichū. (With changes in the language, the ancient classics were already poorly understood by Japanese in the Edo period and texts needed philological analysis in order to be properly understood.) Life in Kyoto also instilled in the young Norinaga a love of traditional Japanese court culture.\n\nReturning to Matsusaka, Norinaga opened a medical practice for infants while devoting his spare time to lectures on \"The Tale of Genji\" and studies of the \"Nihon Shoki\" (\"Chronicles of Japan\"). At the age of 27, he bought several books by Kamo no Mabuchi and embarked on his Kokugaku researches. As a doctor, he adopted the name of one of his samurai ancestors, Motoori.\n\nIn 1763, Norinaga met Mabuchi in person when the latter visited Matsusaka, a meeting that has come down in history as ‘the night in Matsusaka’. Norinaga took the occasion to ask Mabuchi to supervise his annotations of the \"Kojiki\" (\"Records of Ancient Matters\"). Mabuchi suggested that Norinaga should first tackle the annotations to the \"Man'yōshū\" in order to accustom himself to the ancient kana usage known as the man'yōgana. This was the only meeting between the two men, but they continued to correspond and, with Mabuchi’s encouragement, Norinaga later went on to full-fledged research into the \"Kojiki\".\n\nNorinaga’s disciples included Ishizuka Tatsumaro, Nagase Masaki, Natsume Mikamaro, Takahashi Mikiakira and Motoori Haruniwa (Norinaga’s son).\n\nAlthough overshadowed by his activities as a \"Kokugaku\" scholar, Norinaga spent 40 years as a practicing doctor in Matsusaka and was seeing patients until 10 days before his death in 1801.\n\nNorinaga’s most important works include the \"Kojiki-den\" (\"Commentaries on the Kojiki\"), made over a period of around 35 years, and his annotations on the \"Tale of Genji\". Using the methods of \"Kokugaku\" and Kaozheng, Norinaga claimed that the \"Kojiki\" was the oldest surviving Japanese text. He used the supposed antiquity of the \"Kojiki\" to develop an idea of indigenous Japanese religion, laws, and religion which were later used in the development of an idea of State Shinto.\n\nNorinaga took the view that the heritage of ancient Japan was one of natural spontaneity in feelings and spirit, and that imported Confucianism ran counter to such natural feelings. He criticized Ogyū Sorai for his over-valuing of Chinese civilization and thought, although it has been pointed out that his philological methodology was heavily influenced by Sorai's. His ideas were influenced by the Chinese intellectual Wang Yangming (Ō Yōmei in Japanese), who had argued for \"innate knowing\", that mankind had a naturally intuitive (as opposed to rational) ability to distinguish good and evil.\n\nHitherto scholars of ancient literature had shown a preference for the grandness and masculinity of \"Man'yōshū\" poetry and an aversion to works like the \"Tale of Genji\", which were regarded as unmanly and feminine. Norinaga resurrected the position of the \"Tale of Genji\", which he regarded as an expression of \"mono no aware\"\",\" a particular Japanese sensibility of \"sorrow at evanescence\" that Norinaga claimed forms the essence of Japanese literature.\n\nIn undertaking his textual analysis of ancient Japanese, Norinaga also made vital contributions to establishing a native Japanese grammatical tradition, in particular the analysis of clitics, particles and auxiliary verbs.\n\n\nWithin the grounds of Matsusaka Castle in the city of Matsusaka, the house where Motoori Norinaga lived from age 12 to age 72 is preserved as a memorial museum . The building, which was originally built as a retirement home for Norinaga’s grandfather in 1693, was moved to its present location in 1909. It was proclaimed a Special National Monument by the Japanese government in 1953. An effort has been made to preserve the interior as closely as possible to the time when it was used by Norinaga, and his writing studio on the second floor contains some examples of original manuscripts. The museum houses many artifacts that are protected as Important Cultural Properties of Japan, of which only a small portion is on display at any time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32208472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32208472", "title": "Nibbana-The Mind Stilled", "text": "Nibbana-The Mind Stilled\n\nNibbāna-The Mind Stilled is the translation of a series of 33 sermons titled Nivane Niveema (Sinhala: නිවනේ නිවීම), delivered in Sinhala by Venerable Bhikkhu Katukurunde Ñāṇananda during the late 80's & early 90's. The main focus of the sermons was on the psychological import of the term \"nibbāna\" and the deeper philosophical implications underlying this much-vexed term. The first volume of the 7-volume series was published in 2003.\n\nIt was inspired by an invitation that came from his revered teacher, the late venerable Matara Sri Ñāṇārāma Mahathera, the chief incumbent of the Nissarana Vanaya Hermitage in Meetirigala and an illustrious exponent of Insight Meditation in Sri Lanka. The sermons were delivered once every fortnight before the group of resident monks from August 1988 to January 1991. Thirty three sermons have been published in seven volumes.\n\nVenerable Ñāṇananda had already written four books during the early phase of his monk’s life at Island Hermitage, Dodanduwa. They were Concept and Reality in Early Buddhist Thought, Samyutta Nikaya – An Anthology(Part 2), Ideal Solitude and The Magic of the Mind.\nHe came under the tutelage of the late venerable Matara Sri Ñāṇārama Mahathera, when he shifted to Nissarana Vanaya Hermitage in 1972. The meeting of these two eminent disciples of the Buddha in a teacher-pupil relationship for nearly two decades, led to an outstanding seminal contribution to the understanding of Dhamma in its correct perspective.\n\nNibbāna - the Bliss Supreme(Dhammapada 203) is the goal of the spiritual endeavour in Buddhism. It has been variously understood and interpreted by scholars both ancient and modern. Bhikkhu Ñāṇananda has followed a line of interpretation which highlights the psychological import of the term \"nibbāna\" drawing out at the same time the deeper philosophical implications underlying this much-vexed term. The original meaning and significance of the term \"nibbāna\" has been examined in the light of the evidence from the discourses of the Pali canon. The thoroughgoing analysis has entailed a reappraisal of some of the most controversial discourses on \"nibbāna\".\n\nIn his analysis he has ventured to re-interpret the discourses dealing with the law of Dependent arising (\"paṭiccasmuppāda\") and the Middle Path. He has taken the opportunity to expatiate on the topics he has dealt in brief in his 'Concept and Reality' and 'Magic of the Mind'. His novel interpretation of the Law of Dependent arising in terms of a Vortex finds fuller expression here. So also the via media he has suggested in pointing to the ‘Relative validity and Pragmatic value of concepts’.\n\nThis middle path approach reasserts the ethical foundation of Early Buddhism and reaffirms the prospect of inward peace ‘here-and-now’. The penetrative analysis of the role of language and logic has in it much that is revealing and refreshing to the semantic philosopher.\n\nThe sermons are currently being studied in the context of early Buddhist thought in a free-of-charge three-year e-learning program (2017-2018) offered by Bhikkhu Anālayo of the Numata Center for Buddhist Studies at the University of Hamburg in cooperation with the Barre Center for Buddhist Studies (Mass.).\n\nThe venerable author of this series has also effected a significant change in the methods adopted to reach the seekers of Dhamma. Drawing inspiration from the dictum \"The Gift of Dhamma excels all other gifts\"(Dhammapada 354) he has specified that all publications should be distributed free as ‘gifts of Dhamma’. The Free Distribution of Dhamma (\"dhammadāna\"-ideal) has been upheld by the Buddha in the following exhortation to the monks:\n\nA group of lay enthusiasts initiated a Dhamma Publications Trust (Sinhala: \"Dharma Grantha Mudrana Bhaaraya\" - D.G.M.B.) to bring out the sermons in book form providing an opportunity to the Buddhist public to contribute towards the publication. A few years later an affiliated Trust (Sinhala: \"Dharma Shravana Maadhya Bhaaraya\" - D.S.M.B.) was set up to make the sermons available in audio form-again as a free gift to the Buddhist public.\n\nThis benevolent movement has a spiritual dimension in reaffirming the age-old Buddhist values attached to \"dhammadāna\", fast eroding before the hungry waves of commercialization. It has proved its worth by creating a healthy cultural atmosphere in which the readers and listeners shared the 'Dhamma-gift' with others, thus moulding the links of salutary friendship (\"kalyāna-mittatā\") indispensable for the continuity of Buddhism.\n\nAs the Venerable author emphasizes, Dhamma deserves no ‘price-tag’ precisely because it is ‘price-less’. Is everything that comes free to us, necessarily worthless? What about the air and the sunshine?\n\nMany a parched traveller on the desert path has had a refreshing drink of the nectar of Dhamma free of charge ever since. Many an enthusiastic benevolent heart seized the opportunity to participate in a genuine act of \"dhammadāna\".\n\nIt is in point of merit that the \"gift of Dhamma excels all other gifts\". Dhamma is the nectar that quenches the insatiate samsaric (pali:\"saṃsāra\": Cycle of rebirth) thirst of beings. The gift of Dhamma is therefore of far greater merit than an ordinary gift of food or drink.(AN 9,5)\nFor those who are magnanimous- Dhammadāna is forever an unfailing source of altruistic joy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52837494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52837494", "title": "Pietro Catena", "text": "Pietro Catena\n\nPietro Catena (1501–1577) was an Italian astronomer, philosopher, mathematician, theologian and catholic priest, citizen of the Republic of Venice. He was a precursor of the Renaissance scientific revolution and investigated on the relationships between mathematics, logic and philosophy. As a professor in Padua, Catena occupied the same mathematical chair later assigned to Galileo Galilei.\n\nA catholic priest born in Venice in 1501, Pietro Catena was well known as a philosopher and mathematician, and also considered excellent in Greek and Latin. He was a public lecturer of Metaphysics and professor of mathematics at the University of Padua from 1548 to 1576, where Giuseppe Moleti and later Galileo Galilei succeeded him.\n\nCatena published in 1556 in Venice \"Universa loca in logica Aristotelis in mathematicas disciplinas\", the collection of pieces from the Aristotelian works that recognized the prevailing speculative character of mathematical knowledge, a theme to which he also devoted another work.\n\n"}
{"id": "50683815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50683815", "title": "Prussian scheme", "text": "Prussian scheme\n\nThe Prussian scheme is the name of a reported 1786 attempt by Nathaniel Gorham, acting in possible concert with other persons influential in the government of the United States, to establish a monarchy in the U.S. under the rule of Henry of Prussia, a prince of the House of Hohenzollern, possibly to resolve the ongoing political crises occurring during the last days of the Articles of Confederation. The attempt may have died due to a lack of interest on Henry's part, popular opposition to a rumored proposal involving a different potential monarch, the convening of the Philadelphia Convention, or some combination thereof.\n\nThe protracted disturbances created by the shortcomings of the Articles of Confederation as the United States' constitution, which culminated in Shays' Rebellion, reportedly gave rise to a \"class of men in the community who gave very serious apprehensions to the advocates for a Republican form of government\". Prior to, and following, the May 1787 convening of the Philadelphia Convention, widely circulated rumors reported that the conclave was meeting for the purpose of offering to enthrone Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany as king of the United States. So acute were the rumors that the convention issued a public denial that any proposal for a reestablishment of monarchy was being considered, the denial later being repeated in a letter sent by Alexander Martin to the governor of North Carolina.\n\nAmerican public opinion at the time generally regarded Prussia warmly. Prince Henry's older brother, Frederick the Great, harbored an \"immense hatred\" toward Britain for having abandoned Prussia near the end of the Seven Years' War. During the American Revolution, he had closed Prussian territory to passage by the army of the Principality of Anhalt-Zerbst, a British ally. This required military forces from the landlocked nation to make a circuitous journey to reach a seaport for deployment to North America, during which nearly half of Anhalt-Zerbst troops deserted. Similar restrictions were placed on troops from other British allies attempting to transit to North America, including the Principality of Bayreuth, the Margraviate of Ansbach, and the Landgraviate of Hesse-Kassel.\n\nAccording to Rufus King, at about the same time the rumors pertaining to Prince Frederick were circulating, Nathaniel Gorham secretly corresponded to Prince Henry of Prussia offering to create him as monarch of the United States. The popular version of the story has Henry declining on account of the fact he did not believe the American public would be likely to submit to a king. Later referred to as \"the Prussian scheme\", Rufus King's report of Gorham's offer was long considered apocryphal, though James Monroe later confided to Andrew Jackson that he was aware some members of what would become the Federalist Party had, nearly two decades before, \"entertained principles unfriendly to our system of government\".\n\nIn the early 20th century an unsent letter was discovered in the Prussian archives from Henry, addressed to Baron Von Steuben who was, at the time the letter was written, living in retirement in New York City. The letter, believed dated several months before the Philadelphia convention, refers to an offer the prince had received substantially similar to that detailed in the original story. In it, Henry reports he is not interested in an American crown but recommends, instead, that an unnamed French candidate be considered for the position.\n\nSome have attributed the natural-born-citizen clause in the U.S. constitution as an attempt by the Philadelphia Convention to end the persistence of rumors of European royalty being invited to assume a hypothetical United States throne.\n\n"}
{"id": "3191759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3191759", "title": "Quiverfull", "text": "Quiverfull\n\nQuiverfull is a movement of conservative Christian couples. It is most widespread in the United States but has adherents in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and elsewhere. The movement sees children as a blessing from God and it encourages procreation, abstaining from all forms of birth control (including natural family planning) and sterilization. Adherents are known as \"quiver full\", \"full quiver\", \"quiverfull-minded\", or simply \"QF\" Christians. Some have referred to the Quiverfull position as Providentialism, while other sources have simply referred to it as a manifestation of natalism. One 2006 estimate put the number of families subscribing to this philosophy as in \"the thousands to low tens of thousands\".\n\nAs birth-control methods advanced during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many conservative Christian movements issued official statements against their use, citing their incompatibility with biblical beliefs and ideals.\n\nIn addition, there are those who contend that Quiverfull's \"internal growth\" model is a manifestation of a broader trend reflected in such groups as ultra-Orthodox Jews, Orthodox Calvinists of the Netherlands and Laestadian Lutherans of Finland. The former may also be a case of a manifestation of a movement of opinion within some ethnic, linguistic, religious, regional, or other identifiable groups who have felt concern about their continued existence for historical or other reasons. Such philosophies and groups are diverse amongst themselves—being found in all segments and sectors of the political spectrum—and usually represent, to varying extents, the diversity within their group. The manifestations of such movements and opinion are everything from comparatively high rates of in-group marriage being applauded and gently suggested to more explicit calls for endogamy such as is the case with the Druze to concerns expressed by Northern Ireland Protestants about a higher birth rate amongst Catholics to Decree 770 by Nicolae Ceaușescu's government in Romania concerning contraception and other population topics as part of the local variant of North Korean Juche.\n\nIn 1930 the Lambeth Conference issued a statement permitting birth control: \"Where there is a clearly felt moral obligation to limit or avoid parenthood, complete abstinence is the primary and obvious method\", but if there was morally sound reasoning for avoiding abstinence, \"the Conference agrees that other methods may be used, provided that this is done in the light of Christian principles\". Primary materials on the contemporary debate indicate a wide variety of opinion on the matter. In the decades that followed, birth control became gradually accepted among Protestants, even among the most conservative evangelicals.\n\nMr Quiverfull, a junior but notably fecund clergyman, appears as a minor fictional character in Anthony Trollope's Barsetshire chronicles (published between 1855 and 1867).\n\nIn the 20th century, Quiverfull as a modern Christian movement began to emerge. While a newsletter by Nancy Campbell espoused Quiverfull ideas early, and Campbell is in measure responsible for formulating them, the movement sparked most fully after the 1985 publication of Mary Pride’s book \"The Way Home: Beyond Feminism, Back to Reality.\"\n\nIn her book, Pride chronicled her metaphorical journey away from what she labeled feminist and anti-natal ideas of happiness (within which she had lived as an activist before her conversion to conservative evangelical Christianity in 1977) toward her discovery of happiness surrounding what she portrayed as the biblically-mandated role of wives and mothers as bearers of children and workers in the home under the authority of a husband. Pride wrote that such a lifestyle was generally biblically required of all married Christian women but that feminism had duped most Christian women without their awareness, especially in their acceptance of birth control.\n\nAs the basis for her arguments, Pride selected numerous Bible verses to lay out what she saw as the biblical role of women. These included verses she interpreted as perpetuating her ideas of compulsory childbearing and the non-use of birth control, opposed (she argued) by what she called \"the feminist agenda\" by which she had formerly lived. Pride's explanations then became a spearheading basis of Quiverfull.\n\nThe name of the Quiverfull movement comes from the Old Testament Bible verses in that Pride cited in \"The Way Home\".\n\n<poem style=\"margin-left: 1em;\">Lo, children are an heritage of the :\nand the fruit of the womb is his reward.\nAs arrows are in the hand of a mighty man;\nso are children of the youth.\nHappy is the man that hath his quiver full of them:\nthey shall not be ashamed,\nbut they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. KJV</poem>\n\nPride stated in her book: \"The church’s sin which has caused us to become unsavory salt incapable of uplifting the society around us is selfishness, lack of love, refusing to consider children an unmitigated blessing. In a word, family planning.\"\n\nAfter the publication of Pride’s \"The Way Home\", various church women and others took up her book and ideas and spread them through informal social networks. Around this time, numerous church pastors issued sermons in accord with Pride's ideas and various small publications and a few Quiverfull-oriented books emerged.\n\nAs the Internet expanded several years later, the informal networks gradually took on more organized forms as Quiverfull adherents developed numerous Quiverfull-oriented organizations, books, electronic mailing lists, websites, and digests, most notably \"The Quiverfull Digest\". The largely decentralized \"Quiverfull\" movement resulted.\n\nFrom their onset, Quiverfull ideas have sometimes had a polarizing effect between Christians who hold to the position and those who are skeptical of or disagree with them.\n\nQuiverfull authors and adherents express their core motivation as a desire to obey God's commandments as stated in the Bible. Among these commandments, \"be fruitful and multiply\", \"behold, children are a gift of the Lord\"), and passages showing God acting to open and close the womb are interpreted as giving basis for their view. Quiverfull adherents typically maintain that their philosophy is first about an open, accepting and obedient attitude toward the possibility of bearing children. Within the view, this attitude may result in many, few or even no children, because God Himself maintains sole provenance over conception and birth. The duty of the Quiverfull adherent is only to maintain an \"open willingness\" to joyfully receive and not thwart however many children God chooses to bestow. Contraception in all its forms is seen as inconsistent with this attitude and is thus entirely avoided, as is abortion.\n\nQuiverfull's principal authors and its adherents also describe their motivation as a missionary effort to raise up many children as Christians to advance the cause of the Christian religion. Its distinguishing viewpoint is to eagerly receive children as blessings from God, eschewing all forms of contraception, including natural family planning and sterilization.\n\nAccording to journalist Kathryn Joyce, writing in the magazine \"The Nation\": \"[T]he Quiverfull mission is rooted in faith, the unseen, its mandate to be fruitful and multiply,\" even if it \"has tangible results as well.\" Although Joyce claims that \"Population is a preoccupation for many Quiverfull believers... [and] [t]he motivations aren't always racist, but the subtext of 'race suicide' is often there.\" Still, she asserts, \"This is what Quiverfull is about: faith, pure and simple.\" Others remark that Quiverfull resembles other world-denying fundamentalist movements that grow through internal reproduction and membership retention such as ultra-Orthodox Jews, Amish, and Laestadian Lutherans in Finland. Many are thriving as seculars and moderates have transitioned to below-replacement fertility.\n\nThe principal Quiverfull belief is that Christians should maintain a strongly welcoming attitude toward the possibility of bearing children. With minor exceptions, adherents reject birth control use as completely incompatible with this belief.\n\nMost Quiverfull adherents regard children as unqualified blessings, gifts that should be received happily from God. Quiverfull authors Rick and Jan Hess argued for this belief in their 1990 book: \n\n\"Behold, children are a gift of the Lord.\" (Psa. 127:3) Do we really believe that? If children are a gift from God, let’s for the sake of argument ask ourselves what other gift or blessing from God we would reject. Money? Would we reject great wealth if God gave it? Not likely! How about good health? Many would say that a man’s health is his most treasured possession. But children? Even children given by God? \"That’s different!\" some will plead! All right, is it different? God states right here in no-nonsense language that children are gifts. Do we believe His Word to be true?\"\n\nQuiverfull authors such as Pride, Provan, and Hess extend this idea to mean that if one child is a blessing, then each additional child is likewise a blessing and not something to be viewed as economically burdensome or unaffordable. When a couple seeks to control family size via birth control they are thus \"rejecting God's blessings\" he might otherwise give and possibly breaking his commandment to \"be fruitful and multiply\".\nAccordingly, Quiverfull theology opposes the general acceptance among Protestant Christians of deliberately limiting family size or spacing children through birth control. For example, Mary Pride argued, \"God commanded that sex be at least potentially fruitful (that is, not deliberately unfruitful)... All forms of sex that shy away from marital fruitfulness are perverted.\" Adherents believe that God himself controls via Providence how many and how often children are conceived and born, pointing to Bible verses that describe God acting to \"open and close the womb\" (see Genesis 20:18, 29:31, 30:22; 1 Samuel 1:5-6; Isaiah 66:9). Hess and Hess state that couples \"just need to trust God to provide them with the perfect number of children for their situation.\"\n\nSome Quiverfull adherents base their rejection of birth control upon the belief that the Genesis creation and post-Noahic flood Bible passages to \"be fruitful and multiply\" (see Genesis 1:22; 9:7) are un-rescinded biblical commandments. For example, Charles D. Provan argues:\n\n\"Be fruitful and multiply\" ... is a command of God, and indeed was the first command to a married couple. And since birth control obviously involves disobedience to this divine command, birth control is seen as an attempt to prevent being fruitful and multiplying. As such, birth control is wrong, because it involves willful disobedience to the Word of God. Since nowhere is this command done away with in the entire Bible; it still remains valid for us today.\nQuiverfull advocates such as Hess and Hess, and Rachel Giove Scott, believe that the Devil deceives Christian couples into using birth control so that children God otherwise willed to create are prevented from being born. In addition, a Quiverfull adherent was quoted in the 1991 \"Calgary Herald\" as making this statement: \"Children are made in God's image, and the enemy hates that image, so the more of them he can prevent from being born, the more he likes it.\"\n\nAdherents view barrenness, referred to as an \"empty quiver\", as something to be accepted from God as His choice, which then becomes a matter of prayer in the hope that God may decide to miraculously intervene. Quiverfull also sees infertility treatments as a usurpation of God's providence and accordingly reject them. Adoption is viewed as a positive option on which couples can also rely on God's providence to send children. Biblical references to God's love for the orphan and the belief that people are saved through adoption into God's family are often noted.\n\nSome circles do accept medical interventions, since improving opportunities for pregnancy is not seen to guarantee it any more than with any healthy couple. Also, some reproductive health problems may be seen as symptomatic of other health problems which need to be addressed generally.\n\nNot all Quiverfull families and authors would agree with each statement made by the movement's principal authors.\n\nSamuel Owens considers that some aspects of a fallen universe may possibly sometimes justify an option to use a non–potentially abortive birth control method. Example situations include serious illnesses, inevitable Caesarian sections, and other problematic situations, such as disabling mental instability and serious marital disharmony. Owens additionally argues that birth control may be permissible for married couples called to a \"higher moral purpose\" than having children, such as caring long-term for many orphans or serving as career missionaries in a dangerous location.\n\nDespite some variances, all Quiverfull families and authors agree that God's normative ideal for happy, healthy and prosperous married couples is to take no voluntary actions to prevent having children.\n\nQuiverfull adherents maintain that God \"opens and closes the womb\" of a woman on a case-by-case basis, and that any attempts to regulate fertility are usurpation of divine power. Thus, the defining practice of a Quiverfull married couple is not to use any form of birth control and to maintain continual \"openness to children\", which is the possibility of conception, during routine sexual intercourse. This practice is irrespective of the timing of the month during the menstrual cycle, and is considered by Quiverfull adherents to be the principal, if not the primary aspect of their Christian calling in submission to the Lordship of Christ.\n\nProponents of the Quiverfull movement also regard the pill and other similar contraceptives as unacceptable abortifacients.\n\nSome Quiverfull adherents advocate for child spacing through breastfeeding, so that the return of fertility after childbirth could be delayed by lactational amenorrhea, however this is far from certain.\n\nQuiverfull authors and adherents advocate for and seek to model a return to Biblical Patriarchy. Mary Pride recently distanced herself from the patriarchy movement in an article for Practical Homeschooling. In her article, she clearly stated her disapproval of the movement, and sets the record straight that she should not be considered a founder of it.\n\nQuiverfull authors typically organize family governance with the mother as a homemaker under the authority of her husband with the children under the authority of both. Parents seek to largely shelter their children from aspects of culture they as parents deem adversarial to their religious beliefs. Additionally, Quiverfull families strongly incline toward homeschooling and toward homesteading in a rural area. However, exceptions exist in substantial enough proportions that these latter two items are general and are often idealized correlations to Quiverfull practices and not integral parts of them.\n\nQuiverfull adherents Brad and Dawn Irons run \"Blessed Arrows Sterilization Reversal Ministry\". The couple advocates for Quiverfull ideas while providing funding, physician referrals, and support to Protestants wishing to undergo sterilization reversal surgery.\nProtestants such as Bill Gothard also advocate for reversals, saying that sterilized couples have \"cut off children\" and should devote themselves instead to \"raising up godly seed\".\n\nJames B. Jordan maintains that, while children are indeed blessings, they are only one among a wide range of blessings God offers, and prayerfully choosing foci among them is part of prudent Christian stewardship.\n\nJohn Piper's \"Desiring God Ministries\" made some comments that relate to Quiverfull by saying that:\n\"just because something is a gift from the Lord does not mean that it is wrong to be a steward of when or whether you will come into possession of it. It is wrong to reason that since \"A\" is good and a gift from the Lord, then we must pursue as much of \"A\" as possible. God has made this a world in which tradeoffs have to be made and we cannot do everything to the fullest extent. For kingdom purposes, it might be wise not to get married. And for kingdom purposes, it might be wise to regulate the size of one's family and to regulate when the new additions to the family will likely arrive. As Wayne Grudem has said, 'it is okay to place less emphasis on some good activities in order to focus on other good activities.'\"\nWhile Quiverfull had previously garnered some attention in the Christian press, the Canadian press in March 2001, and in various scholarly pieces, it began to receive focused attention in the U.S. national press in 2004.\n\nIn an article on December 7, 2004, \"New York Times\" journalist David Brooks described a rising movement he called simply \"natalism\" and sought to show how in the future it could shift the U.S. political landscape from a philosophy of liberalism to conservatism. Brooks concluded, \"Natalists are associated with red America, but they're not launching a jihad\".\n\nOn July 25, 2005, \"Good Morning America\" aired a segment, \"Is eight really enough?\" about the Quiverfull movement. Deborah Roberts interviews Rachel Scott, author of \"Birthing God's Mighty Warriors.\" Rachel Scott discusses the trend toward larger families, managing finances with more mouths to feed and she states, \"when good people stop having kids, society fails.\"\n\nOn January 3, 2006, \"Nightline\" aired a special segment, \"The More the Holier?\" on the Quiverfull movement. The coverage was re-aired on ABC's \"World News Now\" about four hours later. On September 15, 2007, \"Nightline\" revisited the issue as part of their \"Faith Matters\" series, again featuring the Carpenter family.\n\nJournalist Kathryn Joyce connected Brooks' \"natalism\" with Quiverfull and disagreed with him in her November 9, 2006, 5-page article on Quiverfull in \"The Nation\". Joyce emphasized that the movement uses what she described as \"military-industrial terminology\" to articulate the belief that \"only a determination among Christian women to take up their submissive, motherly roles with a \"military air\" and within a milieu of becoming \"maternal missionaries\" will lead to what Joyce described as Quiverfull's \"Christian army\" achieving cultural \"victory.\"\n\nOn November 13, 2006, \"Newsweek\" provided a 2-page piece on Quiverfull, characterizing the movement as conservatives who are \"reacting to revolutionary changes in women's social roles and seeking to re-impose a more traditional order.\" The piece ended by quoting a Quiverfull family describing themselves as \"exponentially happier\" after the wife relinquished control of her womb to God. On March 17, 2009, \"Newsweek\" published a second piece on Quiverfull through their website.\n\nOn January 16, 2007, Fox News Channel's \"Live Desk with Martha MacCallum\" aired a segment, \"When birthing children is a religious experience.\" Martha MacCallum talks with Rachel Scott, author, \"Birthing God's Mighty Warriors.\" Rachel Scott answers common questions asked to large families and disputes myths that \"Quiverfull\" women are made to stay home and tend to babies. Rachel Scott describes the Proverbs 31 woman as a business owner, educated and very capable. Rachel Scott also shares about \"the dream with a warrior angel\" that started her \"Quiverfull\" experience and led to writing her book, \"Birthing God's Mighty Warriors.\"\n\nIn the proximate aftermath of the U.S. national print articles, responses from Quiverfull adherents in \"The Quiverfull Digest\" ranged from \"feeling betrayed\" to assertions that the articles were \"fair.\" Additionally, a few disagreeing Quiverfull adherents undertook apologetic responses on the Internet discussion forums provided by the latter national publishers in immediate on-site connection with their articles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19009225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19009225", "title": "Radomir Lukić", "text": "Radomir Lukić\n\nRadomir Lukić () (August 31, 1914 – May 31, 1999) was a prolific Serbian jurist, a scholar of philosophy and sociology of law. He was born in Miloševac near Velika Plana, Serbia, where he was also buried.\n\nHis parents died when he was very young and he had a difficult childhood. Lukić graduated from the University of Belgrade's Law School in 1933 as an excellent student and received a Ph.D. degree in Paris in 1939. He became a Professor of Law at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law at the unusually early age of 26, and between 1958-1960 was the dean of the Faculty of Law.\n\nHe taught a number of important courses, including Theory of State and Law, Philosophy of Law, General Sociology and Methodology of Jurisprudence. He was a visiting lecturer at Grenoble, Paris, Nice, Warsaw, Moscow and Köln.\n\nLukić is known for writing the first textbook on sociology in the former Yugoslavia.\n\nThe University of Belgrade Faculty of Law named its main lecture hall in his memory, and established the Radomir Lukić Foundation to honor of his scholarship. There is a monument to him (metal bust on a stonework parapet/pedestal) in front of the Municipal Courthouse of Velika Plana.\n\n"}
{"id": "580355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580355", "title": "Rigpa", "text": "Rigpa\n\nIn Dzogchen teaching, rigpa (; Skt. vidyā; \"knowledge\") is the knowledge of the ground. The opposite of rigpa is marigpa (avidyā, ignorance).\n\n\"Rigpa\" is the knowledge of the ground. Erik Pema Kunsang translates a text which provides basic definitions of rigpa and marigpa in a Dzogchen context:\n\nIn Dzogchen, a fundamental point of practice is to distinguish rigpa from sems (\"citta\", (grasping) mind).\n\nRigpa has two aspects, namely \"kadag\" and \"lhun grub\". \"Kadag\" means \"purity\" or specifically \"primordial purity\". \"Lhun grub\" in Tibetan normally implies automatic, self-caused or spontaneous actions or processes. As quality of \"rigpa\" it means \"spontaneous presence\" It may also mean \"having a self-contained origin\", being primordially Existent, without an origin, self-existent. This division is the Dzogchen-equivalent of the more common Mahayana wisdom and compassion division.\n\nCiting Dodrupchen Jikme Tenpe Nyima, the 14th Dalai Lama states the full measure of rigpa occurs with the third vision.\n\nDzogchen practices aim to attain rigpa and integrate this into everyday life:\nThe Menngagde or 'Instruction Class' of Dzogchen teachings are divided into two parts: \"Trekchö\" and \"Tögal\" (thod rgal). Ron Garry: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1496803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496803", "title": "Sant Nirankari Mission", "text": "Sant Nirankari Mission\n\nThe Sant Nirankari Mission (; also known as Universal Brotherhood Mission) is a spiritual organisation based out of Delhi, India. The Sant Nirankari Mission identifies itself as \"neither a new religion nor a sect of an existing religion, but an all-embracing spiritual movement dedicated to human welfare by helping seekers realize God through the grace of a living true master (satguru) \".\n\nThe Mission originated from the Nirankari movement started by Baba Dyal Singh but is no longer affiliated with the movement. Established in 1929 by Baba Buta Singh, it has been targeted by orthodox Sikh groups, who consider the Mission to be a heresy of Sikhism.\n\nThe Mission has more than 3000 centers and millions of followers across the world.As desired and blessed by the fifth Nirankari Satguru Mata Savinder Hardev Ji Maharaj, holy sister Sudiksha Ji has been declared as sixth Nirankari Satguru and the spiritual head of the Sant Nirankari Mission from 17th July 2018.\n\nThe Nirankari movement began with the reformist teachings of Baba Dyal Singh in the early 19th century. Baba Dyal Singh emphasised the importance of a living guru, while mainstream Sikhism accepted the Sikh scriptures as the final, and current, guru of the faith. In 1929, one segment of the movement led by Baba Buta Singh, now known as the Sant Nirankari Mission, disassociated itself from the original Nirankari movement as well as mainstream Sikhism and became an independent sect.\n\nBaba Buta Singh was succeeded by Baba Avtar Singh. In the 1960s, the rapid growth of the Sant Nirankari Mission aroused the ire of fundamentalist Sikhs and led to violent clashes. There were significant violent clashes in 1978 that led to Operation Blue Star and the 1980s insurgency in Punjab. In 1980, Gurbachan Singh, third head (\"satguru\") of the Mission, was assassinated by Ranjit Singh, a member of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha. The Jatha, shortly before the killing, had been involved in protests against the followers of the Sant Nirankari Mission. After the assassination of third guru Gurubachan SIngh, his son Baba Hardev Singh succeeded as the head of the organisation and spread the Mission's message of universal brotherhood through God-realization until his death on 13 May 2016. On 5 Aug 2016, Baba Hardev Singh's wife, Savinder Kaur succeeded him and became the first woman to lead the Sant Nirankari Mission. On 16 July 2018, Sudiksha Singh, daughter of former head of the mission Satguru Baba Hardev Singh and Mata Savinder Hardev, was declared as Nirankari Satguru and the Spiritual Head of Sant Nirankari Mission with the blessing of Satguru Mata Savinder Hardev. \n\nThe \"Avtar Bani\" outlines the key philosophy of the Sant Nirankari Mission, and serves as its primary text, though not necessarily a holy book. It is named after its author Baba Avtar Singh. Its initial version was first published in 1957. The \"Sampuran Avtar Bani\" (complete \"Avtar Bani\") was published in 1965. The \"Avtar Bani\" was originally written in Punjabi verse, but some stanzas were in the Sindhi language. It contains 376 hymns which describe the qualities of Formless God (\"Nirankar\") and the important role of a spiritual guru in attaining God-realisation. It has been published in Gurumukhi, Devnagari and Roman scripts, and has also been translated and published in English (verse and prose), Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu, Nepali and Marathi languages.\n\nThe \"Hardev Bani\", authored by Baba Hardev Singh, was published in 2017. Written in HIndi, the \"Hardev Vani\" contains 301 verses.\n\nThe Nirankari Museum was inaugurated by fourth \"satguru,\" Baba Hardev Singh, on 22 February 2005. The museum is located within the Sant Nirankari Sarovar in New Delhi. It depicts the history and key teachings of the Mission through audio-visuals and pictures.\n\nThe first Nirankari International Samagam (NIS) was held on 11–12 August, 2012 at National Indoor Arena in Birmingham, United Kingdom. The theme of the samagam was Oneness. The second NIS was held in Toronto, Canada, in June 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "44415555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44415555", "title": "Sayed Delaor Husaein", "text": "Sayed Delaor Husaein\n\nSayed Delaor Husaein () (1893-1982) was a Sufi Saint and a remarkable author of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order, also known as Dela Moyna means talking bird, Osi-e-Gausul Azam. He was grandson of Hadrath Gausul Azam Maizbhanderi.\n\nHe born at Maizbhandar on February 27, 1893 AD according to Falgun 13, 1299 BC at Chittagong District in Bangladesh. His primary education began at own grandfather while at 5.\n\nHis father Sayed Faizul Haque died when he was only 9 and while aged 13; he lost his grandfather Sayed Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi, the founder of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order. After 43 days of his grandfather, Sayed Meer Hasan the only brother also died; was elder. His spouse Sayeda Sajeda Khatun was a daughter of Baba Bhanderi. According to the genealogical lineage he is a descendant of the Islamic Prophet Mohammed, lineage goes to the Prophet through Sayed Abdul Qader Gilani and Fatimah Zahra. His grandfather lovingly used to utter him Dela Moina in fact, among grandfather's millions of Sufi followers, Sayed Delaor Husaein became well known as Dela Moina.\n\nHe was a well-known Sufi ‍Saint and Author of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order. His works represented the thought and rituals of this Sufi order in an academic approach. Sayed Delaor Husaein himself wrote in his book, according to commandment of the founder of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order, became initiated to Sufi Tariqa /Bay'ah /Baiyath () to his earliest khalīfa Choto Moulana Sayed Aminul Huq Wasel Miazbhanderi along with own mother, brother and sister at a time at his early age. Meanwhile, another two predeceased Sufi saints Sayed Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi and Sayed Golamur Rahman Maizbhanderi were also his Sufi Master.\n\nHis writings, in Bengali language narrating in depth the history and rituals of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order, have achieved an academic value of primary resources while other researchers has been working on the aspect of Maizbhanderi Sufi philosophy in fact, most of the other contemporary authors’ works found in Arabic and Urdu Language. Defining the Maizbhanderi Sufi perspective, there globally a number of research work has already published by different institute and individuals. Among those, The research report, ‘Refugee Review Tribunal, Australia’, has published by the Research & Information Services Section of the Refugee Review Tribunal (RRT) of Australia has published with the reference of Professor Manzurul Mannan. Aside, Professor Carl W. Ernst of North Carolina University, Professor Peter J. Bertocci of Oakland University, Professor Hans Harder of Heidelberg University, Professor Salim Jahangir the previous research fellow of Bangla Academy and presently of the Finish Academy, Finland are mostly noteworthy.\n\nOne of his 10 books, Belayet-e-Mutlaka () has translated into English meanwhile, the Other nine books are\n\n\nIn 1949, Sayed Delaor Husaein established an organization named, Anjuman-e Muttabein-e Gause Maizbhandari () still having a massive contribution across the country. Before his death he selected his 3rd son Syed Emdadul Hoque among his 5 sons and 6 daughters as sajjadinshin of holy shrine of Gousal Azam Ahmedullah Maizbhandari to succeed him in his absence in spreading the teaching of great sufi and his grandfather Gousal Azam Moulana Shah Sufi Ahmedullah Maizbhandari. sp. Latterly, his elder son Sayed Ziaul Haq also played a remarkable role in Maizbhanderi Sufi Order and become established as a famous Sufi Saint.\n\nWhile 90, Sayed Delaor Husaein left the worldly life on Saturday morning, January 16, 1982 AD according to Magh 2, 1388 BC. He placed to rest in peace at a graveyard named Bagh-e Hosaini () in Maizbhander.\n\nBefore this great man died he already selected his 3rd son Syed Emdadul Hoque to succeed him (as sajjadanshin of the holy shirine of Gousal Azam Ahmadullah Maizbhandari )in his absence in spreading the sufi teaching of his grand-father Gousal Azam Moulana Shah Sufi Syed Ahmadullah Maizbhandari.\n\n"}
{"id": "50927033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50927033", "title": "Scott Sunken Garden", "text": "Scott Sunken Garden\n\nScott Sunken Garden is a historical landmark in Lansing, Michigan, United States of America.\n\nThe outer foundation walls are 51 feet by 79 feet and the center is a 28 feet by 45 feet lawn. There are shorter limestone walls lining the court with raised flower beds. The west side and east sides have limestone steps leading to a small water pond below the grotto center piece. This foundation of Justice Edward Cahill's home was redesigned after 1930 by a new American immigrant, Nick Kriek. The gardening includes bulbs, annuals, perennials and a list of species introduced to the area by Kriek himself.\nThe garden has been maintained by the Greater Lansing Garden Club for 3 decades; they restored it after a few decades of neglect by the city.\n\nThe Scott Sunken Garden landmark has a list of historically significant ties including 1930's \"Golden Age of American Landscaping\", Immigration, Civil Rights, and Lansing's Beautification.\n\nNational Register Coordinator for the State of Michigan state that the Scott Sunken Garden Is eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places... The garden appears to meet national register criteria B and C...\" \n\n\"Even though the Scott House itself – the house that stood just west of the garden near the Jenison House/Scott Center – that formed the central feature of the property no longer exists, the garden stands out as a fine example of formal landscape garden design from the early twentieth century (various dates of construction from the mid-1920s to 1934-35 have been reported). As far as I’ve been able to determine from all the recent discussions, the garden is unique in Lansing as a formal garden that, designed for an urban residential setting, dates from the early twentieth century period when landscaped gardens and estates associated with them reached a height of design perfection, during what has been called the “Golden Age of American Landscape Design.” The Scott Sunken Garden, in my mind, possesses additional significance as a prime achievement of a local Lansing artisan, Nick or Nicolaas Isaac Willem Kriek. Kriek (1895–1978) was born in the Netherlands and, settling in Lansing in the early 1920s, founded the Cottage Gardens nursery in 1923. Bill Hicks, Mr. Kriek’s grandson and today part of the still operating family-owned business, states that Nick Kriek built the Sunken Garden for Scott, from whom he had purchased the property on which the Cottage Gardens nursery was established in 1923. It seems logical to think that Kriek had a major hand in designing the garden to meet the Scotts’ wishes and requirements. The garden also possesses importance for its direct association with an important Lansing citizen, Richard H. Scott, who owned the property and had the garden created. Marilyn Lee’s 2010 history of the garden states that Scott came to Lansing in 1898 to work for auto pioneer R. E. Olds and helped organize Olds’ Reo Motor Car Company and served as president of the company after Olds retired in 1923.\"\n\nThis Scott Sunken Garden foundation is presumed to be the remains of Justice Edward Cahill's Lansing home. He moved to Lansing after serving in the Civil War and went to war serving beside African American soldiers in Michigan's 102nd USCI on a campaign through southern states. Justice Edward Cahill served in the Michigan Supreme Court in 1890. Justice Cahill also concurred upholding Racial equality in USA's landmark Civil Right's \"William W. Ferguson vs. Edward G. Gies\" case \n\nThe local chapter of this national garden club has a long history with both the Scott Sunken Garden and the Scott Center. The club met at the Scott Center before it was moved to Scott Park and the Garden Club invested the financing to restoration of this landmark garden through the early 80s. The city actually fell short of original expectations and the Garden Club even paid for a restoration of the lower wall of the Scott Sunken Garden \n\nThe city is in need of widespread upgrades to the Power Grid infrastructure inducing several substations to replace the older Eckert Substation next to the Eckert Power Station. The Lansing Board of Water and Light (LBWL) and Mayor Virg Bernero have pushed for a large Central Substation with their proposal to destroy a riverside park (Scott Park) and to remove historical integrity of its historical landmark of Scott Sunken Garden.\n\nThe LBWL had submitted an original proposal to the Lansing Parks and Recreation then amended it during the review by the Lansing Planning Board. These Board's are appointed by the Mayor and their decisions are being reviewed by the Lansing City Council.\n\nThe Scott Sunken Garden caretakers of 3 decades, the Greater Lansing Garden Club, has declined the LBWL offer of the new garden wanting the historical garden to remain in tact. Each public board meeting and the public meeting held by Jessica Yorko (as Lansing City Council, 4th Ward Representative) were occupied with citizen advocates. There are multiple community organizations publicly advocating saving Scott Sunken Garden, and its Scott Park; \"Preservation Lansing\" has advocated this along with a list of other historical concerns in the area; \"Friends of Scott Sunken Garden Park\" is a non-profit advocacy organization instituted for protecting Scott Sunken Garden and its neighboring assets of the People of Lansing.\n\nOriginal Petition for Lansing Parks and Recreation: \"Save Scott Park and the Sunken Garden\"\n\nRequest for more ideal alternative and assistance with concerns by officials: \"Two Downtown Lansing Substations Audit and Investigation into Concerns by Mayor and LBW\" \n\n"}
{"id": "12976141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12976141", "title": "Simon of Faversham", "text": "Simon of Faversham\n\nSimon of Faversham (also Simon Favershamensis, Simon de Faverisham, Simon von Faversham, or Simon Anglicus; c.1260–1306) was an English medieval scholastic philosopher and later a university chancellor.\n\nSimon of Faversham was born in Faversham, Kent, and educated at Oxford, receiving a Master of Arts degree. He probably taught in Paris during the 1280s. His philosophical work consists almost entirely of commentaries on Aristotle's works. He was made Chancellor of Oxford University in January 1304 until his death in 1306.\n\n"}
{"id": "30892127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30892127", "title": "Social pension", "text": "Social pension\n\nA social pension (also known as a non-contributory pension) is a regular cash transfer to older people. Eligibility is based on age and citizenship or residency, and almost always on means such as income, assets or other pension income. Over 100 countries in the world have some form of social pension, although design varies significantly. However, the social pension is among the guarantees of the social protection floor with ILO recommendation 202 (2012).\n\nThe term \"citizen's pension\" (known also as universal pension, demogrant or categorical pension) is used to describe a social pension that realises the right to basic income in old age. Citizen's pensions are based in law and provide cash transfers to older people subject only to tests of age and citizenship or residency, never income, assets or other pension income. A citizen's pension is not a retirement pension. There is no income test, so it is not necessary to stop working to receive it.\n\nSome researchers apply the term \"citizen's pension\" to social pensions that exclude – partially or totally - older people with other pension income, irrespective of their non-pension income or wealth. \"Universal minimum pension\" is another description of such a scheme, which tops up small pensions and provides full, basic pensions only to those with no other pension income.\n\n"}
{"id": "5134465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134465", "title": "Social practice", "text": "Social practice\n\nSocial practice is a theory within psychology that seeks to determine the link between practice and context within social situations. Emphasized as a commitment to change, social practice occurs in two forms: activity and inquiry. Most often applied within the context of human development, social practice involves knowledge production and the theorization and analysis of both institutional and intervention practices.\n\nThrough research, Sylvia Scribner sought to understand and create a decent life for all people regardless of geographical position, race, gender, and social class. Using anthropological field research and psychological experimentation, Scribner tried to dig deeper into human mental functioning and its creation through social practice in different societal and cultural settings. She therefore aimed to enact social reform and community development through an ethical orientation that accounts for the interaction of historical and societal conditions of different institutional settings with human social and mental functioning and development.\n\nSocial practice involves engagement with communities of interest by creating a practitioner-community relationship wherein there remains a focus on the skills, knowledge, and understanding of people in their private, family, community, and working lives. In this approach to social practice, activity is used for social change without the agenda of research. Activity theory suggests the use of a system of participants that work toward an object or goal that brings about some form of change or transformation in the community.\n\nWithin research, social practice aims to integrate the individual with his or her surrounding environment while assessing how context and culture relate to common actions and practices of the individual. Just as social practice is an activity itself, inquiry focuses on how social activity occurs and identifies its main causes and outcomes. It has been argued that research be developed as a specific theory of social practice through which research purposes are defined not by philosophical paradigms but by researchers' commitments to specific forms of social action.\n\nIn education, social practice refers to the use of adult-child interaction for observation in order to propose intentions and gauge the reactions of others. Under social practice, literacy is seen as a key dimension of community regeneration and a part of the wider lifelong learning agenda. In particular, literacy is considered to be an area of instruction for the introduction of social practice through social language and social identity. According to social practice in education, literacy and numeracy are complex capabilities rather than a simple set of basic skills. Furthermore, adult learners are more likely to develop and retain knowledge, skills, and understanding if they see them as relevant to their own problems and challenges. Social practice perspectives focus on local literacies and how literacy practices are affected by settings and groups interacting around print.\n\nAs literature is repeatedly studied in education and critiqued in discourse, many believe that it should be a field of social practice as it evokes emotion and discussion of social interactions and social conditions. Those that believe literature may be construed as a form of social practice believe that literature and society are essentially related to each other. As such, they attempt to define specific sociological practices of literature and share expressions of literature as works comprising text, institution, and individual. Overall, literature becomes a realm of social exchange through fiction, poetry, politics, and history.\n\nSocial practice is also considered a medium for making art. Social practice art came about in response to increasing pressure within art education to work collaboratively through social and participatory formats from artists' desires and art viewers' increasing media sophistication. \"Social practice art\" is a term for artwork that uses social engagement as a primary medium, and is also referred to by a range of different names: socially engaged art, community art, new-genre public art, participatory art, interventionist art, and collaborative art.\n\nArtists working in the medium of social practice develop projects by inviting collaboration with individuals, communities, institutions, or a combination of these, creating participatory art that exists both within and outside of the traditional gallery and museum system. Artists working in social practice art co-create their work with a specific audience or propose critical interventions within existing social systems that inspire debate or catalyze social exchange. Social practice art work focuses on the interaction between the audience, social systems, and the artist through topics such as aesthetics, ethics, collaboration, persona, media strategies, and social activism. The social interaction component inspires, drives, or, in some instances, completes the project. Although projects may incorporate traditional studio media, they are realized in a variety of visual or social forms (depending on variable contexts and participant demographics) such as performance, social activism, or mobilizing communities towards a common goal.\n"}
{"id": "25760216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25760216", "title": "Sophie's World (film)", "text": "Sophie's World (film)\n\nSophie's World (Sofies verden) is a 1999 Norwegian drama–adventure film directed by Erik Gustavson and starring Silje Storstein as Sophie. It is an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Jostein Gaarder. Upon its release in 1999 it was the most expensive film to date in Norway.\n\nIt has since been released on DVD dubbed into German. An English-subtitled DVD was released in 2005 in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5168803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168803", "title": "Sturm und Drang", "text": "Sturm und Drang\n\nSturm und Drang (, literally \"storm and drive\", \"storm and urge\", though conventionally translated as \"storm and stress\") was a proto-Romantic movement in German literature and music that occurred between the late 1760s and early 1780s. Within the movement, individual subjectivity and, in particular, extremes of emotion were given free expression in reaction to the perceived constraints of rationalism imposed by the Enlightenment and associated aesthetic movements. The period is named for Friedrich Maximilian Klinger's play of the same name, which was first performed by Abel Seyler's famed theatrical company in 1777.\n\nThe philosopher Johann Georg Hamann is considered to be the ideologue of \"Sturm und Drang\"; other significant figures were Johann Anton Leisewitz, Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz, H. L. Wagner, and Friedrich Maximilian Klinger. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller were notable proponents of the movement early in their life, although they ended their period of association with it by initiating what would become Weimar Classicism.\n\nFrench neoclassicism (including French neoclassical theatre), a movement beginning in the early Baroque, with its emphasis on the rational, was the principal target of rebellion for adherents of the \"Sturm und Drang\" movement. For them, sentimentality and an objective view of life gave way to emotional turbulence and individuality, and enlightenment ideals such as rationalism, empiricism, and universalism no longer captured the human condition; emotional extremes and subjectivity became the vogue during the late 18th century.\n\nThe term \"Sturm und Drang\" first appeared as the title of a play by Friedrich Maximilian Klinger, written for Abel Seyler's \"Seylersche Schauspiel-Gesellschaft\" and published in 1776. The setting of the play is the unfolding American Revolution, in which the author gives violent expression to difficult emotions and extols individuality and subjectivity over the prevailing order of rationalism. Though it is argued that literature and music associated with \"Sturm und Drang\" predate this seminal work, it was from this point that German artists became distinctly self-conscious of a new aesthetic. This seemingly spontaneous movement became associated with a wide array of German authors and composers of the mid-to-late Classical period.\n\n\"Sturm und Drang\" came to be associated with literature or music aimed at shocking the audience or imbuing them with extremes of emotion. The movement soon gave way to Weimar Classicism and early Romanticism, whereupon a socio-political concern for greater human freedom from despotism was incorporated along with a religious treatment of all things natural.\n\nThere is much debate regarding whose work should or should not be included in the canon of \"Sturm und Drang\". One point of view would limit the movement to Goethe, Johann Gottfried Herder, Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz, and their direct German associates writing works of fiction and/or philosophy between 1770 and the early 1780s. The alternative perspective is that of a literary movement inextricably linked to simultaneous developments in prose, poetry, and drama, extending its direct influence throughout the German-speaking lands until the end of the 18th century. Nevertheless, the originators of the movement came to view it as a time of premature exuberance that was then abandoned in favor of often conflicting artistic pursuits.\n\nThe literary topos of the \"Kraftmensch\" existed as a precursor to \"Sturm und Drang\" among dramatists beginning with F.M. Klinger, the expression of which is seen in the radical degree to which individuality need appeal to no outside authority save the self nor be tempered by rationalism. These ideals are identical to those of \"Sturm und Drang\", and it can be argued that the later name exists to catalog a number of parallel, co-influential movements in German literature rather than express anything substantially different from what German dramatists were achieving in the violent plays attributed to the Kraftmensch movement.\n\nMajor philosophical/theoretical influences on the literary \"Sturm und Drang\" movement were Johann Georg Hamann (especially the 1762 text \"Aesthetica in nuce. Eine Rhapsodie in kabbalistischer Prose\") and Johann Gottfried Herder, both from Königsberg, and both formerly in contact with Immanuel Kant. Significant theoretical statements of Sturm und Drang aesthetics by the movement's central dramatists themselves include Lenz' \"Anmerkungen übers Theater\" and Goethe's \"Von deutscher Baukunst\" and \"Zum Schäkespears Tag\" (\"sic\"). The most important contemporary document was the 1773 volume \"Von deutscher Art und Kunst. Einige fliegende Blätter\", a collection of essays that included commentaries by Herder on Ossian and Shakespeare, along with contributions by Goethe, Paolo Frisi (in translation from the Italian), and Justus Möser.\n\nThe protagonist in a typical \"Sturm und Drang\" stage work, poem, or novel is driven to action—often violent action—not by pursuit of noble means nor by true motives, but by revenge and greed. Goethe's unfinished \"Prometheus\" exemplifies this along with the common ambiguity provided by juxtaposing humanistic platitudes with outbursts of irrationality. The literature of \"Sturm und Drang\" features an anti-aristocratic slant while seeking to elevate all things humble, natural, or intensely real (especially whatever is painful, tormenting, or frightening).\n\nThe story of hopeless love and eventual suicide presented in Goethe's sentimental novel \"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers\" (1774) is an example of the author's tempered introspection regarding his love and torment. Friedrich Schiller's drama, \"Die Räuber\" (1781), provided the groundwork for melodrama to become a recognized dramatic form. The plot portrays a conflict between two aristocratic brothers, Franz and Karl Moor. Franz is cast as a villain attempting to cheat Karl out of his inheritance, though the motives for his action are complex and initiate a thorough investigation of good and evil. Both of these works are seminal examples of \"Sturm und Drang\" in German literature.\n\n\nThe Classical period music (1750–1800) associated with \"Sturm und Drang\" is predominantly written in a minor key to convey difficult or depressing sentiments. The principal themes tend to be angular, with large leaps and unpredictable melodic contours. Tempos and dynamics change rapidly and unpredictably in order to reflect strong changes of emotion. Pulsing rhythms and syncopation are common, as are racing lines in the soprano or alto registers. Writing for string instruments features tremolo and sudden, dramatic dynamic changes and accents.\n\nMusical theater became the meeting place of the literary and musical strands of \"Sturm und Drang\", with the aim of increasing emotional expression in opera. The obligato recitative is a prime example. Here, orchestral accompaniment provides an intense underlay of vivid tone-painting to the solo recitative. Christoph Willibald Gluck's 1761 ballet, \"Don Juan\", heralded the emergence of \"Sturm und Drang\" in music; the program notes explicitly indicated that the D minor finale was to evoke fear in the listener. Jean Jacques Rousseau's 1762 play, \"Pygmalion\" (first performed in 1770) is a similarly important bridge in its use of underlying instrumental music to convey the mood of the spoken drama. The first example of melodrama, \"Pygmalion\" influenced Goethe and other important German literary figures.\n\nNevertheless, relative to the influence of \"Sturm und Drang\" on literature, the influence on musical composition was limited, and many efforts to label music as conforming to this trend are tenuous at best. Vienna, the center of German/Austrian music, was a cosmopolitan city with an international culture; therefore, melodically innovative and expressive works in minor keys by Mozart or Haydn from this period should generally be considered first in the broader context of musical developments taking place throughout Europe. The clearest musical connections to the self-styled \"Sturm und Drang\" movement can be found in opera and the early predecessors of program music, such as Haydn's \"Farewell\" Symphony.\n\nA \"Sturm und Drang\" period is often attributed to the works of the Austrian composer Joseph Haydn from the late 1760s to early 1770s. Works during this period often feature a newly impassioned or agitated element; however, Haydn never mentions \"Sturm und Drang\" as a motivation for his new compositional style, and there remains an overarching adherence to classical form and motivic unity. Though Haydn may not have been consciously affirming the anti-rational ideals of \"Sturm und Drang\", one can certainly perceive the influence of contemporary trends in musical theatre on his instrumental works during this period.\n\nMozart's Symphony No. 25 (the 'Little' G-minor symphony, 1773) is one of only two minor-key symphonies by the composer. Beyond the atypical key, the symphony features rhythmic syncopation along with the jagged themes associated with Sturm und Drang. More interesting is the emancipation of the wind instruments in this piece, with the violins yielding to colorful bursts from the oboe and flute. However, it is likely the influence of numerous minor-key works by the Czech composer Johann Baptist Wanhal (a Viennese contemporary and acquaintance of Mozart), rather than a self-conscious adherence to a German literary movement, which is responsible for the harmonic and melodic experiments in the Symphony no. 25.\n\n\nThe parallel movement in the visual arts can be witnessed in paintings of storms and shipwrecks showing the terror and irrational destruction wrought by nature. These pre-romantic works were fashionable in Germany from the 1760s on through the 1780s, illustrating a public audience for emotionally provocative artwork. Additionally, disturbing visions and portrayals of nightmares were gaining an audience in Germany as evidenced by Goethe's possession and admiration of paintings by Fuseli capable of 'giving the viewer a good fright.' Notable artists included Joseph Vernet, Caspar Wolf, Philip James de Loutherbourg, and Henry Fuseli.\n\nThe Sturm und Drang movement did not last long; according to Betty Waterhouse it began in 1771 and ended in 1778 (Waterhouse v). The rise of the middle class in the 18th century led to a change in the way society and social standings were looked at. Dramatists and writers saw the stage as a venue for critique and discussion of societal issues. French writer Louis-Sébastien Mercier suggested that drama be used to promote political ideas, a concept that would develop many years later. After the Seven Years’ War, which ended in 1763, German spirit was extremely high and Germans felt a sense of importance on a grander stage. The aristocracy gained power as the ruling class, furthering the divide and increasing tensions between the classes (Liedner viii). With these new ideals came the sense that a new form of art capable of dethroning the extremely popular French neoclassicism was needed. Johann Georg Hamann, a noted German philosopher and a major promoter of the Sturm und Drang movement, “defended the native culture of the Volk and maintained that language, the root of all our experience, was richer in images and more powerful prior to the ‘abstract’ eighteenth century” (Liedner viii). Germany did not have a common nationality, and the nation broke up into hundreds of small states. The Sturm und Drang movement was a reaction to this lack of nationality and often dealt with the idea of living life on a smaller scale and the desire to become a part of something bigger.\n\nThe Sturm und Drang movement also paid a lot of attention to the language of a piece of literature. It is no wonder that Shakespeare, with his brilliant use of language, originality with complex plot lines and subplots, and multifaceted characters from all social classes, was seen as a model for German writers (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Many writers of the Sturm und Drang movement considered themselves to be challengers of the Enlightenment. However, the movement is actually a continuation of the Enlightenment. Many Sturm und Drang plays showed interest in how society affects the individual, a common theme in many Enlightenment plays as well. However, Sturm und Drang “makes its own distinctive contribution to 18th-century culture, bringing attention to the power of the environment as well as to the contradictory and self-defeating attitudes present in every segment of society” (Liedner ix). Far before its time, the divergent style of Sturm und Drang shrewdly explored depression and violence with an open plot structure (Liedner ix). The Sturm und Drang movement rebelled against all the rules of neoclassicism and the enlightenment, first recognized Shakespeare as a “genius” of dramaturgy, and provided the foundation for 19th-century romanticism. Writers such as Heinrich Leopold Wagner, Goethe, Lenz, Klinger, and Schiller used episodic structure, violence, and mixed genres to comment on societal rules and morals, while doubting that anything would change. The Sturm und Drang movement was brief, but it set a fire that still burns intensely today.\n\nSix main playwrights initiated and popularized the Sturm und Drang movement: Leisewitz, Wagner, Goethe, Lenz, Klinger, and Schiller. The theatre director Abel Seyler, the owner of the Seylersche Schauspiel-Gesellschaft, had an important role in promoting the Sturm und Drang poets.\n\nJohann Anton Leisewitz was born in Hanover in 1752 and studied law. He is remembered for his single complete play, \"Julius of Tarent\" (1776), which is considered the forerunner of Schiller's work \"The Robbers\" (1781). He was married to Sophie Seyler, the daughter of theatre director Abel Seyler.\n\nHeinrich Leopold Wagner was born in Strasbourg on February 19, 1747. He studied law and was a member of the literary group surrounding Johann Daniel Salzmann. He was a dramatist, producer, translator, and lawyer for the traveling Abel Seyler theatre company. Wagner was best known for his two plays, \"Die Reue nach der Tat\" (“The Remorse After the Deed”) in 1775 and \"Die Kindermorderin\" (“The Childmurderess”) in 1776. Child murder was a very popular topic in the 18th century and all of the major Sturm und Drang writers used it as a subject in their writings (Waterhouse 97). \"Die Kindermorderin\" was one of the most traditional plays of the Sturm und Drang. Although sharing aspects of neoclassical plays, such as a fairly simple plot and very few changes in the setting, it breaks away from the neoclassical idea that the protagonist must be of noble descent. Instead, this play shows how the aristocracy disrupts the lives of middle class characters (Liedner xii). This play also uses a vast array of colorful language to demonstrate the variety of characters and their social statuses. Another common theme seen in \"Die Kindermorderin\" is the idea of society hindering change. Groningseck, a lieutenant, seems to be willing to look past social norms and break down walls between the classes, but a fellow officer, Hasenpoth, betrays him (Liedner xii).\n\nJohann Wolfgang von Goethe was born in August 1749, in the Free Imperial City of Frankfurt, Holy Roman Empire. He wrote his first important play, Goetz von Berlichingen in 1773, in Shakespearean style, a defining characteristic of the Sturm und Drang movement (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Shakespeare was considered a genius among German playwrights, and was idolized for his “shattering of the dramatic unities of time, place and action; and his sharply individualized, emotionally complex characters” (Waterhouse v). Goethe was well known for his staging as well as his long dramatic poem Faust (Goethe's Faust) (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). Goethe was the director of theatre at the Weimar Theatre where he eventually ran the entire company. He went to Italy for two years to collect himself and while there discovered the beauty of the Greek and Roman ruins. After this trip he returned with interest in classical ideas and writing, and a new form of writing emerged called Weimar Classicism.\n\nJakob Michael Reinhold Lenz was born in Sesswegen, now Latvia, on the January 23, 1751. He studied theology and philosophy at the University of Konigsberg. His first poem, Die Landplagen (“Torments of the Land”), emerged in 1769. He went on to write “Notes on the Theatre”, The New Menoza and Der Hofmeister (“The Tutor”) in 1774, Pandemonium Germanicum in 1775, and Die Soldaten (“The Soldiers”) in 1776 (Liedner xi). Lenz took Aristotle’s popular idea of plot being more important than character and reversed it, as well as reclassified the distinctions between comedy and tragedy. In Lenz’s works, tragedies feature characters that make decisions that cause events, and in comedies a resolute milieu pushes and pulls the character through events (Liedner xi). The Soldiers is most likely Lenz’s most distinct example of Sturm und Drang literature. It centers on an idea of degradation of civilians by soldiers, but more specifically the seduction and abuse of young women by soldiers. Illustrating an undesirable, conflicted character with no power over her situation who does whatever she can to get through her current state, The Soldiers displays a “well-observed world where one’s identity is fluid – and hopelessly entangled in the social and linguistic environment” (Liedner xi). This idea of feeling unable to change one’s situation is typical of many Sturm und Drang plays. Lenz’s use of reserved dialogue, open form, violence, and a combination of comedy and tragedy precursors the works of contemporary authors such as Friedrich Dürrenmatt and Bertolt Brecht (Waterhouse v).\n\nFriedrich Maximilian Klinger was born in Frankfurt on February 17, 1752. He was born into a humble family and struggled financially after the death of his father. He studied law at Giessen with the financial help of Goethe’s family. He also worked with the Abel Seyler troupe for a year and a half (Pascal 132). Although famous for his Sturm und Drang style plays, many of his earlier plays were very classical in style. Some of Klinger’s works include Die Zwillinge (1776), Die neue Arria (1776), Simsone Grisaldo (1776), and Stilpo und seine Kinder (1780). Klinger’s most famous play, Sturm und Drang (1776), is the seminal piece of literature associated with the Sturm und Drang epoch. Strangely, the play is set in revolutionary America, not Germany. We see allusions to Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet through the feuds of the households, as well as All's Well That Ends Well in some of the character’s names (Liedner xiii). Klinger utilized a defining characteristic of Sturm und Drang when he mixed aspects of comedy and tragedy throughout the play, stating “ the deepest tragic emotion continually alternates with laughter and joviality\" (Liedner xiii).\n\nFriedrich Schiller was born in Marbach on November 10, 1759. He studied medicine at Karlsschule Stuttgart, a prestigious military academy founded by the Duke of Württemberg. He developed a strong relationship with Goethe, one of the most influential writers of the time (Wilson and Goldfarb 287). They were particularly interested in questions concerning aesthetics. This relationship led to an epoch known as Weimar Classicism, a style that integrates classical, romantic and enlightenment ideals (Leidner xiv). Following Schiller’s plays \"Die Räuber\" (\"The Robbers\") and \"Kabale und Liebe\" (\"Intrigue and Love\"), he went on to become a major poet as well as to write famous essays and Weimar Classical drama (Leidner xiv). \"Die Räuber\" tells the story of two brothers, the younger of which is infuriated by how society favors the first-born child and he acts on his feelings without any regard to societal rules or social standing. In act five, his views on God “represent the most blasphemous attack on religion in German literature up to that time… [and] is a masterful work of social dynamics that takes deep German patterns of sensibility into account” (Leidner xiv).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43797611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43797611", "title": "Tuple-generating dependency", "text": "Tuple-generating dependency\n\nIn relational database theory, a tuple-generating dependency (TGD) is a certain kind of constraint on a relational database. It is a subclass of the class of embedded dependencies (EDs). A TGD is a sentence in first-order logic of the form:\n∀x1 ... xn, P(x1, ..., xn) → ∃y1, ..., yk, Q(x1, ..., xn,y1, ..., ym), where P is a possibly empty and Q is a non-empty conjunction of relational atoms. A relational atom has the form R(w1, ..., wh) where each of the w, ..., wh, wi, wj, are variables or constants. An algorithm known as the chase takes as input an instance that may or may not satisfy a set of TGDs (or more generally EDs), and, if it terminates (which is a priori undecidable), outputs an instance that does satisfy the TGDs.\n\n"}
