{"id": "546553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546553", "title": "A465 road", "text": "A465 road\n\nThe A465, the Neath to Abergavenny Trunk Road, is in Wales. The section westwards from Abergavenny is more commonly known as the Heads of the Valleys Road because it joins together the northern heads of the South Wales Valleys. Approximately following the southern boundary of the Brecon Beacons National Park, the Ordnance Survey \"Pathfinder\" guide describes it as the unofficial border between rural and industrial South Wales. The A465 provides an alternative and toll-free route between England and the counties in South West Wales and to the ferries to Ireland.\n\nThe A465 runs southwest from Bromyard towards the River Lugg, from where it runs concurrently with the A4103 for a short distance before entering Hereford. After a short distance on the A49, it crosses the River Wye, the River Monnow and the border into Wales. The A465 meets the A40 trunk road in Abergavenny and continues west through the heads of the valleys region past Brynmawr, Ebbw Vale, Tredegar, Rhymney, Merthyr Tydfil, Hirwaun, Glynneath and Aberdulais.\n\nEven before the construction of the Heads of the Valleys road began in the 1960s, there were concerns and complaints regarding the capacity and safety of a single carriageway, three-lane design. The AbergavennyNeath trunk road opened in 1964.\n\nUntil 1996, the A465 ran for most of its length between Glynneath and Aberdulais along a narrow single carriageway road, now redesignated as the B4242. The high accident rate on this stretch was one of the factors leading to the construction of a dual carriageway between these points. Now all of the section of the A465, from Hirwaun to Llandarcy, is dual carriageway.\n\nThe highest point (signposted) of is on the Ebbw Vale section which is now dual carriageway and slip roads between Dowlais Top and Tredegar via Rhymney. At Dowlais Top there are link roads such as the A4060, which runs down to the south end of Merthyr Tydfil and links with the A470, and the A4054 which goes through Merthyr Vale and Aberfan. Another link is the A4102 which leads into Dowlais and Merthyr Tydfil town centre. The A465 passes Prince Charles Hospital in Merthyr Tydfil and then continues to Cefn-coed-y-cymmer and the A470 link. It then continues down the floor of the Vale of Neath, bypassing Resolven, Neath and Skewen, before terminating at junction 43 of the M4 at Llandarcy.\n\nIn 1990, a regional traffic study identified the need for improvements to the A465. In 1994, alternatives were presented for Public Consultation for the improvement of the 25-mile length between Abergavenny and Hirwaun, connecting the existing A465 dual carriageway link from Swansea to the A40, which is an important part of the route to the M50. In July 1995 the then Secretary of State for Wales announced the Preferred Route. This mainly consisted of widening the existing road to provide a dual carriageway standard with grade-separated junctions (and extra climbing lanes on certain hills) between Abergavenny and Hirwaun. The design was developed and a draft Line Order was published in 1997. This was tested at Public Local Inquiry in 1998 after which the Secretary of State for Wales announced the decision to proceed with the scheme in 1999.\n\nMuch of the land on the route is undulating, but despite this, the preferred route alignment is considered to be of high standard and as such allows most of the route to have the national speed limit. \n\nThe scheme was split up into seven sections, with sections 6 and 7 later being combined into a single scheme for the purposes of construction. The First Minister has repeated on a number of occasions the promise that the dualling of the road will be complete by 2020.\nThe section between Llandarcy and Hirwaun is already dual carriageway. Construction works began on section 4 (Tredegar to Dowlais Top) in early spring 2002, and were completed by November 2004. Construction of section 1 (Abergavenny to Gilwer]) began in February 2005. This section is a largely on-line upgrade of the existing single-carriageway road. This section was completed on 22 May 2008.\n\nThe contract for Section 3 - Brynmawr to Tredegar was awarded to Carillion Plc in March 2010 with planning commencing soon after, it was announced in August 2012 that approval for the scheme to commence had been given and that construction should commence by the end of 2012 with completion due by early 2015. In keeping with the previously completed sections, a scheme website has been launched.\n\nPlanning for Section 2 - Gilwern to Brynmawr started in June 2011 and construction began in January 2015 and is expected to last until 2017. Further information can be found on the scheme's website.\n\nThe National Transport Plan, published in March 2010, expected Brynmawr to Tredegar to be completed by 2014 and Gilwern to Brynmawr started by the same date. The remaining sections from Dowlais Top to the A470, and from the A470 to Hirwaun were to be completed by 2020. Speaking in the Senedd in August 2010, the First Minister said completion of the A465 upgrade was the ultimate solution to the high number of casualties on the road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29671960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29671960", "title": "American Society of Landscape Architects Medal", "text": "American Society of Landscape Architects Medal\n\nThe American Society of Landscape Architects Medal is awarded by the American Society of Landscape Architects conferred \"whose lifetime achievements and contributions to the profession have had a unique and lasting impact on the welfare of the public and the environment.\" \n\nThe award is not limited to Americans, and has been given annually since 1971. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7847568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7847568", "title": "Badlands Guardian", "text": "Badlands Guardian\n\nThe Badlands Guardian (also known as Indian Head) is a geomorphological feature located near Medicine Hat in the south east corner of Alberta, Canada. Viewed from the air, the feature has been said to resemble a human head wearing a full Aboriginal type of headdress, facing directly westward. Additional man-made structures have been said to resemble a pair of earphones worn by the figure. The apparent earphones are a road and an oil well, which were installed recently and are expected to disappear once the project is abandoned. Its scale is much larger than the figures of Mount Rushmore.\n\nThe head is a drainage feature created through erosion of soft, clay-rich soil by the action of wind and water.\nThe arid badlands are typified by infrequent but intense rain-showers, sparse vegetation and soft sediments. The 'head' may have been created during a short period of fast erosion immediately following intense rainfall. Although the image appears to be a convex feature, it is actually concave – that is, a valley, which is formed by erosion on a stratum of clay, and is an instance of the Hollow-Face illusion. Its age is estimated to be in the hundreds of years at a minimum.\n\nThe feature was discovered in 2005 by Lynn Hickox on Google Earth.\n\nIn 2006 suitable names were canvassed by CBC Radio One program \"As It Happens\". Out of 50 names submitted, seven were suggested to the Cypress County Council. They altered the suggested 'Guardian of the Badlands' to become \"Badlands Guardian\".\n\nThe Badlands Guardian was also described by the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" as a \"net sensation\". \"PCWorld\" magazine has referred to the formation as a \"geological marvel\". The Guardian was also covered by Canada's Global Television. It is listed as the seventh of the top ten Google Earth finds by Time Magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3258203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3258203", "title": "Brezovica, Zagreb", "text": "Brezovica, Zagreb\n\nBrezovica () is a city district of Zagreb, Croatia. It is located in the southwestern part of the city and has 12,030 inhabitants (as of 2011). It is one of the more rural districts in Zagreb. The A1 highway passes through Brezovica, although it has no exits there.\n\nOf note is Dvorac Brezovica, an eighteenth-century chateau now owned by the Zagreb Archdiocese. Dvorac Brezovica (castle) has been abandoned for several years and the building and its surroundings have fallen into disrepair.\n\n"}
{"id": "7515092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515092", "title": "Ciampate del Diavolo", "text": "Ciampate del Diavolo\n\nThe Ciampate del Diavolo (Neapolitan: \"Devil's Footprints\" or \"Devil's Trails\") is a locality near the extinct Roccamonfina volcano in northern Campania, Italy. It is named after a set of fossilised hominid footprints preserved in pyroclastic flow deposits that have been dated to around 350,000 years ago. They have been attributed to bipedal hominids, possibly \"Homo heidelbergensis\", which is known to have inhabited the region at the time.\n\nThe footprints comprise three sets of tracks in a sequence indicating that a relatively short hominid was making its way down a steep slope on the flank of the volcano, away from the crater. They were preserved under a layer of volcanic ash and were revealed by erosion, probably in the late 18th to early 19th century. Local people attributed the prints to the Devil as they regarded him as the only being capable of walking on lava without harm. They were identified as hominid footprints after archaeologists examined them in 2002 and are the second oldest set of hominid footprints known outside Africa, after the Happisburgh footprints.\n\nThe area in which the tracks appear is an eroded layer of rock covering about 2,000 m², tilted at an angle of about 45°, in a forest on the side of the volcano. The footprints consist of three sets of tracks which descend a steep slope created by a pyroclastic flow. The first, identified as Trackway A, measures and consists of 27 prints from left and right feet descending vertically along a Z-shaped course. It testifies to a careful descent down a steep and probably unstable slope. Trackway B is long and descends vertically along a single curved route. Less care was taken with this part of the descent, as slips and irregularities indicating stumbles are visible. Finally, the less well-preserved Trackway C measures along a single straight line which descends vertically. Occasional handprints are visible where the track-maker sought support on the steep slope, and a couple of animal pawmarks made by a big dog or wolf are also visible.\n\nUntil the discovery of the Happisburgh footprints in England in 2013, they were the oldest known hominid footprints outside Africa. The tracks were originally dated to between 385,000 and 325,000 years ago, but subsequent studies using argon–argon dating placed the date more precisely as around 349–350,000 years ago. The pyroclastic deposits in which the footprints were imprinted were laid down around 349,000 years ago (±3,000 years), while the layer of volcanic ash which subsequently covered and preserved them was deposited around 350,000 years ago (±3,000 years). The footprints are thought to have been exposed by erosion caused by heavy precipitation and landslides in the early 19th century, when the name \"Ciampate del Diavolo\" was first recorded.\n\nThe track-maker is estimated to have been about tall and to have been travelling at a speed of per second. Based on the age of the tracks, they have been tentatively ascribed to the hominid \"Homo heidelbergensis\", a probable ancestor of the Neanderthals. As the tracks point away from the volcano's crater, it is possible that they were made while the track-maker was trying to escape an eruption. There was certainly an eruption following the track-maker's passage, as the tracks were buried under a subsequently erupted layer of volcanic ash which preserved them to the present day.\n\nThe tracks were known locally for many years, as they are situated near a trail that was established in the 18th century between the villages of Tuoro/Foresta and Piccilli. Local people attributed them to the Devil, the only being considered capable of walking on lava without burning his feet, but despite this the site was not considered cursed or threatening. In 1986 a writer suggested that the footprints might have been created in historic times by a human. It was not until 2002 that they were first brought to scientific attention by two amateur archaeologists who noticed them and informed archaeologists at the University of Padua.\n\nA cattle path through the forest formerly crossed the fossil tracks and caused accelerated erosion at that point, but since 2001 the vegetation around the tracks has been cleared away and the exposed rock protected by fencing. The tracks were initially thought to have been made by prehistoric elephants but when Paolo Mietto and two other researchers from the University of Padua investigated them, they were surprised to find that the tracks were of hominid origin. It is very rare to find preserved hominid footprints in open-air environments, where they are vulnerable to erosion; most examples are found in enclosed and thus better protected environments such as caves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1404135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404135", "title": "DeLorme", "text": "DeLorme\n\nDeLorme is a producer of personal satellite tracking, messaging, and navigation technology. The company’s main product, \"inReach\", integrates GPS and satellite technologies. \"inReach\" provides the ability to send and receive text messages anywhere in the world (including when beyond cell phone range) by using the Iridium satellite constellation. By pairing with a smart phone, navigation is possible with access to free downloadable topographic maps and NOAA charts. On February 11, 2016, the company announced that it had been purchased by Garmin, a multinational producer of GPS products and services.\n\nDeLorme also produces printed atlas and topographic software products. The company combines digital technologies with human editors to verify travel information and map details. \"DeLorme Atlas & Gazetteer\" is a complement to a vehicle’s GPS or online mapping site, allowing a traveler to browse and highlight the anticipated route and the possible activities or excursions along the way or at the destination. DeLorme’s \"Topo\" software is one of the sources of North American trail, logging road and terrain data for outdoor enthusiasts. \"Topo 10\" has US and Canada topographic maps and elevation data with more than four million places of interest. \"Topo\" includes comprehensive park, lake, river and stream data for all 50 states. DeLorme continues to sell paper atlases, with more than 20 million copies sold to date.\n\nFounded in 1976, DeLorme is headquartered in Yarmouth, Maine, and is home to Eartha, the world's largest revolving globe.\n\nThe company was founded in 1976 by David DeLorme, who, being frustrated over obsolete back-country maps of the Moosehead Lake region of Maine, vowed to create a better map of Maine.\n\nDeLorme combined state highway, county, and town maps as well as federal surveys to produce the \"Maine Atlas and Gazetteer\" which was printed in a large-format book with an initial printing of 10,000, which he marketed out of his car. \"The Gazetteer\", which listed bicycle trails, canoeing and kayaking trips, and museum and historic sites, proved quite successful.\n\nThe company expanded to 75 employees in 1986, working from a Quonset hut in Freeport, Maine, producing maps for New England and upstate New York.\n\nIn 1987, the company produced a CD with detailed topographic map data of the entire world.\n\nIn 1991, DeLorme began vending \"Street Atlas USA\" on a single CD-ROM, becoming the most popular street-map CD in the United States, as well as one of the first mass consumer CD-ROM software products of any kind.\n\nBy 1995, DeLorme had 44 percent of the market share for CD maps. The same year the company partnered with the American Automobile Association (AAA) to produce the \"AAA Map 'n Go\", the first mapping product to generate automatic routing. They also introduced the DeLorme GPS receiver to work with its maps.\n\nIn 1996, it introduced its maps into the PDA environment via Palm.\n\nIn 1997, the company relocated to a new corporate campus in Yarmouth, Maine, that features a giant model of the world, named Eartha, the largest rotating globe in the world. The company has provided complimentary geographic educational sessions for thousands of school children over the years and the public is welcome to visit and see Eartha from the three-story balconies.\n\nIn 1999, DeLorme introduced \"3D TopoQuad\" DVD and CD products, which include digitized U.S. topographic maps.\n\nIn 2001, \"XMap\" professional GIS map program was produced on CD, and an expanded \"XMap\" was released in 2002, modified to provide GPS functionality to Palm OS and Pocket PC.\n\nIn 2005, DeLorme became the first company to sell a USB GPS device, the Earthmate GPS LT-20. At the same time, it began offering downloadable satellite and USGS 7.5-minute quads that could be overlaid on its maps using a new NetLink feature. Earlier models of Earthmate were among the first GPS receivers tethered to laptops.\n\nIn 2006/2007, the firm introduced its first full-featured GPS standalone receiver, the Earthmate GPS PN-20. During 2008, the company continued expanding its handheld GPS line with the Earthmate GPS PN-40 model. DeLorme also began selling OEM GPS modules allowing other manufacturers to add GPS to their products. In addition, the company began selling data to businesses.\n\nIn 2009, DeLorme released D.A.E. (Digital Atlas of the Earth). It is the first worldwide GPS accurate topographical map with a scale of 1 to 50,000. D.A.E. is the official world map for the US and Australian militaries. It is a virtual globe of the earth that is almost 1,000 feet in diameter.\n\nIn 2011, DeLorme launched \"InReach,\" a worldwide satellite communication and SOS device that fits in your pocket. It works in the middle of the ocean, at the north pole, through triple canopy jungles, and has even been proven on the summit of Mt. Everest. Through the SOS feature, 3 rescues a day occur around the world.\n\nOn February 11, 2016, GPS products and services company Garmin announced it had agreed to purchase DeLorme. The announcement stated operations at DeLorme's Yarmouth facility would continue. Another announcement (March 3, 2016) confirmed the acquisition was complete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40546238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40546238", "title": "Ecomuseum Bergslagen", "text": "Ecomuseum Bergslagen\n\nEcomuseum Bergslagen () is an open-air museum in the western part of the former mining and smelting region of Bergslagen in central Sweden. The museum opened in 1986 and is today the world's largest ecomuseum. The museum is a joint project of the municipalities Ludvika, Smedjebacken, Fagersta, Norberg, Skinnskatteberg, Surahammar and Hallstahammar. Two provincial museums in Dalarna and Västmanland County participate in the project. In 1998 Ecomuseum Bergslagen was awarded as the best industrial history museum in Europe with the Luigi Micheletti Award.\n\nEcomuseum Bergslagen is a 750 square kilometre area reaching from Lake Mälaren in the south to Forest Finns forests in the north. It takes about three hours by car to travel from north to south and the visitors travel on their own through the landscape. About 60 sites describe how human beings have used the region's natural resources to survive over time. The history of production of iron is the theme of the museum. Bergslagen was once the most important iron area in Sweden.\n\nYou can follow the history of mining for more than 2000 years – from 400 BC until today. Ekomuseum Bergslagen shows mythical pre-historic ironwork sites with historical blast furnacees and smithy, rolling mills, and modern steel businesses along the vital transportation route, the Strömsholms Canal. But also castles, such as Strömsholm Palace, workers' homes in Ludvika and Grängesberg and Forest Finns simple settlements and cottages near Grangärde. The museum includes several mining areas, local museums, electric power stations, historical railways (Engelsberg-Norberg Railway), and a historical railway museum (Railway museum Grängesberg). One of the attractions is Lapphyttan in Norberg Municipality, may be regarded as the type site for the Medieval Blast Furnace. Its date is probably between 1150 and 1350. It produced cast iron, which was then fined to make ferritic wrought iron cake or bun-like blooms. Another attraction is Engelsberg Ironworks (), an ironworks in Ängelsberg. It was built in 1681 and is listed as a UNESCO world heritage site since 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "39623418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623418", "title": "Geographical name changes in Greece", "text": "Geographical name changes in Greece\n\nGeographical name change in Greece is the Greek state's systematic replacement of non-Greek geographical and topographic names within Greece with Greek names as part of a policy and ideology of Hellenization. The main objective of the initiative has been to assimilate or hide geographical or topographical names that were deemed foreign and divisive against Greek unity or considered to be \"bad Greek\". The names that were considered foreign were usually of Turkish, Albanian, and Slavic origin. Most of the name changes occurred in the ethnically heterogeneous northern Greece and the Arvanite settlements in central Greece. Place names of Greek origin were also renamed after names in Classical Greece.\n\nThe policy commenced after the independence of Greece from the Ottoman Empire in the early 1830s, after the territorial expanses of Greece and continued into the Greek Republic. To this day use of the old Turkish, Albanian, or Slavic placenames by authorities, organisations, and individuals is penalized under Greek law.\n\nThe area that is today Greece was inhabited by various peoples throughout history, and the country's toponyms reflect their diversity of origins. The hellenization of toponyms in Greece started soon after Greek independence, as part of the process of shaping Greek national identity. Many placenames in Greece of non-Greek origin were replaced by \"ancient or pseudo ancient names that were supposed (sometimes erroneously) to have some connection to the area\". For example, the ancient name of Piraeus was revived in the 19th century, after it had been called Drakos in Greek, Porto Leone in Venetian, and Aslan Limanı in Turkish for centuries, after the Piraeus Lion which stood there.\n\nIn 1909, the existence of large numbers of non Greek place names were a nuisance to the government. In 1909 the government-appointed commission on toponyms report that every one village in three in Greece (30% of the total) should have its name changed (of the 5,069 Greek villages, 1,500 were considered as \"speaking a barbaric language\".\n\nDuring the Balkan Wars, Greece doubled its territory and population, but it brought various large non-Greek populations into its border. Notably were the Slavic speaking Orthodox, the mostly Turkish-speaking Muslims from Macedonia, the Muslim Albanians, Orthodox Arvanites and Aromanians in Epirus. After the Second Balkan War against Bulgaria in 1913 the majority of Slavic speaking Christians was transferred to Bulgaria as part of a population exchange agreement (Treaty of Neuilly) between the two countries. Moreover, after the end of Graeco-Turkish War and the subsequent Treaty of Lausanne and population exchange between Greece and Turkey, all Muslims except Western Thrace, were exchanged for all Orthodox in Turkey except for those in Istanbul. The villages of the exchanged populations (Bulgarians and Muslims) in Greece were resettled with Greeks from Asia Minor, and the Balkans (mainly from Bulgaria and Yugoslavia). By 1928, Greece's demography had drastically changed from the position in 1830: the country had turned into a nation-state, non-Greeks and most of the population spoke Greek.The Arvanites and Aromanians today proclaim themselves as Greeks. After World War II the remaining Muslim Albanians were expelled due to collaboration activity and war crimes.\n\nAfter the departure of Slav and Muslim populations in 1912-1926 the Greek government renamed many places with revived ancient names, local Greek-language names, or translations of the non-Greek names and non-Greek names were officially removed. Although the bulk of the population was Greek the renaming was considered a way to establish a collective ethnic consciousness. Several historical Greek names from Asia Minor were also introduced in the region mainly by the resettled refugees. Many Demotic Greek names were also replaced by a Katharevousa Greek form, usually different only morphologically. This process started in 1926 and continued into the 1960s.\n\nThe older name forms of the renamed settlements were mainly of Greek, Slavic, Turkish, Vlach or Albanian origin. According to ongoing research being carried out at the Institute of Neohellenic Research in Athens, between 1913 and 1996, the names of 4,413 settlements were legally changed in Greece. In each case, the renamings were recorded in the official Government Gazette. The regional breakdown in renamings is: Macedonia: 1,805 renamings; Peloponnese: 827 renamings; Central Greece: 519 renamings; Thessaly: 487 renamings; Epirus: 454 renamings; Thrace: 98 renamings; Crete: 97 renamings; Aegean Islands: 79 renamings; Ionian Islands: 47 renamings.\n\nEastern Central Greece was home to the Arvanites, an Albanian speaking people who migrated to the area in the 14th century. Until the 19th century most of Attica and Boeotia was populated by Arvanites, many of the placenames were also Arvanite, after the establishment of Greece in 1830 most of the names have been changed, especially to unused names since antiquity, from Classical Greece.\n\nEpirus had a Greek majority population before annexation to Greece (1913), with minorities of Aromanians and Albanians. A part of the Albanian minority, known as Cham Albanians, resided in the coastal area and were expelled from the area after World War II by the EDES resistance group. An unknown number of Aromanians and Orthodox Albanians, in some sources called Arvanites, still live in the area, who today identify mostly as Greek. Since the early 20th-century Albanian place names of Epirus have been systematically changed to Greek, thereby erasing the former Albanian presence in the landscape.\nTill 1912, the area had a very heterogeneous population consisting of Slavic, Turkish, Greek, Jews and Wallachian people. Most of the geographical names were of non Greek origin, the Greek government planned to change this. Between 1913 and 1928 the Slavic names of hundreds of villages and towns were Hellenized by a Committee for the Changing of Names, which was charged by the Greek government with \"the elimination of all the names which pollute and disfigure the beautiful appearance of our fatherland\". Between 1912 (Balkan Wars) and 1928 (after the Population exchange between Greece and Turkey), the non Greek inhabitants were largely gone and instead of them Greek refugees from the Ottoman Empire settled in the area thereby changing its demography.\n\nSince 1977 all Turkish village names of Western Thrace have been changed to Greek names. Western Thrace is home to a large Turkish minority.\n\n"}
{"id": "275002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275002", "title": "Gertrude Bell", "text": "Gertrude Bell\n\nGertrude Margaret Lowthian Bell, CBE (14 July 1868 – 12 July 1926) was an English writer, traveller, political officer, administrator, and archaeologist who explored, mapped, and became highly influential to British imperial policy-making due to her knowledge and contacts, built up through extensive travels in Greater Syria, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, and Arabia. Along with T. E. Lawrence, Bell helped support the Hashemite dynasties in what is today Jordan as well as in Iraq.\n\nShe played a major role in establishing and helping administer the modern state of Iraq, utilizing her unique perspective from her travels and relations with tribal leaders throughout the Middle East. During her lifetime she was highly esteemed and trusted by British officials and exerted an immense amount of power. She has been described as \"one of the few representatives of His Majesty's Government remembered by the Arabs with anything resembling affection\".\n\nBell was born on 14 July 1868 in Washington New Hall, County Durham, England – now known as Dame Margaret Hall – to a family whose wealth ensured her education and enabled her travels. \nHer personality was characterised by energy, intellect, and a thirst for adventure which shaped her path in life. Her grandfather was the ironmaster Sir Isaac Lowthian Bell, an industrialist and a Liberal Member of Parliament, in Benjamin Disraeli's second term. His role in British policy-making exposed Gertrude at a young age to international matters and most likely encouraged her curiosity for the world, and her later involvement in international politics.\n\nBell's mother, Mary Shield Bell, died in 1871 while giving birth to a son, Maurice (later the 3rd Baronet). Gertrude Bell was just three at the time, and the death led to a lifelong close relationship with her father, Sir Hugh Bell, 2nd Baronet, a progressive capitalist and mill owner who made sure his workers were well paid and cared for. Throughout her life, Gertrude consulted on political matters with her father, who had also served for many years in various governmental positions.\n\nSome biographies suggest that the loss of her mother caused underlying childhood trauma, revealed through periods of depression and risky behaviour. But when Gertrude was seven years old her father remarried, providing her a stepmother, Florence Bell (née Olliffe), and eventually, three half-siblings. Florence Bell was a playwright and author of children's stories, as well as the author of a study of Bell factory workers. She instilled concepts of duty and decorum in Gertrude and contributed to her intellectual development. Florence Bell's activities with the wives of Bolckow Vaughan ironworkers in Eston, near Middlesbrough, may have helped influence her step-daughter's later stance promoting education of Iraqi women.\n\nGertrude Bell received her early education from Queen's College in London and then later at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford University, at the age of 17. History was one of the few subjects women were allowed to study, due to the many restrictions imposed on them at the time. She specialised in modern history, and it was said that she was first woman to graduate from Modern History at Oxford with a first class honours degree, a feat she achieved in only two years. Actually eleven people graduated that year. Nine were recorded because they were men but the other two were Bell and Alice Greenwood.\n\n\"\"The history lecturer at Queens College at that time was Mr.Gramb, a distinguished and inspiring teacher. Gertrude's intelligence and aptitude for history impressed him keenly, and he strongly urged us to let her go to Oxford and go on for the History School.The time had not yet come when it was a usual part of a girl's education to go to a University, and it was with some qualms that we consented.\" \"But the result justified our decision. Gertrude went to Lady Margaret Hall, in 1886 just before she was eighteen, she left it in June 1888 just before she was twenty, and wound up, after those two years, by taking a brilliant First Class in Modern History\".\"\n\nBell never married or had children. She befriended British colonial administrator Sir Frank Swettenham on a visit to Singapore with her brother Hugo in 1903 and maintained a correspondence with him until 1909. She had a \"brief but passionate affair\" with Swettenham following his retirement to England in 1904. She also had an unconsummated affair with Maj. Charles Doughty-Wylie, a married man, with whom she exchanged love letters from 1913 to 1915. After his death in 1915 during the Gallipoli Campaign, Bell launched herself into her work.\n\nBell's uncle, Sir Frank Lascelles, was British minister (similar to ambassador) at Tehran, Persia. In May 1892, after leaving Oxford, Bell travelled to Persia to visit him. She described this journey in her book, \"Persian Pictures\", which was published in 1894. She spent much of the next decade travelling around the world, mountaineering in Switzerland, and developing a passion for archaeology and languages. She had become fluent in Arabic, Persian, French and German as well as also speaking Italian and Turkish. In 1899, Bell again went to the Middle East. She visited Palestine and Syria that year and in 1900, on a trip from Jerusalem to Damascus, she became acquainted with the Druze living in Jabal al-Druze. She travelled across Arabia six times during the next 12 years.\n\nBetween 1899 and 1904, she conquered a number of mountains including the La Meije and Mont Blanc as she recorded 10 new paths or first ascents in the Bernese Alps. One Alpine peak in the Bernese Oberland, the Gertrudspitze, was named after her after it was first traversed by her and her guides Ulrich and Heinrich Fuhrer in 1901. However, she did fail in an attempt of the Finsteraarhorn in August 1902 when inclement weather including snow, hail and lightning forced her to spend \"forty eight hours on the rope\" with her guides, clinging to the rock face in terrifying conditions which nearly cost her her life.\nShe published her observations of the Middle East in the book \"Syria: The Desert and the Sown\" published in 1907 (William Heinemann Ltd, London). In this book she described, photographed and detailed her trip to Greater Syria's towns and cities like Damascus, Jerusalem, Beirut, Antioch and Alexandretta. Bell's vivid descriptions opened up the Arabian deserts to the western world. In March 1907, Bell journeyed to the Ottoman Empire and began to work with the archaeologist and New Testament scholar Sir William M. Ramsay. Their excavations in Binbirkilise were chronicled in \"A Thousand and One Churches\". In 1907, they discovered a field of ruins in northern Syria on the east bank of the upper course of the Euphrates to the steep slope of the former river valley. From the ruins, they created a plan and described the ramparts: \"Munbayah, where my tents were pitched – the Arabic name means only a high-altitude course – was probably the Bersiba in Ptolemy's list of city names. It consists of a double rampart, situated on the river bank.\"\n\nIn January 1909, she left for Mesopotamia. She visited the Hittite city of Carchemish, mapped and described the ruin of Ukhaidir and finally went to Babylon and Najaf. Back in Carchemish, she consulted with the two archaeologists on site. One of them was T. E. Lawrence, assistant to Reginald Campbell Thompson. In 1913, she completed her last and most arduous Arabian journey, travelling around 1800 miles from Damascus to the politically volatile Ha'il, back up across the Arabian peninsula to Baghdad and from there back to Damascus. She was only the second foreign woman after Lady Anne Blunt to visit Ha'il, and arriving during a period of particular instability was held in the city for eleven days.\n\nIn 1927, a year after her death, her stepmother Dame Florence Bell published two volumes of Bell's collected correspondence written during the 20 years preceding World War I.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I, Bell's request for a Middle East posting was initially denied. She instead volunteered with the Red Cross in France.\n\nLater, she was asked by British Intelligence to get soldiers through the deserts, and from the World War I period until her death she was the only woman holding political power and influence in shaping British imperial policy in the Middle East. She often acquired a team of locals which she directed and led on her expeditions. Throughout her travels Bell established close relations with tribe members across the Middle East. Additionally, being a woman gave her exclusive access to the chambers of wives of tribe leaders, giving her access to other perspectives and functions.\n\nIn November 1915 she was summoned to Cairo to the nascent Arab Bureau, headed by General Gilbert Clayton. She also again met T. E. Lawrence.\n\nBoth Bell and Lawrence had attended Oxford and earned a First Class Honours in Modern History, both spoke fluent Arabic and both had travelled extensively in the Arabian desert and established ties with the local tribes before World War I. Renowned archaeologist and historian Lt. Cmdr. David Hogarth recognised the value of Lawrence and Bell's expertise and upon his recommendation first Lawrence, then Bell, were assigned to Army Intelligence Headquarters in Cairo in 1915 for war service.\n\nArriving in February 1916, she did not, at first, receive an official position, but instead helped Hogarth set about organising and processing her own, Lawrence's and Capt. W. H. I. Shakespear's data about the location and disposition of Arab tribes that could be encouraged to join the British against the Ottoman Empire. Lawrence and the British used the information in forming alliances with the Arabs.\n\nOn 3 March 1916, Gen. Clayton abruptly sent Bell to Basra, which British forces had captured in November 1914, to advise Chief Political Officer Percy Cox regarding an area she knew better than any other Westerner. Cox found her an office in his headquarters, where she was employed for the two days per week she was not at Military GHQ Basra. She drew maps to help the British army reach Baghdad safely. She became the only female political officer in the British forces and received the title of \"Liaison Officer, Correspondent to Cairo\" (i.e. to the Arab Bureau where she had been assigned). She was St. John Philby's field controller, and taught him the finer arts of behind-the-scenes political manoeuvering.\n\nWhile in the Middle East, Gertrude Bell was a witness to the Armenian Genocide. Contrasting them with previous massacres, she wrote that the massacres of preceding years \"were not comparable to the massacres carried out in 1915 and the succeeding years.\" Bell also reported that in Damascus, \"Turks sold Armenian women openly in the public market.\" In an intelligence report, Bell wrote:\nAfter British troops took Baghdad on 10 March 1917, Bell was summoned by Cox to Baghdad and given the title of \"Oriental Secretary.\" As the dismantling of the Ottoman Empire was finalised by the end of the war in late January 1919, Bell was assigned to conduct an analysis of the situation in Mesopotamia. Due to her familiarity and relations with the tribes in the area she had strong ideas about the leadership needed in Iraq. She spent the next ten months writing what was later considered a masterly official report, \"Self Determination in Mesopotamia\". The British Commissioner in Mesopotamia, Arnold Wilson, had different ideas of how Iraq should be run, preferring an Arab government to be under the influence of British officials who would retain real control, as he felt, from experience, that Mesopotamian populations were not yet ready to govern and administer the country efficiently and peacefully.\n\nOn 11 October 1920, Percy Cox returned to Baghdad and asked her to continue as Oriental Secretary, acting as liaison with the forthcoming Arab government. Gertrude Bell essentially played the role of mediator between the Arab government and British officials. Bell often had to mediate between the various groups of Iraq including a majority population of Shias in the southern region, Sunnis in central Iraq, and the Kurds, mostly in the northern region, who wished to be autonomous. Keeping these groups united was essential for political balance in Iraq and for British imperial interests. Iraq not only contained valuable resources in oil but would act as a buffer zone, with the help of Kurds in the north as a standing army in the region to protect against Turkey, Persia (Iran), and Syria. British officials in London, especially Churchill, were highly concerned about cutting heavy costs in the colonies, including the cost of quashing tribal infighting. Another important project for both the British and new Iraqi rulers was creating a new identity for these people so that they would identify themselves as one nation.\n\nBritish officials quickly realised that their strategies in governing were adding to costs. Iraq would be cheaper as a self-governing state. The Cairo Conference of 1921 was held to determine the political and geographic structure of what later became Iraq and the modern Middle East. Significant input was given by Gertrude Bell in these discussions thus she was an essential part of its creation. At the Cairo Conference Bell and Lawrence highly recommended Faisal bin Hussein, (the son of Hussein, Sherif of Mecca), former commander of the Arab forces that helped the British during the war and entered Damascus at the culmination of the Arab Revolt. He had been recently deposed by France as King of Syria, and British officials at the Cairo Conference decided to make him the first King of Iraq. They believed that due to his lineage as a Hashemite and his diplomatic skills he would be respected and have the ability to unite the various groups in the country. Shias would respect him because of his lineage from Muhammad. Sunnis, including Kurds, would follow him because he was Sunni from a respected family. Keeping all the groups under control in Iraq was essential to balance the political and economic interests of the British Empire.\n\nUpon Faisal's arrival in 1921, Bell advised him on local questions, including matters involving tribal geography and local business. She also supervised the selection of appointees for cabinet and other leadership posts in the new government. Referred to by Arabs as \"al-Khatun\" (a Lady of the Court who keeps an open eye and ear for the benefit of the State), she was a confidante of King Faisal of Iraq and helped ease his passage into the role, amongst Iraq's other tribal leaders at the start of his reign. He helped her to found Baghdad's Iraqi Archaeological Museum from her own modest artefact collection and to establish The British School of Archaeology, Iraq, for the endowment of excavation projects from proceeds in her will. The stress of authoring a prodigious output of books, correspondence, intelligence reports, reference works, and white papers; of recurring bronchitis attacks brought on by years of heavy smoking in the company of English and Arab cohorts; of bouts with malaria; and finally, of coping with Baghdad's summer heat all took a toll on her health. Somewhat frail to start with, she became emaciated.\n\nSome consider the present troubles in Iraq to be derived from the political boundaries Bell conceived to create its borders. Her reports, however, indicate that problems were foreseen, and that it was clearly understood that there were just not many (if any) permanent solutions for calming the divisive forces at work in that part of the world.\n\nThroughout the early 1920s Bell was an integral part of the administration of Iraq. The new Hashemite monarchy used the Sharifian flag, which consisted of a black stripe representing the Abbasid caliphate, white stripe representing the Umayyad caliphate, and a green stripe for Fatimid Dynasty, and lastly a red triangle to set across the three bands symbolising Islam. Bell felt it essential to customise it for Iraq by adding a gold star to the design. Faisal was crowned king of Iraq on 23 August 1921, but he was not completely welcomed. Utilizing Shi'ite history to gain support for Faisal, during the holy month of Muharram, Bell compared Faisal's arrival in Baghdad to Husayn, grandson of Muhammad.\n\nHowever, she did not find working with the new king to be easy: \"You may rely upon one thing — I'll never engage in creating kings again; it's too great a strain.\"\n\nBell, Cox and Lawrence were among a select group of \"Orientalists\" convened by Winston Churchill to attend a 1921 Conference in Cairo to determine the boundaries of the British mandate (e.g., \"the British Partitions\") and nascent states such as Iraq. Gertrude is supposed to have described Lawrence as being able \"to ignite fires in cold rooms\".\n\nThroughout the conference, she, Cox and Lawrence worked tirelessly to promote the establishment of the countries of Transjordan and Iraq to be presided over by the Kings Abdullah and Faisal, sons of the instigator of the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire (ca. 1915–1916), Hussein bin Ali, Sharif and Emir of Mecca. Until her death in Baghdad, she served in the Iraq British High Commission advisory group there.\n\nBell opposed the Zionist movement, on the grounds that it would be unfair to impose Jewish rule on Arab inhabitants of Palestine. She wrote that she regarded the Balfour Declaration with \"the deepest mistrust\" and that \"It's like a nightmare in which you foresee all the horrible things which are going to happen and can`t stretch out your hand to prevent them\".\n\nMark Sykes, the British diplomat responsible for the Sykes–Picot Agreement, was not fond of her.\nIn November 1919, Bell was an invited speaker at a meeting for the promotion of a public library in Baghdad, and subsequently served on its Library Committee, as President from 1921 to 1924. The Baghdad Peace Library (\"Maktabat al-Salam\") was a private, subscription library, but in c.1924 was taken over by the Ministry of Education and became known as the Baghdad Public Library (or sometimes as the General Library). In 1961, this became the National Library of Iraq.\n\nGertrude Bell's first love had always been archaeology, thus she began forming what became the Baghdad Archaeological Museum, later renamed the Iraqi Museum. Her goal was to preserve Iraqi culture and history which included the important relics of Mesopotamian civilizations, and keep them in their country of origin. She also supervised excavations and examined finds and artifacts. She brought in extensive collections, such as from the Babylonian Empire. The museum was officially opened in June 1926, shortly before Bell's death. After her death, at the Emir's suggestion, the right wing of the Museum was named as a memorial to her.\n\nWhen Bell briefly returned to Britain in 1925, she faced family problems and ill health. Her family's fortune had begun to decline due to the onset of post-World War I strikes by workers in Britain and economic depression in Europe. She returned to Baghdad and soon developed pleurisy. When she recovered, she heard that her younger half brother Hugh had died of typhoid.\n\nOn 12 July 1926, Bell was discovered dead, of an apparent overdose of sleeping pills. There is much debate on her death, but it is unknown whether the overdose was an intentional suicide or accidental since she had asked her maid to wake her. In her final years she became acquainted with Kinahan Cornwallis who later wrote an introduction to the posthumously published book \"The Arab War, Confidential Information for General Headquarters from Gertrude Bell, Being Despatches Reprinted from the Secret \"Arab Bulletin\"\".\n\nShe was buried at the British cemetery in Baghdad's Bab al-Sharji district. Her funeral was a major event, attended by large numbers of people including her colleagues, British officials and the King of Iraq. It was said King Faisal watched the procession from his private balcony as they carried her coffin to the cemetery.\n\nAn obituary written by her peer D. G. Hogarth expressed the respect British officials held for her. Hogarth honoured her by saying,\n\nNo woman in recent time has combined her qualities – her taste for arduous and dangerous adventure with her scientific interest and knowledge, her competence in archaeology and art, her distinguished literary gift, her sympathy for all sorts and condition of men, her political insight and appreciation of human values, her masculine vigour, hard common sense and practical efficiency – all tempered by feminine charm and a most romantic spirit.\n\nGertrude Bell is remembered in Iraq in the 21st century. The British diplomat, travel writer and Member of Parliament Rory Stewart wrote:\n\nStewart notes that Bell was \"both more lively and more honest\" than political statements in his time. He quotes six examples of her writing, the shortest of which is \"No one knows exactly what they do want, least of all themselves, except that they don’t want us.\" He quotes Bell's colleague, T. E. Lawrence (of Arabia), as saying that she was \"not a good judge of men or situations\", and observes that \"If there was no ideal solution, however, there were still clear mistakes. Bell should never have acquiesced in the inclusion of the Kurdish-dominated province of Mosul in Iraq.\" However, Stewart praises her 1920 White Paper, comparing it to General Petraeus's report to the US Congress.\n\n\nGertrude Bell's work was specially mentioned in the British Parliament, and she was awarded the Order of the British Empire.\n\nA stained-glass window dedicated to her memory, made by Douglas Strachan, was erected in St Lawrence's Church, East Rounton, North Yorkshire. It depicts Magdalen College, Oxford, and Khadimain, Baghdad. The inscription reads:\n\nIn 2016, a campaign was launched to transform Bell's family estate, Red Barns, into a memorial and museum. The family were patrons to the Arts and Crafts movement in England, and the home, located in Redcar, features wallpaper by movement leader William Morris. The building is Grade II* listed among historical buildings, however it has lacked upkeep in recent years. Turning the building into a memorial to Gertrude is partially the result of a popular 2015 exhibition about her at the Great North Museum in Newcastle. The exhibition moved to the Kirkleatham Museum in Redcar after its run in Newcastle.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51640798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51640798", "title": "Honey Camp Lagoon", "text": "Honey Camp Lagoon\n\nHoney Camp Lagoon is a freshwater lagoon in Belize. The lagoon is located in the district of Orange Walk and is approximately 9 miles away from the nearest town Orange Walk Town. The surrounding area of the lagoon is mostly undeveloped properties which are privately owned. The water in the lagoon is clear and has a maximum depth of thirty feet, with a bottom being lined with decomposed limestone .\n\nThe lagoon was once inhabited by the Maya civilization in the Postclassic Era (A.D. 900 to 1500 ). Archaeologists over the years have had many discoveries throughout the lagoon which have revealed evidence of the Maya civilization. On the largest island found in the lagoon, a shrine was discovered that demonstrates the recreation and survival of ancient Maya customs of ancestor worship and rain-god ceremonies. Archaeologists refer to Honey Camp Lagoon as \"Laguna de on\". The lagoon is currently popular among locals and tourists.\n\nStudies began in 1926 with Thomas Gann who discovered effigy ceramics from \"pavement\" located on the large island surface. The lagoon was also visited by Clement Meighan and James Bennyhoff in the 1950s where they discovered lithic artifacts. In 1980 Thomas Kelly and John Masson also visited the site. Dr. Marilyn Masson also visited the site in 1996 and made discoveries of her own.\n\n"}
{"id": "15365401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15365401", "title": "Ingeborg de Beausacq", "text": "Ingeborg de Beausacq\n\nIngeborg de Beausacq (January 25, 1910 – July 12, 2003) was an American photographer and explorer of German origin.\n\nIngeborg de Beausacq was born Ingeborg Holland on January 25, 1910, in Hattingen, Germany. Her parents were dentists. Her father, Ernst Holland, was one of nine children of a peasant family. He was the only one of the whole family, even of the whole village, who had gone to school. His father had added a nailsmith shop to his farm and all the children worked in it. That's why he could buy books and also better clothes than the others in the village. There was only one street in all Steinbach Hallenberg and two family names for all its residents: Recknagel and Holland. They had been living there for centuries at the fringe of the Thuringer Wald, the deep endless forest of central Germany. They were small farmers and very poor.\n\nIngeborg's mother was Hella Mulsow, one of two girls of a dentist in a small town in Mecklenburg. She was also a dentist but gave up practising when she got married. After her second child, Günther, and before her divorce, she established herself again in Essen.\n\nErnst Holland, 18 years older than Hella, married her in 1908. They settled in Hattingen, a small town near Essen. Their first child was born in 1910, a dark haired black-eyed girl whom they named Ingeborg. In 1916 Ingeborg's mother enlisted her in a school in Essen. \n\nThe marriage ended in a divorce and the father sold their house for 1 M DM, an amount which was not enough to buy a stamp. The two children were taken to their father's home in Backnang, a small town near Stuttgart where he had established himself. Divorce procedures were still on, the fight was about the children. Ingeborg managed to contact her mother and went back to Essen in November 1918. Her father took jobs replacing colleagues on vacation. Her mother started working as a dentist again. \n\nHella Holland married again and the children got a brother, Gernot, from their half English stepfather. He was a civil engineer and had worked for the firm Holzmann at the Bagdad train project in Palestine. But due to some tropical illness from way back he began to get into fits of violence, of rage. He lost his job at the city administration and the whole burden of the household fell on his wife's shoulders. A divorce was the only solution. Ingeborg's mother had taken replacement jobs and after one year and a half she was on her feet again. She had enough capital to take over her father's dental cabinet in Recklinghausen, a small town in Westfalia. \n\nIngeborg made her \"Abitur\" in 1929 and was ready for university at the age of 19. She decided for literature, psychology and history of art with the aim of a career as a journalist. She spent her first semester at the University of Hamburg. Then her father objected to journalism and insisted on her studying medicine. For the winter semester she went to Berlin. She was good at anatomy and dissecting but half-hearted about becoming a doctor. She also worried about the financial burden to her parents, the length of medical studies, the political situation. \n\nNazism and anti-semitism continued to grow in Germany. Ingeborg did not want to stay, and in 1935 she took the night train to Paris and joined a group of immigrants who had managed to leave with a few personal things: lawyers, doctors, businessmen ... She did not go back to Germany until 1958.\n\nOne of Ingeborg's Jewish friends in Paris was Dr Proscauer, who made a living by importing tropical fish and exotic birds which he sold to the Galeries Lafayette. He and his wife kept their stock in a small studio at Boulevard Clichy. One day he told Ingeborg that he had to leave and offered her the business for 5000 francs. She accepted the deal, bought a second hand Renault Vivasport cabriolet and went to the Gare du Nord where fish and birds arrived by train from Hamburg. She also improted aquarium pumps and other accessories. \n\nIngeborg's mother liked the 14th of July in Paris and came to visit in 1938. The two danced with the French on Bastille Day and shouted \"Vive la France\". Her mother brought her a Rolleiflex camera with all lenses and other accessories. Why not learn photography, become a reporter? She went to Monsieur Koruna, a young Austrian photographer. He accepted her immediately. She could use his cameras, his material, his darkroom, would be put on retouching at once and only on her own work. She could work night and day, only had to leave the premises when he had sittings. All that for two months and 5000 francs. That was the best investment in her life, she said! A new life opened up: she photographed her friends, a Russian dancer with a beautiful Botticelle costume...she made enlargements, experimented. \n\nShe then met Jean de Beausacq who had participated in World War I. He did not want to experience another war and went to Brazil. Ingeborg left France on August 31, 1939 on one of the last freighters leaving for Brazil. At midnight the same day, France closed its borders and war was declared with Germany.\n\nIngeborg married Jean de Beausacq on her arrival in Rio de Janeiro September 23, 1939, and became a French countess by marriage. \n\nThe couple soon ran out of money and to earn their living, Ingeborg turned to photography and became the foremost photographer of Rio's and Sao Paulo's society children and beauties, among them the Comtesse de Paris. Thanks to people she met on board the Siqueira Campos which took her to Brazil, she could buy equipment on credit from Kodak: enlarger, view camera, a Bausch and Lomb portrait lens, etc. With the money she earned she rented an apartment on Avenida Atlantica, on the sea front. Finally she specialized in elegant woman portraits. She held exhibitions, among other spots at the Ministry of Education which was inaugurated by Moses, the head of the \"Associação Brasileira de Imprensa\". In 1940-41, Louis Jouvet came to Rio with his troupe. He needed a photographer and engaged Ingeborg de Beausacq. She made a portrait of him which was displayed in the hall of his theatre in Paris. \nIngeborg learned about her brother's death in Russia. He was 18 years old. Her mother also died in Berlin. She was 59. \n\nThree years later, the marriage with Jean de Beausacq ended in separation since divorce did not exist in Brazil.\n\nIn 1942 Brazil declared war on Germany and the press ran an intensive anti-German campaign. People were arrested in the streets for being German. Ingeborg, stateless but considered as a German, working as a photographer but having no licence for it and no permission to work, only could hope to let the tempest pass over her head. She moved to Sao Paulo, waiting for the war to end.\n\nIn 1945-46, Ingeborg had a passionate love affair with Flavio de Carvalho, a famous Brazilian painter and architect.\n\nIngeborg wanted to go back to France but the French refused a visa on her stateless passport. She found a new supporter and friend, the U.S. Attaché Culturel who invited her to his house in Sao Paulo. Through him and his wife she met the American consul who offered her an emigration visa to New York. In September 1948 she embarked on a Moore McCormack ship sailing to New York.\n\nIn New York, Ingeborg managed to find a large apartment on 470 Park Avenue which became her studio. Every morning she read the \"New York Times\" and once saw a section about cameras. She called the indicated phone number and asked for advice. She wanted to become a fashion photographer. The man at the end of the line gave her the idea to make test shots of new models who wanted to make a career at agencies such as Eileen Ford's. Her first editorial assignment was a double spread in \"Town and Country\". An exhibition at the Camera Club got her to \"Mademoiselle\" and other magazines. \n\nIn 1954, Ingeborg bought a virgin lot at 418 East 71 Street and built a house with her studio, a garage, an apartment for herself and one on the third floor as a \"taxpayer\". The construction would take nine months and she decided to travel. She first went to French Guiana to write a story about the penitentiary and the remaining convicts. Her story was published in \"La Suisse Illustrée\" and \"Die Woche\". She then traveled upstreams the Maroni River and visited the Boni tribe villages along the river. She spent a month in a village called \"Enfant Perdu\" (lost child), sharing the village life with the natives. Later she traveled in Brazil by bus, by air, and by walking.\n\nBack in New York, Ingeborg showed a beautiful door she had bought from the Bonis to René d'Harnoncourt, the founder of the Museum of Primitive Art. He bought it for the museum. Other art objects that she brought back from the Bonis were sold by the museum shop of the Brooklyn Museum or given to other museums. This gave her the idea of a new activity: collect primitive art objects. The owner of a New York art gallery, Julius Carlebach, suggested that she should go to New Guinea and offered to help her financially.\n\nIn 1957, Ingeborg went to New Guinea. She experienced people and places, nature and living culture. She spent 1½ year in the villages along the Sepik River. She lived with the natives, sharing their life, photographed their initiation rites, wrote their history, and bought art objects.\n\nIngeborg first spent a month in Malekula. She explored the forest with three native guides. On the island of Touman she bought her first piece of art. It was the discarded head-hunter pole of the island's chief. Ingeborg met Kali, the chief of the Big Namb tribe of which Tom Harrison had written in his book \"Savage Civilisation\". \n\nHer goal was now the Sepik river in Australian New Guinea. An Australian captain, Les Ingle, took her on his vessel, the \"Sea Lark\", to Angoram, three days from Madang. The night before leaving, an earthquake shook the house. Ingeborg learned that 100 miles north-east was an island, Manam, whose volcano was violently erupting. To meet the emergency, the Administration had prepared total evacuation of Manam. The natives did not want to leave yet, they believed they were the volcano's children and that he would not destroy them. \n\nAt the end of her first sailing trip the \"Sea Lark\" anchored in front of Manam. No traffic was permitted anymore, said Les Ingle, but he promised her to find a way to get her to the island. She won Ingle's sympathy and he became interested in her venture while little by little she confided in him. He offered to lend her his 15 ft boat which he had equipped with a single cylinder motor for fishing trips. They made arrangements to get the boat for her from Madang. \n\nThe second sailing day brought her to Kopar, the first native village at the Sepik river mouth. Ingle took her ashore. She met Kurit and Eram, the two Kopar men who would later be her companions for many months. Kurit would be the motorist for the boat to come, Eram would cook and clean. Kopar would later become her headquarters. \n\nThe third day they arrived in Angoram, where she met some \"Europeans\": a Danish woman, two Welsh men, several Australians, a Canadian. She also met Tas Hammersley, a young Australian who had built a school community for native children in Pagui, 300 miles from Angoram up the river. She promised to visit him later in Pagui. \n\nIngeborg went on excursions and visited far away villages: Mendam, Karam, Darapap, Murik. She talked with the natives and bought objects. Les Ingle brought her over to Yogari, a village on Manam island. While they had their last dinner on the \"Sea Lark\", before Ingle returned to Madang, the sea got bad. Only after hours of cruising in front of the active volcano she could get rowed ashore at two o'clock in the morning, though the sea was still stormy. She landed on the wrong part of the island, found herself alone with six native men around a fire. She persuaded them to take her to Yogari.\n\nEnglish anthropologist Camilla Wedgwood had been in Manam 25 years earlier. The natives thought that Ingeborg was the reincarnation of \"Miss Camilla\", and the women in particular transferred their love to her.\n\nThe week Ingeborg spent in Manam was as close to a life in a tropical paradise as one can imagine. The natives killed a pig for her, took her heavy sail canoe to sea so that she could photograph, brought carvings and made new ones for her. She went with women to the bush, they told her about their love call devices, she bathed with them in one of their grass skirts. The men discussed politics with her, told her the story of their ancestor, the volcano.\n\nThe \"Sea Lark\" picked her up a week later. Ingle left her in the river with the pinnacle and Kurit and Eram. They explored four villages turning their back to the lakes and swamps: Mendam, Karam, Darapap and Murik, and also the Murik lake villages. In Wewak, at a costume ball, she met again Tas Hammersley and promised to visit him and his school in Pagui.\n\nOne day, a ship like the \"Sea Lark\" anchored in front of Kopar. It was the \"Thetis\", a government patrol boat with its captain Goya Henry. He used to be an aviator, who lost one leg in an accident which cost his only passenger's life. Henry was a man of impeccable manners who liked to quote Shakespeare. Henry took Ingeborg's pinnacle, with a broken shaft, in tow, and her belongings, Kurit and Eram and herself onboard and picked up her carvings at Kurit's uncle's village. They sailed to Angoram, where she left the pinnacle at the care of Johnny Young. The \"Thetis\" then took her all the way to Pagui where Tas Hammersley waited for her. In Pagui she went on collecting trips to the villages in the bush and tributaries of the upper Sepik. She then felt so one with the natives and the river that she slept alone tied up at any river bank. \n\nIt was Christmas. Ingeborg stayed with nuns in a bush village and attended midnight mass. Hammersley was promoted to Samarai, a small island at New Guinea's extreme south. They said goodbye to each other and also to the Sepik. She waited for the \"Thetis\" to take her down to Angoram, took a mission boat to Wewak, from there a plane to Hollandia, the capital of Dutch New Guinea. Her goal: the Asmath region on the south west coast. She flew to Merake and went by boat to Agats, the patrol station for the Asmath region. She now wanted to go to Cook's Bay. She went there with an administration boat and instead of two hours it took several days. The captain was afraid to go by sea and serpentined through inland waters. He got stuck at the Kronkel river mouth for days. The ship was crowded with a team of Eurasian geologists and their heavy equipment. They had to sleep in turns, the ship being too small for everybody to lie down at the same time.\n\nIngeborg left the ship and walked to Cook's Bay, in company of a native policeman. After six hours' walk along the beach with crab holes and rotten trees, she arrived in Primapam, the patrol station at Cook's Bay. She was then followed and surrounded and partly carried and guided by hundred naked natives. On her way she was once dragged over mud in a canoe like in a sled, the natives called her Mama and the women brought her their babies to touch.\n\nAt the station was a wounded chief, kept in a shed by the policemen. Ingeborg went to visit him, brought coffee and tobacco. Early afternoon he escaped and swam across the river. A canoe with natives was sent to catch up with him. She photographed the scene and waited for the man to come back. He went right up to her, coming out of the water, embraced her and licked her face. Only when he tore out some of her hair and started to eat it, the other natives came and freed her from him. They then explained that the whole day the chief had announced that he wanted to kill and eat her. Ingeborg was afraid to sleep in the house, assembled all available lights and slept on an open place, surrounded by lights. \n\nIngeborg followed the patrol officer on census taking trips, collected art and went bac to Agats. In order to reach Hollandia, she had to be paddled 15 night hours up the Eilanden river to an oil boring station from which once a week an aquaplane flied to Sorong at the extreme north point of New Guinea.\n\nIn Sorong she caught commercial flight to Biak-Hollandia-Wewak-Madang-Lae-Port Moresby-Samarai, then Sydney. The crates with all her acquisitions arrived in New York. A great part was bought by the Museum of Primitive Art, the rest went to Museums and collectors all over the world. \n\nLater, Ingeborg wrote a book about her life in New Guinea which was to be published by Random House. She wanted to tell how these people lived, how intelligent, hospitable and honest they were. Her life with them had been the happiest time in her life, she said. But the editor did not like her approach and asked her to invent stories about rapes, lions, snakes, real danger. Ingeborg refused, the editor decided that the book would not sell and did not publish it. \n\nIngeborg left New Guinea in 1959 and spent several months visiting Thailand, India, Pakistan, Lebanon and Greece. In Nepal she hired a Sherpa guide in Kathmandu, a cook and five carriers who took her way up close to the Everest. She climbed the Kala Patar, the Everest's close neighbour.\n\nIngeborg left New Guinea in 1959, spent much time in Thailand, India, Pakistan, Lebanon, and Greece. In 1965, she bought and renovated an old farmhouse in Provence, France, \"la Gaille\". It took her six years to build up the house which had no electricity nor water. She sold her New York house and spent months in India, Morocco and Spain to find doors, wood carvings and embroideries, textiles, for her new property. At \"la Gaille\" she invited her friends and rented apartments to people from all over the world who wanted to live in a special place.\n\nBut in the long run, managing such a big property was too difficult for her, and in 1986 she donated it to the Foundation Arts & Métiers, with the condition that she could live there until her death.\n\nIngeborg then shared her life between La Gaille and New York where she had an apartment that she later sold and returned to Provence, from where she traveled all over the world. In 1996, she joined the Society of Woman Geographers.\n\nMany objects Ingeborg de Beausacq brought back from her travels can be found in the museums of New York. Some of them were on display at the exhibition \"Art from Oceania, Tradition and Change\", of the Missouri Museum (2001–2003). An exhibition of about 20 of her photographs was organised by her friends at Goult in southern France, August 11–15, 2007.\n\nIngeborg de Beausacq died on July 12, 2003 in St-Didier, near Pernes-les-Fontaines in Provence, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8432033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8432033", "title": "Inya Lake", "text": "Inya Lake\n\nInya Lake (, \"ʔīnyā kǎn\" ; formerly, Lake Victoria) is the largest lake in Yangon, Burma (Myanmar), a popular recreational area for Yangonites, and a famous location for romance in popular culture. Located 6 miles (10 km) north of downtown Yangon, Inya Lake is bounded by Parami Road on the north, Pyay Road on the west, Inya Road on the southwest, University Avenue on the south, and Kaba Aye Pagoda Road on the east.\n\nInya Lake is an artificial lake created by the British as a water reservoir between 1882 and 1883 in order to provide a water supply to Yangon. The lake was formed by joining small hills that surrounded creeks which formed during the monsoon season. A series of pipes and cables distributes water from Inya Lake to Kandawgyi Lake near downtown Yangon.\n\nThe Second Far East Regional Scout Conference was hosted by the University of Rangoon in 1960, with the First Far East Professional Scouters Training Conference held at \"Inyale Camp\" on Inya Lake as an ancillary event.\n\nOn 16 March 1988, following the killing of two students during the pro-democracy demonstrations, students marching on Prome Road (now Pyay Road) were confronted near Inya Lake by the \"Lon Htein\" security force riot police and many beaten to death or drowned.\n\nOn 4 May 2009, the American citizen John William Yettaw trespassed upon the shoreline residence of Burmese political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi, at the time under house arrest. This was two weeks before her scheduled release on 27 May. They were both arrested after the incident.\n\nThe area surrounding Inya Lake is one of the most exclusive neighborhoods in Yangon. Except for a public park on the southwestern bank by Yangon University, much of the shoreline is some of the most expensive private property in the country. Lakefront properties include residences of Aung San Suu Kyi, the late strongman Ne Win, and the United States ambassador.\n\nPublic access to the lake is available through Kaba Aye Pagoda Road, and most popularly, through Inya Road and Pyay Road, next to Yangon University. It takes about two hours to circle the lake on foot.\n\nLocated next to Yangon University, the 37-acre (15-hectare) park is most well known as a romantic dating area for the university students, and is chronicled many times over in Burmese popular culture (novels, movies, songs, etc.) Activities available to visitors include sailing and rowing. Yangon's premier sailing club is based on the lake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7287674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287674", "title": "Kalabera", "text": "Kalabera\n\nKalabera is a small village on the northern side of Saipan in the Northern Mariana Islands.\n\nKalabera is best known for a large cave, that is a common tourist stop. The entry room stands close to 60 feet high, and drops off to a seemingly bottomless series of tributaries. Kalabera is associated with many colonial stories, including being used as a prison for Chamorros during Spain's colonial period and a reputed officers \"recreation club\" during the Japanese military occupation.\n"}
{"id": "32086184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32086184", "title": "Kees Verhoeven", "text": "Kees Verhoeven\n\nKees Verhoeven (born 25 April 1976) is a Dutch politician of the Democrats 66 (D66) party, serving as a member of the House of Representatives since 17 June 2010. A geographer by occupation, he was first elected during the Dutch general election, 2010 and was reelected in the 2012 and 2017 elections. He focuses on matters of economic affairs, housing, spatial planning and infrastructure.\n\nVerhoeven was born in Utrecht and studied economic geography at Utrecht University. He first worked as a teacher in Antigua Guatemala before joining the chamber of commerce (Dutch: \"Kamer van Koophandel\") in Amsterdam in 2002. Before entering the House, he served as director of MKB-Amsterdam and later regional director for North Holland by MKB-Nederland, the organisation promoting small and medium-sized enterprises in the Netherlands.\n\nFirst elected to the House of Representatives in 2010, he was named leader of the D66 campaign for the 2012 elections. As a parliamentarian he was president of the Temporary House Prices Commission (\"Tijdelijke commissie Huizenprijzen\"), which enquired the cost development and pricing in the housing market.\n\nVerhoeven was named leader of the D66 campaign for the Dutch municipal elections, 2014; since the 2017 general election he has been his party's spokesman for matters concerning European Affairs, Anti-terrorism, Intelligence services, Privacy and Gambling games. He was therefore very present in the media during the Dutch Intelligence and Security Services Act referendum, 2018 campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "477815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477815", "title": "Lemuria (continent)", "text": "Lemuria (continent)\n\nLemuria or Limuria is a hypothetical \"lost land\" located either in the Indian or the Pacific Ocean, as postulated by a now-discredited 19th-century scientific theory. The idea was then adopted by the occultists of the time and consequently has been incorporated into pop culture.\n\nOriginally, Lemuria was hypothesized as a land bridge, now sunken, which would account for certain discontinuities in biogeography. This idea has been rendered obsolete by modern theories of plate tectonics. Sunken continents such as Zealandia in the Pacific, Mauritia and the Kerguelen Plateau in the Indian Ocean do exist, but no geological formation under the Indian or Pacific Oceans is known that could have served as a land bridge between continents.\n\nThe idea of Lemuria was subsequently incorporated into the proto-New Age philosophy of Theosophy and subsequently into general fringe belief. Accounts of Lemuria here differ. All share a common belief that a continent existed in ancient times and sank beneath the ocean as a result of a geological, often cataclysmic, change, such as pole shift, which such theorists anticipate will destroy and transform the modern world.\n\nIn 1864, \"The Mammals of Madagascar\" by zoologist and biogeographer Philip Sclater appeared in \"The Quarterly Journal of Science\". Using a classification he referred to as lemurs, but which included related primate groups, and puzzled by the presence of their fossils in both Madagascar and India, but not in Africa or the Middle East, Sclater proposed that Madagascar and India had once been part of a larger continent (he was correct in this; though in reality this was the supercontinent Pangaea).\n\nThe anomalies of the mammal fauna of Madagascar can best be explained by supposing that ... a large continent occupied parts of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans ... that this continent was broken up into islands, of which some have become amalgamated with ... Africa, some ... with what is now Asia; and that in Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands we have existing relics of this great continent, for which ... I should propose the name Lemuria!\n\nSclater's theory was hardly unusual for his time; \"land bridges\", real and imagined, fascinated several of Sclater's contemporaries. Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, also looking at the relationship between animals in India and Madagascar, had suggested a southern continent about two decades before Sclater, but did not give it a name. The acceptance of Darwinism led scientists to seek to trace the diffusion of species from their points of evolutionary origin. Prior to the acceptance of continental drift, biologists frequently postulated submerged land masses to account for populations of land-based species now separated by barriers of water. Similarly, geologists tried to account for striking resemblances of rock formations on different continents. The first systematic attempt was made by Melchior Neumayr in his book \"Erdgeschichte\" in 1887. Many hypothetical submerged land bridges and continents were proposed during the 19th century to account for the present distribution of species.\n\nAfter gaining some acceptance within the scientific community, the concept of Lemuria began to appear in the works of other scholars. Ernst Haeckel, a Darwinian taxonomist, proposed Lemuria as an explanation for the absence of \"missing link\" fossil records. According to another source, Haeckel put forward this thesis prior to Sclater (but without using the name \"Lemuria\"). Locating the origins of the human species on this lost continent, he claimed the fossil record could not be found because it sank beneath the sea.\n\nOther scientists hypothesized that Lemuria had extended across parts of the Pacific Ocean, seeking to explain the distribution of various species across Asia and the Americas.\n\nThe Lemuria theory disappeared completely from conventional scientific consideration after the theories of plate tectonics and continental drift were accepted by the larger scientific community. According to the theory of plate tectonics, Madagascar and India were indeed once part of the same landmass (thus accounting for geological resemblances), but plate movement caused India to break away millions of years ago, and move to its present location. The original landmass, the supercontinent Gondwana, broke apart; it did not sink beneath sea level.\n\nSome Tamil writers such as Devaneya Pavanar have associated Lemuria with Kumari Kandam, a legendary sunken landmass mentioned in the Tamil literature, claiming that it was the cradle of civilization.\n\nSince the 1880s, the hypothesis of Lemuria has inspired many novels, television shows, films, and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1452344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452344", "title": "List of Brussels Metro stations", "text": "List of Brussels Metro stations\n\nThis list of Brussels metro and premetro stations includes all the underground stations in the Brussels metro and premetro network, arranged by line. The \"premetro\" refers to sections of the Brussels tramway network which run underground and at metro frequency.\n\nLine 1 replaces former Line 1B since 4 April 2009. Line 1 does not service though the stations between Erasme/Erasmus and Jacques Brel, which are now serviced Line 5.\n\nLine 2 was expanded in April 2009 in order to connect the stations Delacroix and Gare de l'Ouest/Weststation. In this way the line now forms a loop between starting and ending in Simonis(The upper level)and in Elizabeth(The low lever).Most of this line (between Yser/IJzer and Brussels-South railway station) runs under the Brussels small ring.\n\nThe Line 5 replaces the former Line 1A since 4 April 2009 between Herrmann-Debroux and Beekkant. The section of former Line 1A between Beekkant and King Baudouin is now serviced by Line 6. The section of Line 5 between Beekkant and Erasme/Erasmus was formerly serviced by Line 1B.\n\nLine 6 replaces the former Line 1A between Beekkant and King Baudouin since 4 April 2009. It also runs under the Brussels small ring as does Line 2.\n\nThe Brussels tram routes 3 and 4 use the North-South Axis and run on surface outside the city center. The common section offers a high service frequency during daytime hours between Vanderkindere in the municipality of Uccle and the Brussels-North railway station. It shares 4 connections with metro lines and also links two major train stations with access to Thalys and Eurostar trains at Brussels-South railway station.\n\nThe Greater Ring Axis is an underground section under the greater ring of Brussels used by tram routes 7, and 25.\n\n"}
{"id": "11679696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11679696", "title": "List of Governors of the Isle of Wight", "text": "List of Governors of the Isle of Wight\n\nBelow is a list of those who have held the office of Governor of the Isle of Wight in England. Lord Mottistone was the last Lord Lieutenant to hold the title Governor, from 1992 to 1995, since then there has been no Governor appointed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25787229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25787229", "title": "List of Korean flags", "text": "List of Korean flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used by South Korea, North Korea, and their predecessor states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8460822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8460822", "title": "List of United States citizens granted political asylum in Cuba", "text": "List of United States citizens granted political asylum in Cuba\n\nThis is a list of United States citizens who have been granted political asylum in Cuba.\n\nHouse Concurrent Resolution 254, passed in 1998, put the number at 90. One estimate, c. 2000, put the number at approximately 100.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14064349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14064349", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. At present, the capital city of Kingstown hosts five embassies. Several other countries have honorary consuls to provide emergency services to their citizens.\n\nKingstown\n"}
{"id": "14951249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14951249", "title": "List of festivals in China", "text": "List of festivals in China\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of festivals in China, of all types.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51473061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51473061", "title": "List of lighthouses in Sint Eustatius", "text": "List of lighthouses in Sint Eustatius\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Sint Eustatius.\n\n"}
{"id": "2433628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2433628", "title": "List of new islands", "text": "List of new islands\n\nBelow is a list of new islands created since the beginning of the 20th century whether by means of volcanism, erosion, glacial retreat, or other mechanisms. One of the most famous new volcanic islands is the small island of Surtsey, located in the Atlantic Ocean south of Iceland. It first emerged from the ocean surface in 1963. In 1965, it was declared a nature reserve for the study of ecological succession; plants, insects, birds, seals, and other forms of life have since established themselves on the island.\n\nAnother noted new island is Anak Krakatau (the so-called \"child of Krakatoa\", which formed in the flooded caldera of that notorious volcano in Indonesia), which emerged only in 1930. Ample rainforests have grown there, but they are often destroyed by frequent eruptions. A population of many wild animals, including insects, birds, humanborne rats, and even monitor lizards, have also settled there.\n\nUunartoq Qeqertoq is an island off the east coast of Greenland that appeared to have split from the mainland because of glacial retreat between 2002 and 2005; however, it is believed to have been a true island, with or without glacial covering, for many thousands of years.\n\nIn February and March 2009, a vigorous eruption created a new island near Hunga Ha'apai in the Tongan Islands of the southwest Pacific. By the end of the activity, however, the new land mass was connected to Hunga Ha'apai. Similar activity occurred again in December 2014 and January 2015.\n\nOn September 24, 2013 a new island emerged off the coast of Gwadar, as a result of a strong earthquake that hit south and southwest Pakistan measuring 7.8 on the Richter magnitude scale.\n\nOn November 21, 2013 an unnamed islet emerged off the coast of Nishinoshima, a small, uninhabited island in the Ogasawara chain, which is also known as the Bonin Islands. Less than four days after the new islet's emergence, it was about in diameter.\n\nThis is a list of new islands that formed during the 20th and the 21st centuries. Of those formed by submarine volcanoes, only Anak Krakatau, Surtsey and Nishinoshima are currently islands, and Surtsey is the only one that is expected to survive. Ilha Nova is now connected to Faial Island. Newly created landmass adjacent to Nishinoshima is now connected to Nishinoshima.\n"}
{"id": "40389962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40389962", "title": "List of paleontologists", "text": "List of paleontologists\n\nThis is a list of notable paleontologists who have made significant contributions to the field of paleontology. Only paleontologists with biographical articles in Wikipedia are listed here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1468591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468591", "title": "List of places on land with elevations below sea level", "text": "List of places on land with elevations below sea level\n\nThis is a list of places below mean sea level that are on land.\n\nPlaces in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes (also with open sky), under water, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included. Places where seawater and rainwater is pumped away are included. Fully natural places below sea level require a dry climate; otherwise, rain would exceed evaporation and fill the area.\n\nAll figures are in meters below sea level, arranged by depth, lowest first:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeeper and larger than any of the trenches in the list above is the Bentley Subglacial Trench in Antarctica, at a depth of . It is subglacial, meaning that it is permanently covered by the largest ice cap in the world. Therefore, it is not included in any list on the page. If the ice melted it would be covered by sea.\n\nThe biggest dry land area below sea level that has been known to exist in the geological past, as measured by continuous volume of atmospheric air below sea level, was the dry bed of the Mediterranean Sea in the late Miocene period during the Messinian salinity crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28764098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28764098", "title": "List of political parties in Curaçao", "text": "List of political parties in Curaçao\n\nThis article lists political parties in Curaçao. Curaçao has a multi-party system with a great number of political parties, in which usually a single party does not have a chance of gaining power alone, and thus parties must work with each other to form coalition governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132722", "title": "List of rulers of the Janjero state of Gimirra", "text": "List of rulers of the Janjero state of Gimirra\n\nThe following is a list of rulers of the Kingdom of Janjero. Janjero was situated in southwestern Ethiopia, in the angle formed by the Omo and the Jimma Gibe Rivers; to the west lay the Kingdom of Jimma and to the south the Kingdom of Garo. It existed from the 15th century to 1894.\n\nKoynab = \"Rulers\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11486007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486007", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: J", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: J\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3020848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3020848", "title": "Lot and block survey system", "text": "Lot and block survey system\n\nThe lot and block survey system is a method used in the United States and Canada to locate and identify land, particularly for lots in densely populated metropolitan areas, suburban areas and exurbs. It is sometimes referred to as the recorded plat survey system or the recorded map survey system.\n\nThe system is the most recent of the three main survey systems. It began to be widely employed in the United States in the 19th century when cities began to expand into the surrounding farmland. The owners of a large tract of land would create a plat and subdivide the tract into a series of smaller lots to be sold to buyers. This subdivision survey plan would then be recorded with an official government record keeper. The officially recorded map then became the legal description of all the lots in the subdivision. The method became widespread after the post World War II expansion into the suburbs when formerly rural areas became heavily populated and large tracts of rural land were divided into smaller lots.\n\nThe system begins with a large tract of land. This large tract is typically defined by one of the earlier survey systems such as metes and bounds or the Public Land Survey System. A subdivision survey is conducted to divide the original tract into smaller lots and a plat map is created. Usually this subdivision survey employs a metes and bounds system to delineate individual lots within the main tract. Each lot on the plat map is assigned an identifier, usually a number or letter. The plat map is then officially recorded with a government entity such as a city engineer or a recorder of deeds. This plan becomes the legal description of all the lots in the subdivision. A mere reference to the individual lot and the map's place of record is all that is required for a proper legal description.\n\nThe Lot and Block system is perhaps the simplest of the three main survey systems to understand. For a legal description in the Lot and Block system a description must identify:\n\nThe legal description of a property under the Lot and Block system may be something like; \"Lot 5 of Block 2 of the South Subdivision plat as recorded in Map Book 21, Page 33 at the Recorder of Deeds\". Some simple maps may only contain a lot and map number, such as \"Lot C of the Riverside Subdivision map as recorded in Map Book 12, Page 8 in the office of the City Engineer\". The more technical details of the legal description are all contained in the recorded plat map and there is no need to reiterate them in a deed or other legal description.\n\nBy contrast, a Public Land Survey System legal description of the same property would be something like \"SW 1/4 SW1/4 NE1/4 SW1/4 SEC 18 T1S R1E\". The metes and bounds description may be something like, \"Beginning at a monument located at the SE corner of the property now or formerly of J.W. Smith; thence north 330 feet to a point; thence east 330 feet to a point; thence south 330 feet to a point, thence west 330 feet to the place of beginning.\"\n\nA type of the Lot and Block system is frequently used for tax identification purposes in the United States. This designation, often called a \"Tax Identification Number\" or \"Tax Parcel Number\", is not directly based on the legal description of the property. \n\nThe system can be used even if the property is not legally described by the Block and Lot system. A property legally described by a metes and bounds description may still be assigned a Tax Identification Number based on a separate Lot and Block system. In this case, a survey of all parcels in the county or municipality would be combined to create a separate Block and Lot system to identify the properties for taxation purposes. For example, a metes and bounds described parcel may be assigned the \"Tax Identification Number 14-55-118\", which has nothing to do with the legal description of the property recorded in the deed other than its use to create the tax Block and Lot maps. In this case, the first number may be used to indicate the local municipality, the second number indicates the tax map on which the property is recorded, and the third number is the parcel identification number on the indicated map. A similar system might be \"Tax Identification Number 205-K-33\" where \"205\" is the map book volume number, \"K\" is the individual map, and \"33\" is a parcel number.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22639422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22639422", "title": "Macdonald hotspot", "text": "Macdonald hotspot\n\nThe Macdonald hotspot is a volcanic hotspot in the southern Pacific Ocean. The hotspot was responsible for the formation of the Macdonald Seamount, and possibly the Austral-Cook Islands chain. It probably did not generate all of the volcanism in the Austral and Cook Islands as age data imply that several additional hotspots were needed to generate some volcanoes.\n\nIn addition to the volcanoes in the Austral Islands and Cook Islands, Tokelau, the Gilbert Islands, the Phoenix Islands and several of the Marshall Islands as well as several seamounts in the Marshall Islands may have been formed by the Macdonald hotspot.\n\nHotspots have been explained either by mantle plumes producing magma in the crust, reactivation of old lithospheric structures such as fractures or spreading of the crust through tectonic tension. Aside from Macdonald seamount, active volcanoes which are considered hotspots in the Pacific Ocean include Hawaii, Bounty seamount at Pitcairn, Vailulu'u in Samoa and Mehetia/Teahitia in the Society Islands.\n\nVolcanism in the southern Pacific Ocean has been associated with the \"South Pacific Superswell\", a region where the seafloor is abnormally shallow. It is the site of a number of often short-lived volcanic chains, including the previously mentioned hotspots as well as the Arago hotspot, Marquesas Islands and Rarotonga. Beneath the Superswell, a region of upwelling has been identified in the mantle, although the scarcity of seismic stations in the regions make it difficult to reliably image it. In the case of Macdonald, it seems like a low velocity anomaly in the mantle rises from another anomaly at depth to the surface. This has been explained by the presence of a \"superplume\", a very large mantle plume which also formed oceanic plateaus during the Cretaceous, with present-day volcanism at the Society and Macdonald volcanoes originating from secondary plumes that rise from the superplume to the crust.\n\nThe Austral Islands and the Cook Islands may have been formed by the Macdonald hotspot, as the Pacific Plate was carried above the hotspot at a rate of . A high swell underpins the Austral Islands as far as Macdonald seamount, which is the presently active volcano on the Macdonald hotspot. They fit the pattern of linear volcanism, seeing as they are progressively less degraded southeastward (with the exception of Marotiri, which unprotected by coral reefs unlike the other more equatorial islands has been heavily eroded) and the active Macdonald volcano lies at their southeastern end. However, there appear to be somewhat older guyots in the area as well, some of which show evidence that secondary volcanoes formed on them. It is possible that the guyots are much older and that lithospheric anomalies were periodically reactivated and triggered renewed volcanism on the older guyots.\n\nIn addition, dating of the various volcanoes in the Cook-Austral chain indicates that there is no simple age progression away from Macdonald seamount and that the chain appears to consist of two separate alignments. While the younger ages of Atiu and Aitutaki may be explained by the long-range effect of Rarotonga's growth, Rarotonga itself is about 18–19 million years younger than would be expected if it was formed by Macdonald. Additional younger ages in some volcanoes such as Rurutu have been explained by the presence of an additional system, the Arago hotspot, and some rocks from Tubuai and Raivavae as well as deeper samples taken on other volcanoes appear to be too old to be explained by the Macdonald hotspot. These ages may indicate that some volcanoes were originally formed by the Foundation hotspot. Other problems with using a hotspot to explain this volcanism is the highly variable composition of volcanism between various edifices, and that a number of Cook Islands are not located on the reconstructed path of the Macdonald hotspot. Some of these discrepancies may be due to the presence of multiple hotspots or the reactivation of dead volcanism by the passage nearby of another hotspot.\n\nThe high ratio of helium-3 to helium-4 has been used to infer a deep mantle origin of magmas of hotspot volcanoes. Helium samples taken from Macdonald support the contention and have been used to rule out the notion that such magmas may be derived from the crust, although an origin in primitive-helium-enriched sectors of the lithosphere is possible.\n\nOverall, the list of candidate volcanoes produced by the Macdonald hotspot is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20524937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20524937", "title": "Maximum elevation figure", "text": "Maximum elevation figure\n\nMaximum elevation figure or MEF is a type of VFR altitude which indicates the height of the highest feature within a quadrangle area. It is of interest to pilots, who want to be aware of the highest mountain peaks and tall towers nearby, so that they can fly above them to avoid controlled flight into terrain. (\"Features\" includes terrain, trees, towers, and other obstacles.) In a VFR context, this altitude is commonly referred to as a \"quadrantal altitude\" (not to be confused with an IFR minimum sector altitude or \"quadrantal\" altitude.)\n\nUnlike the Minimum safe altitude used for IFR flight, the MEF does not include any margin for aircraft clearance above the terrain nor for altimeter error.\n\nIn the US, the Federal Aviation Administration issues sectional charts. Each rectangular area covering one degree of latitude and one degree of longitude is divided into four smaller areas called \"quadrangles\" (in accordance with the World Geographic Reference System, or GEOREF), each spanning half a degree of latitude and half a degree of longitude. Each quadrangle has its MEF printed in it in thousands and hundreds of feet above mean sea level. For example, 10, means that the highest elevation is 10,500 feet within that quadrangle.\n\nMEFs are determined by taking the highest of the following: \n1) The point of highest terrain within a quadrangle, adding 200 ft for obstacles which are not required to be portrayed, and then adding 100 feet for vertical error and then rounding up to the next hundred feet; or\n2) The height of the highest manmade obstacle in the quadrangle, adding 100 feet for vertical error\nand then rounding up to the next hundred feet.\n\nThe MEF on Canadian VFR navigation charts is calculated by taking the higher value of: \n\nIn Australia, Visual Navigation Charts (VNCs) and Visual Terminal Charts (VTCs) usually indicate MEF information by use of bold elevation figures for each grid. Pilots are also required to ensure their planned route does not contravene the minimum flying altitude regulations contained in CAR 167. This restriction is normally 1000FT above populated or built-up areas and 500FT elsewhere. \n\nProcedures are different when flights are conducted under IFR, where LSALT is commonly used. LSALT may be determined in a number of ways as explained in the Australian Aeronautical Information Publication or AIP.\n\n"}
{"id": "34477390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34477390", "title": "Newell Falls", "text": "Newell Falls\n\nThe Newell Falls is a waterfall on an unnamed stream that is located in the New England region of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nThe waterfall is situated adjacent to the Waterfall Way between the town of and the locality of in Dorrigo National Park. The waterfall passes down the cliff side and under a single lane bridge before entering the Bellinger River at the bottom of the valley. People can also stop to view the waterfall at small rest area, around from the Newell Falls. Picnic tables, shelter sheds and bins are located at this site. There is also a near Newell Falls lookout into the Bellinger Valley.\n\nThe Waterfall Way often closes at Newell Falls in times of heavy rainfall and flooding as the road becomes a shower of water and visibility is significantly reduced.\n\n"}
{"id": "16279027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279027", "title": "Outline of Malaysia", "text": "Outline of Malaysia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Malaysia:\n\nMalaysia is a sovereign country located on the Malay Peninsula and a northern portion of the Island of Borneo in Southeast Asia. Malaysia comprises thirteen states and three federal territories with a total land area of . The capital of Malaysia is Kuala Lumpur, while Putrajaya is the seat of the federal government.\n\nThe population stands at over 25 million. The country is separated into two regions—Peninsular Malaysia and Malaysian Borneo—by the South China Sea. Malaysia borders Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, the Philippines, and Vietnam. The country is located near the equator and experiences a tropical climate.\n\nMalaysia is headed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong and politically led by a Prime Minister. The government is closely modeled after the Westminster parliamentary system.\n\n\n\n\nPolitics of Malaysia\n\nGovernment of Malaysia\n\n\n\nCourts of Malaysia\n\nForeign relations of Malaysia\n\nMalaysia is a member of:\n\nLaw of Malaysia\n\nMilitary of Malaysia\n\nGeography of Malaysia\n\nEnvironment of Malaysia\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Malaysia\n\nAdministrative divisions of Malaysia\n\nStates of Malaysia\nMalaysia has 13 states:\nMalaysia also has three federal territories, which are governed directly by the federal government of Malaysia:\n\nDistricts of Malaysia\n\nMunicipalities of Malaysia\n\nEconomy of Malaysia\n\n\nDemographics of Malaysia\n\nReligion in Malaysia\n\n\nCulture of Malaysia\n\n\n\nSports in Malaysia\n\nEducation in Malaysia\n\n\nMalaysia\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278709", "title": "Outline of the Gambia", "text": "Outline of the Gambia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Gambia:\n\nThe Gambia – country in West Africa, officially named the Republic of the Gambia. The Gambia shares historical roots with many other West African nations in the slave trade, which was the key factor in the placing and keeping of a colony on the Gambia River, first by the Portuguese and later by the British. On 18 February 1965, the Gambia gained independence from the United Kingdom and joined the Commonwealth of Nations. Since gaining independence, the Gambia has enjoyed relative political stability, with the exception of a brief period of military rule in 1994. Thanks to the fertile land of the country, the economy is dominated by farming, fishing, and tourism. About a third of the population lives below the international poverty line of US$1.25 a day.\n\n\nGeography of the Gambia\n\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of the Gambia\n\nDivisions of the Gambia\n\nDistricts of the Gambia\n\n\nDemographics of the Gambia\n\nGovernment of the Gambia\n\n\n\nForeign relations of the Gambia\n\nThe Republic of the Gambia is a member of:\n\n\nMilitary of the Gambia\n\nHistory of the Gambia\n\n\n\nEconomy of the Gambia\n\nEducation in the Gambia\n\nThe Gambia\n\n"}
{"id": "143100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143100", "title": "Provinces of Ireland", "text": "Provinces of Ireland\n\nSince the early 17th-century there have been four Provinces of Ireland: Connacht, Leinster, Munster and Ulster. The Irish word for this territorial division, \"cúige\", meaning \"fifth part\", indicates that there were once five, however in the medieval period there were more. The number of provinces and their delimitation fluctuated until 1610 when they were permanently set by the English administration of James I. The provinces of Ireland no longer serve administrative or political purposes, but function as historical and cultural entities.\n\nIn modern Irish the word for province is \"cúige\" (pl. \"cúigeadh\"). The modern Irish term derives from the Old Irish \"cóiced\" (pl. \"cóiceda\") which literally meant \"a fifth\". This term appears in 8th century law texts such as \"Miadslechta\" and in the legendary tales of the Ulster Cycle where it refers to the five kingdoms of the \"Pentarchy\". In the 12th-century \"Lebor na Cert\" (Book of Rights), the term means province, seemingly having lost its fractional meaning with seven \"cúigeadh\" listed. Similarly this seems to be the case in regards to titles with the Annals of Ulster using the term \"rex in Chóicid\" (king of the fifth/province) for certain overkings.\n\nThe origins of the provinces of Ireland can be traced to the medieval \"cóiceda\" (literally \"fifths\") or \"over-kingdoms\" of Ireland. There were theoretically five such over-kingdoms, however in reality during the historical period there were always more. At the start of the 9th-century the following are listed: Airgíalla, Connachta, Laigin, Northern Uí Néill (Ailech), Southern Uí Néill (Mide), Mumu, and Ulaid. These seven over-kingdoms are again listed in the 12th-century \"Lebor na Cert\".\n\nEach over-kingdom was divided into smaller territorial units, the definition of which, whilst not consistent in Irish law tracts, followed a pattern of different grades. In theory in the early medieval period:\nThis pyramid structure however by the later medieval period had little validity.\n\nPaul MacCotter proposes the following structure of lordship in the 12th-century: High-king of Ireland; semi-provincial king, such as Connacht, Ulaid, Desmumu; regional king, such as Dál Fiatach and Uí Fhiachrach Aidni; local king or king of a \"trícha cét\", such as Leth Cathail or Cenél Guaire; and \"taísig túaithe\" at the bottom.\n\nThe kingdom of Osraige, which had its genealogy traced back by early Irish genealogists to the Laigin, was part of Mumu from the 6th to 8th century and ruled by the Corcu Loígde dynasty. By the 7th-century Osraige had lost their dependence on the Corcu Loígde, with the restoration of the local Dál Birn dynasty. Osraige remained part of Mumu until 859 when Máel Sechnaill I, king of the Uí Néill, forced Mumu to surrender it to his overlordship. After this situation ended it became an independent kingdom which gradually moved towards the Laigin sphere of influence as they sought to claim the Laigin kingship. It was during the 9th-century that Osraige, ruled by Cerball mac Dúnlainge, became a major political player.\n\nAirgíalla had come under the dominance of the Ulaid, however Niall Caille, the son of Áed Oirdnide, brought it under the hegemony of the Northern Uí Néill after defeating the combined forces of the Airgíalla and Ulaid at the battle of Leth Cam in 827.\n\nAfter a period of dynastic infighting in the early 12th-century, Osraige fragmented and after a heavy defeat at the hands of High-King Muirchertach Mac Lochlainn became part of Laigin. In 1169, the king of Osraige, Domnall Mac Gilla Pátraic, hired the Norman knight Maurice de Prendergast to resist the Laigin king, Diarmait Mac Murchada, who had also recruited Norman aid.\n\nIn 1118, the king of Connacht, Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair, aided the Mac Cárthaigh of south Munster in a rebellion against the ruling Uí Briain dynasty. This resulted in the division of Mumu into two: \"Tuadmumu\" (Thomond, meaning \"north Munster\") to the north under the Uí Briain; and \"Desmumu\" (Desmond, meaning \"south Munster\") to the south under the Mac Cárthaigh. Ua Conchobair would then conquer the heartland of the Uí Briain situated around modern County Clare and make it part of Connacht. This was to force them to accept Cormac Mac Carthaig, king of Desmumu, as the king of Mumu. Despite Ua Conchobair's aid, Mac Carthaig and the Uí Briain would form an alliance to campaign against Connacht's hegemony, and by 1138 ended the threat from that kingdom. The following decades would see Mumu united and repartitioned several times as the Uí Briain and Mac Cárthaigh vied for complete control. In 1168, the king of Connacht, Ruaidrí Ua Conchobair, ensured Mumu remained divided. After Henry II, king of England, landed in Ireland in 1171, the Mac Cárthaigh submitted to him to prevent an Uí Briain invasion. The Uí Briain eventually followed suit in submitting to Henry II. The eagerness of these submissions encouraged Henry II to revive the papal grant, Laudabiliter, for Ireland.\n\nOsraige would be amongst the first Irish kingdoms to fall following the Norman invasion of Ireland in 1170, and was soon afterwards split from Leinster and made part of the royal demesne lands of Waterford.\n\nIn the years following the invasion, the kingdoms of Connacht, Desmumu, Laigin, Mide, Tuadmumu, and Ulaid formed the basis for the Norman liberties of Connacht, Desmond, Leinster, Meath, Thomond and Ulster respectively. These liberties were later subdivided into smaller ones that became the basis for the counties of Ireland.\n\nThe Northern Uí Néill remained outside of Norman control, eventually absorbing the greater part of Airgíalla, which had by the end of the 12th-century lost its eastern territory (afterwards known as \"English Oriel\" and later as Louth) to the Normans. Airgíalla would eventually no longer be reckoned an over-kingdom however it survived in present-day County Monaghan for as long as the Gaelic order survived, with the last king of Airgíalla being Hugh Roe McMahon, who reigned from 1589 until his execution in September/October 1590.\n\nWith the collapse of English control in Ireland following the Bruce campaign in Ireland in 1315, and the subsequent collapse of the Earldom of Ulster, the Gaelic order had a resurgence and the Clandeboye O'Neills of the Northern Uí Néill stepped into the power vacuum in Ulster bringing it under the sovereignty of the O'Neills of Tyrone. After this they claimed for the first time the title of \"rí Ulad\", \"king of Ulster\", amalgamating their territory into one united province. This reduced the number of provinces to five—Connact, Leinster, Meath, Munster, and Ulster.\n\nDuring the reign of Mary I (1553-1558), the Lord Deputy of Ireland, Thomas Radclyffe, 3rd Earl of Sussex, sought to divide Ireland into six parts—Connaught, Leinster, Meath, Nether Munster, Ulster, and Upper Munster. His administrative reign in Ireland however was cut short and even with his reappointment by Elizabeth I (1568-1603) this plan was never implemented.\n\nSir Henry Sidney during his three tenures as Lord Deputy created two presidencies headed by a Lord President to administer Connaught and Munster. In an attempt to reduce the importance of the province of Munster, Sydney, using the River Shannon as a natural boundary took Thomond and made it into the county of Clare as part of the presidency of Connaught in 1569. Around 1600 near the end of Elizabeth's reign, Clare was made an entirely distinct presidency of its own under the Earls of Thomond and would not return to being part of Munster until after the Restoration in 1660.\n\nThe exact boundaries of the provinces of Ireland during the Tudor period changed several times, usually as a result of the creation of new counties:\n\nIt would not be until the reign of Elizabeth's successor, James I, that Meath by 1610 would cease to be considered a province and that the provincial borders would be permanently set.\n\nThe earliest recorded mention of the major division of Ireland is in the Ulster Cycle of legends, such as the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\". The \"Táin\" is set during the reign of \"Conchobar Mac Nessa\", king of Ulster, and is believed to have happened in the 1st century. In this period Ireland is said to have been divided into five independent over-kingdoms, or \"cuigeadh\" whose \"rí\" (kings) were of equal rank, not subject to a central monarchy. Pseudo-historians called this era \"Aimser na Coicedach\", which has been translated as: \"Time of the Pentarchs\"; \"Time of the Five Fifths\"; and \"Time of the provincial kings\". It was also described as \"the Pentarchy\".\n\nThe five provinces that made up the Pentarchy where:\n\nHistorians Geoffrey Keating and T. F. O'Rahilly differ suggesting that it is Munster, not Leinster, that formed two of the fifths. These two fifths were called by Keating: \"Cuigeadh Eochaidh\" (eastern Munster) and \"Cuigeadh Con Raoi\" (western Munster), both named after their respective king. Eoin MacNeill discounts this suggestion citing the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\", which makes mention of \"Eochaidh\" as king of all Munster, with \"Cu Roi\" simply a \"great Munster hero\". He also cites that the \"Táin\" makes mention of the four fifths of Ireland that waged war on Ulster, which made reference to only one Munster. Another reason given by MacNeill was a problem made by Keating himself. According to Keating, when the province of \"Míde\" was being founded, it was created from portions of each province which all met at the hill of Uisnech. The boundaries given by Keating himself for the five provinces however meant that this would have been highly unlikely, with the boundary between his Munster fifths nowhere near this area.\n\nPseudo-historians list 84 kings of Ireland prior to the formation of the Pentarchy. When this mythical kingship was interrupted is a matter of dispute. The Annals of Tigernach state that Ireland was divided into the five upon the slaying of Conaire Mór, however it is suggested alternatively that it happened upon the death of Conaire's father, Eterscél Mór, the 84th king of Ireland. Keating however suggests it occurred in the reign of Eochu Feidlech who was the 82nd king of Ireland.\n\nMacNeill claims that this division of Ireland into five is pre-historic and pre-Gaelic, describing the Pentarchy as \"the oldest certain fact in the political history of Ireland\". The notion of Ireland being divided into five permeated itself throughout Irish literature over the centuries despite what the \"cuigeadh\" representing no longer existing by the time of Saint Patrick in the 5th century. By then, Ireland had become divided into seven over-kingdoms.\n\nThe main body of the events in the myth of the Three Collas may have occurred in the late 4th to early 5th century, however as the centuries passed the myth underwent updating and alteration. The most oft quoted version of their story was written by Geoffrey Keating in the 17th century in his work the \"Foras Feasa ar Éirinn\", also known as \"The History of Ireland\".\n\nIn it the Three Collas—Colla Menn, Colla Da Crioch, and Colla Uais—were the sons of Eocaidh Doimlén. It is from them that the Airgíalla are said to descend, branching off from the rest of the Connachta. The Northern and Southern Uí Néill dynasties are claimed to descend from Eocaidh's brother, Fiacha Sraibhtine. According to the story the Collas were told by Fiacha's son, Muiredach Tirech, the High King of Ireland, to conquer land of their own to pass on to their descendants, directing them to wage war on the Ulaid to avenge a slight against their great-grandfather Cormac mac Airt.\n\nThe Collas with their army along with a host from Connacht marched to Achaidh Leithdeircc in Fernmagh, southern Ulaid, and fought the Ulaid in seven battles over the course of seven days. The host from Connacht fought the first six battles, and the Collas fought the seventh. It is after this last battle that the king of Ulaid, Fergus Foga, was killed and his army routed. The Collas then pursued the Ulaid east of the \"Glen Righe\" (the valley of the Newry River in eastern County Armagh), before returning to loot and burn the Ulaid capital, Emain Macha, after which it never again had a king. They then took possession of central Ulaid spanning the modern counties of Armagh, Fermanagh, Londonderry, Monaghan and Tyrone founding the over-kingdom of Airgíalla.\n\nIn modern times the provinces have become associated with groups of counties, although they have no legal status. They are today seen mainly in a sporting context, as Ireland's four professional rugby teams in Pro14 play under the names of the provinces, and the Gaelic Athletic Association has separate GAA provincial councils and Provincial championships.\n\nSix of the nine Ulster counties form modern-day Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland is a province of the United Kingdom, and is sometimes referred to by this term. These two inconsistent usages of the word \"province\" (along with the use of the term \"Ulster\" to describe Northern Ireland) can cause confusion.\n\nEach Province is today represented by its own unique arms and flag, these are joined together to represent various All Ireland sports teams and organisations via the Four Provinces Flag of Ireland and a four province Crest of Ireland, examples include the Ireland national field hockey team, Ireland Curling team, Ireland national rugby league team, Ireland national rugby union team and Irish Amateur Boxing Association. \n\nThis \"dinnseanchas\" poem named \"Ard Ruide\" (Ruide Headland) poetically describes the kingdoms of Ireland. Below is a translation from Old Irish:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36716429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36716429", "title": "Proyecto Tití", "text": "Proyecto Tití\n\nThe Proyecto Tití (\"Project Tamarin\") was founded in 1985, to provide information to assist in conservation of the cottontop tamarin (\"Saguinus oedipus\") and their habitat in the tropical forests of Colombia. Proyecto Tití's programs combine field research, education and community programs. The cotton-top tamarin, is one of the most endangered primates in the world and is found only in North-Western Colombia.\n\nTechniques such as radio telemetry, capture and release, hair dye allow Proyecto Tití's field researchers to identify individual tamarins and locate the groups.\n\nProyecto Tití is working on projects to purchase land that contains the last contiguous forest in Northwestern Colombia suitable for cottontop survival. The project also works with local communities to restore and protect existing forest.\n\nClay bindes are small stoves made from termite mounds that help reduce the amount of firewood required by cooking over traditional open fires and thus reducing deforestation.\n\nThe Eco-Mochila is a community-led project that works to take discarded trash and transform it into useful products. One example is plastic bags being transformed into colorfully designed, hand-knit mochilas (tote bags). The trash is recognized as a threat to the cottontop and other animals that may ingest them.\n\nThe primary focus of Proyecto Tití is conservation education. The team educates local schoolchildren and adults about the forest environment and endemic animals and the threats they face.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926598", "title": "RIVPACS", "text": "RIVPACS\n\nRIVPACS (River Invertebrate Prediction and Classification System) is an aquatic biomonitoring system for assessing water quality in freshwater rivers in the United Kingdom. It is based on the macroinvertebrate species (such as freshwater shrimp, freshwater sponges, worms, crayfish, aquatic snails, freshwater mussels, insects, and many others) found at the study site during sampling. Some of these species are tolerant to pollution, low dissolved oxygen, and other stressors, but others are sensitive; organisms vary in their tolerances. Therefore, different species will usually be found, in different proportions, at different river sites of varying quality. Some organisms are especially good indicator species. The species found at the reference sites collectively make up the species assemblage for that site and are the basis for a statistical comparison between reference sites and non-reference sites. The comparison between the expected species and the observed species can then be used to estimate this aspect of the ecological health of a river. \n\nThe system is meant to be standardized, easy to use, and relatively low cost. It can complement other types of water quality monitoring such as chemical monitoring. RIVPACS supports the implementation of the Water Framework Directive as its official tool for macroinvertebrate classification\n\nReference sites can be chosen and adjusted several ways. Usually they represent the best conditions within the region or area under study, and are a short stretch of river. Sometimes the reference site expectations are adjusted for degradation of the entire region by human impact. 'Pristine' freshwater sites are sampled to collect information on physical characteristics, chemistry, and macroinvertebrates, sometimes several times each year. This information is then used to predict what invertebrates are present from samples of physiochemistry from other sites. \n\nRIVPACS is used across the UK and supported by Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Countryside Council for Wales, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Natural England, Environment Agency, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Freshwater Biological Association, Scotland and Northern Ireland Forum for Environmental Research, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government, Scottish Natural Heritage, South West Water, and Welsh Assembly Government.\n\nThis classification of freshwater sites based on the macroinvertebrate fauna was first derived in 1977. Since then it has been developed and updated with addition of a wider range of freshwater sites. It has been adapted into various other versions around the world, including a Canadian version known as CABIN, AUSRIVAS in Australia, MEDPACS in Spain, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044975", "title": "Riverscape", "text": "Riverscape\n\nA \"riverscape\" or \"river landscape\" comprises the features of the landscape which can be found along a river.\n\nAlong the upper course of a river, these include:\n\nAlong the lower course of a river, these include:\n\n\nA riverine is a landscape formed by the natural movement of a water system such as a river. A riverine landscape includes the ecosystems (all living things including plants and animals) in and around the area of a river. A riverine may also be defined as a network of rivers and surrounding land. Riverine landscapes are excellent for agricultural uses such as farming because the land is rich and fertile. They are a valuable resource for growing food.\nLandforms:\n"}
{"id": "1620900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620900", "title": "Rumold Mercator", "text": "Rumold Mercator\n\nRumold Mercator (1545–1599) was a cartographer and the son of cartographer Gerardus Mercator.\n\nHe completed some at the time unfinished projects left after his father's death and added new materials of his own research. \n"}
{"id": "8491276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8491276", "title": "SS V. A. Fogg", "text": "SS V. A. Fogg\n\nSS \"V.A. Fogg was a modified T2 tanker built in 1943, as SS \"Four Lakes. After service in World War II, she was eventually sold into private ownership. She was renamed \"V.A. Fogg\" in 1971, shortly before she exploded and sank off Freeport, Texas.\n\nThe ship was built by the Alabama Dry Dock & Shipbuilding Company in Mobile, Alabama, as a Type T2-SE-A1 tanker for the U.S. Maritime Commission. She was launched on 21 December 1943 and completed by 26 January 1944.\n\nLike most other merchant ships during the war, \"Four Winds\" was fitted with a defensive armament. This consisted of a 5\"/38 caliber dual purpose gun at the stern, a 3\"/50 caliber dual purpose gun in the bows, and eight 20 mm anti-aircraft guns. These were operated by a crew of 29 men of the Naval Armed Guard; a lieutenant, 25 gunners and three signalmen.\n\nThe \"Four Lakes\" was operated under charter on behalf of the War Shipping Administration by War Emergency Tankers, Inc., and sailed from Mobile on her maiden voyage on 29 January 1944, commanded by Captain Elmer O. Wolfe. She arrived at Galveston, Texas, the following day to take aboard a cargo of kerosene, which she delivered to New York on 9 February. She then sailed to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to take on a cargo of gasoline, before returning to New York, where she joined a convoy bound for Liverpool, England, arriving there on 12 March. \"Four Lakes\" returned to New York, for another cargo of gasoline in April and made two further trans-Atlantic round trips in May and June, often with an additional cargo of aircraft on her deck. On 1 July she sailed in convoy to Casablanca, French Morocco, carrying fuel and aircraft. After offloading she sailed to Gibraltar, and was promptly placed in quarantine for 10 days, because of a suspected outbreak of bubonic plague in Casablanca. After three weeks she joined a convoy bound for New York, arriving there on 3 August. \"Four Lakes\" sailed on two further convoys between the U.S. and the U.K. in August and September, before taking a cargo of gasoline from New York to Naples, Italy, in October. On 23 November, under the command of C. E. Cather, she sailed in convoy from New York to Swansea, Wales, with a cargo of aviation fuel, returning to Baltimore, Maryland, on 23 December.\n\nOn 19 January 1945, following a refit, and once again under the command of Elmer O. Wolfe, \"Four Lakes\" sailed independently from New York to Madras, India, via the Suez Canal, with a cargo of 100-octane fuel and 12 military aircraft on deck. She arrived at Madras on 20 February, unloaded and then sailed via Calcutta for Abadan, Iran, at the northern end of the Persian Gulf, to take on a cargo of 80-octane gasoline. She transited the Suez Canal, and arrived at Naples on 7 April to unload. She then sailed for New York, arriving on 23 April. The next day she joined another convoy, which arrived in the Thames Estuary on 5 May, two days before the German surrender. \"Four Lakes\" sailed from Southend, Essex, on 8 May, and although the war in Europe was officially over, the normal wartime routine was maintained, with the ship sailing in convoy with a naval escort, and arriving at New York on 19 May. On 4 June, following a refit, and under the command of James R. McWilliams, with a cargo of 100-octane gasoline and P-51 Mustang fighters as deck cargo, she sailed for Madras, India, arriving there on 4 July. She then sailed to Abadan to take on a load of diesel oil, before proceeding independently to Darwin, Australia. From Darwin she sailed with two other merchant vessels, escorted by three warships, to the Philippines, arriving at Manila on 22 August. Following the surrender of Japan on 2 September, \"Four Lakes\" sailed across the Pacific, and in late October, carried diesel fuel from the Panama Canal Zone to San Pedro, California. She then sailed through the Panama Canal, and arrived at Houston, Texas, on 19 November. In December, she sailed to Hamburg, Germany.\n\nIn February 1946, the \"Four Lakes\" was rechartered to the American Petroleum Transport Corporation, and in July, carried a cargo from Texas City, Texas, to Baltimore, Maryland. She was again chartered to the American Petroleum Transport Corp. in 1947, but otherwise remained as part of the Reserve Fleet at Mobile, Alabama.\n\nShe was finally sold in 1956 to Tanker Four Lakes, Inc. of Wilmington, Delaware, and was operated under a bareboat charter by Texas City Refinery, Inc. (later renamed Texas City Tankers, Inc.) on routes between the Gulf Coast and the East Coast, transporting a variety of petrochemical products.\n\nIn 1959 the ship was extended by the Maryland Shipbuilding and Drydock Company by cutting the hull in half and inserting a new midsection, built by the American Bridge Division of Orange, Texas, part of the U.S. Steel Corporation. This increased the length of the ship from to , and increased her size from 10,448 to .\n\nIn 1971 \"Four Lakes\" was sold to Ithaca Corporation of Wilmington, Delaware, and was renamed \"V.A. Fogg\" on 11 August.\n\nOn 1 February 1972, the ship, commanded by Captain John Edward Christy, Sr., sailed from Freeport, Texas to a point offshore to clean its cargo tanks of remaining benzene residue, before sailing to Galveston to load a cargo of xylene. The ship exploded during the cleaning operation, sending up a column of smoke over in height. \n\nOn 1 February, a large smoke cloud was reported by a NASA pilot and a commercial airliner. A coastguard aircraft flew to the cloud and investigated it. Due to lack of light it stopped searching after two hours but returned the next morning. Nothing was spotted after nearly three hours. Later that day the company notified the coastguard that the tanker was overdue leading to the smoke being associated with the tanker. Two aircraft together with surface vessels were dispatched to search.\n\nThe Coast Guard carried out aerial and surface searches over ten days finding some debris. These searches were chiefly to the southwest of the ship's actual position. The ship was found by MV \"Miss Freeport\" using sidescan sonar. Divers positively identified the wreck on 13 February.\nA private charter hired by family members, found the vessel, from the coordinates of a NASA pilot that saw a mushroom cloud in the Gulf, and a person off the Galveston jetties that saw a ball of fire. The private charter took those two coordinates and went directly to \"V. A. Fogg\". A search found the ship lying in of water in two sections, in position .\n\nAn examination revealed that the cargo section was almost totally destroyed by the explosion, and the engine order telegraph still registering \"full ahead\". All of \"V.A. Fogg\"'s crew members lost their lives. However, the chief radio officer, William A. Shaw, had left the ship for an emergency medical procedure only a few hours before the ship exploded.\n\nThe Coast Guard investigation revealed a lack of proper training by the crew or contractors in venting and cleaning benzene, which can explode if residual fumes come in contact with an electrical charge; such a charge may have come from a \"red devil\" blower, a device used to ventilate spaces. Witnesses had seen red devil blowers lowered into the holds by the crew in the past, and one was recovered from the wreckage, in the hold and rigged to be used.\n\nWithin a year of her sinking, \"V. A. Fogg\" was subject to the writings of various Bermuda Triangle authors, some contending that no bodies were recovered except that of the captain, who was found sitting in his cabin still holding a coffee cup. The explanations were easily refuted by official United States Coast Guard records and photographs, as well as the recovery of several bodies. John Wallace Spencer (author of \"Limbo of the Lost\") claimed the incident had \"paranormal\" connections, for which he was widely ridiculed by fellow researchers and skeptical writers alike.\n\nIn fact, three bodies were recovered (only two, including the captain, were identified), and it was not even close to the Bermuda Triangle.\nCurrently, the wreckage of \"V.A. Fogg\" shares space with a number of sunken Liberty ships and barges in what has since been called the Freeport Liberty Ship Reef Site, an underwater park catering to scuba enthusiasts and fishermen.\n\nAn anchor from \"V. A. Fogg\" is on display outside the Texas City Museum, Texas City, with a plaque commemorating the 39 men lost aboard her.\n\n"}
{"id": "27742090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742090", "title": "Samuel Finley Breese Morse Medal", "text": "Samuel Finley Breese Morse Medal\n\nThe Samuel Finely Breese Morse Medal was established in 1902. Designed by Laura G. Fraser, this medal is awarded by the American Geographical Society for \"achievements and pioneering in geographical research.\" \n\nSamuel Finley Breese Morse was a painter, but also a noted inventor. After extensive travel in Europe, Morse invented the first recording telegraph, which he submitted at patent for in 1837. His system of dots and dashes, equip with a dictionary and words, later was known as Morse Code. After his death on April 2, 1872, the Society was willed funds “for the encouragement of geographical research.”\n\nThe following people received the award in the year specified:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37712561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37712561", "title": "South African Spatial Data Infrastructure", "text": "South African Spatial Data Infrastructure\n\nThe South African Spatial Data Infrastructure (SASDI) is an initiative of the South African government that makes policies and technical standards on the use of geographical data such as maps, aerial and satellite photographs, and surveys. It also seeks to facilitate the capture, management, maintenance, integration, distribution and use of spatial information in South Africa. SASDI is under development by the Committee for Spatial Information (CSI).\n\nParliament passed the Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, which established the CSI, in December 2003, and the President assented to the act in February 2004. \n\nA spatial data infrastructure (SDI) is a data infrastructure implementing a framework of geographic data, metadata, users and tools that are interactively connected in order to use spatial data in an efficient and flexible way. SASDI promotes efficiency by using state resources by sharing information among different spheres of government.\n\nThe act's passage was an acknowledgement of the strategic value of spatial information for South Africa. It is important that all SASDI stakeholders, including users, gain an understanding and appreciation of the value of spatial information for planning, management and decision-making.\n\nThe CSI consists of a principal committee and six subcommittees (data, systems, standards, policy and legislation, education and training, and marketing and communication).\n\n"}
{"id": "23853115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853115", "title": "Streets of Albany, New York", "text": "Streets of Albany, New York\n\nThe streets of Albany, New York have had a long history going back almost 400 years. Many of the streets have changed names over the course of time, some have changed names many times. Some streets no longer exist, others have changed course. Some roads existed only on paper. The oldest streets were haphazardly laid out with no overall plan until Simeon De Witt's 1794 street grid plan. The plan had two grids, one west of Eagle Street and the old stockade, and another for the Pastures District south of the old stockade.\n\nThese streets had their starts during the Dutch colonial era in the 17th century, some such as Broadway, State, and Pearl streets grew and continued to stretch out into the countryside, while some such as Van Tromp are short stubby streets one block long. Others are so narrow that today they are blocked off to vehicular traffic.\n\nAlbany's original \"main street\". The original name was Yonker Street, it and Broadway are the two oldest streets in Albany. Three structures sat in the middle of the street, from east to west they were- the original Dutch Reformed church, St. Peter's Anglican Church, and Fort Frederick; by 1810 they had been demolished. State Street west of Eagle Street was called Deer Street, today it is sometimes referred to as \"upper\" State Street to distinguish it from the older \"lower\" State Street. \"Upper\" State Street is a one-way street traveling east and goes from a Y-intersection with Western Avenue and continues east to Eagle Street. There are two other discontinuous sections of State Street, one is blocked from \"upper\" State Street by the downtown campus of the University at Albany, SUNY (SUNY Albany) and is a one-way street travelling west from Cortland Place to O'Leary Boulevard (Partridge Street) then is blocked by the downtown dorms of SUNY Albany, Albany High School, and St. Mary's Park. The next section goes from North Main to North Pine streets. State Street from Broadway to Eagle Street is part of New York Route 5, though this is an unsigned part of the route.\n\nCalled Handalaers Street on the Miller map of 1695. One of the original streets within the Dutch stockade, it and State Street are the two oldest streets in Albany. The intersection with Yonker (State) Street is where the original Dutch Church sat until 1806. North of State Street it became known as Market Street. The second oldest house in Albany, the Quackenbush House was built along Broadway. Handalaers Street was changed to Market Street, and then in 1815 Court Street became South Market and Market became North Market. Broadway from Madison Avenue north out of the city was once New York Route 2 until the 1980s. The only portion of Broadway within the city of Albany that is part of a state or US route is a small section from State Street south to Hamilton Street is part of New York Route 5, though unsigned as such.\n\nAnother early Dutch street today it is part of NY Route 32 (NY 32) and is a core of downtown Albany, lined with bars, nightclubs, and entertainment venues such as the Times Union Center, the Palace Theatre, and the Capital Repertory Theatre. The intersection with State Street was once called Elm Street Corner, where stood an Elm Tree planted by Philip Livingston, a signer of the Declaration of Independence. South of State Street the road was a path to the common pastures owned by the Dutch Church, it was one of many such paths referred to as \"Cow Lane\". After the Revolution it was named Washington Street in honor of George Washington. In 1814/15 Pearl Street north of State was renamed North Pearl while the street south of State was renamed South Pearl. In 1804 the Albany and Bethlehem Turnpike was chartered and constructed as a continuation of South Pearl Street through the hamlet of Kenwood to the hamlet of Bethlehem Center. In 1870 a portion of Kenwood was annexed to Albany and the city was involved in a lawsuit (\"Harriet M. Elmendorf v. The City of Albany\") over its right to lay sidewalks along the turnpike (technically private property) and to levy an assessment upon property in order to cover the cost of the sidewalk.\n\nThe entire length of Pearl Street was part of NY 32 until the 1960s, today going north NY 32 leaves South Pearl Street at Interstate 787 (I-787) and returns to South Pearl at the intersection with Rensselaer and Morton streets.\n\nOriginally called Hudson Street it laid along the southern edge of the stockade, the oldest building in Albany is at 48 Hudson Avenue and built at a time when Hudson Street was little more than a path along the outside of the stockade. Over time it was continued west as far as Washington Park. On the other side of Washington Park, Hudson Street started again along the same line. When the Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza was built a large section of Hudson Avenue disappeared. Today Hudson Ave is split into four sections. Hudson Ave exists from Broadway until South Pearl Street where the South Mall Arterial and Empire State Plaza covers its route, then again from Swan Street to Willett Street where Washington Park stands in the way, then South Lake to Partridge where the College of Saint Rose sits, and then Hudson Ave continues from Main to Allen.\n\nMaiden Lane and Pine Street are two parallel streets with an entwined history. Maiden Lane is the older of the two, it was one of the original streets within the stockade and was called Rom Street. Being one block north of State Street it was often used as a service road for the buildings fronting on the north side of State. Maiden Lane ran from Fort Albany and western edge of the stockade east to the Hudson River, where there was a ferry that crossed to the other side of the river. After Fort Albany and the stockade were removed Maiden Lane was extended west as far as Eagle Street where it met the Kings Highway from Schenectady (today Washington Avenue).\n\nPine Street was originally a short two block street running west from Barrack Street (now Chapel) to the stockade and later as far as the Public Square (today Eagle Street). A proposal in 1831 to extend Pine from Chapel east to Broadway at a cost of $45–60,000 was defeated. In the 1970s an urban renewal project called the Hotel Ten Eyck Project destroyed Maiden Lane between Chapel and North Pearl streets, while Pine Street was finally extended east from Chapel to Broadway to take up the traffic that could no longer use Maiden Lane.\n\nMaiden Lane between Eagle and Chapel streets has since been renamed Corning Place in honor of Mayor Erastus Corning 2nd, and the section between North Pearl and James streets is the only section named Maiden still open to vehicular traffic, the rest of the remaining sections being turned into a pedestrian mall. The Hudson River Way pedestrian bridge over Interstate 787 goes from where Maiden Lane meets Broadway and allows for access to the Corning Preserve and Hudson River.\n\nFormerly Patroon Street, named for being the dividing line of the city of Albany to the south and the patroonship of the Van Rensselaers to the north per the Dongan Charter. It was renamed in honor of DeWitt Clinton as Clinton Avenue.\n\nIn the 1790s Simeon De Witt made a grid plan for future streets in Albany, one grid for west of Eagle Street and one grid for the Pastures. West of Eagle Street the east–west streets were named for mammals while the north–south streets were named for birds. The bird names were, in order from east to west- Eagle, Hawk, Swan, Dove, Lark, Swallow (Knox and Henry Johnson Boulevard), Snipe (Lexington Avenue, portion of New Scotland Avenue), Duck (now Robin), Pigeon (now Lake Avenue), Turkey (Quail), Sparrow (Ontario), and Partridge. The mammal streets were, in order from north to south- Hare (Orange), Fox (Sheridan Avenue), Elk, Lion (Washington Avenue), Deer (State), Tiger (Lancaster), Buffaloe [\"sic\"] (Hudson Avenue), Wolf (Madison Avenue), Otter (Elm), and Mink (Myrtle). Many of these streets were not brand new though the names were. Prior to the 1790s- Eagle was Duke, Swan was Boscawen, Dove was Warren, Lark was Johnson, Swallow was Gage, Snipe was Schenectady, Duck was Schoharie, Hare was Wall, Fox was Howe, Lion was King, \"upper\" State was Prince, Tiger was Prideaux, Buffalo was Quiter (Native American name given to Albany's first mayor), Otter was Pitt, and Mink was Monckton.\n\nWith the exception of Elk Street all the mammal names were changed over time. Many of the mammal streets changed names to that of the older downtown streets as they were later connected, such as Buffaloe Street changing to Hudson (Street) Avenue, and Deer Street changing to State Street. A few of the bird streets were changed as well, such as Snipe to Lexington Avenue and Swallow to Knox; while some bird-named streets simply changed to a more respected bird; such as Duck to Robin and Turkey to Quail. Because of ravines, swamps, and other undesirable building ground some of the streets were not opened over their entire planned length, leading to large gaps in street numbering. Some of the undesirable land would in time be taken by parks or large institutions, forever splitting some streets into two, three, or even four parts.\n\nMadison Ave was originally two separate streets in the De Witt plan, Lydius Street in the Pastures from the Hudson River to Dallius Street (Dongan Street), and named Wolf Street west from Eagle Street. As time went on and Lydius Street headed uphill from South Pearl that section came to be called \"Lydius continued\". Wolf Street would change to Lydius when the roads were connected at Eagle. What is now Madison Place was called Madison Avenue, Lydius would take the name Madison Ave and Madison Place would get its current name. In 1864 the state of New York passed Laws of 1864 Chapter 434, entitled \"AN ACT to amend an act entitled \"An act to form a separate road district of all that part of the city of Albany lying west of Allen street, and to exempt the same from certain taxes.\"\", banned the city from improving, grading, or opening Madison Ave west from Allen Street to Magazine Street. Allen Street continues to be the western termination of Madison Ave, the street never being opened any further.\n\nIn the west Madison Ave meets Western Avenue at a wye-intersection, it is referred to as \"The Point\" and it was here that the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad, the first railroad in the state of New York, had its Albany terminal. The right-of-way of Wolf Street/Lydius Street was to continue indefinitely, and today East Lydius Street in the town of Guilderland continues down the same line of the original plan of Wolf Street. The same is true of Madison Avenue Extension and much of Washington Avenue Extension in the Pine Bush of the city of Albany. In 1994 the city sold the \"paper street\" of Madison Avenue Extension adjacent to Crossgates Commons to the shopping center's then-owner Washington Commons Associates (today The Pyramid Companies).\n\nToday, Madison Avenue from South Pearl Street west, forms part of U.S. Route 20. Madison Avenue forms the majority of the northern border of the Mansion Historic District, and has along its route Bleecker Park, the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, Empire State Plaza, New York State Museum, Dana Park, Washington Park, College of Saint Rose, and one of only two movie theaters in the city.\n\nOriginally King Street until the 1790 De Witt plan, it then became Lion Street. It was the beginning of the \"King's Highway\", a series of paths to Schenectady. Washington Avenue begins in the east at Eagle Street and from there it is New York Route 5 until the Y-intersection where Central Avenue splits to the north-east, NY 5 then follows Central. Washington Avenue from Quail Street to Manning Boulevard was in the late 1890s given by the state to the Washington Park Board of Commissioners to improve as a \"speedway\" or \"public driveway\". Today many important locations sit along Washington Ave such as the New York State Capitol, New York State Education Building, the Alfred E. Smith Building, One Commerce Plaza, downtown campus of SUNY Albany, the Albany High School, the W. Averell Harriman State Office Building Campus, and the uptown campus of SUNY Albany. At Fuller Road, Washington Avenue becomes Washington Avenue Extension (NY Route 910D), to New Karner Road (NY Route 155). The extension is a four-lane divided highway with at-grade crossings and access roads flanking the road hosting office parks and Crossgates Commons. Crossgates Commons is home to the largest Walmart in the United States. There is one limited-access exit, it allows access to and from Crossgates Mall in the neighboring town of Guilderland.\n\nLark Street is the main street of Midtown Albany, as well as the Hudson/Park and Center Square neighborhoods. Lark Street, like all the bird streets from De Witt's plan runs north–south. Lark runs north from Myrtle Avenue to Clinton Avenue, a second section starts on Clinton Ave just east of the first section and runs north to Manning Boulevard. On paper Lark Street still runs from Myrtle Ave south to the intersection of Morton Avenue and Hackett Boulevard though this section is not currently built, with the exception of a short common access for a Walgreens and McDonald's on Morton Ave. From Madison Ave to Clinton Ave, Lark Street is US Route 9W.\n\nSwallow Street (whose name was Gage prior to 1790) was one of the few bird streets whose name was not kept, its name being changed to Knox Street in 1809. Knox Street would stretch north from Myrtle Avenue to Clinton Avenue, and eventually to Livingston Avenue. In 1896 Northern Boulevard was built from that intersection of Knox and Livingston north to Van Rensselaer Boulevard, including a 653-foot-long bridge over Tivoli Hollow and the New York Central Railroad's tracks, a modern bridge still carries Northern Boulevard at that location. In 1898 a 759-foot-long bridge was built to carry Knox from Central Avenue over Sheridan Hollow to Sheridan Avenue, and again a modern bridge is there today. When Washington Park was being created, Knox Street between Madison Ave and State Street was purchased in 1880 and all buildings were removed. Knox Street in the park is now a pedestrian mall, called the Knox Street Mall; it is the only straight path in the park. Later, Knox Street from State to Livingston would be changed to Northern Boulevard to match the street it met up with, this left the name Knox Street as only the three blocks between Myrtle and Madison in the Park South neighborhood. In 1991 Northern Boulevard from Livingston to State along with its extension within Washington Park to Madison Avenue at Willett Street was renamed Henry Johnson Boulevard in honor of an African-American World War I hero. The name Northern Boulevard remains from Livingston to Van Rensselaer Boulevard.\n\nStarting with the Great Western Turnpike in 1799, turnpikes began to radiate out from Albany into the countryside and also formed long distance routes across the state. Often they were built by private corporations with state charters, they originally had tolls. Over time they would be bought out by the city and become city streets, and they would be designated as state and US highways.\n\nCentral Avenue was first called \"the Bowery\", it was at the Albany end of the many Native American trails linking Albany to Schenectady that would come to be called \"King's Highway\". Though incorporated as early as 1797 the Albany and Schenectady Turnpike Company did not construct the Albany and Schenectady Turnpike (also known as the Schenectady Turnpike) until 1802 which continued the line of the Bowery straight to Schenectady at State Street. In 1867 Albany changed the name of the Bowery to Central Avenue. Central Ave, which is also New York State Route 5, travels northwest from a Y-intersection with Washington Avenue to the border with the neighboring town of Colonie, just west of the CSXT railroad bridge. Central Avenue is Albany's current Main Street, and is home to Westgate Plaza the Capital District's first \"suburban\"-style shopping plaza. The section from Washington Avenue west to Watervliet Avenue is more urban with adjacent buildings and on-street parking. While the section from Watervliet Avenue west to city-line tends to be more suburban, with little or no on-street parking, large parking lots, shopping plazas, restaurants, large car-dealerships, big-box stores and fast food.\n\nOriginally called the Delaware Turnpike because it was built over a Native American trail. The Delaware Turnpike was built by the Albany and Delaware Turnpike company, chartered in 1805 by the state of New York to build a road from Albany to Otego (which then was within Delaware County). The turnpike company had abandoned the road in 1868, and the name was changed to Delaware Avenue. Delaware Avenue runs from the intersection of Madison Avenue and Lark Street south and south-west to the city border with the town of Bethlehem. Some important locations along the road include Hackett Middle School, Lincoln Park, the Spectrum 8 movie theatre, a public library branch, the City Square Plaza (shopping plaza), and Graceland Cemetery. Delaware Avenue was also part of New York Route 43 until the 1970s when NY 43 was truncated to the intersection of Third and Broadway in the city of Rensselaer, Delaware then became New York State Route 443. Delaware Ave is also US Route 9W from its intersection with Madison Avenue south to the intersection with Southern Boulevard where 9W leaves for that boulevard.\n\nThe section of New Scotland Avenue from Madison Avenue to Myrtle Avenue was part of the original De Witt \"bird-named\" street of Snipe Street. The Albany, Rensselaerville, and Schoharie Plank Road would be chartered in 1850 and would build what is now New Scotland Avenue. The plank road would travel to the west and northwest to connect Albany to the hamlet of Hurstville in the town of Bethlehem, a hamlet that has since been annexed to Albany and no longer exists. The plank road then continued southwest to the Normans Kill (the present-day boundary of the city of Albany) where it crossed on a bridge and continued out to the hamlet of Slingerlands and beyond. The company was allowed to erect toll gates in 1861. New Scotland Avenue was part of New York State Route 85 from 1930 until the mid-1960s when the Slingerlands Bypass was constructed and NY 85 was rerouted on to it and the Crosstown Arterial to end at Interstate 90.\n\nToday New Scotland Avenue has many colleges, hospitals, office buildings, and commercial/retail businesses. Albany Medical Center, Albany Law School, Albany College of Pharmacy, Sage College of Albany, a public library branch, a public elementary school and several private schools, St. Peter's Hospital, Maria College, and the Capital Hills At Albany (city-owned golf course) are all along New Scotland Ave.\n\nThis short street bisects the Melrose neighborhood next to the Averell Harriman State Office Campus, it stretches from Winthrop Avenue northwest to Brevator Street. Melrose sits on the right-of-way of the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad which went from the Y-intersection of Madison and Western avenues to the city of Schenectady.\n\nOriginally called Northern Boulevard the first section built in 1876 by the Board of Commissioners of Washington Park at the same time as Washington Park. It was also referred to as Boulevard. That first section constructed was just east of the toll-booth on Western Avenue, north and east to intersection of Central and Clinton avenues, at what would be called Manning Square. South of Western Avenue, Manning Boulevard was named Hawkins Avenue. In \"Stvdies for Albany\" (1914) which was commissioned by the city, it was proposed that Manning Boulevard be extended through Hawkins Avenue and continued to New Scotland Avenue and eventually to Delaware Avenue which it would then form a semicircular parkway around the city. The boulevard received its current name in honor of Daniel Manning, a former park commissioner and Secretary of the Treasury\nunder President Grover Cleveland.\n\nManning Boulevard today extends from Whitehall Road northeast to Western Avenue and then northeast and east on to the intersection of Central and Clinton avenues. The boulevard then travels along the western edge of Swinburne Park. It then turns east to Tivoli Park. On the other side of Tivoli Park, Manning Boulevard continues alongside Livingston Middle School to Northern Boulevard. Manning Boulevard starts again to the south where Northern Boulevard turns southwest to join Henry Johnson Boulevard but the road continues southeast as Manning Boulevard. Manning Boulevard finally ends at Livingston Avenue across from Ten Broeck Street. Between Western and Washington avenues, Manning Blvd is unusual for an Albany city street for the houses along that section are along frontage roads on either side of that boulevard. There are four intersections for access to and from the frontage roads, including one that is also an intersection for Lancaster Street.\n\nSouthern Boulevard is a major arterial in Albany connecting the city to Thruway exit 23 and further south to the suburbs in Bethlehem. Construction of Southern Boulevard was authorized by the state in Chapter 295 of the Laws of 1913 as a highway starting in the city at Delaware Avenue through what was then part of Bethlehem, over the Normans Kill gorge and meeting the Albany-Bethlehem Turnpike (also referred to as the Bethlehem or Stone Road) at what is today the intersection of Corning Hill Road and US Route 9W. An original proposal for the route of the highway was down Van Vechten Street between Delaware and McCarty avenues. The road was finished in 1916.\n\nSouthern Boulevard begins at an intersection with Delaware Avenue opposite the City Square Plaza, US 9W turns onto Southern from Delaware. Southern proceeds southeast to meet McAlpin Street, at which point McAlpin takes the name Southern and the US 9W designation. Southern continues east and after the intersection with the southern terminus of Interstate 787 (I-787), the name Southern Blvd/US 9W turns south while the street continues east as McCarty Avenue. Southern at this point becomes a 4 lane highway and passes over I-787. Exit 23 of Interstate 87/NYS Thruway has entrance and exit ramps meeting Southern Blvd and I-787 has a northbound entrance ramp accessible only for the northbound Southern Blvd lanes. The Thruway Authority headquarters are on the west side of the street before the boulevard leaves the city on a viaduct over the Normans Kill.\n\nThere are three sets of numbered roads in Albany, a set of four avenues in the South End, a set of three streets in Arbor Hill, and another set of three streets in North Albany. Second, Third, and Fourth avenues in the South End were until 1873 named Whitehall Road, Van Vechten Street, and Nucella Street. Second and Third streets in Arbor Hill were Elizabeth and John. Democratic Party boss Daniel P. O'Connell was born at 1 Second Ave on the corner with South Pearl Street, where a historical marker has commemorated the spot since 1986.\n\nStarting with the Governor Thomas E. Dewey Thruway in the mid-1950s Albany has had several limited-access highways planned for connecting it with other cities in the Northeastern United States and beyond. Many of these highways were never built, while some were only partially built.\n\nIn 1952-3 Albany's portion of the Thruway was built, connecting Albany to the other major cities of the state- New York, Schenectady, Utica, Syracuse, Rochester, and Buffalo. It is at Albany that the north-bound highway from Downstate turns west. The highway enters Albany from Bethlehem over the Normans Kill. Shortly after entering Albany is exit 23, the second busiest exit in the Thruway system, which connects the Thruway to Southern Boulevard (US Route 9W) which is a surface street, and to Interstate 787. The Thruway then turns northwest and passes under Delaware and New Scotland avenues before briefly leaving the city right before reaching the Slingerlands Bypass (New York Route 85). The Thruway again reenters the city after a short stretch in Bethlehem to pass under Krumkill Road before leaving the city once more by way of a bridge over the Krum Kill. The Thruway enters Albany one last time by passing underneath Washington Avenue Extension from Guilderland. Exit 24, the busiest exit on the Thruway, is here at the western end of Albany where the Thruway changes from being Interstate 87 to being Interstate 90. The Thruway then parallels Washington Avenue Ext as it leaves the city one last time.\n\nInterstate 90 enters the City of Albany in its western panhandle, as a toll road, the New York State Thruway. However, soon after entering the city limits, the Thruway switches onto Interstate 87, with I-90 becoming a six-lane freeway. This portion of I-90 runs through the north side of Albany, near its border with the neighboring town of Colonie. The highway provides access to SUNY Albany's Uptown Campus (via interchanges with Fuller Road and Washington Avenue), as well as a direct connection to the W. Averell Harriman State Office Building Campus. Meanwhile, just east of the state office campus interchange, I-90 represents the northern terminus of the Crosstown Arterial (signed as New York State Route 85). Moving further east, I-90 provides indirect access to Central Avenue via the Everett Road exit, a direct connection to the Corporate Woods office park, and closer to downtown, interchanges with the truncated Mid-Crosstown Arterial (signed as U.S. Route 9) with access to Loudonville to the north and the Arbor Hill neighborhood of Albany. Finally, I-90 meets I-787, which passes through Downtown Albany to the south and the village of Menands to the north, before crossing the Hudson River and moving into Rensselaer County.\n\nInterstate 787 connects the Thruway with downtown Albany and also connects Albany with points north in Albany County, such as Watervliet, Green Island, and Cohoes. Exits 2, 3(a and b), 4 (a and b), and 5 are within the city. The first stretch was constructed in the 1960s.\n\nThe Crosstown Arterial, signed as New York State Route 85, is a four-lane divided highway serving western sections of Albany, particularly the Buckingham Lake and Campus neighborhoods. Although Route 85 signed as a west-to-east route, the Crosstown Arterial portion generally moves from northeast to southwest while in the City of Albany. The arterial begins at Route 85's eastern terminus, an interchange with Interstate 90. The westbound side of the Crosstown Arterial has interchanges with Washington Avenue, the State Office Campus, Daytona Avenue (providing access to US 20/Western Avenue), and Krumkill Road. Beyond Krumkill Road just prior to crossing the NYS Thruway, the Crosstown Arterial enters the town of Bethlehem, and in that town changes from a limited access highway to a two-lane surface street, referred to as the Slingerlands Bypass. On the eastbound side, the Crosstown Arterial has slightly different exits, sharing the Krumkill Road and State Office Campus interchanges, but providing access to US 20 via Ormond Street, and lacking a Washington Avenue interchange. Instead, the final exit on the eastbound side of the Crosstown Arterial before its terminus at I-90 is an interchange with Lincoln Avenue, a surface road which terminates at the arterial. The Lincoln Avenue exit allows access to Washington Avenue via Colvin Avenue, and various side street.\n\nThe Northway, the part of Interstate 87 (I-87) north of the New York State Thruway, was built in segments, which became I-87 as they were completed and linked to the pre-existing route. Construction began in the late 1950s on the portion of the Northway between the Thruway and NY 7 near Latham. This segment was open to traffic by 1960.\n\nFuller Road Alternate, the lone portion of the Adirondack Northway not part of I-87, was originally intended to be part of the Southern Albany Expressway, a proposed highway which would have connected the Northway to Interstate 787 and run parallel to the Thruway between exits 23 and 24.\n\nExit 1 of the Northway is the only exit on the highway that is within Albany, it connects the highway to Interstate 90 (I-90). The highway connects Albany to the suburbs to the north such as Latham, and Clifton Park; the resorts of Saratoga Springs and Lake George; and on to Plattsburgh and Montreal.\n\nThe South Mall Expressway connects S. Swan Street with Interstate 787, and goes underneath the Empire State Plaza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23788022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23788022", "title": "Tape correction (surveying)", "text": "Tape correction (surveying)\n\nIn surveying, tape correction(s) refer(s) to correcting measurements for the effect of slope angle, expansion or contraction due to temperature, and the tape's sag, which varies with the applied tension. Not correcting for these effects gives rise to systematic errors, i.e. effects which act in a predictable manner and therefore can be corrected by mathematical methods.\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere \n\nWhen distances are measured along the slope, the equivalent horizontal distance may be determined by applying a slope correction.\n\nThe vertical slope angle of the length measured must be measured. (Refer to the figure on the other side) Thus,\n\nWhere:\n\nThe correction formula_9 is subtracted from formula_12 to obtain the equivalent horizontal distance on the slope line:\n\nWhen measuring or laying out distances, the standard temperature of the tape and the temperature of the tape at time of measurement are usually different. A difference in temperature will cause the tape to lengthen or shorten, so the measurement taken will not be exactly correct. A correction can be applied to the measured length to obtain the correct length.\n\nThe correction of the tape length due to change in temperature is given by:\n\nWhere:\n\nThe correction formula_15 is added to formula_19 to obtain the corrected distance:\n\nFor common tape measurements, the tape used is a steel tape with coefficient of thermal expansion C equal to 0.000,011,6 units per unit length per degree Celsius change. This means that the tape changes length by 1.16 mm per 10 m tape per 10 °C change from the standard temperature of the tape. For a 30 meter long tape with standard temperature of 20 °C used at 40 °C, the change in length is 7 mm over the length of the tape.\n\nA tape not supported along its length will sag and form a catenary between end supports. The correction due to sag must be calculated separately for each unsupported stretch separately and is given by:\n\nEvaluated at L=0, it vanishes and so does not contribute a Taylor series term. The second derivative of formula_22 is\n\nAgain, when evaluated at L=0 it vanishes. When evaluated at L=0, the third derivative survives, however.\n"}
{"id": "1767918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767918", "title": "Topophilia", "text": "Topophilia\n\nTopophilia (From Greek \"topos\" \"place\" and \"-philia\", \"love of\") is a strong sense of place, which often becomes mixed with the sense of cultural identity among certain people and a love of certain aspects of such a place.\n\nAlan Watts's autobiography, \"In My Own Way\" (1972), starts with the sentence: \"Topophilia is a word invented by the British poet John Betjeman for a special love for peculiar places.\" But it was W. H. Auden who used the term in his 1948 introduction to John Betjeman's poetry book \"Slick but Not Streamlined\", stressing that the term \"has little in common with nature love\" but depended upon a landscape infused with a sense of history. The term later appeared in the French philosopher Gaston Bachelard's highly influential \"The Poetics of Space\" (1958). Yi-Fu Tuan employed the term for the feeling-link between person and place as part of his development of a human geography. James W. Gibson, in his book \"A Reenchanted World\" (2009) also argues that topophilia or \"love of place\" is a biologically based, close cultural connection to place. Gibson says that such connections mostly have been destroyed in modernity but argues that \"more and more people are trying to reinvent them.\"\n\nMike Cronin in his article \"Enshrined in Blood the Naming of Gaelic Athletic Association Grounds and Clubs\" (\"The Sports Historian\", 18, 1) has noted the opportunities sport stadia have for topophilia. Referring to the work of sports geographer John Bale, he cites five metaphors that make stadiums particularly topophilic:\n\n\n\"Topophilia\", a feature-length documentary from 2015 by artist Peter Bo Rappmund that follows the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.\n\nTopophilia also has a darker side, serving as a motive force behind nationalism and social exclusion, and even extending sometimes to the nazist celebration of Blood and Soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "959093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959093", "title": "Twatutia", "text": "Twatutia\n\nTwatutia (a transliteration of the Taiwanese Hokkien \"Tōa-tiū-tiâⁿ\"), is an area in Datong District, Taipei, Taiwan. It was also known as Daitōtei during Japanese occupation, and Tataocheng or Dadaocheng (Mandarin) during the Kuomintang era.\n\nTwatutia was an important trading port in the 19th century, and is still a major historical tourist attraction and shopping area. The district is known for the local Taiwanese cuisine, the Chien-Cheng Circle, and also being the center of the February 28 Incident.\n\nWhen the export of tea became important in northern Taiwan in the mid-19th century, many businessmen appeared at Twatutia. The first shop opened in 1851, belonging to Lin Lan-tian (林藍田), a native of Keelung. Lin opened three shops that he later called \"Lim Ek-sun\" (林益順). Foreigners entered the trade in 1867 and five British firms had been established at Twatutia by 1872.\n\nIn 1853, many people moved into the area from Bangka following a serious conflict.\n\nThe first rail station in Taipeh (modern-day Taipei) was completed in Twatutia in October 1891, when the railway to Keelung was opened for service. The branch line from Taipeh to Tamsui was completed in June 1901, and () opened as part of the then TRA Tamsui Line. However, it was closed to passenger service in 1916 and continued to operate as a freight-only station until its eventual closure in 1937.\n\nIn the early 20th century, \"Daitotei\" was considered a part of the \"Taihoku\" (Taipei) area outside of the city proper, and was where European settlers lived. It stretched northward along the Tamsui River, which flows down to the port, a distance of about . Daitotei was the second most populous city in Taiwan (second to Tainan and followed by \"Banka\") with a population of thirty to forty thousand. In 1920, it became part of the newly incorporated Taihoku City under Taihoku Prefecture.\n\nDaitotei was the location for one of the first movie theaters built for the native Taiwanese audience during Japanese occupation. The interior structure of Eraku-za imitated the Imperial Theater in Tokyo and included a café, a gymnasium and dressing rooms.\n\nThe most famous street in Dadaocheng was named Dihua Street after World War II and is the oldest street in Taipei. There are many stores selling dried goods and snacks, especially before the Lunar New Year. is also on Dihua Street. There is a festival to celebrate the birthday of Xiahai Chenghuang (a city god) on the 13th day of the 5th lunar month every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "11450143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11450143", "title": "Uggleviken", "text": "Uggleviken\n\nUggleviken () is a former bay and lake in Norra Djurgården, a semi-rural area in north-eastern central Stockholm, Sweden, forming part of the Royal National City Park.\n\nTogether with Lillsjön, Laduviken and Storängsbotten, Uggleviken used to be part of a bay forking across Norra Djurgården. Today it is reduced to a marsh or a wet alder forest with patches of reeds in its centre. It is regarded as of great natural value and have been mentioned as one of the most interesting botanical and ornithological areas in Stockholm.\n\nThe spring of the lake first appears in historical records in the end of the 18th century and during the 19th century and early 20th century it became a popular Trinity spring to which Stockholmers in huge numbers would go on Trinity Sunday to drink at a ceremony. A pavilion constructed in 1902 is still reminding of the era.\n\nThe marsh's catchment area, considered as one of the most important wetlands in Stockholm and an important biotope for many species, is relatively untouched by humans and mostly contains forest and open terrain. Björknäsvägen, a densely trafficked road stretching along the northern side of Uggleviken, reduces accessibility to the wetland, as do the suburban railway Roslagsbanan and an industrial railway south of it. The Royal Institute of Technology occupies approximately 20 per cent of the catchment area and on the west side are a number of allotment-gardens.\n\nThe major inflow comes from stormwater and surface runoff. Pipes from settled areas opening out on the southern side are believed to be the major environmental burden together with run-off water from the road north of the wetland. High levels of phosphorus have been recorded in the outflow.\n\nBotanically, many rare species such as water sedge, lesser tussock-sedge, alternate-leaved golden-saxifrage, small water-pepper, marsh stitchwort, and marsh fern are present. Specimens in isolated ponds in the area contain species of Oligochaeta, and Gastropoda, such as \"Valvata critata\" and \"Anisus leucostoma\". Many species of birds are found in the marsh, including thrush nightingale, redwing, dunnock, and Eurasian wren. Smooth newt and common toad were both reported in 1996.\n\nBoth the wetland and the surrounding national park are easily accessible. The nearest metro station is Tekniska högskolan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57374027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57374027", "title": "Yonago Industrial Gymnasium", "text": "Yonago Industrial Gymnasium\n\nYonago Industrial Gymnasium is an arena in Yonago, Tottori, Japan. \n"}
