{"id": "35477967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35477967", "title": "Ambo language (Nigeria)", "text": "Ambo language (Nigeria)\n\nAmbo is a Tivoid language of Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "26488338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26488338", "title": "Bikini barista", "text": "Bikini barista\n\nA bikini barista is a person who prepares and serves coffee drinks while dressed in scanty attire such as a bikini or lingerie. In the United States, this marketing trend (sometimes referred to as sexpresso or bareista) originated in the Seattle, Washington area in the early 2000s. Similar phenomena have appeared in countries such as Chile and Japan since at least the 1980s.\n\nEspresso drive-through stands and coffee outlets are numerous in the greater Seattle area, so much so that coffee stands that have fully clothed employees often advertise themselves as \"family friendly\". The exact inventor of the \"bikini barista\" concept is debated. The \"Natte Latte\" chain's first location was opened in November 1999 by Mary Keller, and its employees began sporting pink leather hotpants in 2001. Next, in 2003, \"Cowgirls Espresso\" opened its first location in Tukwila, Washington. A few months after opening, as summer heat invaded the small shop, owner Lori Bowden adopted employee suggestions that they start a \"Bikini Wednesday\" promotion. Sales took off, and other scantily-clad theme days soon followed. The concept of \"bikini baristas\" spread quickly, featuring attractive young women dressed in attire such as bikinis, lingerie, stockings, and heels. The first round of international press attention to the trend occurred in early 2007. Competitors that have not followed suit have complained about the trend, and have also seen a drop in business.\n\nThe retail establishments which employ bikini baristas often adopt titillating names, including \"Peek A-Brew\", \"Grab n' Go\", \"Cowgirls Espresso\", \"Smokin' Hot Espresso\", \"Knotty Bodies Espresso\", \"Java Jigglers\", \"Espresso Gone Crazy\", \"Espresso Gone Wild\", \"Java Girls\", \"Sweet Spot\", \"Fantasy Espresso\", and \"Natte Latte\".\n\nThe phenomenon of bikini baristas has sometimes caused controversy and complaints from local residents.\n\nAs a result of these complaints and incidents, some local jurisdictions have considered adopting local ordinances to regulate and control the activities of the stores.\n\nUndercover police officers in Snohomish County, Washington, witnessed some baristas performing additional services for extra money, including letting customers touch them, photograph them or watch them lick whipped cream off each other. These statements have been retracted by the Everett WA police department, as the police officer 'undercover' was a known customer and offered money to the barista. The Everett, WA police department was accused of entrapment. In September 2009, five baristas at a Grab 'n Go in Everett, Washington were charged with prostitution after police surveillance caught them stripping and performing sexual acts for cash. Other complaints were in regard to the stand's proximity to preschools and daycare centers.\n\nIn July 2011 the owner and three employees of Java Juggs in Edmonds, Washington, were charged with prostitution, with the police later releasing some footage obtained.\n\nEverett (the county seat of and the largest city in Snohomish County), in December 2017 was temporarily enjoined against enforcing a dress code ordinance against bikini baristas by U.S. District Court Judge Marsha Pechman who found it unconstitutionally vague, violated their freedom of expression and unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment since it targeted only women. In 2018 March the city filed an appeal with 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and requested the injunction be lifted.\n\nIn another incident, \"Espresso Gone Wild\" in Belfair, Washington was temporarily shut down by Mason County in August 2008. It drew the ire of Belfair residents. Mason County officials responded to complaints on the July 30, 2008 meeting by ruling the espresso stand is \"erotic entertainment\" and off limits in the Belfair area. The owners of \"Espresso Gone Wild\" in Belfair were being told that their baristas are violating an erotic entertainment ordinance. They were also told that their baristas need to cover up and clean up their act or the stand will be shut down permanently. Mason County Commissioner Tim Sheldon says the owners of \"Espresso Gone Wild\" are welcome to open a coffee shop and compete with all the other coffee shops in town. Sheldon also says the owners won't be able to sell sex and coffee on the side. \"Espresso Gone Wild\" in Belfair, Washington was prohibited from allowing employees to wear pasties and their baristas now wear bikinis. Residents in another community have surveilled a local stand and called for boycotts of companies whose employees patronize the establishments.\n\nIn Yakima, Washington, a bikini bar owner was sentenced to 100 hours of community service and fined $1,000 because, at the coffee shop, the barista \"wore shorts determined to be both too skimpy and too sheer. A city ordinance bans bikini baristas from wearing G-strings and see-through clothing.\" The barista was charged but acquitted by the jury in the indecent exposure case.\n\nSome entrepreneurs have opened bikini barista stores with success outside the Seattle area, including in Raleigh, North Carolina, Aurora, Colorado, Portland, Oregon, Youngstown, Ohio, Tampa, Florida, Pasadena, Maryland, Chatsworth, Georgia, Las Vegas, Texas, and Missouri. \"Baristas\" has been dubbed the Hooters of coffee due to its size and popularity in the market. Hooters is place in which scantily clad women serve food and drinks to patrons. Bikini Beans is another such place in the US.\n\nA Los Angeles area store called \"Bikini Espresso\" only lasted four months in the Los Angeles area in 2009, and closed with complaints of over-regulation.\n\nOne chain in particular called \"Bottoms Up Espresso\", who have expanded into multiple Northern California markets including locations in Modesto, California; Tracy, California; Clovis, California; Bakersfield, California; and Vernalis, California; has quickly become a favorite among social media users with their baristas featured regularly on the website The Chive and other popular websites. With the brands growing popularity they have expanded into a mobile food truck style service and expanded into its own line of merchandise including yearly calendars featuring their current line up of bikini baristas.\n\nTwo bikini barista businesses are opened in northwest Fresno, California, Java Girls Espresso and Pink Pantherz Espresso, since the summer of 2014. However, on Facebook, Java Girls Espresso's owner Terry Ford announced that it closed its door on January 1, 2015 due to financial difficulty.\n\n\nIn a column published in \"Sociological Images\", the sociologist Lisa Wade has used the bikini barista as a launching point for a discussion of the boundaries of sex work. The question has also been the subject of an essay published in \"The Atlantic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "506167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506167", "title": "Brahui people", "text": "Brahui people\n\nThe Brahui (Brahui: براہوئی,) or Brahvi people are an ethnic group of about 2.2 million people with the vast majority found in Baluchistan, Pakistan. They are a small minority group in Afghanistan, where they are native, but they are also found through their diaspora in Middle Eastern states. They mainly occupy the area in Balochistan from Bolan Pass through the Bolan Hills to Ras Muari (Cape Monze) on the Arabian sea, separating the Baloch people of Balochistan to the west and the Sindhi people of Sindh in the east. The Brahuis are almost entirely Sunni Muslims. There is a varied pattern of language use among the Brahui: some of the constituent groups predominantly speak the Dravidian Brahui language, others are bilingual in Balochi and Brahui, while others are speakers only of Balochi.\n\nThe fact that other Dravidian languages only exist further south in India has led to several speculations about the origins of the Brahui. There are three hypotheses regarding the Brahui that have been proposed by academics. \n\nOne theory is that the Brahui are a relict population of Dravidians, surrounded by speakers of Indo-Iranian languages, remaining from a time when Dravidian was more widespread. \n\nA second theory is that they migrated to Baluchistan from inner India during the early Muslim period of the 13th or 14th centuries. \n\nThe third theory says the Brahui migrated to Balochistan from Central India after 1000 AD. \n\nThe absence of any older Iranian (Avestan) influence in Brahui supports this last hypothesis. The main Iranian contributor to Brahui vocabulary is a northwestern Iranian language, Baluchi, Sindhi and southeastern Iranian language, Pashto. However, the Brahui do not have higher genetic affinity with Dravidian populations in India than other neighboring Indo-Iranian Pakistanis. Pagani, et al., conclude that this shows that the Brahui, although speaking a Dravidian language, had their Dravidian genetic component completely replaced by Indo-Iranian speakers, suggesting that the Brahui are descendents of a previous relict population whose genomes were replaced when more recent Indo-Iranian speakers arrived in South Asia. Linguistic findings and oral histories of the Brahui however say otherwise.\n\nThere are three groups of Brahui tribes. The \"nucleus\" consists of the Achmadzai, Gurguari, Iltazai, Kalandari, Kambrani, Mirwari, Rodeni and the Sumalari, which altogether account for only a small proportion of the total number of Brahuis. The majority of the population is divided up between the Jhalawan Brahuis (which include the tribes of the Bizanjars, Harunis, Muhammad Hasnis, Mengals, Siapad, Nicharis, Pandranis, Sajdis and the Zahris), and the Sarawan Brahuis (comprising the tribes of the Muhammad Shahi, Bangulzai, Kūrd, Lahri, Langov, Raisani, Rustamzai, Sarparah, Satakzai, Shahwani and Zagar-Mengal).\n\nThe Brahui language is a Dravidian language, even though it is very far from South India. It is mainly spoken in the Kalat areas of Balochistan, Pakistan, and in Southern Afghanistan, as well as by an unknown very small number of expatriates in the Persian Gulf states, Turkmenistan, as well as Iranian Balochistan. It has three dialects: Sarawani (spoken in the north), Jhalawani (spoken in the southeast), and Chaghi (spoken in the northwest and west) The 2013 edition of Ethnologue reports that there are some 4.2 million speakers; 4 million live in Pakistan, mainly in the province of Balochistan. Due to its isolation, Brahui's vocabulary is only 15% Dravidian, while the remainder is dominated by Balochi, and Indo-Aryan languages (for example, of the number names from \"one\" to \"ten,\" \"four\" through \"ten\" are borrowed from Persian). Brahui is generally written in the Perso-Arabic script and there is even a Latin alphabet that has been developed for use with Brahui.\n\nKalat, Jhalawan, and Sarawan, with Kalat as the standard dialect.\n\nAt present Brahui is spoken in Pakistani Balochistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Sindh and the Persian Gulf Arab states.\n\nBrahuis display a variety of Y-DNA haplogroups, the most important being haplogroup R1a1a-M17(35% to 39.09%) - with its mass diffusion among populations of Central/South Asia and associated with the early eastern migrations of Indo-Iranian nomads. Haplogroup J, which is found among other subcontinental peoples and more typical of Near-Eastern populations occurs at 28%. Other, relatively minor, low-frequency haplogroups among the Brahui are those of G, L, E1b1a, and N. These haplogroups show that the Brahui population genetics are largely indistinguishable from those of Indo-Iranian speakers which are adjacent to them, like the Balochi and Makrani, but different from those further away, such as Sindhi.\n\nAccording to Quintana-Murci et al. (2004), the Brahui population has a high prevalence (55%) of western Eurasian mtDNAs and the lowest frequency in the region (21%) of haplogroup M*, which is common (∼60%) among the Dravidian-speaking Indians. So the possibility of the Dravidian presence in Baluchistan originating from recent entry of Dravidians of India should be excluded. It also shows their maternal gene pool is similar to Indo-Iranian speakers. The present Brahui population may have originated from ancient Indian Dravidian-speakers who may have relocated to Baluchistan and admixed with locals; however, no historical record supports this. So it is suggested that they are the last northern survivors of a larger Dravidian-speaking region before Indo-Iranian arrived. This would, if true, reinforce the proto-Elamo-Dravidian hypothesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52355909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355909", "title": "Cannabis in Comoros", "text": "Cannabis in Comoros\n\nCannabis in Comoros is currently illegal. It was legal during the Comorian historical period between January 1975 and May 1978, when president Ali Soilih legalized cannabis consumption among other measures.\n"}
{"id": "35610637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35610637", "title": "Cao Miao language", "text": "Cao Miao language\n\nCao Miao (; autonym: \"\") is a variety of Dong (Kam) according to Shi Lin (2012). Dialects include Liushi (\"Sixty\") Miao 六十苗, Sishi (\"Forty\") Miao 四十苗, and Ershi (\"Twenty\") Miao 二十苗 (also known as Flowery Miao 花苗). The Flowery Miao 花苗 do not consider themselves to be Cao Miao 草苗, although their language is similar to Sixty Miao and Forty Miao (Shi 2012).\n\nThere are various ethnic subgroups within Cao Miao (Shi 2015:7).\n\n\nOther ethnolinguistic groups living near the Cao Miao include the Han 汉族, Dong 侗族, Yao 瑶族, Suantang 酸汤人, Sanqiao 三撬人, Pinghua speakers, Hakka 客家人, Chuanmin 船民 (a Guibei 桂北 Yue Chinese lect), Naxi 那溪人, Liujia 六甲人, and Liuse 六色人.\n\nThere is a total of 58,900 Cao Miao people (Shi 2015:9). The following population statistics are from Shi (2015:9).\n\nBy ethnic subgroup:\n\nBy county:\n\nBelow are languages and their respective locations studied by Shi Lin (2012).\n\nEthnic Cao Miao also live in the following townships.\n\nSishi Miao 四十苗 is spoken in these townships:\n\nThe Flowery Miao live in Luoxiang 洛香镇, Congjiang County; Guochong 锅冲乡 and Dagaoping 大高坪, Tongdao County; Deshun 德顺乡, Liping County. In Liping County, they are also known as the \"Flowery-Clothed Miao\" (花衣苗) (\"Liping County Almanac\" 1989:153). According to Shi Lin (2012), Flowery Miao 花苗 (Ershi Miao 二十苗) is spoken in these townships:\n\nOther Cao Miao locations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "47501132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47501132", "title": "Capital punishment in Nigeria", "text": "Capital punishment in Nigeria\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Nigeria. \n\nMethods of executions include hanging and shooting and capital crimes include murder, terrorism-related offenses, rape, robbery, kidnapping, sodomy, homosexuality, blasphemy, adultery, incest, assisting the suicide of a person legally unable to consent, perjury in a capital case causing wrongful execution, treason, some military offences like mutiny and practice of indigenous beliefs in states applying Shariah law.\n\nDuring the Nigerian military juntas of 1966–79 and 1983–98, the government used capital punishment against political opponents, most notoriously when General Sani Abacha ordered the execution of the Ogoni Nine by hanging in 1995. Since the transition to democracy, executions have become rare; no executions took place between 2006 and 2013, when four prisoners on death row were hanged. About a thousand prisoners were awaiting execution at the time. After that, there were no more executions until 2016, when Nigeria hanged 3 men for murder and armed robbery. These executions were the last to date in Nigeria.\n\nOn 17 December 2014, after being found guilty of conspiracy to commit mutiny, 54 Nigerian soldiers were sentenced to death by firing squad. The trial was held secretly by a military tribunal.\n\nThe use of the death penalty in Nigeria has generated varied opinions among people in society. In October 2014, former Governor of Delta State Emmanuel Uduaghan pardoned three inmates who were on death row following the recommendations by the State Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy. In 2017, the Nigerian government has rejected the call by Amnesty International to halt the planned execution of some inmates on death row in Lagos State, and pointed that the death penalty was expressly authorized by section 33 of the Constitution of Nigeria.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32512016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32512016", "title": "Change of command", "text": "Change of command\n\nA change of command is a military tradition that represents a formal transfer of authority and responsibility for a unit from one commanding or flag officer to another. The passing of colors, standards, or ensigns from an outgoing commander to an incoming one ensures that the unit and its soldiers is never without official leadership, a continuation of trust, and also signifies an allegiance of soldiers to their unit's commander.\n\nGreat symbolism is attached to the ceremonial aspects of a change of command. An inspection and review of soldiers, gun salutes, as well as a military band will often be incorporated into the ceremony.\n\nFor a Command Sergeant Major, the transferred item might be a saber during a Change of Responsibility, while for a Chaplain, the item might be the passing of a Clerical Stole.\n\n"}
{"id": "42416119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42416119", "title": "Chumburung", "text": "Chumburung\n\nChumburung is a kingdom and traditional area in the western part of Kpandae District in the Northern Region of Ghana. It is the homeland of the Chumburu, but Bassari, Gonjas, Kokombas and Nawuri(s) are also indigenous in the area. Land, however, can only be acquired with the permission of the village chief and the king, who are both natives and officials of the Chumburung kingdom. Chumburung is also the name of the language of the Chumburu.\n\nThe kingdom of Chumburung encompasses a number of villages at both sides of the Dakar River, from Kojobonipe in the North to Lonto in the South-West and Wiae in the East, both on the shores of Lake Volta. Other towns and villages in the kingdom, roughly from North to South, are Ekumdepe (Kumdi for short), Ba(n)kamba, Chakori, Nanjiro, Tori, Jamboae and Kachanka.\n\nChumburung is remote from the modern world in many senses. The few roads that exist in the area can only be plied by heavy vehicles, such as lorries, Benz buses in good condition, strong pick-ups and 4WD vehicles. Since few inhabitants can afford such means of transport for private use, the most popular vehicle is the motorcycle. Public transport consists of one Benz daily between Kpandae and Salaga (leaving Kpandae at dawn, arriving in Salaga around 10 a.m., and returning in the afternoon) and one Benz bus daily between Banda and Salaga, serving almost all the villages of Chumburung (leaving Banda at dawn and also returning in the afternoon).\n\nUp to now (April, 2014), Chumburung is not connected to any electricity network and few inhabitants have their own generators, but Volta River Authority is in the process of connecting some of the towns to its grid. The only telephone company that is active in the area is MTN, but inhabitants of Wiae may get coverage from the Airtel Africa pole in Banda.\n\nThe first schools in Chumburung were set up by Ashanti teachers in the 1980s; they were later followed by others who started to teach in the local languages including Chumburung.\n"}
{"id": "25774729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25774729", "title": "Conservation economy", "text": "Conservation economy\n\nA conservation economy is an ideal, imagined economy in which economic wealth is harvested from a bioregion's local natural resources in a way that meets local communities' needs yet restores rather than depletes natural and social capital\n\"In a conservation economy, economic arrangements of all kinds are gradually redesigned so that they restore, rather than deplete, natural capital and social capital...Even in a globalizing economy, diverse bioregional economies that are more self-sufficient in meeting their own needs will be more competitive and less vulnerable...\" \nThe primary agents expected to ultimately transform local economies and move bioregions towards locally resilient and enduring 'conservation economies' are small plus medium-sized business owners ('conservation entrepreneurs') who embrace a conservation ethic and take a rational self-interest in maintaining and restoring local ecosystems\n\"Individuals and organizations that see its potential and acquire the skills to build [a conservation economy] will create ongoing and enduring economic opportunities. Individuals and organizations that continue to depend on the depletion of social and natural capital will face increasingly unpredictable global commodity markets, tightening laws and regulations, new taxes, public outrage, loss of motivation, and many other symptoms of economic transformation\"\nKey advocates spending many years taking a lead in promoting the benefits of conservation economies and investing in local businesses to help build conservation economies have been the not-for-profit organization, Ecotrust, (founded in 1991 by economist Spencer Beebe) and its partners: Ecotrust Canada, ShoreBank Pacific, and ShoreBank Enterprise Pacific\n\n"}
{"id": "23690513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690513", "title": "Cost of raising a child", "text": "Cost of raising a child\n\nThe cost of raising a child varies from country to country.\n\nThe cost of raising a child is usually determined according to a formula that accounts for major areas of expenditure, such as food, housing, and clothing. However, any given family's actual expenses may differ from the estimates. For example, the rent on a home does not usually change when the tenants have another child, so the family's housing costs may remain the same. In other cases, the home may be too small, in which case the family might move to a larger home at a higher cost.\n\nAccording to Globalissues.org, \"Almost half the world—over three billion people—live on less than $2.50 a day.\" This statistic includes children. Based on UNICEF statistics, in developing countries the cost is roughly US$900 for raising a child for a year, and US$16,200 for raising a child from birth to age 17. (This calculation is difficult, since families in developing countries often do not operate with currency, but barter or trade to provide for their children.) Half of all children in the world live in poverty.\n\nThe annual LV= (Liverpool Victoria) Cost of a Child report calculates the cost of raising a child from birth to 21 years old. The latest report puts the cost as £231,843. The Cost of a child calculations, from birth to 21 years, were compiled by the Centre of Economic and Business Research (CEBR) for LV= in December 2015 and are based on the cost for the 21-year period to December 2015. Additional research was conducted by Opinium Research LLP from 22 to 27 January 2016. The total sample size was 1,000 UK adults with children under the age of 18 and was conducted online. Results have been weighted to nationally representative criteria\n\nBased on a survey by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the table below shows the estimated Average Spending on Children by Families. The data comes from the Consumer Expenditure Survey by the U.S. Department of Labor, conducted from 2005-06. The figures have been updated to 2011 dollars using the Consumer Price Index. However, some dispute the numbers as being biased high for political reasons (e.g., Texas A&M University Finance Professor H. Swint Friday: \"The numbers, reported by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, are outrageously misleading. Often government statistics are produced for political objectives that cause the research methodology to be biased toward finding the highest dollar amount to support the objective.\").\n\nThese figures from the USDA go up to age 18, and do not include any college or university education. Nor does it offer any spending estimates if the child remains in the home as a dependent after the age of 18.\n\nBoth tables are for the United States overall, not based on any specific region in the country.\n\nAlso notice that the dual parent and solo parent charts use different income ranges so that direct comparison between the two should be undertaken with care.\n\nBased on an estimate by Economic Times in April 2011, the cost of raising a child from birth to age of majority (21 Years) for a middle to upper-middle income family comes to about in total.\n\nCost break up is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "480936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480936", "title": "Doctrine of signatures", "text": "Doctrine of signatures\n\nThe doctrine of signatures, dating from the time of Dioscorides and Galen, states that herbs resembling various parts of the body can be used by herbalists to treat ailments of those body parts. A theological justification, as stated by botanists such as William Coles, was that God would have wanted to show men what plants would be useful for.\n\nIt is today considered to be pseudoscience, and has led to many deaths and severe illnesses. For instance birthwort, once used widely for pregnancies, is carcinogenic and very damaging to the kidneys, owing to its aristolochic acid content. As a defense against predation, many plants contain toxic chemicals the action of which is not immediately apparent, or easily tied to the plant rather than other factors.\n\nParacelsus (1493–1541) developed the concept, writing that \"Nature marks each growth ... according to its curative benefit\", and it was followed by Giambattista della Porta in his \"Phytognomonica\" (1588).\n\nThe writings of Jakob Böhme (1575–1624) spread the doctrine of signatures. He suggested that God marked objects with a sign, or \"signature\", for their purpose.\nPlants bearing parts that resembled human body-parts, animals, or other objects were thought to have useful relevance to those parts, animals or objects. The \"signature\" could sometimes also be identified in the environments or specific sites in which plants grew. Böhme's 1621 book \"The Signature of All Things\" gave its name to the doctrine. The English physician-philosopher Sir Thomas Browne in his discourse The Garden of Cyrus (1658) uses the Quincunx pattern as an archetype of the 'doctrine of signatures' pervading the design of gardens and orchards, botany and the Macrocosm at large. \n\nThe botanist William Coles (1626–1662) supposed that God had made 'Herbes for the use of men, and hath given them particular Signatures, whereby a man may read ... the use of them.' Coles's \"The Art of Simpling\" and \"Adam in Eden\", stated that walnuts were good for curing head ailments because in his opinion, \"they Have the perfect Signatures of the Head\". Regarding \"Hypericum\", he wrote, \"The little holes whereof the leaves of Saint Johns wort are full, doe resemble all the pores of the skin and therefore it is profitable for all hurts and wounds that can happen thereunto.\"\n\nA theological justification was made for this philosophy: \"It was reasoned that the Almighty must have set his sign upon the various means of curing disease which he provided\".\n\nFor the late medieval viewer, the natural world was vibrant with images of the Deity: 'as above, so below,' a Hermetic principle expressed as the relationship between macrocosm and microcosm; the principle is rendered \"sicut in terra\". Michel Foucault expressed the wider usage of the doctrine of signatures, which rendered allegory more real and more cogent than it appears to a modern eye:\n\nThe concept of signatures is reflected in the common names of some plants whose shapes and colors reminded herbalists of the parts of the body where they were thought to do good, as for instance:\n\n\nConcepts similar to the doctrine of signatures may be found in folk or indigenous medicines, and in modern alternative medicines.\n\nThe phrase \"signatures of all things\" appears in the beginning of episode 3 in James Joyce's novel Ulysses. The character Stephen Dedalus walking along the beach, thinking to himself \"Signatures of all things I am here to read, seaspawn and seawrack, the nearing tide, that rusty boot\". The Canadian poet Anne Szumigalski, 1922–1999, entitled her third full-length collection \"Doctrine of Signatures\".\n\nThe signatures are described as post hoc attributions and mnemonics, of value only in creating a system for remembering actions attributed to medical herbs. There is no scientific evidence that plant shapes and colors help in the discovery of medical uses of plants.\n\nAnother explanation is that the human mind, in trying to find patterns to explain phenomena, while lacking adequate scientific knowledge, resorts to anthropomorphism.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "29783216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29783216", "title": "Ethiopian Jews in Israel", "text": "Ethiopian Jews in Israel\n\nEthiopian Jews in Israel are immigrants and descendants of the immigrants of the Beta Israel communities of Ethiopia, who now reside in Israel.\n\nMost of the community made aliyah from Ethiopia to Israel in two waves of mass immigration assisted by the Israeli government: Operation Moses (1984) and Operation Solomon (1991). Today Israel is home to the largest Beta Israel community in the world with about 125,500 citizens of Ethiopian descent in 2011, who are mainly assembled in the smaller urban areas of central Israel.\n\nThe first Ethiopian Jews who settled in Israel in the modern times came in 1934 along with the Yemenite Jews from Italian Eritrea.\n\nBetween the years 1963 and 1975 a relatively small group of Beta Israel emigrated to Israel. The Beta Israel immigrants in that period were mainly very few men who have studied and came to Israel on a tourist visa and then remained in the country illegally.\n\nSeveral of their supporters in Israel, who recognized their \"Jewishness\" decided to assist them. These supporters began organizing in associations, among others under the direction of Ovadia Hazzi, an Eritrean-born Yemeni Jew who married a Beta Israel woman in Israel. Several of the illegal immigrants managed to get their status with the Israeli authorities regularized through the assistance of these support associations. Some agreed to \"convert\" to Judaism, which helped them regulated their personal status and remain in Israel. People who get their regularization often brought their families to Israel as well.\n\nIn 1973, Ovadia Hazzi officially raised the question of the \"Jewishness\" of the Beta Israel to Israel's Sephardi Chief Rabbi Ovadia Yosef. The rabbi, citing a rabbinic ruling from the 16th century David ben Solomon ibn Abi Zimra, asserted that the Beta Israel are descended from the lost tribe of Dan, and eventually acknowledged their \"Jewishness\" in February 1973. This ruling was initially rejected by the Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi Shlomo Goren, who eventually changed his opinion on the matter in 1974.\n\nIn April 1975, the Israeli government of Yitzhak Rabin officially accepted the Beta Israel as Jews, for the purpose of the Law of Return (An Israeli act which grants all the Jews in the world the right to immigrate to Israel).\n\nLater on, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin obtained clear rulings from Chief Sephardi Rabbi Ovadia Yosef that they were descendants of the Ten Lost Tribes. The Chief Rabbinate of Israel did however initially require them to undergo \"pro forma\" Jewish conversions, to remove any doubt as to their Jewish status.\n\n\n\n\nEthiopian Beta Israel are gradually becoming part of the mainstream Israeli society in religious life, military service (with nearly all males doing national service), education, and politics. Similarly to other groups of immigrant Jews, who made aliyah to Israel, the Ethiopian Beta Israel have faced obstacles in their integration to Israeli society. The Ethiopian Beta Israel community's internal challenges have been complicated by: entering a relatively modern country (Israel) from non-modern, rural, remote regions of Ethiopia (compared with other immigrant groups entering from industrialized countries and who typically possess significantly greater formal education); the disruption of longstanding hierarchies and customs within Beta Israel in which elders lead and guide their community; some racial prejudice, echoing racism that has existed in neighboring Middle Eastern countries and in 'Western' countries; a degree of lingering doubt within a minority of groups, regarding the 'Jewishness' of certain Ethiopians (e,g., the Falash Mura). However, with successive generations, Ethiopian Israelis have climbed in Israeli society.\n\nIndividual Ethiopian Beta Israel had lived in Eretz Yisrael prior to the establishment of the state. A youth group arrived in Israel in the 1950s to undergo training in Hebrew education and returned to Ethiopia to educate young Beta Israeli community members there. Also, Ethiopian Beta Israel had been trickling into Israel prior to the 1970s. The numbers of such Ethiopian immigrants grew after the Israeli government officially recognized them in 1973 as Jews, entitled to Israeli citizenship.\n\nTo prepare for the absorption of tens of thousands of Ethiopian Beta Israel, the State of Israel prepared two `Master Plans’ (Ministry of Absorption, 1985, 1991). The first was prepared in 1985, a year after the arrival of the first wave of immigrants. The second updated the first in response to the second wave of immigration in 1991 from Ethiopia. The first Master Plan contained an elaborate and detailed program. It covered issues of housing, education, employment and practical organization, together with policy guidelines regarding specific groups, including women, youths, and single -parent families. Like earlier absorption policies, it adopted a procedural approach which assumed that the immigrants were broadly similar to the existing majority population of Israel. The Plans were created with a firm belief in assimilation. As noted in this section, results have been disappointing and suggest that much greater attention needs to be paid to issues of ethnicity.\n\nAccording to a November 17, 1999, BBC article, a report commissioned by Israel's Ministry of Immigrant Absorption stated that 75% of the 70,000 Ethiopian Beta Israel community, living in Israel in 1999 could not read or write Hebrew. More than half the population could not hold a simple conversation in the Hebrew language. Unlike Russian immigrants, many of whom arrive with job skills, Ethiopians came from a subsistence economy and were ill-prepared to work in an industrialized society. Since then much progress has been made. Through military service most Ethiopian Beta Israel have been able to increase their chances for better opportunities. Today most Ethiopian Beta Israel have been for the most part integrated into Israeli society, however a high drop out rate is a problem, although a higher number are now edging towards the higher areas of society.\n\nIn September, 2006, the Israeli government's proposed 2007 budget included reducing Ethiopian immigration from 600 persons per month to 150. On the eve of the Knesset vote, the Prime Minister's office announced that the plan had been dropped. Advocates for the Falash Mura noted that although the quota was set at 600 per month in March, 2005, actual immigration has remained at 300 per month.\nThe first contact with Israel generally led to a culture shock amongst many of the new immigrants. Many of the Beta Israel immigrants, especially those who came from remote villages in Ethiopia, had never used electricity, elevators, flush toilets or televisions. In addition, the adaptation to the Israeli cuisine was difficult.\n\nThe breakup of many of the close and extended families after being brought to the various integration centers in Israel, as well as the initial integration with the Israeli society was very difficult for many of the new immigrants. Name changing also caused a symbolic break with the new immigrants' past. The Israeli authorities originally gave many of the new immigrants Hebrew given names, Hebrew names, and required them all to have family names, which did not exist in the Ethiopian society. These name changes created a two tier system, in which old and new names were used by the new immigrants. The immersion with the Hebrew language was not easy for the new immigrants, and the majority of the new immigrants never managed to master the language, even after living many years in Israel, resulting in a strong social marginalization. Finally, the questioning of their traditional religious practices by the Chief Rabbinate of Israel led to great confusion amongst the new immigrants.\n\nShas's spiritual mentor, Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, enthusiastically embraced Ethiopians when they first began immigrating to Israel. Despite Rabbi Ovadia's halachic ruling, some refuse to marry Ethiopians without a conversion in accordance with official Chief Rabbinate policy. Only in cities and towns with rabbis that accept Ovadia's ruling or the ruling of Rabbi Shlomo Goren are Ethiopians married without immersion in a ritual bath (mikva) or, for men, \"hatafat dam\", הטפת דם, see \"brit milah\"), the symbolic cut to produce a drop of blood instead of circumcision.\n\nRegarding religious leadership, 60 Kessim (priests) of the Ethiopian immigrants in Israel are employed by the Ministry of Religious Services, and many of them conduct religious ceremonies in Israel. They are however not recognized as rabbis and do not have the authority to perform marriages. Nevertheless, a new generation of rabbis of Ethiopian origin trained in Israel are gradually taking over.\n\nThe biggest challenge to the Israeli Ethiopian Beta Israel community probably lies in the very low level of formal education of the immigrants. With few exceptions, when they first arrived to Israel they had no useful training for a developed economy like that of Israel, and in addition to that they did not know Hebrew. Due to the oral nature of rural living in Ethiopia, illiteracy was very common (according to one estimate, 90% among adults aged 37 and above), although young people were better educated and a minority group amongst the Beta Israel immigrants did attend secondary schools in Ethiopia. Regarding the recent immigration of Falash Mura, NGOs (such as the \"North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry\") have attempted to provide those who have been waiting for years in Ethiopia their immigration basic useful training for immigrants in Israel, as well as basic common concepts in Hebrew. Nevertheless, it is estimated that circa 80% of adult Felesmura become unemployed in Israel.\n\nDue to the lack of work qualifications high unemployment is widespread: In 2005 the unemployment rate was 65% amongst those over the age of 45. The younger generations born or who have grown up in Israel are more successful in being absorbed into Israeli economy, especially due to receiving modern education, although the average rate of educated people amongst the Beta Israel community is still smaller than that of the general Jewish youth, and this factor delays the emergence of a larger middle class group of Ethiopian origin in the Israeli society. Despite this, in 2005, 3000 students graduated of higher education institutions, and 1,500 others graduated at the university. Nevertheless, even the academic graduates often experience trouble finding a job.\n\nLow educational attainment, modest standards of living, and the occasionally isolated habitat may explain the development of delinquency among the Beta Israel youth: in 2005 its rate was three times higher than the rate of the other Israeli youth.\n\nA study published in 2012 found that members of the Beta Israel community earn 30%-40% less than Arab citizens of Israel, who are themselves considered as an underprivileged group. In order to reconcile this problem many programs have been created to better the Ethiopian Jews in Israel's socioeconomic status. One such program was Prof. Shalva Weil's program on excellence among Ethiopian Jews in Educational Leadership, run from the Hebrew University over time, women as well as men trained as leaders and informal educational leaders. Another program is Yvel's Megemeria School. Started in 2012, with the help of Yedid, the established pearl jewelry designer based in Jerusalem decided to open up a school to teach a class of Ethiopian students the tricks of the trade, as well as help them with Hebrew and English language courses and provide them with valuable personal finance lessons. Upon the completion of the program, the graduates are placed in jobs within the Israeli jewelry industry. This program has been so successful that it Yvel receives hundreds of applicants every year, although it only has space for 21 students per class.\n\nThe Atid Ekhad party sees itself as the political representative of the community, though other parties include Ethiopian members. In 2006, Shas, a party representing Haredi Jews of Sephardic and Middle Eastern background, included an Ethiopian rabbi from Beersheba, in its list for the Knesset in a conscious attempt to represent diverse geographic and ethnic groups. Shas was not the only party attempting to appeal to the Ethiopian vote. Herut and Kadima both had Ethiopians on their lists. Shlomo Mula, head of the Jewish Agency's Ethiopian absorption department, was ranked 33 on Kadima's list and Avraham was number three on Herut's list.\n\nIn 2012, Israel appointed the country's first Ethiopian-born ambassador, Beylanesh Zevadia. According to the foreign minister of Israel, this represents an important milestone in fighting racism and prejudice.\n\nThe main language used for communication among Israeli citizens and amongst the Ethiopian Beta Israel in Israel is Modern Hebrew. The majority of the Beta Israel immigrants continue to speak in Amharic (primarily) and Tigrinya at home with their family members and friends. The Amharic language and the Tigrinya language are written in the Ge'ez script, originally developed for the Ge'ez language used in Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.\n\nAlthough some non-Jewish Ethiopians expressed bitterness towards the Beta Israel emigration out of Ethiopia, the Ethiopian Jews have close ties with Ethiopian people and tradition. Achievements by the Ethiopian Jews like Hagit Yaso winning the Kokhav Nolad creates a sense of pride in Ethiopia. The Ethiopian government is also an important ally of Israel on the international stage. Israel often sends expertise assistance for development projects in Ethiopia. Strategically, Israel \"has always aspired to protect itself by means of a non-Arab belt that has included at various times Iran, Turkey and Ethiopia.\"\n\nThe following is a list of the 60 most significant Beta Israel population centers in Israel as of 2006:\n\nThe City of Kiryat Malakhi has a large concentration of Ethiopian Beta Israel, with 17.3% of the towns population being members of the Beta Israel.\n\nControversy regarding the treatment of Ethiopian Jews began as early as the 1980s. Early that decade, the Israeli Chief Rabbinate put a policy in place that required immigrants to go through a ritual conversion ceremony, accept Rabbinic law, and - for males - be re-circumcised, with the stated goal of facilitating their assimilation to Jewish culture in Israel. By 1984, Ethiopian Jews opposed this policy, which they argued disregarded their religious practices as Jews. Many immigrants began to refuse to undergo conversion ceremonies and re-circumcision. In early 1985, the Chief Rabbinate changed the policy so that only Ethiopian Jews who wanted to marry as Jews in Israel would have to undergo the process. However, the Ethiopians still opposed the policy, which no other immigrant group in Israel had to undergo, and launched a strike on September 4, 1985. The strike aimed to achieve recognition as Jews without formal conversion or circumcision. Strikers also demanded that Ethiopians who wanted to marry as Jews should be dealt with on a case by case basis and with the involvement of Ethiopian elders. The Ethiopians set up their strike in Jerusalem, outside the office of the Chief Rabbinate. Located next to the Great Synagogue, this was a prime location because people walking to and from synagogue everyday could see the protest. Eventually, non-Ethiopian Israelis began to join the protest. The strike continued for a month, into Rosh Hashanah. Anxious for the strike to end before Yom Kippur, the Chief Rabbinate began to negotiate with the protesters. The protestors denied the compromises, and once Yom Kippur was over, the Chief Rabbinate stopped negotiating with the protestors. The protestors realized their demonstration was taking a step back, so in order to avoid humiliation they decided to accept a deal presented to them weeks prior to the end of the strike. The Ethiopian Jews and Israeli officials agreed that in order for Ethiopians to marry in Israel, they would need to apply with their local registrar. The registrar would take testimony from Ethiopian elders into account, and those who could prove Jewish lineage could get married without the conversion ceremony.\nIn May 2015, The Jewish Daily Forward described the Ethiopian Jewish community in Israel as one that has \"long complained of discrimination, racism and poverty.\" The absorption of Ethiopians in Israeli society represents an ambitious attempt to deny the significance of race. Israeli authorities, aware of the situation of most African diaspora communities in other Western countries, hosted programs to avoid setting in patterns of discrimination. The Ethiopian Beta Israel community's internal challenges have been complicated by perceived racist attitudes in some sectors of Israeli society and the establishment.\n\nIn 2004, racism was alleged regarding delays in admitting Ethiopian Beta Israel to Israel under the Law of return. However, the delay may be attributed to religious motivations rather than racism, since there was debate whether or not Beta Israel people were indeed Jewish.\n\nIn 2005, racism was alleged when the mayor of Or Yehuda refused to accept a large increase in Ethiopian immigrants due to fear of having the property of the town decrease in value or having an increase in crime.\n\nA survey published by the Jerusalem Post in 2005 found that 43% of Israelis would not marry an Ethiopian and would not want their children to marry a member of the community.\n\nIn 2009, schoolchildren of Ethiopian ancestry were denied admission into three semi-private Haredi schools in Petah Tikva. An Israeli government official criticized the Petah Tikva Municipality and the schools. Shas spiritual leader Ovadia Yosef threatened to fire any school principal from Shas's school system who refused to receive Ethiopian students. The Israeli Education Ministry decided to pull funding from the Lamerhav, Da'at Mevinim and Darkhei Noam schools, which refused to accept the students. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke out against the rejection of Ethiopian children, calling it \"a moral terror attack.\"\n\nDemonstrations in Israel have occurred protesting the alleged racism against Ethiopian immigrants.\n\nIn April 2015 an Ethiopian soldier in the IDF was the victim of an unprovoked and allegedly racist attack by an Israeli policeman and the attack was caught on video. The soldier, Damas Pakedeh, was arrested and then released, after being accused of attacking the policeman. Pakadeh is an orphan who emigrated from Ethiopia with his siblings in 2008. He believes the incident was racially motivated and that if the video had not been taken, he would have been punished. Instead, the police officer and volunteer were suspended pending an investigation. Likud MK Avraham Neguise called on National Police Chief Yohanan Danino to prosecute the police officer and volunteer, saying they engaged in “a gross violation of the basic law of respecting others and their liberty by those who are supposed to protect us.” The Jerusalem Post notes that in 2015 \" there have been a series of reports in the Israeli press about alleged acts of police brutality against Ethiopian Israelis, with many in the community saying they are unfairly targeted and treated more harshly than other citizens.\"\n\nThe incident of police brutality with Pakedeh and alleged brutality of officials from Israel's Administration of Border Crossings, Population and Immigration with Walla Bayach, an Israeli of Ethiopian descent, brought the Ethiopian community to protest. Hundreds of Ethiopians participated in protests the streets of Jerusalem on April 20, 2015 to decry what they view as \"rampant racism\" and violence in Israel directed at their community. Israel Police Commissioner Yohanan Danino met with representatives of the Israeli Ethiopian community that day following the recent violent incidents involving police officers and members of the community. When over a thousand people protested police brutality against Ethiopians and dark skinned Israelis, Prime MInister Benjamin Netanyahu announced:“I strongly condemn the beating of the Ethiopian IDF soldier, and those responsible will be held accountable.” Following protests and demonstrations in Tel Aviv that resulted in violence, Netanyahu planned to meet with representatives of the Ethiopian community, including Pakado. Netanyahu said the meeting would include Danino and representatives of several ministries, including Immigrant Absorption. Danino already announced that the officer who beat Pakado had been fired.\n\nOn January 24, 1996, Ma'ariv newspaper revealed a Magen David Adom policy that drew heavy criticism in Israel and worldwide. According to the policy, which was not brought to the attention of the Israeli Ministry of Health or donors, blood donations received from Ethiopian immigrants and their offspring were secretly disposed of. A later public inquiry traced this back to a misinterpretation of a 1984 instruction to mark blood donations from Ethiopian immigrants due to a relatively high prevalence of HBsAg, indicative of Hepatitis B infections, in blood samples taken from this population.\n\nA few days after the expose, ten thousand Beta Israel demonstrated in front the Office of the Prime Minister. The police force was surprised and unprepared for the violence that erupted, leading to policemen being injured by stones, sticks and steel rods. The police repelled the demonstrators with rubber bullets, water cannons and tear gas. 41 policemen and 20 demonstrators were injured, and 200 cars belonging to the employees of the Prime Minister's Office were damaged.\n\nTests conducted on 650 Ethiopian immigrants who immigrated to Israel in 1984–1990 and 5,200 Ethiopian immigrants who immigrated in 1990–1992 revealed no HIV carriers before July 1990. Nevertheless, among the 5,200 Ethiopian immigrants who immigrated during \"Operation Solomon\" there were 118 HIV carriers, who made up 2.3 percent of the test population.\n\nThe public outcry led to his dismissal of the CEO of MDA and the establishment of a commission of inquiry headed by former Israeli president Yitzhak Navon. After several months, the committee published its conclusions, calling for a change in policy. The Committee did not find evidence of racism, although some researchers have contested this.\n\nOn November 6, 2006, hundreds of Ethiopians clashed with police when protesters attempted to block the entrance to Jerusalem in the wake of the Israeli Health Ministry's decision to continue the MDA policy of disposing of donations from high risk groups.\n\nTo date, the MDA prohibits the use of blood donations from natives of sub-Saharan Africa, except South Africa, natives of Southeast Asia, natives of the Caribbean and natives of countries which have been widely affected by the AIDS epidemic, including donations from the natives of Ethiopia. Since 1991 all immigrants from Ethiopia undergo mandatory HIV screenings, regardless of their intention to donate blood.\n\nAccording to a TV program in 2012, female Ethiopian immigrants may have been given the Depo-Provera birth control drug without full explanation of its effects, although the Israeli health ministry has instructed all health maintenance organizations not to use the treatment unless patients understand the ramifications. Ethiopian Jewish women awaiting aliyah were given birth control while in transit camps. The drug has existed for around thirty years but only about five percent of women elect to use this method of birth control in the US. The effects of Depo-Provera last for three months.\n\nThe practice was first reported in 2010 by \"Isha le'Isha\" (Hebrew: woman to woman), an Israeli women’s rights organization. Hedva Eyal, the report's author, stated: \"We believe it is a method of reducing the number of births in a community that is black and mostly poor.\" Haaretz criticized the coverage, alleging that there was no plan to deliberately reduce the birth rates of Ethiopian Jews, and there was no evidence of coercion.\n\nIn 2005, plans were announced for the establishment of a museum in Rehovot highlighting the culture and heritage of the Ethiopian Beta Israel community. The museum, planned as a research, interpretive and spiritual center, is the initiative of Tomer, an association of veteran Ethiopian immigrants and former Mossad agents who participated in the first operations to bring Ethiopians to Israel. The museum, expected to cost some $4.5 million, will include a model Ethiopian village, an herb garden, an artificial stream, an amphitheater, classrooms, and a memorial to Ethiopians who died in Sudan on their way to Israel and Ethiopian Zionist activists. The city has set aside 6 dunams (6,000 m²) of land for the museum complex. One of the museum's founders was Baruch Tegegne, who pioneered escape routes from Ethiopia via Sudan and fought for the right of the Beta Israel community to emigrate to Israel. Other founders include veteran Ethiopian rights activist Babu Yaakov, a former member of the Ramle City Council, and Shetu Barehon, who worked in the transit camps in Sudan to bring Ethiopian Beta Israel to Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33396281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33396281", "title": "Filipinos in Hawaii", "text": "Filipinos in Hawaii\n\nPeople of Filipino descent make up a large and growing part of the State of Hawaii's population. In 2000 they were the third largest ethnic group and represented 22.8% of the population, but more recent data indicates they have become the largest ethnicity in Hawaii (25.1% in 2010).\n\nThe Filipino and Hawaiian languages are distantly related to each other, being in the Malayo-Polynesian group of Austronesian languages.\n\nDuring the colonial era, the Spanish East Indies, which included the Philippine Islands, were administered as part of New Spain. It is likely, but not documented, that people from the Philippines visited the Hawaiian Islands en route to/from Mexico.\n\nA few Filipinos, known as \"Manila men\" settled in the Kingdom of Hawaii during the 19th century. They mainly worked as cooks and musicians in the Royal Hawaiian Band. No deliberate migration existed during this period.\n\nThe Manila Men were some of the first Filipino overseas workers. They were the first Filipinos to be documented having come to North America.\n\nThe importation of Filipino workers for the sugarcane plantations began between 1906 and 1910. By the 1920s Filipinos in Hawaii were still largely male, men outnumbered women by nearly seven to one, and unmarried. They represented, at one point, half of the workers in the sugar industry. Initially the Filipinos tended to be \"peasants\" of lower education than other groups.\n\nMany Filipino farm laborers were recruited to go to Hawaii in 1906 by the Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Association (HSPA) to work on the sugar plantations in Hawaii. Albert F. Judd, an HSPA recruiter tried to get three hundred Filipinos to work in Hawaii. Those Filipinos were sent to the Olaa Plantation on the Big Island of Hawaii. The sugar industry was a booming at the time so the newly annexed countries of Hawai’i and the Philippines were used in concert to support the industry for the United States. \n\nBy the 1920s there was an average of 7,600 Filipinos arriving in Hawaii annually. Most Filipinos considered themselves temporary residents in Hawaii until around the 1940s. The HSPA preferred Filipinos to work on sugar plantations because they were known to be hard working and were given the lowest wage of all ethnicities working in the plantation.\n\nSome Native Hawaiians worked alongside Filipinos in the sugar plantations. Since the sugar industry in Hawaii was the main source of income for the working class, there was high demand for these jobs. Sugar plantation employers were haole and used racist tactics to divide the plantation laborers. American sugar plantation owners weren’t able to get Native Hawaiians to work for them so they relied heavily on the importation of other ethnicities.\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 allowed more Filipinos to bring family to Hawaii and this allowed more Filipino arrivals, particularly Filipino women, to enter the state. The increase in arrivals also caused some backlash and in the 1970s Filipinos felt discriminated against. They also tended to do more poorly at schools than average in that decade. The reasons why Filipino students underperformed in school in the 1970s is unknown, but discrimination may have contributed. In 1970, of the 93,915 Filipinos living in Hawaii, only 34.4% were high school graduates.\n\nThe 2010 census showed that Filipinos surpassed Japanese as Hawaii’s largest ethnic group. The total population of Filipinos was 342,095 of which 197,497 were full Filipinos, the total population of Japanese was 312,292 of which 185,502 were full Japanese. According to surveys conducted by the American Community Survey showed that Filipinos overtook Japanese between 2007 and 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "579468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579468", "title": "Flower power", "text": "Flower power\n\nFlower power was a slogan used during the late 1960s and early 1970s as a symbol of passive resistance and non-violence ideology. It is rooted in the opposition movement to the Vietnam War. The expression was coined by the American Beat poet Allen Ginsberg in 1965 as a means to transform war protests into peaceful affirmative spectacles. Hippies embraced the symbolism by dressing in clothing with embroidered flowers and vibrant colors, wearing flowers in their hair, and distributing flowers to the public, becoming known as flower children. The term later became generalized as a modern reference to the hippie movement and the so-called counterculture of drugs, psychedelic music, psychedelic art and social permissiveness.\n\nFlower Power originated in Berkeley, California, as a symbolic action of protest against the Vietnam War. In a November 1965 essay titled \"How to Make a March/Spectacle\", Ginsberg advocated that protesters should be provided with \"masses of flowers\" to hand out to policemen, press, politicians and spectators. The use of props like flowers, toys, flags, candy and music were meant to turn anti-war rallies into a form of street theater thereby reducing the fear, anger and threat that is inherent within protests. In particular, Ginsberg wanted to counter the \"specter\" of the Hells Angels motorcycle gang who supported the war, equated war protesters with communists and had threatened to violently disrupt planned anti-war demonstrations at the University of California, Berkeley. Using Ginsberg's methods, the protest received positive attention and the use of \"flower power\" became an integral symbol in the counterculture movement.\n\nBy late 1966, the Flower Power method of guerilla theater had spread from California to other parts of the United States. The Bread and Puppet Theater in New York City staged numerous protests which included handing out balloons and flowers with their anti-war literature. \"Workshop in Nonviolence\" (WIN), a magazine published by New York activists, encouraged the use of Flower Power. In May 1967, Abbie Hoffman organized the Flower Brigade as an official contingent of a New York City parade honoring the soldiers in Vietnam. News coverage captured Flower Brigade participants, who carried flowers, flags and pink posters imprinted with LOVE, being attacked and beaten by bystanders. In response to the violence, Hoffman wrote in WIN magazine, \"Plans are being made to mine the East River with daffodils. Dandelion chains are being wrapped around induction centers... The cry of 'Flower Power' echoes through the land. We shall not wilt.\"\n\nOn the following Sunday in May 1967, WIN activists declared the Armed Forces Day as \"Flower Power Day\" and held a rally in Central Park to counter the traditional parade. Turnout was low and, according to Hoffman, the rally was ineffective because guerilla theater needed to be more confrontational.\n\nIn October 1967, Hoffman and Jerry Rubin helped organize the March on the Pentagon using Flower Power concepts to create a theatrical spectacle. The idea included a call for marchers to attempt to levitate the Pentagon. When the marchers faced off against more than 2500 Army national guard troops forming a human barricade in front of the Pentagon, demonstrators held flowers and some placed flowers in the soldier's rifle barrels.\nPhotographs of flower-wielding protesters at the Pentagon March became seminal images of the 1960s anti-war protests. by French photojournalist Marc Riboud that was printed throughout the world was of seventeen-year-old high school student Jan Rose Kasmir clasping a daisy and gazing at bayonet-wielding soldiers. Smithsonian Magazine later called it \"a gauzy juxtaposition of armed force and flower child innocence\".\n\nOne photo, titled \"Flower Power\" by Washington Star photographer Bernie Boston, was nominated for the 1967 Pulitzer Prize. The photo, taken on October 21, 1967, shows a young, long-haired man in a turtleneck sweater, placing carnations into the rifle barrels of military policemen. (The young man in the photo is most commonly identified as George Edgerly Harris III, an 18-year-old actor from New York who later performed in San Francisco under the stage name of Hibiscus. The young man also has been identified by Paul Krassner as Youth International Party organizer, \"Super-Joel\" Tornabene.)\n\nThe iconic center of the Flower Power movement was the Haight-Ashbury district in San Francisco, California. By the mid-1960s, the area, marked by the intersection of Haight and Ashbury streets, had become a focal point for psychedelic rock music. Musicians and bands like Jefferson Airplane, the Grateful Dead and Janis Joplin all lived a short distance from the famous intersection. During the 1967 Summer of Love, thousands of hippies gathered there, popularized by hit songs such as \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\". A July 7, 1967, \"Time\" magazine cover story on \"The Hippies: Philosophy of a Subculture\" and an August CBS News television report on \"The Hippie Temptation\", as well as other major media interest, exposed the hippie subculture to national attention and popularized the Flower Power movement across the country and around the world. That same summer, the Beatles' hit single \"All You Need Is Love\" served as an anthem for the movement. On 25 June, the Beatles performed the song on the \"Our World\" international satellite broadcast, ensuring that the pacifist message reached an audience estimated at 400 million.\n\nThe avant-garde art of Milton Glaser, Heinz Edelmann, and Peter Max became synonymous with the flower power generation. Edelman's illustration style was best known in his art designs for the Beatles' 1968 animated film \"Yellow Submarine\". Glaser, the founder of Push Pin Studios, also developed the loose psychedelic graphic design, seen for example in his seminal 1966 poster illustration of Bob Dylan with paisley hair. It was the posters by pop artist Peter Max, with their vivid fluid designs painted in Day-Glo colors, which became visual icons of flower power. Max's cover story in \"Life\" magazine (September 1969) as well as appearances on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" and \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", further established \"flower power\" style art into mainstream culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1872032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872032", "title": "Goparaju Ramachandra Rao", "text": "Goparaju Ramachandra Rao\n\nGoparaju Ramachandra Rao (nickname: Gora) (15 November 1902 – 26 July 1975) was an Indian social reformer, atheist activist and a participant in the Indian independence movement. He authored many books on atheism and proposed atheism as self-confidence. He propagated positive atheism by his articles, speeches, books and his social work. He is the founder of Atheist Centre along with his wife Saraswathi Gora and a few volunteers.\n\nGora was born on 15 November 1902, into an orthodox Telugu Brahmin family in Chhatrapur, Odisha, India. He pursued a botany degree, eventually earning his Master's in botany at Presidency College in Madras. He married Saraswathi Gora in 1922, when she was only 10. He taught botany at various institutes at Madurai, Coimbatore, Colombo and Kakinada, for fifteen years.\n\nGora started his activism against superstition in the 1920s. He and his wife publicly viewed solar eclipses, as there was a superstitious belief that pregnant women should not do so. They stayed in haunted houses to dispel the myths about such places.\n\nGora used to run a monthly programme called \"cosmopolitan dinners\" every full moon night, where people of all castes and religions gathered together. Gora insisted on staying in a Harijan locality whenever he was invited to address a village. He also conducted several inter-caste and inter-religious marriages. One of his own sons and daughters married spouses from untouchable castes.\n\nIn 1933, he was dismissed from the PR College in Kakinada for his atheist views. In 1939, he was dismissed from the Hindu College in Machilipatnam for the same reason.\n\nIn 1940, after his dismissal, he and his wife founded the Atheist Centre, in a small village called Mudunur in the Krishna district. The Atheist Centre was (and is) heavily involved in social reforms. On the eve of Independence in 1947, they moved the Atheist centre to Vijayawada. In 1941, he published his first book on atheism in Telugu, \"Atheism: There is no god\" (Telugu: \"Nasthikatvamu: Devudu ledu\").\n\nThroughout the 1940s, he worked in the Indian independence movement. In 1942, Gora along with his wife and eldest son were arrested during the Quit India Movement. Their 18-month son had to accompany his mother to the Royavellor jail.\n\nGora and Gandhi had several discussions, some of which have been recorded in the book \"An Atheist With Gandhi\". When Gandhi asked him to differentiate between atheism and godlessness Gora replied, Gandhi supported Gora's anti-untouchability reform movement, and remarked that he wished Gora would succeed in producing a Tuskegee in India. Tuskegee in Alabama, United States, is an important site in Africa American history where Booker T. Washington established the Tuskegee University.\n\nIn 1952, he contested in the parliamentary elections to propagate his idea of party-less democracy. In 1967, he also contested in the assembly polls.\n\nGora visited several nations in 1970 and 1974. He was in touch with the American atheist, Madalyn Murray O'Hair. On 5 October 1970, O'Hair mentioned Gora and his Atheist Center on her radio show. In 1970, when Gora stopped in United States during his tour, he met O'Hair. They decided that a World Atheist Conference should be held every three years. Gora offered to host the first one in 1972. O'Hair was not able to attend as her visa was not approved in time. The first World Atheist Conference was held on 1972. After the event, Gora published a book in English called \"Positive Atheism\".\n\nGora first organized Beef and Pork Friendship party in Vijayawada on 15 August 1972, the Silver Jubilee of Indian Independence, there was big commotion and opposition. True to his principles, Gora urged for voluntary participation. Puri Shakaracharya and some orthodox people violently opposed and threatened to disrupt the function. When the matter went up to the Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, The government reacted positively and provided police protection. Thousands of people gathered, to witness the beef and pork party. Gora and Saraswathi Gora, who headed the programme, made it clear that it was meant to bring social cohesion. Participants were asked to sign in a register. Among the hundreds of gatherers, 138 people came forward and ate beef and pork together. They included atheists, and even orthodox Hindus, Muslims and Christians. When similar programme was held at Coimbatore, Periyar EV Ramaswami and Gora participated. In various places including Visakhapatnam, Gudivada and Suryapet, Beef and Pork programmes were held.\n\nGora had nine children.Gora got his eldest daughter, Manorama, married to Arjuna Rao, who belonged to the Dalit community In 1949. The marriage was held in Sevagram, in presence of Jawaharlal Nehru.the marriage of his eldest son, Lavanam, with Hemalata, the daughter of Gurram Jashuva, was also held in Sevagram In 1960. His eldest son was an atheist and Gandhian Lavanam, daughter Mythri and another son Vijayam, continued to organise the World Atheist Conference. Mythri chairperson of Atheist Centre and Vijayam is the current executive director of the Atheist Centre. The physician Samaram Ramachandra Rao is his son.\n\nHis daughter, Chennupati Vidya, is a social worker. She was elected to the Lok Sabha, of the Parliament of India, in 1980 and 1989.\n\nGora supported partyless democracy.\n\nGora was a Gandhian and believed in Sarvodaya (progress of all). He rejected historical materialism and considered Marxism a 'fatalist philosophy'.\n\nHe believed that atheism allows a person to surpass the barriers of castes and religions. It allows a person to understand that his/her actions are directed by free will and not Karma, fate or divine will. This in turn would allow Harijans to be liberated, as they would no longer believe that they are fated to be untouchable.\n\nGora died on 26 July 1975 in Vijayawada. His autobiography, completed a few days before his death, was published in 1976. The Atheist Centre continued under the guidance of Saraswathi Gora, until her death in 2006 on 19 August.\n\nIn 2002, India Post, the postal department of the Government of India, released a postage stamp of five rupee denomination commemorating Gora's birth centenary.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18208491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208491", "title": "Help the Aged Canada", "text": "Help the Aged Canada\n\nHelpAge Canada is a non-denominational, non-profit charity in Canada dedicated to assisting impoverished older persons living in Canada and the developing world. HelpAge Canada was previously known as Help the Aged (Canada) until Fall 2010.\n\nHelpAge Canada offers programs for impoverished older persons in eleven developing countries worldwide. \nPrograms focus on primary health care, agro-forestry, food aid, emergency assistance, capacity building, training and sponsorship. \nAll of HelpAge Canada's overseas programs are coordinated through local charitable organizations such as the Oblate missionaries, SOFEPADI, Ahero Joot Social Services, the Salvation Army and the St. Vincent de Paul Society. \nThey work in collaboration with other national and international nongovernmental organizations.\n\nHelpAge Canada obtains its funding from Federal and Provincial government sources, corporations and foundations, and individual donors to support their programs. Primary Government sources include Human Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). \nOver 50% of their funding is raised through general donations and donations in-kind. Government income is used to supplement general donations. Administration costs were 2.7% in 2009-10, fund-raising costs were 6.2%.\n\nHelpAge Canada is governed by an elected volunteer Board of Directors. The Board also appoints Management Committees to advise the Executive Director, who is hired by the Board of Directors. \nThe charity receives support and professional expertise through its affiliate membership with HelpAge International and through its membership with organizations such as the Alberta Wild Rose Foundation.\n\nAmong the many issues tackled by HelpAge Canada are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2544814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544814", "title": "Henogamy", "text": "Henogamy\n\nHenogamy is a social custom allowing exactly one of the children (or male children) in a family to marry.\n\nHenogamy typically exists in order to preserve family property. It is practised by the Nambudiri Brahmin caste in the state of Tamil Nadu, India.\n"}
{"id": "9791508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9791508", "title": "Hoava language", "text": "Hoava language\n\nHoava is an Oceanic language spoken by 1000–1500 people on New Georgia Island, Solomon Islands. Speakers of Hoava are multilingual and usually also speak Roviana, Marovo, SI Pijin, English.\n\nHoava is an Austronesian language that is spoken mostly on the island of New Georgia. New Georgia is a mountainous island, 85 kilometres long and 41 kilometres wide at its widest part, with a total area of 2,145 square kilometres, covered with dense rainforests (Davis 2003). The island of New Georgia was involved in WWII that was later named the New Georgia Campaign which lasted from June 20 to November 3.\n\nHoava is an Austronesian language that is spoken in 3 known locations: Western Province, New Georgia island, North Marovo lagoon, but mainly New Georgia island of the Solomon Islands. According to a 1986 census there are about 2,360 speakers of the language, but language is spoken by 460 people in latest census that was taken in 1999 suggesting a huge drop off in the number of speakers.\n\nHoava uses 16 consonants in its phoneme system, /p, t, b, d, s, β, m, n, r, l, dʒ, k, g, ɣ, ŋ, h/.\n\nHoava uses 5 vowels: /i, ɛ, a, ɔ, u/. There is no phonemic distinction of vowel length, although vowels can be lengthened when stressed (Davis 2003). The vowels can be combined into pairs with the weight of two syllables (Davis 2003).\n\nHoava has an open syllable structure of (C)V. Two vowels occurring together are counted as two syllables, since they function as such for transitive marking rules (Davis 2003). For many Oceanic languages of the Austronesian family group it is common that words do not end in consonant..\n\nIn traditional typology Hoava is a VSO language. There are some modifications to this particular pattern for focusing and topicalization purposes (Davis 2003).\n\nReduplication is frequently used in Hoava as a method of word formation, to express intensification, and to form the progressive aspect of a verb (Davis 2003). Reduplication is used to create words denoting entities related to the referent of the source word, either as part of the entity, or having a resemblance to it, or being a metaphorical extension\"(Davis 2003). \n\nHoava has a decimal system of numbering”(Davis 2003). \n\nInformation in the following sections is based on Davis 2003:45-109, unless otherwise stated. Subsequent references give only relevant page numbers and figures.\n\nWithin the Language Hoava there exists three sets of characteristics in order to distinguish between which personal pronoun is to be used. This includes whether the pronoun is; first, second or third person. The Plurality needed, whether it is singular or plural and whether it is Inclusion or exclusion. \n\nThere are a number of extra circumstances and exceptions which are also present when discussing the use of personal pronouns. One specific example of this is the third person singular form isa which is used as an emphatic (forcible) form or used to refer to a particular topic. Speakers of Hoava tend to use sa for a more general pronoun.\n\nThe third person pronoun eri is used with a dual form created by using the number two ‘karu’ after a plural pronoun. A trial form is also created by using the number three prefix ‘ka-hike’. The dual forms are obligatory whereas trial forms can be replaced by a simple plural.\n\nForms specific for four people are common when it is significant to know that four people were involved. The number four follows the pronoun with the number prefix added e.g. gita ka-made, gami ka-made. Other numbers can be substituted into a sentence in the same matter. When these dual or numerical forms are used, it is most commonly at the start of a narrative to add the names of the others in the group. This does not include the speaker themselves. These pronoun forms can come before a noun phrase in apposition.\n\nExamples:\n\nSagele pale mae eri karu\n\nGo.up return come PRO:3PL two\n\n‘They (two) came back up.’\n\nSome other characteristics to note with the use of pronouns in Hoava is that pronouns can be followed by demonstratives and by the restrictive particle qa, an example of this can be seen below.\n\nThere exist some cases in Hoava in which it is not completely necessary for a pronoun to be present or where exceptions to the use of pronouns exist. Firstly; It is common for the pronoun to be dropped from a sentence completely once it has been made clear who is being referred to, or if it is clear who is being referred to by other information such as object markers. Also, the dropping of pronouns referring to animate objects is predominantly done with first person singular and plural and second person plural pronouns in object position, as the object marker on the verb is the same as the pronoun.\n\nInanimate objects in Hoava do not often have a pronominal reference; a construction which resembles a pronoun to identify the object. However, it is possible to use a pronoun for an inanimate object even though it is rare.\n\nWithin Hoava Language there exists no reflexive forms of the pronouns. In order to create the same meaning as a reflexive the verb pule (meaning return) is used. “There is no subject or object pronoun used, other than the object marker on the applicative suffix…in any of the sentences elicited with the pule used in this manner.” (pg.49) \n\nVaquru teqe pule-ni-rao qa\n\nNew cut return-AP-1SG REST\n\n‘I’ve just cut myself.’\n\nAs you can see in the example above pule has been used with the applicable suffix and the singular, exclusive first person, pronoun rao, to create the meaning of the reflexive form ‘I’ve’. Also, the pronoun is followed by the restrictive particle qa which is a characteristic that was mentioned earlier to sometimes occur with the use of pronouns.\n\nThe morpheme tale- can also be used in the instances mentioned above but rather than performing a reflexive function it acts as an emphasis that no other people were involved apart from the speaker.\n\nVaquru teqe pulu-ni-a tale-na.\n\nNew cut return-AP-3SG alone-3SG\n\n‘(She) has just cut herself.’\n\nWithin the lexicon of Hoava there exists some verbs which have an inherent reflexive meaning built into them and so therefore the use of an extra form which suggests that it is reflexive is not needed. These are verbs which automatically mean performing an action to oneself such as; hele ‘wash oneself’ or viraka ‘scratch (oneself)’\n\nIn Hoava there exists a three-way spatial differentiation of deixis. This includes: proximal, close to the speaker; distal, close to the hearer; and remote, distant for the speaker and the hearer. Of the three sets of demonstratives in Hoava two sets concern the use of pronouns. A set of long forms that are used as both noun modifiers and as demonstrative pronouns and another set which is restricted to being used only as demonstrative pronouns. An extra set of ‘near to hearer’ long demonstratives is also used both as a noun modifier and demonstrative pronoun. These sets all have both singular and plural forms which can be used. \n\nThese long demonstratives can act as demonstrative pronouns at the beginning of a noun phrase.\n\nAn example of the use of long demonstratives is as follows:\n\nHeri ria nikana vihe.\n\nPROX:PL ART:PL man choose\n\n‘These are the chosen men.’\n\nIt is more common in Hoava for the morphemes isana and tiara to be used in place as demonstrative pronouns in favour of the singular distal demonstratives sani and the plural sari. It is also not common for the remote demonstratives Huani and Huari to be used.\n\nHoava has a set of short demonstratives, which are a group of particles found after the noun head of a noun phrase. They have the noun modifying function of adding a sense of definiteness and they may also signify tense. They can be used with common nouns, names, and pronouns. \n\nFor example, a short demonstrative follows a personal pronoun:\n\nKolo, na sa taveti-a gamu na?\n\nFriend ART what do.TR-3SG POR:2PL DEM\n\n‘Friend, what are you doing?’\n\nThe long demonstratives mentioned above cannot occur after the emphatic particles ba and ga as another set of emphatic demonstrative pronouns exist for that case. This other set is used also in questions or as an alternative to the long forms. \n\nFor example:\n\nNa sa heni? Na binu ba sana.\n\nART what PRO:SG ART lime EMPH DIST:SG\n\n‘What is this?’ ‘That’s lime!’\n\nHoava has a set of possessive pronouns which are used at the head of a noun phrase before the item which is being possessed. They are used in cases of exclusive possession. \n\nFor example:\n\nMami gugasu\n\nPOSS:1PL.EX village\n\n‘our village’\n\nNa dia sanu koe-di\n\nART POSS:3PL thing old-3PL\n\n‘Their old things’\n\nHoava has two optional articles E and se which, may or may not be used with personal names or personified animals and birds. These articles are used before the name and although Se is more likely to be used over E neither example is completely necessary and can be dropped.\n\nExample:\n\nSamu Gobe misianare tami gami\n\nS. G. teacher POSS:1PL.EX PRO:1PL.EX\n\n‘Our teacher was Samu Gobe.’\n\n\nThere are not many materials written in Hoava. The only material of outside world access is a guide to grammar by Karen Davis and a storybook. With it only beginning to fall out of use. There are translations of the bible and stories but not much else is known about surviving materials.\n\nAccording to Ethnologue, Hoava has a 6b (Yellow) endangerment status. “Intergenerational transmission is in the process of being broken, but the childbearing generation can still use the language so it is possible that revitalization efforts could restore transmission of the language in the home”(Lewis 2013).Without intergenerational transfer, main outlet uses will soon be destroyed or fade away while other languages take its place. With the decrease of L1 speakers, the value of the language in the community will only drop, till it is no longer applicable to the community. Combined with the low number of speakers, if no action is to take place, Hoava will fade to away into disuse.\n\n"}
{"id": "25311265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25311265", "title": "International Organization of Turkic Culture", "text": "International Organization of Turkic Culture\n\nThe International Organization of Turkic Culture (Turkish: \"Uluslararası Türk Kültürü Teşkilatı\", Türksoy) is an international cultural organization of countries with Turkic populations, speaking languages belonging to the Turkic language family. Other than being an abbreviation of the former official name \"Türk Kültür ve Sanatları Ortak Yönetimi\" - Joint Administration of Turkic Culture and Arts, \"Türksoy\" is a compound noun, in Turkish, made up of the words \"Türk\" (Turk/ic) and \"soy\" (ancestry).\n\nThe General Secretary of Türksoy is Duisen Kaseinov, former Minister of Culture of Kazakhstan. Türksoy has its headquarters in Ankara, Turkey.\n\nThe organization has its roots in meetings during 1992 in Baku and Istanbul, where the ministers of culture from Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkey, and Turkmenistan declared their commitment to cooperate in a joint cultural framework. Türksoy was subsequently established by an agreement signed on July 12, 1993 in Almaty.\n\nIn 1996, an official cooperation between Türksoy and UNESCO was established, involving mutual consultations and reciprocal representation.\n\nIt is announced that Türksoy will be integrated into the Turkic Council, a geopolitical organization of Turkic countries established on November 3, 2009.\n\nAs of 2016, Türksoy has six sovereign member states and three non-sovereign observer states.\n\nThe five Russian federal subjects left Türksoy after a Russian aircraft was shot down by Turkish forces in late 2015.\n\n\nThis list includes dependent territories within their sovereign states (including uninhabited territories), but does not include claims on Antarctica. EEZ+TIA is exclusive economic zone (EEZ) plus total internal area (TIA) which includes land and internal waters.\nTürksoy carries out activities to strengthen cultural ties between Turkic peoples. One of the main goals to transmit their common cultural heritage to future generations and promote it around the world.\n\nActivities and events include;\n\nEvery year, one city in the Turkic world is selected as the \"Cultural Capital of the Turkic World\". Within the framework of events to celebrate the Cultural Capital of the Turkic World, numerous cultural events are held, gathering artists, scholars and intellectuals, giving them the opportunity to exchange their experiences, as well as promoting the city in question internationally.\n\nRecent cities that have been awarded this title are;\n\nTürksoy is funded by contributions paid by individual member states, local governments, universities and NGOs.\n\n"}
{"id": "4298124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4298124", "title": "Italian Scots", "text": "Italian Scots\n\nItalian Scots or Scots-Italians are people of Italian descent living in Scotland. These terms may refer to people who are born in Scotland and of Italian descent. It can also refer to people of mixed Scottish and Italian ancestry. A recent Italian voter census estimated that there are 70,000 to 100,000 people in Scotland of Italian descent or Italian nationals, which is up to 1.9% of the overall Scottish population.\n\nLatest available figures from the 2011 UK Census show there were 6,048 people born in Italy living in Scotland. This was up from 4,936 in 2001 and 3,947 recorded in 1991. In 2016, Ronnie Convery, secretary of the Italian Scotland charitable organisation and director of communications at the Archdiocese of Glasgow, asserted that a completely new dimension was being added to the Scots-Italians community. He said, “There has been a brand new migration over the past two years, and the biggest one we have seen in 100 years.\"\n\nThe majority come from the provinces of Lucca, Parma, Frosinone and Isernia.\n\nArguably the first people from Italy to reach Scotland were the Romans in and around 40CE, although the modern nation of Italy did not exist at the time and of course the Roman Empire was a cosmopolitan institution, with some Roman Emperors from the Iberian Peninsula and North Africa. Still, the Romans were for the most part from what is now Italy and they did leave their mark on Scotland in the shape of Hadrian's Wall, Antonine Wall and other monumental constructions, although it was not until the end of the 19th century that an Italian-Scots identity really began to take shape.\n\nMany Italian-Scots can trace their ancestry back to the 1890s where their forefathers escaped drought, famine and poverty in their homeland for a better life in Scotland; yet it was not until World War I that a sizeable population of Italian-Scots—over 4,000—began to emerge, with Glasgow hosting the third largest community in the United Kingdom. Since then, there has been a steady flow of migration between the two countries.\n\nItaly and the fascist involvement in World War II brought many hardships on Italians settled in Scotland - many families were separated as adult males were interned. The family members that were left behind were forced to cope with mistrust and discrimination. Of those imprisoned many men found themselves held in Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man. A number of others were employed in Orkney, at Scapa Flow, to construct a barrier against Nazi U-boats. These men additionally constructed the Chapel of Lambholm from scrap metal and junk. Nowadays, this Chapel is one of Orkney's most popular tourist attractions.\n\nToday, Italian Scots can be found working in all manner of professions. However, a large proportion of the community have plied their trade in the catering industry, working in the chip shops, ice-cream parlours, pizzerias and restaurants across Scotland.\n\nIn Edinburgh,The Italo-Scottish Research Cluster (ISRC) aims to study Italian immigration in Scotland and promote relations between Scotland and Italy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54466374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54466374", "title": "Kereyu Oromo people", "text": "Kereyu Oromo people\n\nThe Kereyu Oromo people (also Karrayu, Karrayyuu) are an Oromo subgroup inhabiting the Awash Valley in central Ethiopia. They are pastoralists.\n\n"}
{"id": "33470343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33470343", "title": "Kuteb language", "text": "Kuteb language\n\nKuteb (Also known as \"Kutep\" or \"Ati\") is a Jukunoid language of Nigeria, spoken by the Kuteb people, with a thousand-or-so speakers across the border in Cameroon.\n\nIn Kuteb, there are 27 consonant phonemes, 12 vowels , and five tones.\n\nIn Kuteb, there are two different sets of vowels, oral, and nasal. Phonemically, each set has six different vowels. In total, there are 12 separate phonemes. The status of \"ɨ\" being a phoneme in Kuteb is uncertain. This phoneme only occurs in closed syllables, some noun prefixes, and in verbal reduplication where there is neutralization of \"u\" and \"i\".\nKuteb has 27 different consonant phonemes. The italicized entries are found in common loan words, or, in the case of /v/ and /z/, subdialectical variation. Like most Jukunoid languages, Kuteb has velarized consonants. In one study, these are included not as modifications on the base-phoneme, but as their own separate sound.\"\"\nIn Kuteb, there are either four or five different tones, depending on how they are counted. The tones that are accepted by multiple studies are the low (unmarked), mid (¯), high (´), and falling (ˆ) tones.\n\nAccording to Roger Blench, there are five different tones in Kuteb, these are: low (unmarked), mid (¯), high (´), falling (ˆ), and rising (ˇ). The fifth tone, (rising) is only created through sandhi changes that affect some vocabulary after an \"upstep\". According to W.E. Welmers, this sandhi change does not occur, and if it did, only the pronunciation would change, not the written diacritic as well.\n\nIn Kutep, like in other Jukunoid languages, most consonantal phonemes can either be labialized or palatal. If these changes are taken to be consonantal phonemic clusters, the syllabic boundaries are as follows:\nThe letter ⟨w⟩ in the Kuteb language retains its status as a voiced labio-velar approximant, as in \"uwé\" ‘face’ or in \"wōm\" ‘dry’ - though, when ⟨w⟩ is included in clusters with a palatal consonant (/c, j, sh, nj/) /w/, due to sandhi changes, becomes a voiced or voiceless labiodental release.\n\nIn Kuteb, there are many consonant clusters that can exist, though, most of these occur between word boundaries, though, some of these do occur in single-syllable isolation - these syllables are listed below. Theoretically though, any combination of syllable-final consonants (see below) followed by any syllable-initial consonant is possible. It is likely, however, that reduction would occur, as in the word \"ushitong\" ‘soup-stirrer’ (from \"shir\" and \"utoŋ\") in which the /r/ has been dropped. Also, when final ⟨nn⟩ stems precede stems beginning with ⟨n⟩, the double ⟨nn⟩+⟨n⟩ is reduced to just ⟨n⟩. This effect can be shown in words such as \"munae\" (munn-náe) ‘be abundant’, and in \"munji\" (munn-nji) ‘forget’.\n\nIn CV positions, the following consonants are used:\nWhile in C(C)VC final positions, the following are used instead:\nAnd the following are used in CC clusters:\n\nIn 1964, Peter Ladefoged recorded the phonetics of multiple West African languages. One of these languages was Kuteb, and these were his findings:\n"}
{"id": "54194968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54194968", "title": "List of PMPC Star Awards for TV's Multi-Award Winning Performers &amp; Personalities", "text": "List of PMPC Star Awards for TV's Multi-Award Winning Performers &amp; Personalities\n\nAll the winning performers & personalities from PMPC Star Awards for Television have more than two categories.\n\n"}
{"id": "4475228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475228", "title": "List of blood donation agencies", "text": "List of blood donation agencies\n\nThis is a list about blood donation agencies in different countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe United States does not have a centralized blood donation service. The [[American Red Cross]] collects a little less than half of the blood used, the other half is collected by independent agencies, most of which are members of [[America's Blood Centers]]. The US military collects blood from service members for its own use, but also draws blood from the civilian supply.\n\n\n[[Category:Blood banks| Blood donation agencies]]\n[[Category:Blood donation|Blood donation agencies]]\n[[Category:Lists of organizations|Blood donation agencies]]"}
{"id": "19468522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468522", "title": "List of prizes, medals, and awards in Sri Lanka", "text": "List of prizes, medals, and awards in Sri Lanka\n\nThis is a list of prizes, medals and awards including cups, trophies, bowls, badges, state decorations etc., awarded in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAchiever of Industrial Excellence Award - Ceylon National Chamber of Industries\n\n\n\nSri Lankan Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year\n"}
{"id": "21366253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21366253", "title": "LiveLeak", "text": "LiveLeak\n\nLiveLeak is a video sharing website located in London, United Kingdom that lets users post and share videos. The site was founded on 31 October 2006, launched as a tamer version of the Ogrish.com shock site; it aims to take reality footage, politics, war, and other world events and combine them with the power of citizen journalism. Hayden Hewitt of Manchester is the only public member of LiveLeak's founding team.\n\nFeatured videos often involve graphic content of fatal accidents or shootings. Although by 2016, Liveleak had reduced its controversial content, the site frequently sparked up controversy up until around 2008, mostly due to its graphic and political content. The site came to prominence in 2007 following the unauthorised filming and leaking of the execution of Saddam Hussein, and was referred to by White House Press Secretary Tony Snow and then-Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair.\n\nOn 30 July 2007, the BBC programme \"Panorama\" broadcast a show about how young people were getting physically assaulted and knocked unconscious. When \"Panorama\" queried the \"extremely violent videos\" that had been posted to LiveLeak's website, co-founder Hayden Hewitt refused to take them down, stating, \"Look all this is happening, this is real life, this is going on, we're going to show it.\" LiveLeak states there are relatively few such videos on the site and should the uploaders be found to have participated in the violent attack or filmed it themselves, it would aid the police with any prosecutions.\n\nLiveLeak was again in the spotlight in March 2008, when it hosted the anti-Quran film \"Fitna\" made by Dutch politician Geert Wilders. LiveLeak holds to being strictly non-biased in its approach to members and their content, believing in freedom of speech within the site rules, regardless of how certain content might offend them personally. \"Fitna\" was taken down after threats were made against LiveLeak staff, but was back online on 30 March 2008 after LiveLeak reportedly improved security. The video was once again removed two days later on 1 April; this time it was removed by the user citing that it was taken down due to copyright wrangles and a new version would be uploaded \"soon.\"\n\nA video of US journalist James Foley was posted by Islamist fighters on YouTube before, as reported by \"US News & World Report\", \"YouTube deleted it and demand for the LiveLeak version soared.\" In response to that video the leadership of the website declared that they would not host any \"further beheadings carried out by IS.\" The website will continue to host the original video that depicts the aftermath of Foley's execution.\n\n\"YourSay\" is a section of the website where users upload their own videos, much like a vlog. Unlike YouTube, the vlogs on LiveLeak are more political and are known for debate.\n\nLiveLeak currently has multiple categories including Syria and Ukraine, in which graphic content regarding various conflicts can be viewed.\n\nOn 24 March 2014, LiveLeak and Ruptly announced a content partnership.\n\n"}
{"id": "38747083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38747083", "title": "Makury language", "text": "Makury language\n\nMakury, or Makury Naga (sometimes mistakenly spelled Makuri), is a Naga language of India and Burma. Shi (2009:3) and Saul (2005:25) suggest that Makury may be an Ao language.\n\nMakury is not close to other Naga languages that fall under Konyak-[Tangshang] and Angami-Zeme. Makury falls under Ao-Tangkhul linguistic group of southern Naga languages and is close to Naga languages that fall under the said language group. Müvlë (Longphuri) are a sub-tribe of Makury. In Eastern Nagaland, Myanmar, Makury, Somra Tangkhul and Para are closer than the other tribes in the north in terms of language (\"Makury Tribal Council\").\n\nMakury is spoken in Leshi Township, Homalin Township, and Lahe Township in Hkamti District, Sagaing Region, Myanmar. There are about 40,000 speakers in Myanmar, and about 25,000 in India.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists the following dialects of Makury.\n\n\nJongphüvlë (listed as \"Kyaungphuri\" in Ethnologue) is a Makury clan name (\"Makury Tribal Council\").\n\nShi (2009:5) lists the following dialects of Makury.\n\n"}
{"id": "51668004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51668004", "title": "Mary Howgill", "text": "Mary Howgill\n\nMary Howgill (1623 – before 1681) was a prominent early member of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in England. She is best known for her public defense of Quakers in a 1656 letter to Oliver Cromwell. She delivered the letter in person and subsequently had a long discourse with Cromwell. She began the letter:\n\nThe letter was written during a time of religious persecution, and challenges political and religious authorities that punished statements of religious conscience with confiscation of property, physical violence, and imprisonment.\n\nShe was probably the sister of Francis Howgill of Grayrigg, Westmoreland. Both wrote letters to Cromwell and both were imprisoned as a result. She had been imprisoned earlier for public preaching of Quaker doctrines in Kendal in 1653.\n\nShe wrote a second pamphlet, \"The Vision of the Lord of Hosts\". This pamphlet was written after King Charles II was returned to the throne, and described a dream in which her God tells her of the terrible persecutions of Quakers about to happen:\n\n"}
{"id": "4540686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540686", "title": "Miss District of Columbia Teen USA", "text": "Miss District of Columbia Teen USA\n\nThe Miss District of Columbia Teen USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the District of Columbia in the Miss Teen USA pageant.\n\nWith only three semi-finalist placings, the District of Columbia is one of the least successful jurisdictions at Miss Teen USA. One of those semi finalists, Miss District of Columbia Teen USA 2000 Tiara Christen Dews, was one of only three District of Columbia teens to win the Miss District of Columbia USA crown.\n\n\n\n Age at the time of the Miss Teen USA pageant\n\n"}
{"id": "29328832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29328832", "title": "Miss Earth 2011", "text": "Miss Earth 2011\n\nMiss Earth 2011 was held on 3 December 2011 at the University of the Philippines Theater in Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines. The show was aired live by Channel V at 8:00 pm, while Star World broadcast on Sunday, 4 December at 6:00 pm, ABS-CBN and Studio 23 broadcast on the same day at 10:30 pm. There was also a delayed telecast of the show on The Filipino Channel and on the television stations of other participating countries.\n\nThe pageant was originally scheduled to be held at the Impact, Muang Thong Thani in Bangkok, Thailand, however the pageant organizers decided to move the pageant back to the Philippines due to the 2011 Thailand floods.\n\nMiss Earth 2010, Nicole Faria of India, crowned her successor Olga Álava of Ecuador as Miss Earth 2011 at the end of the event.\n\nThe three \"elemental titles\", which have equal ranking, were awarded to Miss Brazil Drielly Bennettone as Miss Earth-Air 2011, Miss Philippines Athena Imperial as Miss Earth-Water 2011 title, and Caroline Medina of Venezuela as Miss Earth-Fire 2011.\n\nThe following special awards were given:\n\n\nFinal Question in Miss Earth 2011: \"Why the candidates chose education as the environmental initiative that world leaders should prioritize?\"\n\nAnswer of Miss Earth 2011: \"Education is the best solution for the environment because children are those who have to preserve the Earth for future generations.\" – Olga Álava, represented Ecuador.\n\nThe board of judges during the final competition were consisted of the following personalities:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47152024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152024", "title": "Mole-Dagbon people", "text": "Mole-Dagbon people\n\nThe Mole-Dagomba are a meta-ethnicity and western Oti-Volta Gur ethno-linguistic group residing in six present-day West Africa countries namely: Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali and Togo.\n"}
{"id": "5639315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639315", "title": "Moroccans", "text": "Moroccans\n\nMoroccans ( \"al-Maġāriba\", Berber: \"Imɣṛabiyen\") are a Maghrebi ethnic group inhabiting or originating from Morocco that share a common Moroccan culture and Maghrebi ancestry. The overwhelming majority of Moroccans are of Arab-Berber descent; however, many identify as Arabs or Arabized Berbers.\n\nIn addition to the 36 million Moroccans in Morocco, there is a large Moroccan diaspora in France, Belgium, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, and a smaller one in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, the Arabian Peninsula and in other Arab states. A sizeable part of the Moroccan diaspora is composed of Moroccan Jews.\n\nThe first anatomically modern humans (\"Homo sapiens sapiens\") in North Africa are the makers of the Aterian, a Middle Stone Age (or Middle Palaeolithic) stone tool culture. The earliest Aterian lithic assemblages date to around 145,000 years ago, and were discovered at the site of Ifri n'Ammar in Morocco. This industry was followed by the Iberomaurusian culture, a backed bladelet industry found throughout the Maghreb. It was originally described in 1909 at the site of Abri Mouillah. Other names for this Cro-Magnon-associated culture include \"Mouillian\" and \"Oranian\". The Epipaleolithic Iberomaurusian makers were centred in prehistoric sites, such as Taforalt and Mechta-Afalou. They were succeeded by the Capsians. The Capsian culture is often thought to have arrived in Africa from the Near East, although it is also suggested that the Iberomaurusians may have been the progenitors of the Capsians. Around 5000 BC, the populations of North Africa were primarily descended from the makers of the Iberomaurusian and Capsian cultures, with a more recent intrusion associated with the Neolithic revolution. The proto-Berber tribes evolved from these prehistoric communities during the Late Bronze to Early Iron Age.\n\nMoroccans are primarily of Berber origin, like other neighboring Maghrebians. As such, Berbers are descendants of the prehistoric populations of Morocco through the Iberomaurusians and Capsians.\n\nThe Afroasiatic family may have originated in the Mesolithic period, perhaps in the context of the Capsian culture. By 5000 BC, the populations of Morocco were an amalgamation of Ibero-Maurisian and a minority of Capsian stock blended with a more recent intrusion associated with the Neolithic revolution. Out of these populations, the proto-Berber tribes formed during the late Paleolithic era.\n\nBerber-speaking groups include the Riffians, Shilha and Zayanes. Arabic-speaking groups include the Jebala in the north and Sahrawiyin in the southeast.\n\nA small minority of the population is identified as Haratin and Gnawa. These are sedentary agriculturalists of non-Berber origin, who inhabit the southern and eastern oases and speak either Berber or Moroccan Arabic.\n\nBetween the Nile and the Red Sea were living Arab tribes expelled from Arabia for their turbulence, Banu Hilal and Sulaym, who often plundered farming areas in the Nile Valley. According to Ibn Khaldun, whole tribes set off with women, children, ancestors, animals and camping equipment.\n\nThrough Moroccan history, the country had many cultural influences (Europe, Middle East and sub-Saharan Africa). The culture of Morocco shares similar traits with those of neighboring countries, particularly Algeria and Tunisia and to a certain extent Spain.\n\nMorocco influenced modern day Europe, in several fields, from architecture to agriculture, and the introduction of Moroccan numbers, widely used now in the world.\n\nEach region possesses its own uniqueness, contributing to the national culture. Morocco has set among its top priorities the protection of its diversity and the preservation of its cultural heritage.\n\nThe traditional dress for men and women is called \"djellaba\", a long, loose, hooded garment with full sleeves. For special occasions, men also wear a red cap called a bernousse, more commonly known as a fez. Women wear kaftans decorated with ornaments. Nearly all men, and most women, wear balgha (بلغه). These are soft leather slippers with no heel, often dyed yellow. Women also wear high-heeled sandals, often with silver or gold tinsel.\n\nMoroccan style is a new trend in decoration, which takes its roots from Moorish architecture. It has been made popular by the vogue of riad renovation in Marrakech. Dar is the name given to one of the most common types of domestic structures in Morocco; it is a home found in a medina, or walled urban area of a city. Most Moroccan homes traditionally adhere to the Dar al-Islam, a series of tenets on Islamic domestic life. Dar exteriors are typically devoid of ornamentation and windows, except occasional small openings in secondary quarters, such as stairways and service areas. These piercings provide light and ventilation.\n\nMoroccan cuisine primarily consists of a blend of Berber, Moorish and Arab influences. It is known for dishes like couscous and pastilla, among others. Spices such as cinnamon are also used in Moroccan cooking. Sweets like halwa are popular, as well as other confections. Cuisines from neighbouring areas have also influenced the country's culinary traditions.\n\nAdditionally, Moroccan craftsmanship has a rich tradition of jewellery-making, pottery, leather-work and woodwork.\n\nThe music of Morocco ranges and differs according to the various areas of the country. Moroccan music has a variety of styles from complex sophisticated orchestral music to simple music involving only voice and drums. There are three varieties of Berber folk music: village and ritual music, and the music performed by professional musicians. Chaabi (الشعبي) is a music consisting of numerous varieties which descend from the multifarious forms of Moroccan folk music. Chaabi was originally performed in markets, but is now found at any celebration or meeting. Gnawa is a form of music that is mystical. It was gradually brought to Morocco by the Gnawa and later became part of the Moroccan tradition. Sufi brotherhoods (tarikas) are common in Morocco, and music is an integral part of their spiritual tradition. This music is an attempt at reaching a trance state which inspires mystical ecstasy.\n\nMorocco's official languages are Classical Arabic and Berber.\n\nThe majority of the population speaks Moroccan Arabic. More than 12 million Moroccans speak Berber varieties, either as a first language or bilingually with Moroccan Arabic. Three different Berber dialects are spoken: Riff, Shilha (Chleuh) and Central Atlas Tamazight.\n\nHassaniya Arabic is spoken in the southern part of the country. Morocco has recently included the protection of Hassaniya in the constitution as part of the July 2011 reforms.\n\nFrench is taught universally and still serves as Morocco's primary language of and economics; it is also widely used in education, sciences, government and most education fields.\n\nSpanish is also spoken by some in the northern part of the country as a foreign language. Meanwhile, English is increasingly becoming more popular among the educated, particularly in the science fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "27472591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27472591", "title": "Pakistanis in Indonesia", "text": "Pakistanis in Indonesia\n\nThere are hundreds of Pakistanis in Indonesia, mainly of Punjabi origin, who work in various textile and rice production industries. Statistics from the Overseas Pakistanis Foundation in 2004 outlined as many as 400 although numbers have grown; roughly 100 Pakistani families reside in Jakarta and another 300 in other cities. Additionally, there is a large second and third generation of individuals, originally descendants of Pakistani soldiers who came to fight in 1945 as part of the British Indian Army alongside the Indonesian military against the Axis forces and the Japanese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8985876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8985876", "title": "Pnong people", "text": "Pnong people\n\nThe Pnong (alternatively Punong and other spelling) are an aboriginal Cambodian minority ethnic group. They are found primarily in Mondulkiri province of Cambodia. The Pnong is the largest indigenous highland ethnic group in Cambodia. They have their own language called Pnong, which belongs to Bahnaric branch of Austroasiatic languages. Majority of Pnong people are animists, but a minority of them follows Roman Catholicism and Theravada Buddhism. The Pnongs are considered as Khmer Loeu or Montagnard, which is the collective name given to the various indigenous ethnic groups residing in the highlands of Cambodia.\n\nPnong language (sometimes spelled 'Mnong') is the native language of the Pnong people. It is a member of Bahnaric branch of Austroasiatic languages and is distantly related to Khmer and other Khmer Loeu languages (exclude Jarai and Rade which speaks an Austronesian language closely related to Cham). There are several dialects of Pnong, some even recognised as a distinct language by linguists, most Pnong dialects are spoken in neighbouring Vietnam, except for Kraol which is spoken within Cambodia.\n\nThe Pnong practice a very diverse, dynamic, unstructured and often secretive traditional medicine. Originally tied to the large biodiversity of their forest environment, the wars of the 1970s had a significant impact on the Pnong culture and knowledge of traditional medicine, when everybody relocated to either Vietnam or Koh Niek district. New plants and practices were acquired by the Pnong in these new locations, but upon returning in the 1980s and 1990s, knowledge and use of plants native to their homelands had been forgotten by many. Adequate conventional biomedicine and healthcare can be difficult or impossible to obtain by the locals in the countryside of Cambodia - in particular during the rainy season - and it is therefore official policy of the Cambodian government (backed by the WHO) to support the practice of traditional medicines. Research shows that, as of 2011, 95% of the inhabitants in two Pnong villages still regularly use medicinal plants. It is hoped that the Pnong culture of traditional medicine can help to build respect for the environment and halt the deforestation and habitat loss of Cambodia on a local level.\n\nA Pnong woman, thought to be Rochom P'ngieng, was discovered after presumably spending 19 years alone in the jungle.\n\nOther works about the Pnong include \"Living on the margins\", the publications of Nomad RSI, the documentary film \"Last of the Elephant Men\", and the works of Frédéric Bourdier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17880381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880381", "title": "Polekhs", "text": "Polekhs\n\nPolekhs are a subethnic group of Russians settled along the Desna River and Seym River and mixed with local populations of Belarusians and Lithuanians. Most of them retained the Russian Orthodox religion, with some turning to Roman Catholicism.\n"}
{"id": "11984462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11984462", "title": "Portuguese Angolans", "text": "Portuguese Angolans\n\nPortuguese Angolan () is a person of Portuguese descent born or permanently living in Angola.\n\nIn 1482, Portuguese caravels commanded by Diogo Cão arrived in the Kingdom of Kongo. Other expeditions followed, and close relations were soon established between the two states. The Portuguese brought firearms and many other technological advances, as well as a new religion (Christianity); in return, the King of the Congo offered plenty of slaves, ivory, and minerals.\n\nThe Portuguese colony of Angola was founded in 1575 with the arrival of Paulo Dias de Novais with a hundred families of colonists and four hundred soldiers. Luanda was granted the status of city in 1605. Many Portuguese settlers married native Africans resulting in a mixed-race (\"mulato\", later generally called \"mestiço\") population. Angola was declared a formal Portuguese province in the 19th century, but only in the early 20th century did the mainland government allow large-scale white emigration and settlement to Angola and its other provinces.\n\nIn 1960, Angola had up to 172,000 Portuguese settlers, who significantly contributed to its economy. The majority of whom came from rural agrarian backgrounds in Portugal who saw engaging in commerce in Angola as one of the few means of upward social mobility available to them.\n\nAs the Angolan war of independence began in 1961, triggering off a late colonial development of Angola, there was an influx of Portuguese military personnel, as well as civil servants and other people. As a consequence, the number of Portuguese living in Angola went up to about 350,000. This number would have been higher, had a significant part of the settlers not left for other countries, especially Namibia, Brazil, South Africa and the United States. While most whites then living in Angola sided with Portugal's efforts to suppress the anti-colonial revolt, a minority sympathized with the nationalist movements, and a few even joined them in their fight. The Angolan author Pepetela is among these. When the Salazar regime in Portugal was abolished by a military coup in Portugal, in 1974, and independence was granted to the colonies by the new government, whites overwhelmingly left Angola after independence in 1975. Most of them went to Portugal, where they were called \"retornados\" and were not always welcomed, while others moved to neighboring Namibia (then a South African territory), South Africa or Brazil, or United States. It is estimated that around 250,000 left the country in 1975 and by 1976 only 30,000 to 40,000 remained in Angola.\n\nAmong the departed Portuguese civilians, many were able to take with them only a single suitcase, while some were able to dispatch their household goods and even cars by ship. The majority left everything behind. They boarded planes at Luanda's Craveiro Lopes Airport at the rate of 500 a day, but there were not enough flights to cover demand. On arrival in Portugal, those who had been able to draw their savings in Angola could not exchange more than 5,000 Angolan esculos (about USD 200) into Portuguese escudos. Back in Angola, the new government gave all remaining Portuguese settlers a few months period to choose between Angolan citizenship or to leave the country. A significant minority of them opted for Angola and some of them actively took part in the Angolan Civil War, generally on the side of the MPLA.\n\nAfter Angola abandoned in 1991 the socialist regime adopted at independence in 1975, many Portuguese Angolans returned to Angola. Due to Angola's economic boom, which started in the 1990s, an increasing number of Portuguese without previous attachment to Angola have migrated to Angola for economic reasons, most importantly the recent national economic boom. As of 2008, Angola was the preferred destination for Portuguese migrants in Africa. Portuguese nationals numbered an estimated 120,000 in 2011, reaching about 200,000 in 2013.\n\nNotable Angolan people of Portuguese descent include:\n\nTheir native language is Portuguese, which today is the official language and lingua franca of Angola. Their communities existing in Luanda, Benguela and Moçâmedes spoke until the early 20th-century European (in Benguela: initially Brazilian) Portuguese mixed with numerous elements from African languages, especially Kimbundu and Umbundu. In the course of the 20th century, due to the waves of new settlers arriving from Portugal, their language became practically identical with European Portuguese. Some Portuguese Angolans have a lesser or greater mastery of one of the Bantu languages – notably Kimbundu, Umbundu, and Kikongo – but their number has diminished dramatically after independence, and hardly anybody now uses an African language as second languages. Many educated Portuguese Angolans learnt French and, less intensely, English during the colonial period; since independence, white as well as black educated people generally learn English, while French has faded into the background. The vast majority of Portuguese Angolans are Christians, mostly Roman Catholics, although many of them do not practice their religion. A very small number of them are Jews, whose ancestors escaped the Inquisition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56001081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56001081", "title": "Public News Service", "text": "Public News Service\n\nPublic News Service (usually shortened to PNS) was launched in 1996 by journalist Lark Corbeil in Idaho. Today, PNS has 37 state-based news services that provide multi-platform content for free to news outlets as a way to advocate journalism in the public interest.\n\nFollowing the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which allowed for media cross-ownership, Corbeil founded Public News Service as an avenue to examine and reach rural areas.\n\nIn May 2017, Dan Heyman, a PNS producer in West Virginia, was arrested at the state capitol for asking former Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price a question in an “aggressive manner.” Heyman was jailed and charged for willful disruption of state government processes. In September 2017, the misdemeanor charge against Heyman was dropped after “a careful review” by the Kanawha County prosecutor’s office.\n\nPublic News Service, a certified B Corporation, is funded by grants, gifts, some media contributions, and memberships from individuals, foundations, non-profit organizations and socially responsibly businesses.\n"}
{"id": "66004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66004", "title": "Puppet state", "text": "Puppet state\n\nA puppet state is a state that is \"de jure\" independent but is \"de facto\" completely dependent upon an outside power. It is nominally sovereign but effectively controlled by a foreign or otherwise alien power, for reasons such as financial interests.\n\nA puppet state preserves the external paraphernalia of independence like a name, flag, anthem, constitution, law codes, motto and government but in reality is an organ of another state which created, sponsored or otherwise controls the government of the puppet state. Puppet states are not recognized as legitimate under international law.\n\nIn the Middle Ages vassal states existed which were based on delegation of rule of a country from a King to noble men of lower rank. Since the Peace of Westphalia of 1648 the concept of a nation came into existence where sovereignty was connected more to the people who inhabited the land than to the nobility who owned the land. The term is a metaphor which compares a state or government to a puppet controlled by an outside puppeteer using strings. The first recorded use of the term \"puppet government\" is from 1884, in reference to the Khedivate of Egypt.\n\nThe Batavian Republic was established in the Netherlands under French revolutionary protection.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, France established a Polish client state of the Duchy of Warsaw.\n\nIn Italy, republics were created in the late 18th and early 19th centuries with the assistance and encouragement of Napoleonic France. See also French client republics.\n\nIn 1836 U.S. citizens allowed to live in the Mexican state of Texas revolted against the Mexican government to establish a U.S.-backed Republic of Texas, a country that existed less than 10 years (from May 14, 1836 to December 29, 1845) before it was annexed to the United States of America.\nHowever, in August 1837, Memucan Hunt, Jr., the Texan minister to the United States, submitted the first official annexation proposal to the Van Buren administration (the first American-led attempts to take over Mexican Texas by filibustering date back to 1819 and by separatist settlers since 1826).\n\nIn 1896 Britain established a state in Zanzibar.\n\n\n\n\nDuring Japan's imperial period, and particularly during the Pacific War (parts of which are considered the Pacific theatre of World War II), the Imperial Japanese regime established a number of dependent states.\n\n\nJapan had made drafts for other dependent states.\n\nThe Provisional Priamurye Government never got beyond the planning stages. In addition to the Japanese, the Germans supported the formation of this state.\n\nIn 1945, as the Second World War drew to a close, Japan planned to grant independence to the Netherlands East Indies (Indonesia). These plans ended when the Japanese surrendered on 15 August 1945.\n\nSeveral European governments under the domination of Germany and Italy during World War II have been described as \"puppet régimes\". The formal means of control in occupied Europe varied greatly. These states fall into several categories.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs Soviet forces prevailed over the German Army on the Eastern Front during the Second World War, the Soviet Union supported the creation of communist governments in all of Eastern Europe. Specifically, the People's Republics in Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Albania were dominated by the Soviet Union. While all of these People's Republics did not \"officially\" take power until after World War II ended, they all have roots in pro-Communist war-time governments.\n\nHistorically, the British Empire has planted various dictators on thrones because of its own geopolitical interests. For example, the British occupation forces brought back Sardar Abdur Rahman from Bukhara, imposed on him the Gandumak Surrender Treaty, and made him Amir of Afghanistan. This extremely ruthless man, ruled as a puppet dictator for two decades (1880-1901), applying barbaric practices against his own subjects, but remaining dependent on British government of India for money, weapon and protection.\n\nThe Axis demand for oil and the concern of the Allies that Germany would look to the oil-rich Middle East for a solution, caused the invasion of Iraq by the United Kingdom and the invasion of Iran by the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union. Pro-Axis governments in both Iraq and Iran were removed and replaced with Allied-dominated governments.\n\n\nIn some cases, the process of decolonization has been managed by the decolonizing power to create a neo-colony, that is a nominally independent state whose economy and politics permits continued foreign domination. Neo-colonies are not normally considered puppet states.\n\nThe Netherlands formed several puppet states in the former Dutch East Indies as part of the effort to quell the Indonesian National Revolutionː\n\nFollowing Belgian Congo's independence as the Republic of the Congo (Léopoldville) in 1960, Belgian interests supported the short-lived breakaway state of Katanga (1960–1963).\n\nDuring the 1950–1953 Korean War, South Korea and the United States alleged that North Korea was a Soviet puppet state. At the same time, South Korea and Japan was accused of being an American puppet state by North Korea and its allies. Additionally, in 1951 Dean Rusk, the Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, branded the People's Republic of China a \"Slavic Manchukuo\", implying that it was a puppet state of the Soviet Union just as Manchukuo had been a puppet state of the Empire of Japan. This position was commonly taken by American propaganda of the 1950s, despite the fact that the Chinese communist movement had developed largely independently of the Soviet Union.\n\nFollowing the victory of the Viet Minh in the First Indochina War, the 1954 Geneva Accords stipulated that Vietnam would be divided for two years only, until national elections could be held. However, the Americans along with Ngo Dinh Diem feared that Ho Chi Minh and the Communists would win the election. The State of Vietnam and the United States didn't sign the Geneva Accords, citing that it was impossible to hold free and fair nationwide democratic elections in the communist North, and this was later expressed by UN observers monitoring the partition of Vietnam. As a result, South Vietnam and the U.S. were not bound by its terms. In 1955 the Vietnamese president Ngo Dinh Diem, supported by the United States, declared the independence of the Republic of Vietnam in the southern half of Vietnam. Over time, Diem grew increasingly uncomfortable with the role of the U.S. in his country, complaining that they were increasing the conflict with North Vietnam. Diem's complaints became more vocal as American soldiers, called \"advisors\", continued to pour into the country, and some began calling Diem an uncooperative client and a puppet pulling his own strings. After he became seen more as a liability than an asset to America, Diem was assassinated in 1963 with the complicity of the CIA and John F. Kennedy.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, South Vietnam was allied with the U.S. and other anti-communist states in Asia and the West, whereas North Vietnam was allied with China, and particularly the Soviet Union, and with other socialist and communist nations.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, four ethnic bantustans, some of which were extremely fragmented, were carved out of South Africa and given nominal sovereignty. Two (Ciskei and Transkei) were for the Xhosa people; and one each for the Tswana people (Bophuthatswana) and for the Venda people (Venda Republic).\n\nThe principal purpose of these states was to remove the Xhosa, Tswana and Venda peoples from South African citizenship (and so to provide grounds for denying them democratic rights). All four were reincorporated into South Africa in 1994.\n\nThe Republic of Kuwait was a short-lived pro-Iraqi state in the Persian Gulf that only existed three weeks before it was annexed by Iraq in 1990.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265503", "title": "Quentin Durward", "text": "Quentin Durward\n\nQuentin Durward is a historical novel by Walter Scott, first published in 1823. The story concerns a Scottish archer in the service of the French King Louis XI (1423–1483).\n\n\"Quentin Durward\" was composed in a remarkably short space of time. After carrying out some preparatory research towards the end of 1822 Scott began writing in January 1823 and supplied the finishing sentences in response to a request from his coadjutor James Ballantyne on 3 May. His principal source was the \"Mémoires\" of Philippe de Comines, but as usual he adapts historical facts freely in the construction of his fiction: most notably the murder of the Bishop of Liège occurs 14 years before its historical date, and Orleans and his future wife Joan appear as adults rather than young children. He was also inspired by manuscript material deriving from continental journeys by his friend James Skene of Rubislaw.\n\nThe first edition was published in three volumes in London on 17 May 1823 and in Edinburgh two days later. As with all the Waverley novels before 1827 publication was anonymous. In 1830 Scott provided it with an introduction and notes for the 'Magnum' edition where it appeared in two volumes in December 1831 and January 1832. The standard modern edition, by J. H. Alexander and G. A. M. Wood, was published as Volume 15 of the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels in 2001: this is based on the first edition; the 'Magnum' material appears in Volume 25b.\n\nThe plot centres on the medieval rivalry between Louis XI of France and Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. Louis incites the citizens of Liège to revolt against Charles, and they seize and murder Charles's brother-in-law, Louis de Bourbon, Bishop of Liège, under the command of Louis's ally, William de la Marck, who was hoping to install his son in Louis de Bourbon's place (a real historical event which occurred in 1482).\n\nAt the time of the murder, Louis is present in Charles' camp at Peronne, hoping to fool him with a false display of friendship. Charles, however, sees through his mask of deceit, accuses him of instigating the uprising, and has him imprisoned. Louis's superior coolness of mind permits him to allay Charles's suspicions and to regain his liberty. In a sub-plot, the Burgundian heiress Isabelle de Croye takes refuge at Louis's court when Charles attempts to give her hand in marriage to his odious favourite Campo-Basso. Louis, in turn, resolves to give her in marriage to the bandit-captain William de la Marck, and sends her to Flanders under the pretence of placing her under the protection of the Bishop of Liège. She is guarded on her journey by Quentin Durward, an archer, who has left behind poverty in Scotland to join the Archers of Louis's Scottish Guard. Quentin prevents the intended treachery and earns Isabelle's love. Charles, though, promises her in marriage to the Duke of Orléans (heir to the French crown) but she refuses, and, in anger, the Duke promises her to whoever brings him the head of de la Marck. This Quentin does with the help of his uncle, Ludovic Lesley, and wins Isabelle's hand.\n\nThe story takes place in the year 1468. The age of feudalism and chivalry was passing away, and the King of France was inciting the wealthy citizens of Flanders against his own rebellious vassal the Duke of Burgundy. Quentin Durward had come to Tours, where his uncle was one of the Scottish body guard maintained by Louis XI, to seek military service, and was invited by the king, disguised as a merchant, to breakfast at the inn, and supplied by him with money. Having narrowly escaped being hanged by the provost-marshal for cutting down Zamet, whom he found suspended from a tree, he was enlisted by Lord Crawford, and learned the history of Jacqueline. In the presence-chamber he was recognised by Louis, and the royal party were preparing for a hunting excursion, when the Count of Crèvecœur arrived with a peremptory demand for the instant surrender of the duke's ward, the Countess of Croye, who had fled from Burgundy with her aunt to escape a forced marriage; and proclaimed that his master renounced his allegiance to the crown of France. In the chase which followed Durward saved the king's life from a boar, for which service Louis, after consulting with his barber, entrusted him with the duty of conducting the Countess and Lady Hameline, ostensibly to the protection of the Bishop of Liege, but really that they might fall into the hands of William de la Marck. After proceeding some distance they were overtaken by Dunois and the Duke of Orléans, who would have seized the countess, but were prevented by Lord Crawford, who arrived in pursuit and made prisoners of them. Then Hayraddin came riding after them, and under his guidance they journeyed for nearly a week, when Quentin discovered that the Bohemian was in league with De la Marck. He accordingly altered their route, and they reached the bishop's castle in safety.\n\nA few days afterwards, however, it was assaulted by the citizens, and Hayraddin having effected Lady Hameline's escape with Marthon, Quentin rushed back to save the countess, and, at Gieslaer's suggestion, Pavilion passed them as his daughter and her sweetheart into the great hall where the outlaw, who was known as the Boar of Ardennes, was feasting with the rioters. The bishop, who was also governor of the city, was then dragged in, and, having denounced his captor, was murdered by a stroke of Nikkel Blok's cleaver. There was a shout for vengeance, but De la Marck summoned his soldiers, upon which Quentin held a dirk at the throat of his son Carl, and exhorted the citizens to return to their homes. With the syndic's help Lady Isabella and her protector reached Charleroi, where she was placed in a convent, while he carried the news to the Duke of Burgundy, at whose court Louis, with a small retinue, was a guest. Charles, in a furious rage, accused the king of being privy to the sacrilege, and caused him to be treated as a prisoner.\n\nAt a council the following day he was charged with abetting rebellion among the vassals of Burgundy, and the countess was brought as a witness against him. She admitted her fault, and Quentin Durward was being questioned respecting his escort of her, when a herald arrived with a demand from De la Marck to be acknowledged as Prince-Bishop of Liège, and for the release of his ally the King of France. Louis replied that he intended to gibbet the murderer, and the messenger, who was discovered to be Hayraddin, was sentenced to death, the quarrel between the duke and the king being at the same time adjusted, on the understanding that the Duke of Orléans should marry Lady Isabelle. Crèvecœur, however, interceded for her, and it was arranged that whoever should bring the head of the Boar of Ardennes might claim her hand. Quentin, who had learnt his plans from the Bohemian, advanced with the allied troops of France and Burgundy against his stronghold, and a desperate battle ensued. At length the young Scot was in the act of closing with De la Marck, when Pavilion's daughter implored his protection from a French soldier; and, while placing her in safety, his uncle La Balafré fought the ruffian, and carried his head to the royal presence. Lord Crawford declared him to be of gentle birth, but the old soldier having resigned his pretensions to his nephew, King Louis vouched for Quentin's services and prudence, and the duke being satisfied as to his descent, remarked that it only remained to inquire what were the fair lady's sentiments towards the young emigrant in search of honourable adventure, who, by his sense, firmness and gallantry, thus became the fortunate possessor of wealth, rank and beauty.\n\n\nVolume One\n\nIntroduction: In the course of an extended residence in France the Author comes across some family papers in the Chateau de Hautlieu, the basis of the narration that follows.\n\nCh. 1 The Contrast: The calculating Louis XI and the impulsive Charles the Bold of Burgundy are set against each other.\n\nCh. 2 The Wanderer: Quentin, a Scottish archer in search of mercenary employment in France, encounters Maitre Pierre and a companion; after attending a hunting-mass they approach the royal castle of Plessis.\n\nCh. 3 The Castle: Maitre Pierre conducts Quentin past the castle to an inn.\n\nCh. 4 The Dejeuner: Maitre Pierre and Quentin discuss the archer's employment over breakfast. Quentin asks the innkeeper about Maitre Pierre's identity, but he is evasive. In his bedroom Quentin hears a young woman nearby singing 'County Guy' to her lute.\n\nCh. 5 The Man-at-Arms: Quentin and his uncle Ludovic Lesley (Le Balafré), serving in Louis's Scots Guards, catch up with family news. Quentin and Balafré debate whether it is preferable to serve Louis or Charles.\n\nCh. 6 The Bohemians: Quentin feels disappointed by Balafré's narrow-mindedness. He is threatened with execution by Louis's provost-marshal Tristan l'Hermite (Maitre Pierre's companion) and his assistant Petit-André for cutting down a hanged gypsy, but is rescued by a detachment of the Guards under Balafré.\n\nCh. 7 The Enrolment: Quentin is enlisted into the Guards by their commander Lord Crawford, who says that Isabelle of Croye and her aunt Lady Hameline have arrived to claim Louis's protection after her rejection of her guardian Charles's proposal that she marry his favourite Campo-basso.\n\nCh. 8 The Envoy: At court Louis, whom Quentin recognises as Maitre Pierre, attempts to mollify the Burgundian Count Crevecœur who has demanded the return of the Croyes.\n\nCh. 9 The Boar-Hunt: Offended by Louis' behaviour towards himself ,the Cardinal La Balue arranges to meet Crevecœur who has come to his assistance after a hunting fall. At the same hunt Quentin rescues Louis from the boar. \n\nCh. 10 The Sentinel: Louis arranges for Quentin to keep concealed watch as he entertains Crevecœur and Balue to dinner.\nVolume Two\n\nCh. 1 (11) The Hall of Roland: Restored to open guard duty, Quentin witnesses a meeting between the Croyes and Princess Joan, whose destined husband the Duke of Orleans joins them and torments her by his attentions to Isabelle.\n\nCh. 2 (12) The Politician: Louis explains to Oliver Le Dain his intention to instruct Quentin to convey the Croyes to Liège so that William de la Marck can seize and marry her.\n\nCh. 3 (13) The Journey: Delighted with his commission, Quentin accompanies Louis to the sage Galeotti, who says the scheme will bring success to the sender but danger to those sent; he promises to carry out an astronomical calculation relating to Louis' plan to negotiate with Charles in person, but privately determines to inform Balue.\n\nCh. 4 (14) The Journey: As their journey begins Quentin defends the Croyes from two horsemen: their combat is interrupted by the arrival of Crawford.\n\nCh. 5 (15) The Guide: Crawford arrests the horsemen, revealed as Orleans and the Count de Dunois, and Isabelle tends Quentin's wound. Hayraddin arrives to act as guide.\n\nCh. 6 (16) The Vagrant: Hayraddin expounds his view of life to Quentin and identifies himself as the brother of the man whose body he had cut down. He is expelled from monastic accommodation for egregious misbehaviour, arousing Quentin's suspicions.\n\nCh. 7 (17) The Espied Spy: Quentin overhears Hayraddin and a Lanzknecht arranging to ambush the Croyes for William, while sparing Quentin's life.\n\nCh. 8 (18) Palmistry: Quentin obtains the Croyes' permission to change their planned route, and they arrive at Schonwaldt, the Bishop's castle near Liège.\n\nCh. 9 (19) The City: After an enigmatic conversation with Hayraddin reveals he has continued access to the Croyes, Quentin is acclaimed as a Guard by the citizens of Liège and rescued from the embarrassing situation by the syndic (magistrate) Pavillon. \n\nCh. 10 (20) The Billet: Quentin receives an encouraging note dropped from a window. As Schonwaldt is stormed by the Liégois it becomes clear that Hayraddin has arranged to rescue Hameline whom he regards as a more suitable wife for Quentin than Isabelle. \n\nCh. 11 (21) The Sack: Quentin arranges with Pavillon to rescue Isabelle by passing her off as the syndic's daughter.\n\nCh. 12 (22) The Revellers: During wild revelry William has the Bishop murdered. Quentin takes charge of the situation and leaves with Isabelle for the syndic's house.\n\nCh. 13 (23) The Flight: Escorted by Quentin, Isabelle sets out to submit to Charles again, surrendering herself to Crevecœur on the road.\nVolume Three\n\nCh. 1 (24) The Surrender: Crevecœur treats Quentin with disdain and they press on to Péronne, leaving Isabelle at Charleroi.\n\nCh. 2 (25) The Unbidden Guest: After a short pause at Landrecy Quentin is treated with more respect by Crevecoeur, who on reaching Péronne is informed by D'Hymbercourt and D'Argenton of Louis's arrival to meet Charles.\n\nCh. 3 (26) The Interview: Louis has an initial exploratory conversation with Charles, takes up his lodgings, and debates with Dain the wisdom of coming to Péronne.\n\nCh. 4 (27) The Explosion: Louis woos Charles's ministers individually, and when Crevecœur brings Charles news of the Bishop's murder skilfully limits the damage.\n\nCh. 5 (28) Uncertainty: Louis decides to kill Galeotti who he believes has betrayed him. Balafré objects to killing in cold blood, but Tristan makes the necessary arrangements.\n\nCh. 6 (29) Recrimination: Galeotti tricks Louis into sparing his life.\n\nCh. 7 (30) Uncertainty: Charles consults his counsellors and plans to confront Louis to ascertain his role, if any, in the Bishop's murder. D'Argenton advises Louis how best to treat Charles.\n\nCh. 8 (31) The Interview: In an interview with Isabelle arranged by Crawford, Quentin asks her to tell Charles only what she knows about Louis from personal experience, to avoid inflaming the situation.\n\nCh. 9 (32) The Investigation: First Isabelle and then Quentin testify discreetly before Charles in the presence of Louis and Burgundian nobles.\n\nCh. 10 (33) The Herald: Hayraddin appears as William's herald: he is exposed by Charles's herald, chased by hunting dogs to the entertainment of Charles and Louis, and condemned to death.\n\nCh. 11 (34) The Execution: Before his execution by Tristran and Petit-André, Hayraddin tells Quentin of William's plan to disguise some of his men as French auxiliaries at Liège.\n\nCh. 12 (35) A Prize for Honour: Louis and Charles agree that Isabelle will be awarded to the warrior who kills William.\n\nCh. 13 (36) The Sally: As the Burgundian forces set out for Liège with Louis in attendance Quentin gives Isabelle a letter from Hameline, passed on by Hayraddin before his execution, defending William whom she has married. Quentin discloses William's tactic to Louis and Charles.\n\nCh. 14 (37) The Sally: Quentin is diverted from encountering William in battle by the necessity of saving Pavillon's daughter from assault. Balafré kills William and surrenders his prize Isabelle to Quentin. \n\nThe reviews of \"Quentin Durward\" were mostly favourable, rating it among the best of the Waverley Novels, though there were a few dissenting voices. Particularly appreciated were the witty Introduction, the contrasting depictions of Louis and Charles, the striking incidents and descriptions, the control of the plot (though some thought it thin), and the vivid presentation of an interesting and unfamiliar period. The most common adverse criticisms were that historical analysis was too prominent, threatening to overpower the fiction, and that the female characters were weak. Sales in Britain were initially rather slow, perhaps because it came too quickly after Peveril of the Peak, but it was an immediate hit on the Continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48154512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48154512", "title": "Samo people", "text": "Samo people\n\nThe Samo (also Sanan) is a sub-ethnic group of the Mandinka people from West Africa. They mainly live in northwest Burkina Faso and across the border in southern Mali.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29517365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29517365", "title": "Savu people", "text": "Savu people\n\nThe Savu (also known as Sabu, Sawu or Hawu) people are the people of Savu and smaller neighbouring Raijua in East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia.\n\nSavu had little to interest traders from Europe, or neighbouring kingdoms, and it remained largely insular until the late-20th century.\n\nSavu originally had six independent domains, Teriwu, Liae, Dimu, Menia, Seba and Mesara. Menia was defeated by Seba in the 19th century, while Teriwu disappeared much earlier.\n\nA raja and fetor of each domain were appointed by the Dutch during colonial times.\n\nAfter independence Savu was split into two kecamatan, East Savu (Liae and Dimu) and West Savu (Seba and Mesara plus Raijua).\n\nIn the 2000s, the political structure of Savu has been reorganised to more closely reflect traditional lines, which retained local significance over and above the arbitrary divisions imposed by the Indonesian government. The kecamatan now are Hawu Mehara, West Savu, Central Savu, East Savu, Liae, and Raijua.\n\nThe people of Savu are inherent in having a small family. The Savu people practice bilateral descent, with descendants of one the \"udu\" (patrilineal groups) termed \"kerogo\", as well as a matrilineal descendant that is traced to in Savu mythology to one of two sisters. The moiety of the two sisters is termed \"hubi\"; the \"hubi\" are divided into \"wini\".\n\nMarriage is between a man and a woman of the same \"wini\" as his mother, or at a minimum within the same \"hubi\". There is non-reciprocal gift-giving from the groom's family to that of the bride. \"Wini\" and \"hubi\" play a role in ceremonies such as weddings, funerals and baptisms. The conclusion of marriage is within the three-year union. The marital residence of a Savu family is patrilocal.\n\nSavu ikat (traditional weaving) reflect many aspects of Savu genealogy, including specific motifs and colours representing the weaver's hubu and wini.\n\nSavu people place importance on genealogy, tracking both \"hubi\" and \"kerogo\" back through many generations.\n\nThe Savu measure time in units that range from six to 49 years, depending on the domain.\n\nSavu people place great importance on their genealogy, with names chosen to avoid repetition, and genealogies recited during ritual performances such as at funerals, where the connection of the departed to his or her ancestors is memorialised. The memorising of genealogies has also been observed in neighbouring cultures, in Roti and Kedang.\n\nAs with many others parts of Indonesia, betel nut is popular, as indeed is tuak, wine made from the sugar palm, as well as the sap, drunk fresh from the tree. The palm tree is treated with great respect, and the \"apu lodo\" priest, descendant of the sun supervises the palm tapping season.\n\nThe Savu house is built on poles, and is designed to resemble a proa boat, with the front beams resembling its bow. There are also anthropomorphic elements in the terminology used to refer to parts of the house.\n\nSavu music is based on the gong, and normally accompanies traditional dance. The Padoa dance is performed in a circle, holding hands, with dancers rotating their legs clockwise, wearing pedue (beans wrapped in palm leaf to create a rattle). The Ledo Hua dance is performed by mixed pairs, with the men wearing bells.\n\nThe traditional religion of Savu is called Jingi Tiu.\n\nEach of the domains of Savu was led by a Jingi Tiu Council of Priests.\n\nJingi Tiu is a polytheistic religion, with gods of earth, sea and sky, as well as many more minor spirits.\n\nEvangelism began in 1854, and increased its impetus after 1861, when Esser, Dutch \"resident\" of Kupang, called for schools and a Christian teacher from Ambon in Savu. Since the 1970s, when the Indonesian encouraged people throughout Indonesia to adopt Islam or Christianity, Protestantism has been in the ascendancy, with 80% of Savu people now Protestan, and Jingi Tiu on the decline. Despite this, many aspects of Jingi Tiu belief still influence Christian worship in Savu.\n\nThe traditional occupation of the Savu people is farming; where in some places irrigation system is used. Crops such as rice, corn, millet and beans are usually grown. The Savu people make sweet syrup and wine from the juice of a lone palm tree. Savu people also breed small cattle, buffaloes and horses, and practice cockfights. Apart from that, they also engage in fishing. Weaving and braiding is considered as part of traditional crafts.\n\nTheir housing are framed columns with gable roofing. Traditional settlements are cumulus structured, with a temple and stone shrines in the center square, surrounded by stone walls. While the harvest is ripening, they would live in temporary huts in the fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "13836926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13836926", "title": "Siddiqis in the Horn of Africa", "text": "Siddiqis in the Horn of Africa\n\nSiddiqi () is a Muslim family name, found in the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and South Asia. Sheikh is an additional title used occasionally by Siddiqis to signify noble Arab heritage. According to tradition, people having surname \"Siddiqi\" are offspring of Abu Bakr Siddique (), the first Khalifa (Caliph) and an early companion and friend of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad.\n\nPeople claiming Siddiqi descent can be found in Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia and Ethiopia.\n\nHowever, representatives in these countries are not referred to as Siddiqi, but are instead known by various local names. Siddiqis in Eastern Ethiopia are usually called Qallu. While some of them still speak Arabic, most of them speak the regional Oromo, Harari or Somali languages, tongues which, like Arabic, also belong to the Afro-Asiatic language family. In Somalia, Siddiqis are commonly known as Sheekhaal or Aw-Qutub.\n\nNotable Siddiqi families in the Horn region include:\n\n1. Kurtu family (in Harar, Deder and Djibouti)\n\n2. Aw Barre family\n\n3. Aw Ismael family\n\n4. Qallu-Diinii family\n\n5. Khabir Hassan family (in Gelemso)\n\n6. Aw Samirren family\n\n7. Aw Khalaf family\n\n8. Aw Umar Ziad family\n\n9. Abogne/Abun (the Khalaf and Kurtu families; Harari genealogy)\n\nThe Muslim cleric Sheikh Abadir Umar Ar-Rida (\"Abadir Omar Al-Rida ibn Muhammad ibn Shamsadin Al-Bakri Al-Siddiqi\") is traditionally regarded as the common ancestor of the Siddiqi families in the Horn region. Ar-Rida is the main figure in the \"Fath Madinat Harar\", an unpublished history of the city of Harar in the 13th century. According to the account, Ar-Rida, along with several other saints, came from the Hijaz region of present-day Saudi Arabia to Harar in 612H (1216 AD). The Sheikh is said to have then fathered six sons, whom the Siddiqis regard as their forebears.\n\nSheikh Ar-Rida's tomb is located inside the walled city. A few meters away, there is also a mosque that bears his name.\n\nNotable Siddiqis include:\n\nImran Ibn Iqbal Al siddiqui. Mba\nIndia Hyderabad hussaini alam\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2806261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2806261", "title": "Sub Rosa, NZIC Association", "text": "Sub Rosa, NZIC Association\n\nSub Rosa is the name of the New Zealand Intelligence Corps association. Its members are drawn from serving and retired members of the Corps and others that have served in intelligence positions in the New Zealand Defence Force.\n\nThe phrase is Latin and means 'under the rose', because the rose was an emblem of secrecy hung above council tables and confessionals. The origin of which traces to a famous story in which Cupid gave Harpocrates, the god of silence, a rose to bribe him not to betray the confidence of Venus. Hence the ceilings of Roman banquet-rooms were decorated with roses to remind guests that what was spoken sub vino (under the influence of wine) was also sub rosa.\n\nThe emblem of Sub Rosa is a Tudor Rose.\n"}
{"id": "24563530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24563530", "title": "TatNet", "text": "TatNet\n\nTatNet (short for \"Tatar Internet\") is the name Tatar-speaking Internet users commonly use for the segment of the Web about the Tatar people or Tatarstan. It includes webpages and websites in many languages.\n\nThe first e-mail message in Tatar was probably sent and received in 1991 when employees of the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty started using the Internet and electronic communication on a regular basis. In 1994, a Tatar-language mailing list (TMG, standing for Tatar Mailing Group) was established and this year is commonly regarded as the birthyear of the Tatar Internet. Since approximately 2000, Tatnet has been developing explosively, with many web pages and web sites added to it annually. The existence of Tatnet continues to contribute tremendously to the cohesion and consolidation of the Tatar people, a significant achievement because Tatars are dispersed all over the world and a substantial majority of Tatars live outside their ethnic homeland, Tatarstan. Tatar Internet users employ Latin and Cyrillic scripts with the former gradually becoming more dominant.\n\nThe name TatNet is a portmanteau for \"Tatar Internet\", formed as analogue of the alike terms Runet, Kaznet, Uznet and others. TatNet gets some support from Tatarstan authorities, e. g. the Republic's Agency on mass communication (Tatmedia) helps with organizing of the annual website building contest \"Stars of TatNet\" (\"Татнет йолдызлары\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586507", "title": "Transmigration program", "text": "Transmigration program\n\nThe transmigration program (, from Dutch, \"transmigratie\") was an initiative of the Dutch colonial government, and later continued by the Indonesian government to move landless people from densely populated areas of Indonesia to less populous areas of the country. This involved moving people permanently from the island of Java, but also to a lesser extent from Bali and Madura, to less densely populated areas including Papua (ended in 2015 by president Joko Widodo), Kalimantan, Sumatra, and Sulawesi. The stated purpose of this program was to reduce the considerable poverty and overpopulation on Java, to provide opportunities for hard-working poor people, and to provide a workforce to better utilize the natural resources of the outer islands. The program, however, has been controversial as fears from native populations of \"Javanization\" and \"Islamization\" have strengthened separatist movements and communal violence. The incomers are Madurese and Javanese.\n\nThe policy was first initiated by the Dutch colonial government in the early nineteenth century to reduce crowding and to provide a workforce for plantations on Sumatra. The program diminished during the last years of the Dutch era (1940s) but was revived following Indonesian independence, in an attempt to alleviate the food shortages and weak economic performance during Sukarno's presidency in the two decades following World War II.\n\nIn the peak year, 1929 in the Sumatra's east coast more than 260,000 contract workers were brought, 235,000 of them from Java. Workers entered into a contract as coolie; if a worker asked for the termination of the contract in the company ('desertion'), he could be punished with hard labor. The mortality was very high among the coolies and abuse was common.\n\nAfter independence in 1949, under President Sukarno, the program continued and was expanded to send migrants to more areas of the archipelago such as Papua. At its peak between 1979 and 1984, 535,000 families (almost 2.5 million people) moved under the transmigration program. It had a major impact on the demographics of some regions; for example, in 1981 sixty percent of the 3 million people in the southern Sumatra province of Lampung were transmigrants. During the 1980s, the program was funded by the World Bank and Asian Development Bank as well as by many Western governments who appreciated Suharto's anti-communist politics. However, as a result of the 1979 energy crisis and increased transportation costs, the budget and plans for transmigration were severely reduced.\n\nIn August 2000, after the Asian financial crisis and the fall of the Suharto regime, the Indonesian government again reduced the scale of the transmigration program, due to a lack of funds.\n\nUnder the restructured Department of Manpower and Transmigration (Indonesian: \"Departemen Tenaga Kerja dan Transmigrasi\") the Indonesian government maintains the transmigration program, although on a far smaller scale than in previous decades. The department assists in annually relocating approximately 15,000 families, or nearly 60,000 people. The rate has shown gradual increases in recent years with funding for transmigration activities at $270 million (2.3 trillion IDR) and a target of relocating 20,500 families in 2006. The program has recently been abolished in 2015 by the new president Joko Widodo. \nThe stated purpose of the program, according to proponents in the Indonesian government and the development community, was to move millions of Indonesians from the densely populated inner islands of Java, Bali and Madura to the outer, less densely populated islands to achieve a more balanced population density. This would alleviate poverty by providing land and new opportunities to generate income for poor landless settlers. It would also benefit the nation as a whole by increasing the utilization of the natural resources of the less-populous islands. The program may have been intended to encourage the unification of the country through the creation of a single \"Indonesian\" national identity to augment or replace regional identities. The official position of the Indonesian government is that there is no separation of \"indigenous people\" and settlers in Indonesia, because Indonesia is a country \"of indigenous people, run and governed by and for indigenous people\". It argues instead for the use of \"vulnerable population groups\" which can include both tribal groups and the urban poor.\n\nIn many examples, the program failed in its objective to improve the situation of the migrants. The soil and climate of their new locations were generally not nearly as productive as the volcanic soil of Java and Bali. The settlers were often landless people lacking in farming skills, let alone skills appropriate to the new land, thus compromising their own chances of success.\n\nTransmigration has also been blamed for accelerating the deforestation of sensitive rainforest areas, as formerly sparsely-populated areas experienced great increases in population. Migrants were often moved to entirely new \"transmigration villages,\" constructed in regions that had been relatively unimpacted by human activity. By settling on this land, natural resources were used up and the lands became overgrazed, resulting in deforestation.\n\nThe program has resulted in communal clashes between ethnic groups that have come into contact through transmigration. For example, in 1999 the local Dayaks and Malays clashed against the transmigrant Madurese during the Sambas riots and the Dayaks and Madurese clashed again in 2001 during the Sampit conflict, resulting in thousands of deaths and thousands of Madurese being displaced. Transmigration is controversial in the provinces of Papua and West Papua, where the majority of the population is Christian. Some Papuans accuse the government of \"Islamisasi\", or Islamisation through transmigration.\n\nTransmigration from Java and Madura have resulted in large numbers of the population elsewhere, particularly in Sumatra, Borneo, and Papua.\nBased on 2010 census figures and ethnic prevalence, roughly 4.3 million transmigrants and their descendants live in North Sumatra, 200 thousand in West Sumatra, 1.4 million in Riau, almost a million in Jambi, 2.2 million in South Sumatra, 0.4 million in Bengkulu, 5.7 million in Lampung, 100 thousand in Bangka-Belitung, almost 400 thousand in Riau Islands, totaling some 15.5 million in Sumatra alone. In Kalimantan there are some 700 thousand transmigrants and their descendants in West Kalimantan, 400 thousand in Central Kalimantan, almost 500 thousand in South Kalimantan, and over a million in East Kalimantan, totaling 2.6 million for the whole area. Though numbers are a state secret, well over a million transmigrants are thought to reside in Papua and West Papua. Total Javanese and other transmigrants in Indonesia number roughly 20 million throughout the country.\n\nTransmigrant are not exclusively ethnic Javanese and/or Muslims. For example, in 1994 when East Timor was still part of Indonesia, the largest transmigrant group was Hindu Balinese (1,634 people) followed by Catholic Javanese (1,212 people).\n\nIndigenous peoples saw the program as a part of an effort by the Java-based Indonesian Government to extend greater economic and political control over other regions, by moving in people with closer ties to Java and loyalty to the Indonesian state. The government agencies responsible for administering transmigration were often accused of being insensitive to local customary or \"adat\" land rights. This was especially true on Borneo with the Dayak population.\n\nThe environmental damage associated with these projects was caused less by ignorance than by inattention, poor follow-up, and lack of accountability during project implementation. Many environmental issues were identified at project appraisal: the potential for soil erosion, possibility of declining soil fertility, need for protection against pests and disease, possible adverse effects on wildlife and deforestation, impact on indigenous people, and the need to strengthen the borrower's capacity for managing natural resources. But often, the audits found, the proposed mitigatory measures were unrealistic or were insufficiently monitored by the government. \nIn the provinces of Papua and West Papua the program has resulted in the Melanesian population totaling less than the population of non-melanesian (principally Austronesian) origin. According to Papuan independence activists, the melanesians have lived on the island of New Guinea for an estimated 50,000 years. The West Papuans have been outnumbered in less than 50 years by Indonesian Muslims mostly from Java. They criticise the program as part of an attempt to wipe out the West Papuans in a slow-motion genocide. There is open conflict between migrants, the state, and indigenous groups due to differences in culture—particularly in administration, and cultural topics such as nudity, food and sex. Religion is also a problem as West Papuans are predominantly Christian or hold traditional tribal beliefs while the Indonesian settlers are Muslim. Indonesia has taken West Papuan children and sent them to Islamic religious schools. West Papuans have fled across the border to Papua New Guinea (PNG) where as of January 2013 about 8,000 refugees were stranded.\n\nThe recorded population growth rates in Papua are exceptionally high due to migration.\n\nDetractors of the program argue that considerable resources have been wasted in settling people who have not been able to move beyond subsistence level, with extensive damage to the environment and deracination of tribal people. However, very large scale American and Anglo-Australian strip mining contracts have been developed on the island (as well as other Indonesian islands).\n\nNeighbouring power Australia has ignored or silenced the voices of Papuan independence activists in Australia out of concern for harming Australia–Indonesia relations. In March 2006 Indonesia recalled its ambassador to Australia for granting refugee visas to 42 West Papuans who fled in dugout canoes. Normal diplomatic relations did not resume until Australia signed the Lombok treaty eight months later to muzzle independence movements in Australia. Australia has continued to silence West Papuans with former Prime Minister Tony Abbott saying Australia will not \"give people a platform to grandstand against Indonesia\". Australia has also signed a memorandum of understanding with Papua New Guinea to enable West Papuans fleeing to Australia to be sent to Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe transmigration program in Papua was formally ended by Indonesian president Joko Widodo in June 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46901662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46901662", "title": "Venereum", "text": "Venereum\n\nVenereum (after goddess Venus) was an element of ancient Roman private apartments found particularly in Pompeii. It was originally interpreted as a specialized apartment or room dedicated to sexual activities. One venereum was found in the House of Julia Felix and another one in the House of Sallust, both in Pompeii. In the latter house venereum was a garden with several separate rooms.\n\nA Latin inscription in the House of Julia Felix reports that \"on the estate of Julia Felix... a venereum\", among other things, was \"to be let for a term of five continuous years, from the first to the sixth of the Ides of August\". The accompanying abbreviation SQDLENC is conjectured to stand for \"Si quis domi lenocinium exerceat ne conducito\" (\"Let no one apply who keeps a brothel\"). The venereum in the House of Sallustius included a bedchamber, a triclinium and a lararium.\n"}
{"id": "3319735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319735", "title": "Vengo people", "text": "Vengo people\n\nThe Vengo, or Babungos, are an ethnic group of about 14,000 people who are resident in the anglophone Northwest Province of Cameroon. They live predominantly in the region of a village which is also called Vengo or \"Babungo\". This village is located in the Cameroonian Grassfields at the so-called \"Ringroad\", approximately 50 km West of the province's capital Bamenda. The language of the people is also called Vengo or \"Babungo\". For the tribe, village and language the spelling \"Bamungo\" is also often found.\n\nIn their own language, the Vengo call their village \"vengo\" and their language \"ghang vengo\" ; this is why the name of the tribe, village and language is officially also listed under the names \"Vengo\" or \"Vengoo\". Other alternative terms are: Vengi, Pengo, Ngo, Nguu, Ngwa, Nge.\n\nFamous Vengo People\n\nAccording to Chique Magazine \"Golden Globe nominated actor, Producer, Director and six-time winner of the NAACP Awards Blair Underwood's ancestors are Vengo. In 2011, in an episode of the NBC show 'Who do you think you are?' Blair Underwood traced his ancestry to the Vengo people of the Cameroon in West Africa. He journeyed with his father to his ancestral homeland in Cameroon and reconnected with his family. In an emotionally laden voice, Blair said at the end of the show that, 'What I will share with my children is that we come from a long line of people from these valleys, to actually be able to travel all these long miles and to meet my cousins face to face, it feels like the family has come full circle to reunite a family that was broken. Voids were filled that I didn’t even realize that I had. For me, we are African not because we were born African but because Africa was born in us. Who I thought I was when we started this journey is different from who I know I am today. It has been incredible.'\" \n\nBlair Underwood, My African Connection. \"Chique Magazine\". July 19, 2013. http://chiquemagazine.com/blair-underwood-my-african-connection/\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3367345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367345", "title": "Women's music", "text": "Women's music\n\nWomen's music (also womyn's music or wimmin's music) is the music by women, for women, and about women. The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labor, civil rights, and peace movements. The movement (in the USA) was started by lesbian performers such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian and Margie Adam, African-American musicians including Linda Tillery, Mary Watkins, Gwen Avery and activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near. Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.\n\nEarly women’s music came in various forms, but each viewed music as something that expresses life. According to Ruth Solie, the origins of feminist music came from religion, where Goddess traditions expressed the inner lives of those who lived. She also stated that this type of music has always been creatively challenging and that the changing cultural standards throughout the years made it difficult to create standards in production. Solie's research found that this early form of music wasn't near the artistic form of some of the more famous musicians, notably Beethoven and Bach, and that this kind of feministic music was created to please the men and lived up to an entirely different standard of beauty.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s in the United States, some people perceived that there were few \"positive women's images within popular music\" and a \"lack of opportunities for female performers\" in the USA. They viewed women as having a disadvantage in the field because of their difference in gender. At the time, major US record labels had only signed a few women's bands including Fanny, Birtha, The Deadly Nightshade, Goldie and the Gingerbreads and the band that they evolved into, Isis. In reaction to this perceived lack of inclusion of women in the mainstream, some feminists decided it necessary for women to create a separate space for women to create music. Lesbian and feminist separatism was then used as a \"tactic which focused women's energy and would give an enormous boost to the growth and development of women's music.\"\n\nOut of the separatist movement came the first distributed examples of music created specifically for lesbians or feminists. In 1972, Maxine Feldman, who had been an \"out\" (openly gay) performer since 1964, recorded the first overtly lesbian record, \"Angry Atthis\" (Atthis was a lover of the Ancient Greek poet Sappho). Feldman had been performing the song since 1969, and its lyrics were specific to her feelings and experiences as a lesbian. In the same year the feminist all-woman bands The Chicago Women's Liberation Rock Band and the New Haven Women's Liberation Rock Band released \"Mountain Moving Day\". In 1973, Alix Dobkin, flautist Kay Gardner, and bassist Patches Attom created the group Lavender Jane, and recorded an album entitled \"Lavender Jane Loves Women,\" the first full-length album for and by lesbians. These early recordings relied on sales through mail order and in a few lesbian-feminist bookstores, like Lambda Rising in Washington, D.C., as well as promotion by word of mouth. In May 1974, the women who would go on to form the first European women's rock band performed at a women's music festival in Berlin. They formed the German women's rock band Flying Lesbians and released one self-titled album in 1975.\n\nGoldenrod Music Distribution, founded by Terry Grant in 1975, has been credited by Lauron Kehrer as a major influence in the launch of the women’s music movement. Kehrer noted that although the organization was founded on the basis of helping women and lesbians, it was unable to work around the contradictions surrounding the company’s ethics and place in a capitalist society.\n\nLesbians additionally found ways to express themselves through musical composition. There are common European classical semiotic codes that have been used throughout centuries to express either masculinity or femininity. These musical gestures changed over time as the meaning of femininity changed, but they always kept to their purpose: truthful expressionism. Ethel Smyth, a musical composer, encoded her lesbian life experiences in her music. Genders of composers, writers, artists, and more have a lot to do with how music is perceived and interpreted. Cues such as tempo, articulation, and other dynamics signify many different types of meanings – they are not standard. Each musician uses these codes and cues to suit their music, and thus express themselves through song.\n\nFeminist musicians aimed to show a positive, proactive, and assertive image of women that not only critiqued the rifts in regards to gender, but also demonstrated the goals of the feminist movement such as social justices regarding gender as well as the right of privacy concerning abortion and birth control. With the goal of breaking down the gender divide and level the gender differences, some women in this genre of music \"adopt[ed] male dress codes and hair styles\". Women also voiced their opinions and the goals of the feminist movement through lyrical contributions. In \"I Am Woman,\" Helen Reddy sings, \"I am woman/hear me roar/And I've been down there on the floor/No one's ever gonna keep me down again. Reddy creates a feeling of \"girl power\" that reflected the ambitions of the feminist movement.\n\nOlivia Records, the first women's music record label, was created in 1973 by a collective including artist Meg Christian. Starting with a single that was successfully sold by mail order, Olivia was able to release Meg Christian's \"I Know You Know\" and Cris Williamson's \"The Changer and the Changed.\" \"The Changer and the Changed\" was \"one of the all-time best selling albums on any independent label\" at that time, and was also the first LP to be entirely produced by women. \"Changer\" is the all-time best-selling album to come out of the women's music genre.\n\nSeveral other independent labels were created by artists such as Kay Gardner with the record label Wise Woman/Urana, Margie Adam with the record label Pleiades, Ani DiFranco with the record label Righteous Babe Records, and Holly Near with the record label Redwood Records in 1972. Redwood records expanded the scope of women's music recordings to include women of color by recording Sweet Honey in the Rock, an a cappella group of African-American singers founded by Bernice Reagon in 1978. As these record labels grew so did the music genres represented, and the ethnic and social diversity of the artists expanded. Several other labels were also formed by artists; Berkeley Women's Music Collective, Woody Simmons, and Teresa Trull were distributed by Olivia through their network.\n\nWith the growth of independent record labels and increasing demand for women's music, an organized system for distribution and promotion became necessary. Goldenrod Music was formed in 1975 to distribute for Olivia Records, and later expanded distribution to include other labels. Ladyslipper, a non-profit organization formed in 1976 to promote and distribute women's music. Olivia's informal network formed WILD (Women's Independent Labels Distributors) in 1977 to distribute music into different regions of the United States. The organization had two purposes - to formally network and educate distributors on sales and business issues, and to bargain with Olivia while Olivia's financial pressures in turn pressured the distributors. In 1978, a national booking company, Roadwork Inc. was formed to promote women artists.\nAll throughout the 1980s and 1990s, many women’s bookstores that sold women’s records relocated into smaller spaces or shut down. As a result, Olivia Records spread out to different industries to help its music projects become more profitable. With this expansion Olivia Records entered the travel industry, and Olivia Cruises and Resorts was founded in 1990. However, even with this expansion, sales in women’s music continued to decline dramatically.\n\nThere were many social and economic components that caused the women’s music business to start failing in the 1980s and 1990s. In order to solve these different issues, the MIC (Music Industry Conference) came together to figure out what could be done. For an entire week around 80 women in the music business discussed the prevalent questions/concerns that were affecting women’s music at that time. The main topics at the conference were the drop in concert sizes, the unreal pay demands by the female performers, the lack of diversity in women artists, and how Olivia Records, which was initially intended to be a female ran company, was giving high positions to men.\n\nBetween 1984-1994, \"HOT WIRE: The Journal of Women's Music and Culture\" was created and published in Chicago by a large group of volunteers. It was founded by Toni Armstrong Jr., Ann Morris, Michele Gautreaux, and Yvonne Zipter. The publication focused exclusively on lesbian feminist musicians, festivals, venues, and various topics pertaining to writing, theater, dance, comedy, and the arts. \"HOT WIRE\" came out three times/year and each 64-page issue included a soundsheet with at least four songs by lesbian and/or feminist artists. It had international distribution and a website is in the works to provide downloadable articles from all of the back issues. Former editor Toni Armstrong Jr. has continued to be involved in women's music as a performer, concert producer, and currently edits the \"Long Time Friends\" e-newsletter \"for veterans of the women's music industry.\" She currently resides in Florida and has founded an organization called BLAST (Bi, Lesbian, and Straight Together), which hosts events for, and about, women.\n\nThe first women's music festival occurred in 1973 at Sacramento State University. In May, 1974 the first National Women's Music Festival was held in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois, founded by University of Illinois student Kristin Lems. It celebrated its fortieth year in Middleton, Wisconsin, from July 2–5, 2015. The Michigan Womyn's Music Festival was created in 1976, and became the largest festival in the United States before ceasing operations after the fortieth festival in August 2015. Newer festivals include Lilith Fair which toured from 1997–1999 and the Ohio Lesbian Festival, near Columbus Ohio, was created in 1988 and continues to be an ongoing celebration of womyn's music and culture. Many other festivals have been created throughout the United States and Canada since the mid-1970s and vary in size from a few hundred to thousands of attendees. The newest festival is the Los Angeles Women's Music Festival, which kicked off in 2007 with over 2500 attendees, and which was originally scheduled to return in 2009, but has been on indefinite hiatus after the first event.\n\nThough the festivals are centered on music, they support many other facets of lesbian and feminist culture. Designed to provide a safe space for women's music and culture, many festivals are held on college campuses or in remote rural locations. Many festivals offer workshops on topics concerning the lesbian and feminist community, offer activities such as arts, crafts, fitness classes, and athletic events, and serve to provide opportunities for women to take advantage of resources they often cannot find in mainstream culture. One festival that provides such workshops is the National Women's Music Festival. In 1992, the festival provided workshops covering topics such as “drama”,” film and video,” “access-abilities,” “women’s health/sports and fitness,” “older women,” spirituality,” “women’s empowerment,” “women of color, and a writer's conference in addition to other topics in a \"general workshop series.\"\n\nBonnie Morris describes in her book \"Eden Built by Eves\", how festivals serve women throughout the stages of their lives. Festivals support a safe space for coming of age rituals for young women, adult romance and commitment ceremonies, the expression of alternative perspectives on motherhood, and the expression of grief and loss. The Michigan Womyen’s Music festival is an example of an environment that celebrates all women not just those who conform to mainstream media. Morris describes attendees at the festival as \"women who are sexy in wheelchairs, women who are sexy at 260 pounds, women who are sexy at age 70, long-term interracial romances - and all the rest of womenkind that television will not show or will tell us does not count.\" Festivals also help create a sense of community for the lesbian community. The National Women's Music Festival has in addition to the many lesbian participants and organizers, the festival's music, humor, and crafts promote a \"positive lesbian identity.\" The festival has also been a place where women can openly display their sexuality including same-sex affections.\n\nCurrently, festivals continue to thrive in the United States and other countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23902114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23902114", "title": "Workforce modeling", "text": "Workforce modeling\n\nWorkforce modeling is the process by which the need for skilled workers at a particular point in time (demand) is matched directly with the availability and preference of skilled workers (supply). The resulting mathematical models may be used to perform sensitivity analysis and generate data output in the form of reports and schedules.\n\nDue to the complexity level of building a workforce model, adoption of a workforce model is usually found in industries that have complex work rules, skilled or certified workers, medium to large teams of workers and fluctuating demand. Some examples include healthcare, public safety, and retail.\n\nA workforce modeling solution can also refer to software that effectively captures all the complexity of process from start to finish and delivers complete and correct results. Components include:\n\nFor a more detailed definition, the term must be differentiated from traditional staff scheduling. Staff scheduling is rooted in time management and encompasses the mere administration of past and future working times. However, during the last ten to fifteen years, this traditional approach has evolved towards a demand-oriented solution which, under economic aspects, also includes changes in personnel requirements and objectives when optimizing the scheduling of staff. Besides the two core aspects of demand-orientation and optimization, workforce modeling also incorporates the forecast of the workload and the required staff, the integration of employees into the scheduling process through interactivity, the management of working times and accounts as well as analyzing and monitoring the entire process.\n\nWorkforce modeling solutions can, and should, be deployed enterprise-wide wherever complex scheduling needs or legal staffing ratios must be met. Due to the complex nature of a workforce model, creating one by hand is nearly impossible. By using a software solution for demand-oriented workforce management, planners can optimize staffing by creating schedules that at all times conform as closely as possible to the actual requirement. At the same time, a workforce modeling solution helps users to observe all relevant legislation, local agreements and the contracts with individual employees – including work-life balance guidelines.\n\nMany workforce modeling solution applications use the more common linear programming approach to create the Workforce Model. Linear methods of achieving a schedule are generally based on assumptions that demand is based on a series of independent events, all of which have a consistent, predictable outcome. Although this method is very common, the results are in most cases not as complete or efficient. In general, they produce a resulting schedule that is up to 75% complete and leaves the scheduler to complete the remaining shift assignments.\n\nHeuristics have been applied to the problem and metaheuristics has been identified as the best method for generating complex scheduling solutions. Using this technique, many more solutions are available to the modeling process resulting in schedules that are not only closer to 100% complete, but are also optimized to many different criteria at the same time.\n\n"}
