{"id": "52011555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52011555", "title": "1911 Australian census", "text": "1911 Australian census\n\nThe 1911 Australian census was the first national population census held in Australia. The day used for the census, was taken for the night between the 2 and 3 April 1911. The total population of the Commonwealth of Australia was counted as 4,455,005 - an increase of 681,204 people, 18.05% since the 1901 \"Federation\" Census.\n\nThe Census Volumes II and III were published on 30 September 1914. At that time it was intended to issue\nshortly thereafter Volume 1.\n\nThe first Commonwealth Statistician was George Handley Knibbs. He began his career as a licensed surveyor in government service. On Monday 3 April 1911, census collectors set out all over Australia under mostly clear skies to begin gathering in Australia's first national census forms. \nThey covered suburbs to rural towns and the outback. They travelled by bike or horse where they had the transport that was needed to cover large areas, however, most travelled by foot. Some in Northern Queensland had to find their way through a flooded landscape while others in South Australia had difficulties finding water and fodder for their horses due to droughts. They had distributed the forms prior to the census day.\n\nThere was a permanent staff of the ‘Bureau of Census and Statistics’ which consisted of the Statistician (Knibbs) and many assistants, some young men working as clerks as well as a couple of messenger boys. A female typist had joined soon after. They worked in the old Rialto Building in Collins Street, Melbourne.\n\nCollectors had to supply their own transport and cover any associated costs such as fodder and petrol. They were paid according to their method of transport. Collectors on foot were paid ten shilling a day, those on bicycle fifteens shillings a day and those on horse 20 shillings a day. Police were used in the days immediately following the census to get travellers, swagmen and campers to provide their information. Train conductors and ships' captains were also used as collectors in the 1911 census and several subsequent censuses, to cover people travelling overnight on census night.\n\nFor Every Person present in the Night from 2 to 3 April 1911, or returning on 3rd April (if not included elsewhere).\n\nPopulation counts for Australian states and territories had 4,455,005 and 19,939 full-Aboriginals for a total population of 4,474,944.\nNote: All figures are for the census usually resident population count.\n\nAt the Census of the 3rd April, 1911, each person was asked to state on a \" personal\" card, the\" Country or Australian State where born,\" and to state on a \"personal\" card, the Country or Australian State where born,\" and from the replies to this query, taken in conjunction with the other data furnished, the tables contained in Part II.\n\nAt the first Australian census in 1911 only those \"aboriginal natives\" living near European settlements were enumerated, and the main population tables included only those of half or less Aboriginal descent. Details of those \"full-blood\" Aborigines enumerated were included in separate tables.\n\nAccording to these figures it appears that of the 4,455,005 people in Australia on census day (April 3. 1911) 4,274,414 were Christians, 36,785 non-Christians, 14,673 are described as indefinite, 10,016 were of no religion, 83,003 objected to state to what faith, if any, they belonged, and the remaining 36,114 were unspecified. \n"}
{"id": "30279263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30279263", "title": "Arnold Rikli", "text": "Arnold Rikli\n\nArnold Rikli (13 February 1823 – 30 April 1906) was a Swiss natural healer.\n\nRikli proposed various therapies, mostly based on exposing the body to sun and air, called sun tanning, preferably done while naked. He is one of the forefathers of a movement called naturism today.\n\nRikli was born in a wealthy Swiss family as one of three sons. His father was involved with politics and had his own factory. Fathers wish was that his sons would inherit his knowledge and ambitions, therefore he sent Rikli and his brother Karl in the village Seebach near Spittal, Austria. There they build a new factory for leather dyeing. Rikli became very unwell with diarrhea, blaming exposure to chemicals. He was looking for a place to rest and heal himself. He found Bled in Slovenia and went there in 1852 for the first time, where he thrived. After two years, he developed centres for helio-hydroscopic treatment. He abandoned the family business and started his own healing method in Bled instead. His healing was founded on swimming in cold water, sun tanning and walking. For him the air, sun and water were the source of health. His famous quote was \"Water is good, air is better and most of all the sunlight\". Guests were residing in special houses, washing in tubs and walking naked in the surroundings area, most of all on the neighbouring hill called Straža, where today is a ski, walking, trim and skeleton areas. Unfortunately, Rikli wasn't very popular among the local people; he was considering them rustic, and locals considered Rikli to have odd practices. This may have followed from public nakedness in his park, the fact that he never learned the Slovenian language (despite living there for 52 years), and that he never accepted local customs. Signs and guides in his park were written in German. Locals nicknamed Rikli as \"Švajcar\" (Swiss guy) because of his nationality or \"Sun doctor\", because he promoted sun tanning.\n\nAmong the first visitors of Bled were probably the pilgrims, who came from various parts of Slovenia and Friuli–Venezia Giulia and were visiting the church on Bled island. Rikli was among the first people who noticed the healing effect of the natural environment in Bled. He has created baths, walking paths, hiking paths and housing. In the year 1895 he has built a wooden house and baths in Swiss style and a hospital with his own examination office. Because the word spread across Europe about the healing power of Bled, they built a larger swimming place in 1899. Besides the people who were looking for healing, Bled started to attract people who wanted to spend their holidays in a healthy and clean environment. The number of visitors started to rise in 1870, after the new railway connection between Ljubljana and Tarvisio, where the place got his own railway station in Lesce. In the year 1903 Bled was awarded with a gold medal on international fair of healing places in Vienna, in the year 1906 Bled was classified among the best tourist destinations in Austro-Hungarian Empire. The healing place was operating until the First World War, and was later abandoned. Rikli has received a statue at his 50th healing anniversary. His methods combined with the new therapy are continued at present times in Hotel Golf in medico-regenerative programs. Every year, starting with July, Bled organizes Rikli's sport days and hiking on Rikli's paths. At that time hikers walk, run and climb on the hills above Bled and talk about the healing powers of Rikli. Rikli's Villa is under the cultural guidance, but it is sadly falling apart. The owner of the building is Nicholas Oman.\n\nHis books discussed the theory and practical methods of healing with air, sun and steam baths. The books show a broad spectrum of natural healing place in Bled. Five of the books from the years 1872–1894 are held by the National and University Library of Slovenia. All the books are made out of wooden paper, which is in need of conservation. They are one of the most precious possessions of the National and University Library of Slovenia, because this is the only library which keeps the original examples. There is no other archive of these books available or other copies in Slovenia.\n\nHis books are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23225565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23225565", "title": "Chilakalapudi Seeta Rama Anjaneyulu", "text": "Chilakalapudi Seeta Rama Anjaneyulu\n\nChilakalapudi Seeta Rama Anjaneyulu (11 July 1907 – 8 October 1963), better known as C. S. R. Anjaneyulu or just CSR, was an Indian film method actor, and thespian best known for his works in Telugu cinema, and Telugu theater. He acted in many stage dramas and portrayed lead characters and mythological roles in over 175 movies. He was one of the lead actors of his time. Anjaneyulu was an established lead actor by the late 1930s, preceding the entrance of actors such as N.T.R. and A.N.R.. His performance in the super-hit \"Bhaktha Ramadasu\" in 1937 won him many accolades. In the 1950s, starting with \"Pathala Bhairavi\" screened at the first International Film Festival of India, he began acting in character roles. In \"Pathala Bhairavi\", he plays a king worried about his daughter, a princess kidnapped by a wicked magician played by Ranga Rao.\n\nHe was noted for portraying mythological and historical roles such as Krishna, Ramadasu, Sarangadhara, Bhavani Sankar, Tukaram and Satyavantha. He also acted as Lord Venkateswara in \"Sri Venkateswara Mahatyam\", one of director P. Pulliah's first successful films. In the 1953 film \"Devadasu\", he portrayed an aged widower zamindar, alongside Savitri, who acts as his wife. His other acclaimed character roles include Sakuni (a character from Mahabharatha) in \"Mayabazar\". His other acclaimed acting credits include \"Rojulu Marayi\", \"Gruhapravesam\", \"Illarikam\", \"Kanyasulkam\" and \"Appu Chesi Pappu Koodu\". His directorial credits include the 1939 allegorical melodrama, \"Jayapradha\".\n\nHe was born on 11 July 1907 in a Telugu family at Chilakalapudi near Machilipatnam in Andhra Pradesh. His father, Lakshmi Narasimha Murthy, used to work in Revenue department. He later moved to Ponnur in Guntur district. After school final studies, he worked as a co-operative supervisor for some time. Instead of pursuing further studies, he choose to enter the field of drama. In a short time, he reached a position comparable to Sthanam Narasimha Rao, \"D. V. Subba Rao\", Parupalli, Addanki and others.\n\nHe played Sri Krishna in \"Sri Krishna Tulabaram\" and \"Radhakrishna\", Ramadas in \"Bhakta Ramadasu\" and Tukaram in \"Bhakta Tukaram\", which got him wide recognition. He was also a natural singer, particularly in poems. He was a national activist. He directed and produced \"Patita Pavana\", a drama on Untouchability.\nHe contributed Rs.10,000 to the Indian National Army of Subhas Chandra Bose collected through donations by playing his \"Tukaram\" drama.\n\nHe had two younger sisters and two younger brothers. One brother, C. S. Nageswara Rao, was the assistant director for movies including Suvarna Sundari, Gunasundari Katha and Mayabazar. Another brother, C. Venkata Rathnam (better known as C. V. Rathnam), was with Bharani Pictures & Studios and was the production manager for all the films produced by actress Bhanumathi Ramakrishna.\n"}
{"id": "66203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66203", "title": "Chinese dragon", "text": "Chinese dragon\n\nChinese dragons, also known as East Asian dragons, are legendary creatures in Chinese mythology, Chinese folklore, and East Asian culture at large. Chinese dragons have many animal-like forms such as turtles and fish, but are most commonly depicted as snake-like with four legs. They traditionally symbolize potent and auspicious powers, particularly control over water, rainfall, typhoons, and floods. The dragon is also a symbol of power, strength, and good luck for people who are worthy of it in East Asian culture. During the days of Imperial China, the Emperor of China usually used the dragon as a symbol of his imperial power and strength.\nIn Chinese culture, excellent and outstanding people are compared to a dragon, while incapable people with no achievements are compared to other, disesteemed creatures, such as a worm. A number of Chinese proverbs and idioms feature references to a dragon, such as \"Hoping one's son will become a dragon\" ().\n\nHistorically, the Chinese dragon was associated with the Emperor of China and used a symbol to represent imperial power. The founder of Han dynasty Liu Bang claimed that he was conceived after his mother dreamt of a dragon. During the Tang dynasty, Emperors wore robes with dragon motif as an imperial symbol, and high officials might also be presented with dragon robes. In the Yuan dynasty, the two-horned five-clawed dragon was designated for use by the Son of Heaven or Emperor only, while the four-clawed dragon was used by the princes and nobles. Similarly during the Ming and Qing dynasty, the five-clawed dragon was strictly reserved for use by the Emperor only. The dragon in the Qing dynasty appeared on the first Chinese national flag.\n\nThe dragon is sometimes used in the West as a national emblem of China though such use is not commonly seen in the People's Republic of China or the Republic of China. Instead, it is generally used as the symbol of culture. In Hong Kong, the dragon was a component of the coat of arms under British rule. It was later to become a feature of the design of Brand Hong Kong, a government promotional symbol.\n\nThe Chinese dragon has very different connotations from the European dragon – in European cultures, the dragon is a fire-breathing creature with aggressive connotations, whereas the Chinese dragon is a spiritual and cultural symbol that represents prosperity and good luck, as well as a rain deity that fosters harmony. It was reported that the Chinese government decided against using the dragon as its official 2008 Summer Olympics mascot because of the aggressive connotations that dragons have outside of China, and chose more \"friendly\" symbols instead.\n\nSometimes Chinese people use the term \"Descendants of the Dragon\" () as a sign of ethnic identity, as part of a trend started in the 1970s when different Asian nationalities were looking for animal symbols as representations, for example, the wolf may be used by the Mongols as it is considered to be their legendary ancestor.\n\nThe dragon was the symbol of the Chinese emperor for many dynasties. During the Qing dynasty, the Azure Dragon was featured on the first Chinese national flag. It featured shortly again on the Twelve Symbols national emblem, which was used during the Republic of China, from 1913 to 1928.\n\nThe ancient Chinese self-identified as \"the descendants of the dragon\" because the Chinese dragon is an imagined reptile that represents evolution from the ancestors and \"qi\" energy. The presence of dragons within Chinese culture dates back several thousands of years with the discovery of a dragon statue dating back to the fifth millennium BC from the Yangshao culture in Henan in 1987, and jade badges of rank in coiled form have been excavated from the Hongshan culture circa 4700-2900 BC. Some of the earliest Dragon artifacts are the pig dragon carvings from the Hongshan culture.\n\nThe coiled dragon or snake form played an important role in early Chinese culture. The character for \"dragon\" in the earliest Chinese writing has a similar coiled form, as do later jade dragon amulets from the Shang period.\n\nAncient Chinese referred to unearthed dinosaur bones as dragon bones and documented them as such. For example, Chang Qu in 300 BC documents the discovery of \"dragon bones\" in Sichuan. The modern Chinese term for dinosaur is written as \"恐龍/恐龙\"(\"terror dragon\"), and villagers in central China have long unearthed fossilized \"dragon bones\" for use in traditional medicines, a practice that continues today.\n\nThe binomial name for a variety of dinosaurs discovered in China, \"Mei long,\" in Chinese (寐 mèi and 龙 lóng) means \"sleeping dragon.\" Fossilized remains of Mei long have been found in China in a sleeping and coiled form, with the dinosaur nestling its snout beneath one of its forelimbs while encircling its tail around its entire body.\nFrom its origins as totems or the stylized depiction of natural creatures, the Chinese dragon evolved to become a mythical animal. The Han dynasty scholar Wang Fu recorded Chinese myths that \"long\" dragons had nine anatomical resemblances.The people paint the dragon's shape with a horse's head and a snake's tail. Further, there are expressions as 'three joints' and 'nine resemblances' (of the dragon), to wit: from head to shoulder, from shoulder to breast, from breast to tail. These are the joints; as to the nine resemblances, they are the following: his antlers resemble those of a stag, his head that of a camel, his eyes those of a demon, his neck that of a snake, his belly that of a clam (\"shen\", 蜃), his scales those of a carp, his claws those of an eagle, his soles those of a tiger, his ears those of a cow. Upon his head he has a thing like a broad eminence (a big lump), called [\"chimu\"] (尺木). If a dragon has no [\"chimu\"], he cannot ascend to the sky.\n\nFurther sources give variant lists of the nine animal resemblances. Sinologist Henri Doré lists these characteristics of an authentic dragon: \"The antlers of a deer. The head of a crocodile. A demon's eyes. The neck of a snake. A tortoise's viscera. A hawk's claws. The palms of a tiger. A cow's ears. And it hears through its horns, its ears being deprived of all power of hearing.\" He notes that, \"Others state it has a rabbit's eyes, a frog's belly, a carp's scales.\" The anatomy of other legendary creatures, including the chimera and manticore, is similarly amalgamated from fierce animals.\n\nChinese dragons were considered to be physically concise. Of the 117 scales, 81 are of the yang essence (positive) while 36 are of the yin essence (negative). Initially, the dragon was benevolent, wise, and just, but the Buddhists introduced the concept of malevolent influence among some dragons. Just as water destroys, they said, so can some dragons destroy via floods, tidal waves, and storms. They suggested that some of the worst floods were believed to have been the result of a mortal upsetting a dragon.\n\nMany pictures of Chinese dragons show a flaming pearl under their chin or in their claws. The pearl is associated with spiritual energy, wisdom, prosperity, power, immortality, thunder, or the moon. Chinese art often depicts a pair of dragons chasing or fighting over the flaming pearl.\n\nChinese dragons are occasionally depicted with bat-like wings growing out of the front limbs, but most do not have wings, as their ability to fly (and control rain/water, etc.) is mystical and not seen as a result of their physical attributes.\n\nThis description accords with the artistic depictions of the dragon down to the present day. The dragon has also acquired an almost unlimited range of supernatural powers. It is said to be able to disguise itself as a silkworm, or become as large as our entire universe. It can fly among the clouds or hide in water (according to the \"Guanzi\"). It can form clouds, can turn into water, can change color as an ability to blend in with their surroundings, as an effective form of camouflage or glow in the dark (according to the \"Shuowen Jiezi\").\n\nIn many other countries, folktales speak of the dragon having all the attributes of the other 11 creatures of the zodiac, this includes the whiskers of the Rat, the face and horns of the Ox, the claws and teeth of the Tiger, the belly of the Rabbit, the body of the Snake, the legs of the Horse, the goatee of the Goat, the wit of the Monkey, the crest of the Rooster, the ears of the Dog, and the snout of the Pig.\n\nIn some circles, it is considered bad luck to depict a dragon facing downwards, as it is seen as disrespectful to place a dragon in such manner that it cannot ascend to the sky. Also, depictions of dragons in tattoos are prevalent as they are symbols of strength and power, especially criminal organisations where dragons hold a meaning all on their own. As such, it is believed that one must be fierce and strong enough, hence earning the right to wear the dragon on his skin, lest his luck be consumed by the dragons.\n\nChinese dragons are strongly associated with water and weather in popular religion. They are believed to be the rulers of moving bodies of water, such as waterfalls, rivers, or seas. The Dragon God is the dispenser of rain as well as the zoomorphic representation of the \"yang\" masculine power of generation. In this capacity as the rulers of water and weather, the dragon is more anthropomorphic in form, often depicted as a humanoid, dressed in a king's costume, but with a dragon head wearing a king's headdress.\n\nThere are four major Dragon Kings, representing each of the Four Seas: the East Sea (corresponding to the East China Sea), the South Sea (corresponding to the South China Sea), the West Sea (sometimes seen as the Qinghai Lake and beyond), and the North Sea (sometimes seen as Lake Baikal).\n\nBecause of this association, they are seen as \"in charge\" of water-related weather phenomena. In premodern times, many Chinese villages (especially those close to rivers and seas) had temples dedicated to their local \"dragon king\". In times of drought or flooding, it was customary for the local gentry and government officials to lead the community in offering sacrifices and conducting other religious rites to appease the dragon, either to ask for rain or a cessation thereof.\n\nThe King of Wuyue in the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period was often known as the \"Dragon King\" or the \"Sea Dragon King\" because of his extensive hydro-engineering schemes which \"tamed\" the sea.\n\nAccording to Chinese legend, both Chinese primogenitors, the earliest Door and the Yellow Emperor (Huangdi), were closely related to 'Long' (Chinese dragon). At the end of his reign, the first legendary ruler, the Yellow Emperor, was said to have been immortalized into a dragon that resembled his emblem, and ascended to Heaven. The other legendary ruler, the Yan Emperor, was born by his mother's telepathy with a mythical dragon. Since the Chinese consider the Yellow Emperor and the Yan Emperor as their ancestors, they sometimes refer to themselves as \"the descendants of the dragon\". This legend also contributed towards the use of the Chinese dragon as a symbol of imperial power.\n\nDragons (usually with five claws on each foot) were a symbol for the emperor in many Chinese dynasties. During the Qing dynasty, the imperial dragon was colored yellow or gold, and during the Ming dynasty it was red. The imperial throne was referred to as the \"Dragon Throne\". During the late Qing dynasty, the dragon was even adopted as the national flag. Dragons are featured in carvings on the stairs and walkways of imperial palaces and imperial tombs, such as at the Forbidden City in Beijing.\n\nIn some Chinese legends, an emperor might be born with a birthmark in the shape of a dragon. For example, one legend tells the tale of a peasant born with a dragon birthmark who eventually overthrows the existing dynasty and founds a new one; another legend might tell of the prince in hiding from his enemies who is identified by his dragon birthmark.\n\nIn contrast, the Empress of China was often identified with the Chinese phoenix.\n\nWorship of the Dragon God is celebrated throughout China with sacrifices and processions during the fifth and sixth moons, and especially on the date of his birthday the thirteenth day of the sixth moon. A folk religious movement of associations of good-doing in modern Hebei is primarily devoted to a generic Dragon God whose icon is a tablet with his name inscribed, for which it has been named the \"movement of the Dragon Tablet\".\n\nDragons or dragon-like depictions have been found extensively in neolithic-period archaeological sites throughout China. The earliest depiction of dragons was found at Xinglongwa culture sites. Yangshao culture sites in Xi'an have produced clay pots with dragon motifs. A burial site Xishuipo in Puyang which is associated with the Yangshao culture shows a large dragon mosaic made out of clam shells. The Liangzhu culture also produced dragon-like patterns. The Hongshan culture sites in present-day Inner Mongolia produced jade dragon objects in the form of pig dragons which are the first 3-dimensional representations of Chinese dragons.\n\nOne such early form was the pig dragon. It is a coiled, elongated creature with a head resembling a boar. The character for \"dragon\" in the earliest Chinese writing has a similar coiled form, as do later jade dragon amulets from the Shang dynasty.\n\nChinese literature and myths refer to many dragons besides the famous \"long\". The linguist Michael Carr analyzed over 100 ancient dragon names attested in Chinese classic texts. Many such Chinese names derive from the suffix -\"long\":\nFewer Chinese dragon names derive from the prefix \"long\"-:\n\nSome additional Chinese dragons are not named with \"long\" 龍, for instance,\n\nChinese scholars have classified dragons in diverse systems. For instance, Emperor Huizong of the Song dynasty canonized five colored dragons as \"kings\".\nWith the addition of the Yellow Dragon of the Center to Azure Dragon of the East, these Vermilion, White, and Black Dragons coordinate with the Four Symbols, including the Vermilion Bird of the South, White Tiger of the West, and Black Tortoise of the North.\n\nSeveral Ming dynasty texts list what were claimed as the Nine Offspring of the Dragon (龍生九子), and subsequently these feature prominently in popular Chinese stories and writings. The scholar Xie Zhaozhe (, 1567–1624) in his work \"Wu Za Zu\" (, c. 1592) gives the following listing, as rendered by M.W. de Visser:\nA well-known work of the end of the sixteenth century, the \"Wuzazu\" , informs us about the nine different young of the dragon, whose shapes are used as ornaments according to their nature.\n\nFurther, the same author enumerates nine other kinds of dragons, which are represented as ornaments of different objects or buildings according to their liking prisons, water, the rank smell of newly caught fish or newly killed meat, wind and rain, ornaments, smoke, shutting the mouth (used for adorning key-holes), standing on steep places (placed on roofs), and fire.\nThe \"Sheng'an waiji\" (升庵外集) collection by the poet Yang Shen (楊慎, 1488–1559) gives different 5th and 9th names for the dragon's nine children: the \"taotie\" (), which loves to eat and is found on food-related wares, and the \"jiaotu\" (), which looks like a conch or clam, does not like to be disturbed, and is used on the front door or the doorstep. Yang's list is \"bixi\", \"chiwen\" or \"cháofēng\", \"pulao\", \"bi'an\", \"taotie\", \"qiuniu\", \"yazi\", \"suanni\", and \"jiaotu\".\n\nOldest known attestation of the \"children of the dragon\" list is found in the \"Shuyuan Zaji\" (椒园杂记, \"Miscellaneous records from the bean garden\") by Lu Rong (1436–1494); however, he noted that the list enumerates mere synonyms of various antiques, not children of a dragon. The nine sons of the dragon were commemorated by the Shanghai Mint in 2012's year of the dragon with two sets of coins, one in silver, and one in brass. Each coin in the sets depicts one of the 9 sons, including an additional coin for the father dragon, which depicts the nine sons on the reverse.\n\nThe early Chinese dragons can be depicted with two to five claws. Different countries that adopted the Chinese dragon have different preferences; in Mongolia and Korea, the four-clawed dragons are used, while in Japanese dragon three-clawed dragons are common. By the Yuan dynasty, the five-clawed dragons became reserved for use by the emperor while the princes used four-clawed dragons. The usage of the dragon motif was codified during the Yuan dynasty, and phoenixes and five-clawed two-horned dragons may not be used on the robes of officials and other objects such as plates and vessels. It was further stipulated that for commoners, \"it is forbidden to wear any cloth with patterns of Qilin, Male Fenghuang (Chinese phoenix), White rabbit, Lingzhi, Five-Toe Two-Horn Dragon, Eight Dragons, Nine Dragons, 'Ten thousand years', Fortune-longevity character and Golden Yellow etc.\"\n\nThe Hongwu Emperor of the Ming dynasty emulated the Yuan dynasty rules on the use of the dragon motif and decreed that the dragon would be his emblem and that it would have five claws. The four-clawed dragon would become typically for imperial nobility and certain high-ranking officials. The three clawed dragon was used by lower ranks and the general public (widely seen on various Chinese goods in the Ming dynasty). The dragon, however, was only for select royalty closely associated with the imperial family, usually in various symbolic colors, while it was a capital offense for anyone—other than the emperor himself—to ever use the completely gold-colored, five-clawed \"Long\" dragon motif. Improper use of claw number or colors was considered treason, punishable by execution of the offender's entire clan. The convention was carried into the Qing dynasty, and portraits of the Qing emperors were usually depicted with five-clawed dragons.\n\nIn works of art that left the imperial collection, either as gifts or through pilfering by court eunuchs (a long-standing problem) where practicable one claw was removed from each set, as in several pieces of carved lacquerware, for example the well known Chinese lacquerware table in the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.\n\nThe number nine is special in China as it is seen as number of the heaven, and Chinese dragons are frequently connected with it. For example, a Chinese dragon is normally described in terms of nine attributes and usually has 117 (9x13) scales—81 (9x9) Yang and 36 (9x4) Yin.\nThis is also why there are nine forms of the dragon and there are 9 sons of the dragon (see Classical depictions above). The Nine-Dragon Wall is a spirit wall with images of nine different dragons, and is found in imperial Chinese palaces and gardens. Because nine was considered the number of the emperor, only the most senior officials were allowed to wear nine dragons on their robes—and then only with the robe completely covered with surcoats. Lower-ranking officials had eight or five dragons on their robes, again covered with surcoats; even the emperor himself wore his dragon robe with one of its nine dragons hidden from view.\n\nThere are a number of places in China called \"Nine Dragons\", the most famous being Kowloon (in Cantonese) in Hong Kong. The part of the Mekong in Vietnam is known as \"Cửu Long\", with the same meaning.\n\nThe Dragon is one of the 12 animals in the Chinese zodiac which is used to designate years in the Chinese calendar. It is thought that each animal is associated with certain personality traits. Dragon years are usually the most popular to have children. There are more people born in Dragon years than in any other animal years of the zodiac.\n\nThe Azure Dragon (Qing Long, 青龍) is considered to be the primary of the four celestial guardians, the other three being the Zhu Que—朱雀 (Vermilion Bird), Bai Hu—白虎 (White Tiger), Xuan Wu—玄武 (Black Tortoise-like creature). In this context, the Azure Dragon is associated with the East and the element of Wood.\n\nAt special festivals, especially the Duanwu Festival, dragon boat races are an important part of festivities. Typically, these are boats paddled by a team of up to 20 paddlers with a drummer and steersman. The boats have a carved dragon as the head and tail of the boat. Dragon boat racing is also an important part of celebrations outside of China, such as at Chinese New Year. A similar racing is popular in India in the state of Kerala called Vallamkali and there are records on Chinese traders visiting the seashores of Kerala centuries back (Ibn Batuta).\n\nOn auspicious occasions, including Chinese New Year and the opening of shops and residences, festivities often include dancing with dragon puppets. These are \"life sized\" cloth-and-wood puppets manipulated by a team of people, supporting the dragon with poles. They perform choreographed moves to the accompaniment of drums, drama, and music. They also wore good clothing made of silk.\n\nIn many Buddhist countries, the concept of the nāga has been merged with local traditions of great and wise serpents or dragons, as depicted in this stairway image of a multi-headed nāga emerging from the mouth of a Makara in the style of a Chinese dragon at Phra Maha Chedi Chai Mongkol on the premises of Wat Pha Namthip Thep Prasit Vararam in Thailand's Roi Et Province Nong Phok District.\n\nThe tiger is considered to be the eternal rival to the dragon, thus various artworks depict a dragon and tiger fighting an epic battle. A well used Chinese idiom to describe equal rivals (often in sports nowadays) is \"\"Dragon versus Tiger\". In Chinese martial arts, \"Dragon style\" is used to describe styles of fighting based more on understanding movement, while \"Tiger style\"\" is based on brute strength and memorization of techniques.\n\nThe elm cultivar \"Ulmus pumila\" 'Pendula', from northern China, called 'Weeping Chinese Elm' in the West, is known locally as \"Lung chao yü shu\" (: 'Dragon's-claw elm') owing to its branching.\n\n\nWhile depictions of the dragon in art and literature are consistent throughout the cultures in which it is found, there are some regional differences.\n\nFor more information on peculiarities in the depiction of the dragon in other Asian cultures, see:\n\nDragons related to the Chinese dragon:\n\nDragons similar to the Chinese dragon:\n\n"}
{"id": "20610449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610449", "title": "Colony collapse disorder", "text": "Colony collapse disorder\n\nColony collapse disorder (CCD) is the phenomenon that occurs when the majority of worker bees in a colony disappear and leave behind a queen, plenty of food and a few nurse bees to care for the remaining immature bees. While such disappearances have occurred throughout the history of apiculture, and were known by various names (disappearing disease, spring dwindle, May disease, autumn collapse, and fall dwindle disease), the syndrome was renamed colony collapse disorder in late 2006 in conjunction with a drastic rise in the number of disappearances of western honey bee (\"Apis mellifera\") colonies in North America. European beekeepers observed similar phenomena in Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Greece, Italy, Portugal, and Spain, Switzerland and Germany, albeit to a lesser degree, and the Northern Ireland Assembly received reports of a decline greater than 50%.\n\nColony collapse disorder causes significant economic losses because many agricultural crops worldwide are pollinated by western honey bees. According to the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Department of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the worth of global crops with honey bee pollination was estimated at close to $200 billion in 2005. Shortages of bees in the US have increased the cost to farmers renting them for pollination services by up to 20%.\n\nIn the six years leading up to 2013, more than 10 million beehives were lost, often to CCD, nearly twice the normal rate of loss. To put this in perspective, according to U.N. FAO data, the world's beehive stock rose from around 50 million in 1961 to around 83 million in 2014, which is about 1.3% average annual growth. Average annual growth has accelerated to 1.9% since 2009.\n\nSeveral possible causes for CCD have been proposed, but no single proposal has gained widespread acceptance among the scientific community. Suggested causes include: infections with \"Varroa\" and \"Acarapis\" mites; malnutrition; various pathogens; genetic factors; immunodeficiencies; loss of habitat; changing beekeeping practices; or a combination of factors. A large amount of speculation has surrounded a family of pesticides called neonicotinoids as having caused CCD.\nLimited occurrences resembling CCD have been documented as early as 1869 and this set of symptoms has, in the past several decades, been given many different names (disappearing disease, spring dwindle, May disease, autumn collapse, and fall dwindle disease). Most recently, a similar phenomenon in the winter of 2004/2005 occurred, and was attributed to varroa mites (the \"vampire mite\" scare), though this was never ultimately confirmed. The cause of the appearance of this syndrome has never been determined. Upon recognition that the syndrome does not seem to be seasonally restricted, and that it may not be a \"disease\" in the standard sense—that there may not be a specific causative agent—the syndrome was renamed.\n\nA well-documented outbreak of colony losses spread from the Isle of Wight to the rest of the UK in 1906. These losses later were attributed to a combination of factors, including adverse weather, intensive apiculture leading to inadequate forage, Acarine (tracheal) mites, and a new infection, the chronic bee paralysis virus, but at the time, the cause of this agricultural beekeeping problem was similarly mysterious and unknown.\n\nReports show this behavior in hives in the US in 1918 and 1919. Coined \"mystery disease\" by some, it eventually became more widely known as \"disappearing disease\". Oertel, in 1965, reported that hives afflicted with disappearing disease in Louisiana had plenty of honey in the combs, although few or no bees were present, discrediting reports that attributed the disappearances to lack of food.\n\nFrom 1972 to 2006, dramatic reductions continued in the number of feral honey bees in the U.S. and a significant though somewhat gradual decline in the number of colonies maintained by beekeepers. This decline includes the cumulative losses from all factors, such as urbanization, pesticide use, tracheal and \"Varroa\" mites, and commercial beekeepers' retiring and going out of business. However, in late 2006 and early 2007, the rate of attrition was alleged to have reached new proportions, and people began to use the term \"colony collapse disorder\" to describe this sudden rash of disappearances (or sometimes \"spontaneous hive collapse\" or the \"Mary Celeste syndrome\" in the United Kingdom).\n\nLosses had remained stable since the 1990s at 17–20% per year attributable to a variety of factors, such as mites, diseases, and management stress. The first report of CCD was in mid-November 2006 by a Pennsylvania beekeeper overwintering in Florida. By February 2007, large commercial migratory beekeepers wintering in California, Florida, Oklahoma, and Texas had reported heavy losses associated with CCD. Their reports of losses varied widely, ranging from 30% to 90% of their bee colonies; in some cases, beekeepers reported losses of nearly all of their colonies with surviving colonies so weakened that they might no longer be able to pollinate or produce honey.\n\nIn late February 2007, some larger nonmigratory beekeepers in the mid-Atlantic and Pacific Northwest regions also reported significant losses of more than 50%. Colony losses also were reported in five Canadian provinces, several European countries, and countries in South and Central America and Asia. In 2010, the USDA reported that data on overall honey bee losses for 2010 indicated an estimated 34% loss, which is statistically similar to losses reported in 2007, 2008, and 2009. Fewer colony losses occurred in the U.S. over the winter of 2013–2014 than in recent years. Total losses of managed honey bee colonies from all causes were 23.2% nationwide, a marked improvement over the 30.5% loss reported for the winter of 2012–2013 and the eight-year average loss of 29.6%.\n\nAfter bee populations dropped 23% in the winter of 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Agriculture formed a task force to address the issue. In the six years leading up to 2013, more than 10 million beehives were lost, often to CCD, nearly twice the normal rate of loss. However, according to Syngenta and the F.A.O., the total number of beehives worldwide continues to grow. An insecticide produced by Syngenta was banned by the European Commission in 2013 for use in crops pollinated by bees. Syngenta together with Bayer is challenging this ban in court.\n\nIn collapsed colonies, CCD is suspected when a complete absence of adult bees is found in colonies, with little or no buildup of dead bees in the hive or in front of the hive. A colony that has collapsed from CCD is generally characterized by all of these conditions occurring simultaneously:\n\nPrecursor symptoms that may arise before the final colony collapse are:\n\nThe National Agriculture Statistics Service reported 2.44 million honey-producing hives were in the United States in February 2008, down from 4.5 million in 1980, and 5.9 million in 1947, though these numbers underestimate the total number of managed hives, as they exclude several thousand hives managed for pollination contracts only, and also do not include hives managed by beekeepers owning fewer than five hives. This under-representation may be offset by the practice of counting some hives more than once; hives that are moved to different states to produce honey are counted in each state's total and summed in total counts.\n\nNon-CCD winter losses as high as 50% have occurred in some years and regions (e.g., 2000–2001 in Pennsylvania). Normal winter losses are typically in the range of 15–25%. In many cases, beekeepers reporting significant losses of bees did not experience true CCD, but losses due to other causes.\n\nIn 2007 in the US, at least 24 different states had reported at least one case of CCD. In a 2007 survey of 384 responding beekeepers from 13 states, 23.8% met the specified criterion for CCD (that 50% or more of their dead colonies were found without bees and/or with very few dead bees in the hive or apiary).\n\nIn the US in 2006–2007, CCD-suffering operations had a total loss of 45% compared to the total loss of 25% of all colonies experienced by non-CCD suffering beekeepers.\n\nA 2007–2008 survey of over 19% of all colonies revealed a total loss of 35.8%. Operations that pollinated almonds lost, on average, the same number of colonies as those that did not. The 37.9% of operations that reported having at least some of their colonies die with a complete lack of bees had a total loss of 40.8% of colonies compared to the 17.1% loss reported by beekeepers without this symptom. Large operations were more likely to have this symptom, suggesting a contagious condition may be a causal factor. About 60% of all colonies that were reported dead in this survey died without the presence of dead bees in the hive, thus possibly suffered from CCD.\n\nIn 2010, the USDA reported that data on overall honey bee losses for the year indicate an estimated 34% loss, which is statistically similar to losses reported in 2007, 2008, and 2009. In 2011, the loss was 30%. In 2012–2013, CCD was blamed for the loss of about half of the US honey bee hives, far more than the 33% losses observed on average over previous years.\nDuring the spring of 2015, President Barack Obama unveiled the very first national strategy for improving the health of bees and other key pollinators. The plan calls for restoring 7 million acres of bee habitat with a variety of different flowering plants for bees to gather nectar from. The administration is also proposing spending $82.5 million for honey bee research.\n\nAccording to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), in 2007, the United Kingdom had 274,000 hives, Italy had 1,091,630, and France 1,283,810. In 2008, the British Beekeepers Association reported the bee population in the United Kingdom dropped by around 30% between 2007 and 2008, and an EFSA study revealed that in Italy the mortality rate was 40–50%. However, EFSA officials point out the figures are not very reliable because before the bees started dying, no harmonisation was used in the way different countries collected statistics on their bee populations. At that time (2008), the reports blamed the high death rate on the varroa mite, two seasons of unusually wet European summers, and some pesticides.\n\nIn 2009, Tim Lovett, president of the British Beekeepers' Association, said: \"Anecdotally, it is hugely variable. There are reports of some beekeepers losing almost a third of their hives and others losing none.\" John Chapple, chairman of the London Beekeepers' Association, put losses among his 150 members at between a fifth and a quarter. \"There are still a lot of mysterious disappearances; we are no nearer to knowing what is causing them.\" The government's National Bee Unit continued to deny the existence of CCD in Britain; it attributes the heavy losses to the varroa mite and rainy summers that stop bees foraging for food.\n\nIn 2010, David Aston of the British Beekeepers' Association stated, \"We still do not believe CCD (which is now better defined) is a cause of colony losses in the UK, however we are continuing to experience colony losses, many if not most of which can be explained.\" He feels recent studies suggest \"further evidence to the evolving picture that there are complex interactions taking place between a number of factors, pathogens, environmental, beekeeping practices and other stressors, which are causing honey bee losses described as CCD in the US\".\n\nBeekeepers in Scotland also reported losses for the past three years. Andrew Scarlett, a Perthshire-based bee farmer and honey packer, lost 80% of his 1,200 hives during the 2009/10 winter. He attributed the losses to a virulent bacterial infection that quickly spread because of a lack of bee inspectors, coupled with sustained poor weather that prevented honey bees from building up sufficient pollen and nectar stores.\n\nIn Germany, where some of the first reports of CCD in Europe appeared, and where, according to the German national association of beekeepers, 40% of the honey bee colonies died, there was no scientific confirmation; in early May 2007, the German media reported no confirmed CCD cases seemed to have occurred in Germany.\n\nIn 2012, a report was published stating the first case of CCD, according to more stringent definitions, occurring outside of the US was in Switzerland.\nAt the end of May 2012, the Swiss government reported about half of the bee population had not survived the winter. The main cause of the decline was thought to be the parasite \"Varroa destructor\".\n\nIn China, a three-year survey from 2010 to 2013 (using COLOSS questionnaires) showed colony losses of 10.1% on average. Comb renewal and queen problems were identified as significant risk factors.\n\nThe mechanisms of CCD are still unknown, but many causes are currently being considered, such as pesticides, mites, fungi, beekeeping practices (such as the use of antibiotics or long-distance transportation of beehives), malnutrition, poor quality queens, starvation, other pathogens, and immunodeficiencies. The current scientific consensus is that no single factor is causing CCD, but that some of these factors in combination may lead to CCD either additively or synergistically.\n\nIn 2006, the Colony Collapse Disorder Working Group, based primarily at Pennsylvania State University, was established. Their preliminary report pointed out some patterns, but drew no strong conclusions. A survey of beekeepers early in 2007 indicated most hobbyist beekeepers believed that starvation was the leading cause of death in their colonies, while commercial beekeepers overwhelmingly believed invertebrate pests (\"Varroa\" mites, honey bee tracheal mites, and/or small hive beetles) were the leading cause of colony mortality. A scholarly review in June 2007 similarly addressed numerous theories and possible contributing factor, but left the issue unresolved.\n\nIn July 2007, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) released a \"CCD Action Plan\", which outlined a strategy for addressing CCD consisting of four main components: survey and data collection; analysis of samples; hypothesis-driven research; mitigation and preventive action. The first annual report of the U.S. Colony Collapse Disorder Steering Committee was published in 2009. It suggested CCD may be caused by the interaction of many agents in combination. The same year, the CCD Working Group published a comprehensive descriptive study that concluded: \"Of the 61 variables quantified (including adult bee physiology, pathogen loads, and pesticide levels), no single factor was found with enough consistency to suggest one causal agent. Bees in CCD colonies had higher pathogen loads and were co-infected with more pathogens than control populations, suggesting either greater pathogen exposure or reduced defenses in CCD bees.\"\n\nThe second annual Steering Committee report was released in November 2010. The group reported that although many associations—including pesticides, parasites, and pathogens—had been identified throughout the course of research, \"it is becoming increasingly clear that no single factor alone is responsible for [CCD]\". Their findings indicated an absence of damaging levels of the parasite \"Nosema\" or parasitic \"Varroa\" mites at the time of collapse. They did find an association of sublethal effects of some pesticides with CCD, including two common miticides in particular, coumaphos and fluvalinate, which are pesticides registered for use by beekeepers to control varroa mites. Studies also identified sublethal effects of neonicotinoids and fungicides, pesticides that may impair the bees' immune systems and may leave them more susceptible to bee viruses.\n\nA 2015 review examined 170 studies on colony collapse disorder and stressors for bees, including pathogens, agrochemicals, declining biodiversity, climate change and more. The review concluded that \"a strong argument can be made that it is the interaction among parasites, pesticides, and diet that lies at the heart of current bee health problems.\" Furthermore:\n\"Bees of all species are likely to encounter multiple stressors during their lives, and each is likely to reduce the ability of bees to cope with the others. A bee or bee colony that appears to have succumbed to a pathogen may not have died if it had not also been exposed to a sublethal dose of a pesticide and/or been subject to food stress (which might in turn be due to drought or heavy rain induced by climate change, or competition from a high density of honey bee hives placed nearby). Unfortunately, conducting well-replicated studies of the effects of multiple interacting stressors on bee colonies is exceedingly difficult. The number of stressor combinations rapidly becomes large, and exposure to stressors is hard or impossible to control with free-flying bees. Nonetheless, a strong argument can be made that it is the interaction among parasites, pesticides, and diet that lies at the heart of current bee health problems.\"\n\nAccording to the USDA, pesticides may be contributing to CCD. A 2013 peer-reviewed literature review concluded neonicotinoids in the amounts typically used harm bees and safer alternatives are urgently needed. At the same time, other sources suggest the evidence is not conclusive, and that clarity regarding the facts is hampered by the role played by various issue advocates and lobby groups.\n\nScientists have long been concerned that pesticides, including possibly some fungicides, may have sublethal effects on bees, not killing them outright, but instead impairing their development and behavior. Of special interest is the class of insecticides called neonicotinoids, which contain the active ingredient imidacloprid, and other similar chemicals, such as clothianidin and thiamethoxam. Honey bees may be affected by such chemicals when they are used as a seed treatment because they are known to work their way through the plant up into the flowers and leave residues in the nectar. The containment of neonicotinoids to crops and fields designated for treatment is difficult, and many times inefficient. Run-off from treated fields and farm machinery that is not properly cleaned after field treatments can lead to exposure and uptake of pesticides by untreated plants. Therefore, honey bees are not only exposed to neonicotinoids by foraging on treated plants, but also by foraging on plants unintentionally exposed to these chemicals. The doses taken up by bees are not lethal, but possible chronic problems could be caused by long-term exposure. In a laboratory setting, both lethal and sub-lethal effects on foraging behavior, memory, and learning ability have been observed in honey bees exposed to neonicotinoids. However, these effects were not seen in field studies with field-realistic dosages. Most corn grown in the US is treated with neonicotinoids, and a 2012 study found high levels of clothianidin in pneumatic planter exhaust. In the study, the insecticide was present in the soil of unplanted fields near those planted with corn and on dandelions growing near those fields. Another 2012 study also found clothianidin and imidacloprid in the exhaust of pneumatic seeding equipment.\n\nA 2010 survey reported 98 pesticides and metabolites detected in aggregate concentrations up to 214 ppm in bee pollen; this figure represents over half of the individual pesticide incidences ever reported for apiaries. It was suggested that \"while exposure to many of these neurotoxicants elicits acute and sublethal reductions in honey bee fitness, the effects of these materials in combinations and their direct association with CCD or declining bee health remains to be determined.\"\n\nEvaluating pesticide contributions to CCD is particularly difficult for several reasons. First, the variety of pesticides in use in the different areas reporting CCD makes it difficult to test for all possible pesticides simultaneously. Second, many commercial beekeeping operations are mobile, transporting hives over large geographic distances over the course of a season, potentially exposing the colonies to different pesticides at each location. Third, the bees themselves place pollen and honey into long-term storage, effectively meaning a delay may occur from days to months before contaminated provisions are fed to the colony, negating any attempts to associate the appearance of symptoms with the actual time when exposure to pesticides occurred.\nTo date, most of the evaluation of possible roles of pesticides in CCD have relied on the use of surveys submitted by beekeepers, but direct testing of samples from affected colonies seems likely to be needed, especially given the possible role of systemic insecticides such as the neonicotinoid imidacloprid (which are applied to the soil and taken up into the plant's tissues, including pollen and nectar), which may be applied to a crop when the beekeeper is not present. The known effects of imidacloprid on insects, including honey bees, are consistent with the symptoms of CCD; for example, the effects of imidacloprid on termites include apparent failure of the immune system, and disorientation.\n\nIn Europe, the interaction of the phenomenon of \"dying bees\" with imidacloprid has been discussed for quite some time. A study from the \"Comité Scientifique et Technique (CST)\" was at the center of discussion, and led to a partial ban of imidacloprid in France. The imidacloprid pesticide Gaucho was banned in 1999 by the French Minister of Agriculture Jean Glavany, primarily due to concern over potential effects on honey bees. Subsequently, when fipronil, a phenylpyrazole insecticide and in Europe mainly labeled \"Regent\", was used as a replacement, it was also found to be toxic to bees, and banned partially in France in 2004.\n\nIn February 2007, about 40 French deputies, led by Jacques Remiller of the UMP, requested the creation of a parliamentary investigation commission on overmortality of bees, underlining that honey production had decreased by 1,000 tons a year for a decade. By August 2007, no investigation had opened. Five other insecticides based on fipronil were also accused of killing bees. However, the scientific committees of the European Union are still of the opinion \"that the available monitoring studies were mainly performed in France and EU-member-states should consider the relevance of these studies for the circumstances in their country.\"\n\nAround the time when French beekeepers succeeded in banning neonicotinoids, the Clinton administration permitted pesticides that were previously banned, including imidacloprid. In 2004, the Bush administration reduced regulations further and pesticide applications increased.\n\nIn 2005, a team of scientists led by the National Institute of Beekeeping in Bologna, Italy, found pollen obtained from seeds dressed with imidacloprid contain significant levels of the insecticide, and suggested the polluted pollen might cause honey bee colony death. Analysis of maize and sunflower crops originating from seeds dressed with imidacloprid suggest large amounts of the insecticide will be carried back to honey bee colonies. Sublethal doses of imidacloprid in sucrose solution have also been documented to affect homing and foraging activity of honey bees. Imidacloprid in sucrose solution fed to bees in the laboratory impaired their communication for a few hours. Sublethal doses of imidacloprid in laboratory and field experiment decreased flight activity and olfactory discrimination, and olfactory learning performance was impaired.\n\nResearch, in 2008, by scientists from Pennsylvania State University found high levels of the pesticides fluvalinate and coumaphos in samples of wax from hives, as well as lower levels of 70 other pesticides. These chemicals have been used to try to eradicate varroa mites, a bee pest that itself has been thought to be a cause of CCD. Researchers from Washington State University, under entomology professor Steve Sheppard in 2009, confirmed high levels of pesticide residue in hive wax and found an association between it and significantly reduced bee longevity.\n\nThe WSU work also focused on the impact of the microsporidian pathogen \"Nosema ceranae\", the build-up of which was high in the majority of the bees tested, even after large doses of the antibiotic fumagillin. Penn State's Dr. Maryann Frazier said, \"Pesticides alone have not shown they are the cause of CCD. We believe that it is a combination of a variety of factors, possibly including mites, viruses and pesticides.\"\n\nIn 2010, fipronil was blamed for the spread of CCD among bees, in a study by the Minutes-Association for Technical Coordination Fund in France, which found that even at very low nonlethal doses, this pesticide still impairs the ability to locate the hive, resulting in large numbers of foragers lost with every pollen-finding expedition, though no mention was made regarding any of the other symptoms of CCD; other studies, however, have shown no acute effect of fipronil on honey bees. Fipronil is designed to eliminate insects similar to bees, such as yellowjackets (\"Vespula germanica\") and many other colonial pests by a process of 'toxic baiting', whereby one insect returning to the hive spreads the pesticide among the brood.\n\nA large 2010 survey of healthy and CCD-affected colonies also revealed elevated levels of pesticides in wax and pollen, but the amounts of pesticides were similar in both failing and healthy hives. They also confirmed suspected links between CCD and poor colony health, inadequate diet, and long-distance transportation. Studies continue to show very high levels of pathogens in CCD-affected samples and lower pathogen levels in unaffected samples, consistent with the empirical observation that healthy honey bee colonies normally fend off pathogens. These observations have led to the hypothesis that bee declines are resulting from immune suppression.\n\nIn 2010, a sequencing of the honey bee genome provided a possible explanation for the sensitivity of bees to pesticides. Its genome is deficient in the number of genes encoding detoxification enzymes, including cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s), glutathione-S-transferases, and carboxylesterases.\n\nIn 2012, researchers announced findings that sublethal exposure to imidacloprid rendered honey bees significantly more susceptible to infection by the fungus \"Nosema\", thereby suggesting a potential link to CCD, given that \"Nosema\" is increasingly considered to contribute to CCD.\n\nNeonicotinoids may interfere with bees' natural homing abilities, causing them to become disoriented and preventing them from finding their way back to the hive.\n\nAlso, in 2012, researchers in Italy published findings that the pneumatic drilling machines that plant corn seeds coated with clothianidin and imidacloprid release large amounts of the pesticide into the air, causing significant mortality in foraging honey bees. According to the study, \"Experimental results show that the environmental release of particles containing neonicotinoids can produce high exposure levels for bees, with lethal effects compatible with colony losses phenomena observed by beekeepers.\" Commonly used pesticides, such as the imidacloprid, reduce colony growth and new queen production in experimental exposure matched to field levels. Lu \"et al.\" (2012) reported they were able to replicate CCD with imidacloprid. Another neonicotinoid, thiamethoxam, causes navigational homing failure of foraging bees, with high mortality.\n\nA 2012 \"in situ\" study provided strong evidence that exposure to sublethal levels of imidacloprid in high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) used to feed honey bees when forage is not available causes bees to exhibit symptoms consistent to CCD 23 weeks after imidacloprid dosing. The researchers suggested, \"the observed delayed mortality in honey bees caused by imidacloprid in HFCS is a novel and plausible mechanism for CCD, and should be validated in future studies.\"\n\nIn March 2013, two studies were published showing that neonicotinoids affect bee long-term and short-term memory, suggesting a cause of action resulting in failure to return to the hive. In another study done in 2013, scientists reported that experiments suggested that exposure to the neonicotinoid pesticides clothianidin and imidicloprid results in increased levels of a particular protein in bees that inhibits a key molecule involved in the immune response, making the insects more susceptible to attack by harmful viruses.\nGrowth in the use of neonicotinoid pesticides has roughly tracked rising bee deaths. In 2015, an 11-year British study showed a definitive relationship between increasing agricultural use of neonicotinoid and escalating honey bee colony losses at a landscape level. This is the first field study to establish a link between neonicotinoids and CCD.\n\nIn July 2013, scientists from the University of Maryland and the US Department of Agriculture found that a combination of pesticides has been contaminating the pollen bees use to feed their hives. When researchers collected pollen from hives on the east coast, they discovered that it was contaminated (on average) with 9 different fungicides and pesticides, although scientists found a blend of 21 different agricultural chemicals in one sample of pollen. Eight ag chemicals were identified to be associated with increased risk of infection by \"Nosema ceranae\".\n\nA meta-analysis study published in February 2016 strongly suggests a pattern linking imidacloprid to sublethal effects on honey bees, stating: \"trace dietary imidacloprid at field-realistic levels in nectar will have no lethal effects, but will reduce expected performance in honey bees by between 6 and 20%. Statistical power analysis showed that published field trials that have reported no effects on honey bees from neonicotinoids were incapable of detecting these predicted sublethal effects with conventionally accepted levels of certainty.\"\n\nIn 2012, several peer-reviewed independent studies were published showing that neonicotinoids had previously undetected routes of exposure affecting bees including through dust, pollen, and nectar and that subnanogram toxicity resulted in failure to return to the hive without immediate lethality, one primary symptom of CCD. Research also showed environmental persistence in agricultural irrigation channels and soil. These reports prompted a formal peer review by the European Food Safety Authority, which stated in January 2013 that some neonicotinoids pose an unacceptably high risk to bees, and identified several data gaps not previously considered. Their review concluded, \"A high acute risk to honey bees was identified from exposure via dust drift for the seed treatment uses in maize, oilseed rape and cereals. A high acute risk was also identified from exposure via residues in nectar and/or pollen.\" Dave Goulson, an author of one of the studies that prompted the EFSA review, has suggested that industry science pertaining to neonicotinoids may have been deliberately deceptive, and the UK Parliament has asked manufacturer Bayer Cropscience to explain discrepancies in evidence they have submitted to an investigation.\n\nEarly in 2013, the European Food Safety Authority issued a declaration that three specific neonicotinoid pesticides pose an acute risk to honey bees, and the European Commission (EC) proposed a two-year ban on them. David Goulson, who led one of the key 2012 studies at the University of Stirling, said the decision \"begs the question of what was going on when these chemicals were first approved.\" The chemical manufacturer Bayer said it was \"ready to work with\" the EC and member states. In April 2013, the European Union voted for a two-year restriction on neonicotinoid insecticides. The ban will restrict the use of imidacloprid, clothianidin, and thiamethoxam for use on crops that are attractive to bees. Eight nations voted against the motion, including the British government, which argued that the science was incomplete. The ban can be seen as an application of the \"precautionary principle\", established at the 1992 Rio Conference on the Environment and Development, which advocates that \"lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\"\n\nIn March 2013, professional beekeepers and environmentalists jointly filed a lawsuit against the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for continuing to allow the use of neonicotinoids in the United States. The suit specifically asks for suspension of clothianidin and thiamethoxam. The lawsuit follows a dramatic die off of bees in the United States, with some beekeepers losing 50% of their hives. The EPA responded to the suit by issuing a report blaming the \"Varroa\" mite for the decline in bees and claiming the role of neonicotinoids in bee extinction has been overstated.\n\nAlso in 2013, the Save America's Pollinators Act of 2013 (H.R. 2692) was introduced in Congress. The proposed act asks that neonicotinoids be suspended until a full review of their impacts has occurred. The bill was reintroduced on 4 March 2015 as the Saving America's Pollinators Act (H.R. 1284), where it is currently being debated by the House Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research.\n\nEarly researchers commented that the pathway of propagation functions in the manner of a contagious disease; however, some sentiment existed that the disorder may involve an immunosuppressive mechanism, potentially linked to \"stress\" leading to a weakened immune system. Specifically, according to research done in 2007 at the Pennsylvania State University: \"The magnitude of detected infectious agents in the adult bees suggests some type of immunosuppression\". These researchers initially suggested a connection between \"Varroa destructor\" mite infestation and CCD, suggesting that a combination of these bee mites, deformed wing virus (which the mites transmit) and bacteria work together to suppress immunity and may be one cause of CCD. Parasites, such as varroa mites \"(Varroa destructor\"), honey bee tracheal mites \"(Acarapis woodi)\", fungal, bacterial and viral diseases, and kleptoparasites such as small hive beetles (\"Aethina tumida\"), are all problems that have been introduced within the last 20 years in the continental U.S., and are faced by beekeepers.\n\nWhen a colony is dying, for whatever cause, and other healthy colonies are nearby (as is typical in a bee yard), those healthy colonies often enter the dying colony and rob its provisions for their own use. If the dying colony's provisions were contaminated (by natural or man-made toxins), the resulting pattern (of healthy colonies becoming sick when in proximity to a dying colony) might suggest to an observer that a contagious disease is involved. However, in typical CCD cases, provisions of dying colonies are not robbed, suggesting that toxins do not spread via robbing, thereby mimicking a disease.\n\nAdditional evidence that CCD is an infectious disease came from the following observations: the hives of colonies that had died from CCD could be reused with a healthy colony only if they were first treated with DNA-destroying radiation, and the CCD Working Group report in 2010 indicated that CCD-exhibiting hives tended to occur in proximity to one another within apiaries.\n\nCoumaphos, an organophosphate, is lipophilic, and so accumulates in wax. Increased levels of compound in wax have been shown to decrease survivorship of developing queens.\n\nAccording to a 2007 article, the mite \"Varroa destructor\" remains the world's most destructive honey bee killer, due in part to the viruses it carries, including deformed wing virus and acute bee paralysis virus, which have both been implicated in CCD. Affliction with \"Varroa\" mites also tends to weaken the immune system of the bees. Dr. Enesto Guzman, an entomological researcher at the University of Guelph in Canada, studied 413 Ontario bee colonies in 2007–08. The presence of \"Varroa\" mites within colonies before winter was observed to weaken the immune systems of bees and introduce viruses that led to colony death during the winter. About 27% of hives did not survive the winter, and the \"Varroa\" mite was identified as the cause in 85% of the cases. \"Varroa\" mites also affect the queen's ability to reproduce, which is detrimental to the survival of the hive. As such, \"Varroa\" mites have been considered as a possible cause of CCD, though not all dying colonies contain these mites.\n\n\"Varroa destructor\" is a parasitic mite that colonizes beehives and preys on honey bees by consuming their hemolymph. \"Varroa\" mites parasitize all types of honey bees (workers, nurse bees, larvae) depending on their life cycle stage. During the phoretic stage, \"Varroa\" prefer to attach to nurse bees as this results in higher fitness leading into the reproductive stage. The mites then feed on larvae during their reproductive stage and increased fitness leads to an increase in mite fecundity (# of female offspring). Due to \"Varroa\"s ability to feed on all types of honey bees, they are one of the biggest threats to colonies, especially over winter.\n\nIn 2004, Israeli acute paralysis virus (IAPV), was discovered in Israel and at one time it was considered the cause of CCD. It was named after the place it was first identified; its place of origin is unknown. In September 2007, results of a large-scale statistical RNA sequencing study of afflicted and unafflicted colonies were reported. RNA from all organisms in a colony was sequenced and compared with sequence databases to detect the presence of pathogens. All colonies were found to be infected with numerous pathogens, but only the IAPV virus showed a significant association with CCD: the virus was found in 25 of the 30 tested CCD colonies, and only in one of the 21 tested non-CCD colonies.\n\nResearch in 2009 has found that an indicator for an impaired protein production is common among all bees affected by CCD, a pattern consistent with IAPV infection. It is conjectured that Dicistroviridae, like the IAPV, cause degradation of the ribosomes, which are responsible for protein production of cells, and that this reduced ribosomal function weakens the bees, making them more vulnerable to factors that might not otherwise be lethal.\n\nSome have suggested the syndrome may be an inability by beekeepers to correctly identify known diseases such as European foulbrood or the microsporidian fungus \"Nosema apis\". The testing and diagnosis of samples from affected colonies (already performed) makes this highly unlikely, as the symptoms are fairly well known and differ from what is classified as CCD. A high rate of \"Nosema\" infection was reported in samples of bees from Pennsylvania, but this pattern was not reported from samples elsewhere.\n\nWhen healthy bees are fed pollen filled with fungicides, insecticides and other agriculture chemicals, they are more likely to be infected by \"Nosema ceranae\", a parasitic microsporidian fungus associated with widespread death of honey bees. Hives of western honey bees infected with \"Nosema ceranae\" are wiped out within eight days indicating that CCD may be caused by \"N. ceranae\". A research team claim to have ruled out many other potential causes, however, a 2009 survey of US CCD-affected bee populations found only about half of the colonies sampled, both in CCD and control populations, were infected with \"N. ceranae\".\n\nThe primary antifungal agent used against \"Nosema\" is fumagillin, which has been used in a German research project to reduce the microsporidian's impact, and is mentioned as a possible remedy by the CCDWG. Higes also claims to have successfully cured colonies with fumagillin. A review of these results described these results as promising, but cautioned \"\"N. ceranae\" may not be to blame for all cases of colony collapse\". Various areas in Europe have reported this fungus, but no direct link to CCD has yet been established.\n\nIn 2007, \"N. ceranae\" was reported in a few hives in California. The researcher did not, however, believe this was conclusive evidence of a link to CCD; \"We don't want to give anybody the impression that this thing has been solved\". A USDA bee scientist has similarly stated, \"while the parasite \"Nosema ceranae\" may be a factor, it cannot be the sole cause. The fungus has been seen before, sometimes in colonies that were healthy\".\n\n\"N. ceranae\" has been detected in honey bees from several states using PCR of the 16S gene. In New York, \"N. ceranae\" was detected in 49 counties, and of the 1,200 honey bee samples collected, 528 (44%) were positive for \"Nosema\", from which, PCR analysis of 371 spore positive samples revealed 96% were \"N. ceranae\", 3% had both \"N. ceranae\" and \"N. apis\", and 1% had \"N. apis\" only.\n\nA University of Montana and Montana State University team of scientists headed by Jerry Bromenshenk and working with the US Army's Edgewood Chemical Biological Center published a paper in October 2010 saying that a new DNA virus, invertebrate iridescent virus type 6 (IIV-6), and the fungus \"Nosema ceranae\" were found in every killed colony the group studied. In their study, they found neither agent alone seemed deadly, but a combination of the virus and \"N. ceranae\" was always 100% fatal. Information about the study was released to the public in a front-page article in \"The New York Times\". A few days later, an article was published in \"Fortune Magazine\" with the title, \"What a scientist didn't tell the New York Times about his study on bee deaths\". Professor of entomology at Penn State University James Frazier, who was researching the sublethal impact of pesticides on bees, said that while Bromenshenk's study generated some useful data, Bromenshenk has a conflict of interest as CEO of a company developing scanners to diagnose bee diseases. A few months later, the methods used to interpret the mass spectrometry data in the Bromenshenk study were called into question, raising doubts as to whether IIV-6 was ever correctly identified in any of the samples examined.\n\nIn 2013, researchers collected pollen from hives and fed it to healthy bees. The pollen had an average of nine different pesticides and fungicides. Further, the researchers discovered that bees that ate pollen with fungicides were three times more likely to be infected by parasites. Their study shows that fungicides, thought harmless to bees, may actually play a significant role in CCD. Their research also showed that spraying practices may need to be reviewed because the bees sampled by the authors foraged not from crops, but almost exclusively from weeds and wildflowers, suggesting that bees are more widely exposed to pesticides than thought.\n\nDennis vanEngelsdorp, an entomologist at the University of Maryland, has been quoted as saying \"Fungicides, which we didn't expect to harm insects, seem to have a sub-lethal effect on bee health\". He went on further to state this is important because fungicides are not heavily regulated.\n\nMost beekeepers affected by CCD report that they use antibiotics and miticides in their colonies, though the lack of uniformity as to which particular chemicals they use makes it unlikely that any single such chemical is involved. However, it is possible that not all such chemicals in use have been tested for possible effects on honey bees, and could therefore potentially be contributing to the CCD phenomenon. Beekeepers use miticides to rid colonies of \"Varroa\" infestations; however, treatment can lead to higher levels of viral infections in colonies. High doses of treatment or the use of miticides for an extended period of time can lead to immune-suppression in honey bees, making them more susceptible to viruses. A widespread occurrence of viral infections within a beehive can lead to colony collapse. Although miticides are not a direct cause of CCD they do play a role in it.\n\nIn 2008 high levels of the pesticides fluvalinate and coumaphos were found in samples of wax from hives, as well as lower levels of 70 other pesticides. These chemicals have been used to try to eradicate varroa mites, a bee pest that itself has been thought to be a cause of CCD. A 2009 study confirmed high levels of pesticide residue in hive wax and found an association between the pesticide and reduced bee longevity. \"Nosema ceranae\", was found in high concentrations in the majority of the bees tested, even after administering large doses of the antibiotic fumagillin. Maryann Frazier commented, \"Pesticides alone have not shown they are the cause of CCD. We believe that it is a combination of a variety of factors, possibly including mites, viruses and pesticides.\"\n\nEnvironmental changes may have an effect on honey bee development, but the precise impact of potential environmental changes on honey bees as a result of climate change is unknown.\n\nSince U.S. beekeeper Nephi Miller first began moving his hives to different areas of the country for the winter of 1908, migratory beekeeping has become widespread in America. Bee rental for pollination is a crucial element of U.S. agriculture, which could not produce anywhere near its current levels with native pollinators alone. U.S. beekeepers collectively earn much more from renting their bees out for pollination than they do from honey production.\n\nResearchers are concerned that trucking colonies around the country to pollinate crops, where they intermingle with other bees from all over, helps spread viruses and mites among colonies. Additionally, such continuous movement and re-settlement is considered by some a strain and disruption for the entire hive, possibly rendering it less resistant to all sorts of systemic disorder.\n\nMost of the focus on CCD has been toward environmental factors. CCD is a condition recognised for greatest impact in regions of 'industrial' or agricultural use of commercially bred bee colonies. Natural breeding and colony reproduction of wild bees is a complex and highly selective process, leading to a diverse genetic makeup in large populations of bees, both within and between colonies. Genetic diversity through sexual reproduction is a significant evolutionary factor in resistance to parasites and infectious diseases. Many artificially bred species, especially domestic and agricultural species, suffer from lack of genetic variation. resulting in increased risk of hereditable diseases, loss of vitality or vigour, and heightened uniform susceptibility to infectious diseases. There may be an analogy in artificially introduced invasive ants, which displace native species by their ecological release and supercolonies (a manifestation of genetic homogeneity), only to suffer collapse of colonies attributed to lack of genetic diversity. Displaced indigenous species rebounded from residual populations.\n\nIndustrial apiculture has adopted simple breeding programs for uniform desired traits, and seasonal transportation of colonies over vast distances causes increased infectious exposures from mixing of these domestic and residual displaced wild populations. Brood incubation conditions may be stressful with respect to deficient nutrition, temperature and other basics. This combination of ecological factors, especially the host factor of loss of genetic variation and hybrid vigor, may account for the apparent multifactorial environmental 'causes' of CCD including concurrent infections.\n\nIn 2007, one of the patterns reported by the CCD Study Group at Pennsylvania State was that all producers in a preliminary survey noted a period of \"extraordinary stress\" affecting the colonies in question prior to their die-off, most commonly involving poor nutrition and/or drought. This was the only factor that \"all\" of the cases of CCD had in common in the report; accordingly, there appeared to be at least some significant possibility that the phenomenon was correlated to nutritional stress that may not manifest in healthy, well-nourished colonies. This was similar to the findings of another independent survey done in 2007 in which small-scale beekeeping operations (up to 500 colonies) in several states reported their belief that malnutrition and/or weak colonies was the factor responsible for their bees dying in over 50% of the cases, whether the losses were believed to be due to CCD or not.\n\nSome researchers have attributed the syndrome to the practice of feeding high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) to supplement winter stores. The variability of HFCS may be relevant to the apparent inconsistencies of results. One European writer has suggested a possible connection with HFCS produced from genetically modified corn. \n\nOther researchers state that colony collapse disorder is mainly a problem of feeding the bees a monoculture diet when they should receive food from a variety of sources/plants. In winter, these bees are given a single food source such as corn syrup (high-fructose or other), sugar and pollen substitute. In summer, they may only pollinate a single crop (e.g., almonds, cherries, or apples). The monoculture diet is attributed to bee rentals and migratory bee keeping. Honey bees are only being introduced to select commercial crops such as corn. These single pollen diets are greatly inferior to mixed pollen diets. However, there are a few pollens that are acceptable for honey bees to be introduced to exclusively, including sweet clover and mustard.\n\nA study published in 2010 found that bees that were fed pollen from a variety of different plant species showed signs of having a healthier immune system than those eating pollen from a single species. Bees fed pollen from five species had higher levels of glucose oxidase than bees fed pollen from one species, even if the pollen had a higher protein content. The authors hypothesised that CCD may be linked to a loss of plant diversity. Researches found a proper diet that does lead to a healthy honey bee population. \"The authors recommended a diet containing 1000 ppm potassium, 500 ppm calcium,300 ppm magnesium and 50 ppm each of sodium, zinc, manganese, iron and copper.\"\n\nA 2013 study found that \"p\"-Coumaric acid, which is normally present in honey, assists bees in detoxifying certain pesticides. Its absence in artificial nutrients fed to bees may therefore contribute to CCD.\n\nA study on the non-thermal effects of radio frequency (RF) on honey bees (\"Apis mellifera carnica\") reported there were no changes in behavior due to RF exposure from DECT cordless phone base stations operating at 1,880–1,900 MHz however, a later study established that close-range electromagnetic field (EMF) may reduce the ability of bees to return to their hive. In the course of their study, one half of their colonies broke down, including some control hives that did not have embedded DECT base stations. In April 2007, news of this study appeared in various media outlets, beginning with an article in \"The Independent\", which stated that the subject of the study included mobile phones and had related them to CCD. Although cellular phones were implicated by other media reports at the time, they were not covered in the study. Researchers involved have since stated that their research did not include findings on cell phones, or their relationship to CCD, and indicated that the \"Independent\" article had misinterpreted their results and created \"a horror story\".\n\nA review of 919 peer-reviewed scientific studies investigating the effects of EMF on wildlife, humans and plants included seven studies involving honey bees; six of these reported negative effects from exposure to EMF radiation, but none specifically demonstrated any link to CCD. The review noted that according to one study, when active mobile phones were kept inside beehives, worker bees stopped coming to the hives after 10 days. The same study also found drastic decrease in the egg production of queen bees in these colonies and stated \"electromagnetic radiation exposure provides a better explanation for Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) than other theories\". The review authors concluded: \"existing literature shows that the EMRs are interfering with the biological systems in more ways than one\" and recommended recognising EMF as a pollutant. However, they also noted that \"these studies are not representative of the real life situations or natural levels of EMF exposure. More studies need to be taken up to scientifically establish the link, if any, between the observed abnormalities and disorders in bee hives such as Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD)\".\n\nIn 2012, a parasitic fly (\"Apocephalus borealis\") larva, known to prey on bumble bees and wasps, was found in a test tube containing a dead honey bee believed to have been affected by CCD, possibly indicating the phorid fly may be one cause of CCD. The mature fly lays eggs in the bee's abdomen, which feed on the bee after hatching. Infected bees behave abnormally, foraging at night and gathering around lights like moths. Eventually the bee leaves the colony to die. The phorid fly larvae then emerge from the neck of the bee.\n\nIn 2008 a meta-analysis of 25 independent studies assessing effects of Bt Cry proteins on honeybee survival (mortality) showed that Bt proteins used in commercialized GE crops to control lepidopteran and coleopteran pests do not negatively impact the survival of honeybee larvae or adults. Additionally, larvae consume only a small percent of their protein from pollen, and there is also a lack of geographic correlation between GM crop locations and regions where CCD occurs.\n\n, the Mid-Atlantic Apiculture Research and Extension Consortium (MAAREC) offered the following tentative recommendations for beekeepers noticing the symptoms of CCD:\n\n\nAnother proposed remedy for farmers of pollinated crops is simply to switch from using beekeepers to the use of native bees, such as bumble bees and mason bees. Native bees can be helped to establish themselves by providing suitable nesting locations and some additional crops the bees could use to feed from (e.g. when the pollination season of the commercial crops on the farm has ended).\n\nA British beekeeper successfully developed a strain of bees that are resistant to varroa mites. Russian honey bees also resist infestations of varroa mites but are still susceptible to other factors associated with colony collapse disorder, and have detrimental traits that limit their relevance in commercial apiculture.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a national bee database was set up in March 2009 to monitor colony collapse as a result of a 15% reduction in the bee population that had taken place over the previous two years. In particular, the register, funded by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and administered by the National Bee Unit, will be used to monitor health trends and help establish whether the honey industry is under threat from supposed colony collapse disorder. Britain's 20,000 beekeepers have been invited to participate. In October 2010, David Aston of the British Beekeepers' Association stated, \"We still do not believe CCD is a cause of colony losses in the UK, however we are continuing to experience colony losses, many if not most of which can be explained. The approach being taken in UK beekeeping is to raise the profile of integrated bee health management, in other words identifying and trying to eliminate factors that reduce the health status of a colony. This incorporates increasing the skill level of beekeepers through training and education, raising the profile of habitat destruction and its effect of forage (nectar and pollen) availability, and of course research on the incidence and distribution of diseases and conditions in the UK together with more applied research and development on providing solutions.\"\n\nHoney bees are not native to the Americas, therefore their necessity as pollinators in the U.S. and other regions in the Western Hemisphere is limited to strictly agricultural/ornamental uses, as no native plants require honey bee pollination, except where concentrated in monoculture situations—where the pollination need is so great at bloom time that pollinators must be concentrated beyond the capacity of native bees (with current technology).\n\nThe phenomenon is particularly important for crops such as almond growing in California, where honey bees are the predominant pollinator and the crop value in 2011 was $3.6 billion. In 2000, the total U.S. crop value that was wholly dependent on honey bee pollination was estimated to exceed $15 billion. Because of such high demand in pollinators, the cost of renting honey bees has increased significantly, and California's almond industry rents approximately 1.6 million honey bee colonies during the spring to pollinate their crop. Worldwide, honeybees yield roughly $200 billion in pollination services.\n\nThey are responsible for pollination of approximately one third of the United States' crop species, including such species as almonds, peaches, apples, pears, cherries, raspberries, blackberries, cranberries, watermelons, cantaloupes, cucumbers, and strawberries. Many, but not all, of these plants can be (and often are) pollinated by other insects in the U.S., including other kinds of bees (e.g., squash bees on cucurbits), but typically not on a commercial scale. While some farmers of a few kinds of native crops do bring in honey bees to help pollinate, none specifically need them, and when honey bees are absent from a region, there is a presumption that native pollinators may reclaim the niche, typically being better adapted to serve those plants (assuming that the plants normally occur in that specific area).\n\nHowever, even though on a per-individual basis, many other species are actually more efficient at pollinating, on the 30% of crop types where honey bees are used, most native pollinators cannot be mass-utilized as easily or as effectively as honey bees—in many instances they will not visit the plants at all. Beehives can be moved from crop to crop as needed, and the bees will visit many plants in large numbers, compensating via saturation pollination for what they lack in efficiency. The commercial viability of these crops is therefore strongly tied to the beekeeping industry. In China, hand pollination of apple orchards is labor-intensive, time consuming, and costly.\n\nIn regions of the Old World where they are indigenous, honeybees (\"Apis mellifera\") are among the most important pollinators, vital to sustain natural habitats there in addition to their value for human societies (to sustain food resources). Where honeybee populations decline, there is also a decline in plant populations. In agriculture, some plants are completely dependent on honeybees to pollinate them to produce fruit, while other plants are only dependent on honeybees to enhance their capacity to produce better and healthier fruits. Honeybees also help plants to reduce time between flowering and fruit set, which reduces risk from harmful factors such as pests, diseases, chemicals, weather, etc. Specialist plants that require honeybees will be at more risk if honeybees decline, whereas generalist plants that use other animals as pollinators (or wind pollinating or self-pollinating) will suffer less because they have other sources of pollination.\n\nWith that said, honeybees perform some level of pollination of nearly 75% of all plant species directly used for human food worldwide. Catastrophic loss of honeybees could have significant impact, therefore; it is estimated that seven out of the 60 major agricultural crops in North American economy would be lost, and this is only for one region of the world. Farms that have intensive systems (high density of crops) will be impacted the most compared to non-intensive systems (small local gardens that depend on wild bees) because of dependence on honeybees. These types of farms have a high demand for honeybee pollination services, which in the U.S. alone costs $1.25 billion annually. This cost is offset, however, as honeybees as pollinators generate 22.8 to 57 billion Euros globally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15553671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15553671", "title": "Crime in Bhutan", "text": "Crime in Bhutan\n\nBhutan has a low crime rate. Incidents of petty crime are occasionally reported in the country. Violent crime is very uncommon. Some cases of drug abuse are reported; alcohol abuse is a problem. But in general, drug trafficking is low. The most serious threat to Bhutan's security is terrorism by different terrorist groups from neighboring countries illegally camped in the nation.\n\nSerious crimes were very uncommon in Bhutan throughout most of the 20th century. There were reports of increased criminal activity since the 1980s and early 1990s. The main causes of the rise in crime are the influx of foreign laborers, widening economic disparities, and more contact with foreign cultures.\n\nIn June 1999, television was introduced in the country and Bhutan became the last nation in the world to have television. The introduction of television is often regarded as incompatible with Bhutanese culture and a cause behind the increase in crime. An editorial in \"Kuensel\", the national newspaper of Bhutan, suggested:\nA study conducted by some Bhutanese academics found that cable television has caused strong desire for western products among the people of the country and resulted in the increase in crime rate.\n\nViolent crime is extremely low in Bhutan. Levels of theft are low. Petty crime like pickpocketing are occasionally reported in the country. Juvenile crime has relatively increased; the highest rate of juvenile crime was reported in 2003, and 63 youths were convicted across the nation. Rape is not an extensive problem; in 1999 only 10 incidents of rape were reported in Bhutan. Homicide rate is low. In 1998, homicide rate per 100,000 citizens was 2.78. Bhutan is a source and transit country for human trafficking. Women are trafficked from Bhutan to other countries for commercial sexual exploitation. But Bhutan is not a destination country; women from other nations are not trafficked into Bhutan.\n\nIn April 2002, Bhutan suffered a wave of crime. Although there were some reports of fraud, violence and few cases of homicide from many towns and villages, Bhutan never experienced serious violation of law before it. The first case of corruption in Bhutan was reported on April 5, 2002, when Parop Tshering, a 42-year-old chief accountant of the State Trading Corporation, was charged with embezzlement. Four cases of white-collar crime and violent crime were reported in April 2003.\n\nIn the Corruption Perceptions Index 2012, Bhutan is ranked 33rd out of 174 countries for corruption (least corrupt countries are at the top of the list). Bhutan ranks as the least corrupt nation in South Asia and sixth least corrupt in Asia (after, in order, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Qatar and UAE).\n\nSlight drug abuse has appeared in the country. Free trade with neighboring India, presence of porous borders and the refugee population make Bhutan vulnerable to drug trafficking. Bhutan has proximity to certain areas in Nepal and North-East India where intravenous drug use is relatively high. Due to such geographical location, Bhutan also becomes vulnerable to an increase in intravenous drug use. Marijuana, which grows as a shrub in Bhutan, was only used to feed pigs before the introduction of television. But hundreds were arrested in recent years for using marijuana. Use of amphetamines and benzodiazepines smuggled from India is rising in Thimpu and in the Southern Bhutan. However, drug trafficking and production of opium, cannabis and other drugs is not any significant problem in the country.\n\nAlcohol consumption is the most serious addiction related problem in the nation. Alcohol abuse is reported in nearly 80% cases associated with domestic violence.\n\nThere are some characteristics of the situation on drug abuse in Bhutan.\n\nThe Government of Bhutan has taken several measures to counter these problems. Bhutan is a party of the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (1988). Many laws have been enacted which include the Civil and Criminal Procedure Code (2000), the Sales Tax, Customs and Excise Act (2000), the Medicines Act (2003), the Penal Code of Bhutan (2004), and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Substance Abuse Act (2005). In 2004, selling of tobacco products to Bhutanese citizens was outlawed in the country and thus Bhutan became the first nation in the world to ban tobacco sales. Severe punishment was introduced for selling of tobacco. A fine of $210 was imposed for the culprits and cancellation of business licenses for owners of shops and hotels illegally selling tobacco. Karma Tshering of the Bhutanese Customs said, \"If any foreigner is caught selling tobacco products to Bhutanese nationals, he will be charged with smuggling. Tobacco will be treated as contraband.\" However a black market in tobacco has flourished in the country.\n\nMany insurgent groups from neighboring countries have set up training camps in the southern part of the country. The United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) and the Bodo Liberation Tigers Force (BLTF) had bases in Bhutan in 2002. Terrorists were involved in murders, extortion and kidnappings. Under increasing pressure from the Government of India, Bhutan issued an ultimatum to the terrorists for leaving the country by December 2001, and in December 2003, the Royal Bhutan Army, \naided by the Special Frontier Force, launched a military campaign. Many terrorist camps were destroyed in the operation. It is suspected that terrorists are trying to make retaliatory attacks against Bhutan. On September 5, 2004, a bomb exploded in Gelephu killing two people and injuring twenty seven. The NDFB was suspected behind the attack.\n\nThe Government of Bhutan has taken several legal and military actions for combating terrorism. On September 4, 2004, one hundred and eleven people received various sentences ranging from four years to life imprisonment for helping terrorist organizations camped illegally in Bhutan. The offenders included civil servants, businesspersons, and laborers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1500119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500119", "title": "Database publishing", "text": "Database publishing\n\nDatabase publishing is an area of automated media production in which specialized techniques are used to generate paginated documents from source data residing in traditional databases. Common examples are mail order catalogues, direct marketing, report generation, price lists and telephone directories. The database content can be in the form of text and pictures but can also contain metadata related to formatting and special rules that may apply to the document generation process. Database publishing can be incorporated into larger workflows as a component, where documents are created, approved, revised and released.\n\nThe basic idea is using database contents like article and price information to fill out pre-formatted template documents. Templates are typically created in a normal desktop layout application where certain boxes or text are designated as placeholders. These placeholders are then targeted with new content which flows in from the database. This allows for quick generation of final output and, in case of changes to the database, quickly perform updates, with limited or no manual intervention. \n\nAnother model of database publishing is found in many web-to-print sites where users browse templates from an online catalog (such as business cards or brochures), personalize the selected template by filling in a form and then view the rendered result. In this case the initial source of data is from user input, but it is captured in a database so that if the same user revisits the site later, they can resume editing where they left off. The form is then pre-filled from the database-stored variables the user entered before.\n\nThe main layout applications for this workflow are: Datalogics Pager, Adobe FrameMaker / InDesign, QuarkXPress, Xyvision, Arbortext Advanced Print Publisher (formerly 3B2) and . Generally, these layout applications have a corresponding server version, which receives commands via web interfaces rather than desktop interaction. QuarkXPress Server and Adobe InDesign Server both take full advantage of the design features available in their respective desktop versions.\n\nThese applications make their broad spectrum of features available for extension and integration with vertical products, that can be developed either internally, through some form of scripting (e.g. JavaScript or AppleScript for InDesign), or externally, through some API and corresponding developer kits.\n\nOther variants of database publishing are the rendering of content for direct PDF output. This approach prevents manual intervention on the final output, since PDF is not (comfortably) editable. This may not be perceived as a limitation in situations like report generation where manual editability is not needed or not desired.\n\n"}
{"id": "4725777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725777", "title": "Davie-Brown Index", "text": "Davie-Brown Index\n\nThe Davie-Brown Index (DBI) is an independent index for brand marketers and agencies that quantifies consumer perceptions of more than 2,900 celebrities, including TV and film stars, musical artists, reality TV stars, news personalities, politicians, athletes, and business leaders.\n\nDeveloped in 2006 by Sharp Analytics and white labeled by celebrity talent division of The Marketing Arm, an Omnicom Group Inc. promotion agency, the DBI provides marketers with a systematic approach for quantifying the use of celebrities in their advertising and marketing initiatives. DBI data is designed to help determine a celebrity's ability to influence brand affinity and consumer purchase intent.\n\nAccording to various news articles, the DBI consists of a 1.5 million-member consumer research panel which evaluates a celebrity’s awareness, appeal and relevance to a brand’s image and their influence on consumer buying behavior. Respondents who are aware of a certain celebrity are asked a standard set of questions about that celebrity. Using a six-point scale, consumers evaluate celebrities across seven key attributes: Appeal, Breakthrough, Trendsetter, Influence, Trust, Endorsement, and Aspiration. An overall DBI score is developed each time a celebrity is indexed and can be narrowed down to key demographics, including gender, age and ethnicity.\n\nUpdated weekly, DBI attribute rankings are dynamic and change depending on major events (e.g., industry awards, positive/negative news, etc.).\n\nIn 2013, The Marketing Arm partnered with Repucom, a market research firm, to launch the Index in 12 international markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "4367160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4367160", "title": "Dyadic developmental psychotherapy", "text": "Dyadic developmental psychotherapy\n\nDyadic developmental psychotherapy is a psychotherapeutic treatment method for families that have children with symptoms of emotional disorders, including complex trauma and disorders of attachment. It was originally developed by Daniel Hughes as an intervention for children whose emotional distress resulted from earlier separation from familiar caregivers. Hughes cites attachment theory and particularly the work of John Bowlby as theoretical motivations for developmental psychotherapy.\n\nDyadic developmental therapy principally involves creating a \"playful, accepting, curious, and empathic\" environment in which the therapist attunes to the child's \"subjective experiences\" and reflects this back to the child by means of eye contact, facial expressions, gestures and movements, voice tone, timing and touch, \"co-regulates\" emotional affect and \"co-constructs\" an alternative autobiographical narrative with the child. Dyadic developmental psychotherapy also makes use of cognitive-behavioral strategies. The \"dyad\" referred to must eventually be the parent-child dyad. The active presence of the primary caregiver is preferred but not required.\n\nA study by Arthur Becker-Weidman in 2006, which suggested that dyadic developmental therapy is more effective than the \"usual treatment methods\" for reactive attachment disorder and complex trauma, has been criticised by the American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children (APSAC). According to the APSAC Taskforce Report and Reply, dyadic developmental psychotherapy does not meet the criteria for designation as \"evidence based\" nor provide a basis for conclusions about \"usual treatment methods\". A 2006 research synthesis described the approach as a \"supported and acceptable\" treatment, but this conclusion has also proved controversial. A 2013 review of research recommended caution about this method of therapy, arguing that it has \"no support for claims of effectiveness at any level of evidence\" and a questionable theoretical basis.\n\nDyadic developmental psychotherapy is based on the theory that maltreated infants not only frequently have disorganized attachments but also, as they mature, are likely to develop rigid self-reliance that becomes a compulsive need to control all aspects of their environment. Hughes cites Lyons-Ruth & Jacobvitz (1999) in support of this theory. Caregivers are seen as a source of fear with the result that children endeavour to control their caregivers through manipulation, overcompliance, intimidation or role reversal in order to keep themselves safe. Such children may also suffer intrusive memories secondary to trauma and as a result may be reluctant or unwilling to participate in treatment. It is anticipated that such children will try to actively avoid the exposure involved in developing a therapeutic relationship and will resist being directed into areas of shame and trauma. Hughes proposes that an attachment based treatment may be more effective for such foster and adoptive children than traditional treatment and parenting interventions.\n\nIt is stated that once an infant's safety needs are met (by attachment) they become more able to focus on learning and responding to the social and emotional needs of caregivers. (Schore, 2003ab). Hughes posits that this 'affective attunement', described by Stern (1985) is crucial in the development of both a secure attachment as well as a positive, integrated sense of self. Attunement is a primarily a non-verbal mode of communication between infant and carer, and synchrony in the degree of arousal being expressed, as well as empathy for the child's internal experience. Hughes states \"Whether it is a motivational system separate from attachment as is suggested by Stern (2004), or a central aspect of a secure attachment dyad, it remains vital in the child's overall development.\"\n\nThe therapy attempts to replicate this or fill in the gaps in a maltreated child's experience.\n\nFirstly the therapist becomes 'non-verbally attuned' with the child's affective state. The therapist then attempts to explore 'themes' with the child whilst remaining attuned. Whilst this is done, the therapist then 'co-regulates' (helps the child to manage) the child's emerging affective states with 'matched vitality affect', and develops secondary affective/mental representations of them which is co-constructed with the child for purposes of integration (the therapist tries to help the child gain a coherent narrative about their experiences and an awareness of the positive aspects of themselves). According to Hughes \"The therapist allows the subjective experience of the child to impact the therapist. The therapist can then truly enter into that experience and from there express her/his own subjective experience. As the therapist holds both subjective experiences, the child experiences both. As the child senses both, the child begins to integrate them and re-experience the event in a way that will facilitate its integration and resolution.\" In the anticipated frequent disruptions, due to the child's traumatic and shaming experiences, the therapist accepts and works with these and then 'repairs' the relationship.\n\nThe aim is for the child to be able to construct a new and coherent autobiography that enables the child to be in touch with their inner feelings. \"As the therapist gives expression to the child's subjective narrative, s/he is continuously integrating the child's nonverbal responsiveness to the dialogue, modifying it spontaneously in a manner congruent with the child's expressions. The dialogue is likely to have more emotional meaning for the child if the therapist, periodically, speaks for the child in the first person with the child's own words.\" (Hughes 2004 p18) The active presence of one of the child's primary caregivers is considered to greatly enhance psychological treatment. However Hughes considers that attachment based treatment can be undertaken with just the therapist.(Hughes 2004 p25)\n\nDDP has been criticised for the lack of a comprehensive manual or full case studies to provide details of the process. Its theoretical basis has also been questioned. Although non-verbal communication, communicative mismatch and repair, playful interactions and the relationship between the parents' attachment status and that of a toddler are all well documented and important for early healthy emotional development, Hughes and Becker-Weidman are described as making \"a real logical jump\" in assuming that the same events can be deliberately recapitulated in order to correct the emotional condition of an older child.\n\nSimilarities to certain attachment therapy practices have also provoked controversy. It has been suggested that the therapy appears to use age regression and holding techniques—features of attachment therapy not congruent with attachment theory. Becker-Weidman cites Daniel Hughes's 1997 book \"Facilitating Developmental Attachment\", which contains sections on the use of age regression and holding therapy, as a source document for dyadic developmental psychotherapy. The advocacy group Advocates for Children in Therapy include dyadic developmental psychotherapy in their list of \"attachment therapies by another name\", and continue to list Hughes as a proponent of attachment therapy, citing statements of his that appear to endorse holding therapy. In particular, they cite material from Hughes's website about the use of physical contact in therapy as follows:\n\n\"To be effective, the child must be engaged by the therapist at the level of preverbal attunement rather than in a setting of rational discussions. The therapy must also involve a great deal of physical contact between the child and the therapist and parent. During much of the most intense therapeutic work, the child is being touched or held by the therapist or parent. His intense emotions are received, accepted, and integrated into the self.\"\n\nThe APSAC Taskforce report on attachment disorder, reactive attachment disorder and attachment therapy, published in 2006, places Hughes and Becker-Weidman within the attachment therapy paradigm and indeed specifically cites Becker-Weidman for, amongst other things, the use of age regression, though not for coercive or restraining practices (p. 79). They also describe DDP as an attachment therapy in their November 2006 Reply to Letters. Becker-Weidman had stated in his letter to the Taskforce that it was essential to treat a child at its developmental rather than chronological level, but the Taskforce in its November 2006 Reply to Letters disagreed (p. 382).\n\nThe Taskforce in their \"Reply to Letters\" describe Hughes as \"a leading attachment therapist\" and cite Hughes (together with Kelly and Popper) as examples of attachment therapists who have more recently developed their practices away from the more concerning attachment therapy techniques (p. 383).\n\nThe Kansas University/SRS \"Best Practices Report\" (2004) considered that dyadic developmental psychotherapy as described by Becker-Weidman, appeared to be somewhat different from that as described by Hughes. They state that in 2004 Becker-Weidman's claim that dyadic developmental psychotherapy was \"evidence based\" cited studies on holding therapy by Myeroff, Randolph and Levy from the Attachment Center at Evergreen.<ref name=\"Becker-Weidman/Kansas\">Becker-Weidmann, A. (3/7/2004). Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy, retrieved\n3/20/2004 from http://www.center4familydevelop.com/developmentalpsych.htm</ref> Hughes' model is described as more clearly incorporating researched concerns about 'pushing' children to revisit trauma (as this can re-traumatize victims) and as having integrated established principles of trauma treatment into his approach. Avoiding dysregulation is described by Hughes as a primary treatment goal.\n\nPrior and Glaser state that Hughes's therapy 'reads' as good therapy for abused and neglected children, though with 'little application of attachment theory', but do not include it in their section on attachment therapy.\n\nTrowell, while admiring Hughes's clinical skills, stated that \"Parents and carers need their own specific parent work and the children and young people need specific work tailored to their needs ... parents with their own unmet attachment needs from childhood may significantly inhibit their ability to speak frankly with, and feel supported by professionals aiming to help their children\". Referring to the use of facial expressions in attempts at attunement, Trowell noted, \"although the therapist may look and feel sad, the young person may see this as a provocation-- either hit out or the therapist may be perceived to be triumphant (the facial expression may be misread)\" (p. 281). Trowell emphasized the value of many of Hughes's ideas for clinical work, but she concluded that \"There is a need for caution. Experienced, well-trained clinicians can, with supervision, take these ideas forward into their clinical practice. But the ideas in [Hughes's 2004 paper] do not provide a sufficient basis for a treatment manual, and are not to be followed uncritically.\"\n\nTwo research reports by Becker-Weidman, the second being a four-year follow-up of the first, are the only empirical examination of dyadic developmental psychotherapy. They reported DDP to be an effective treatment for children with complex trauma who met the DSM IV criteria for reactive attachment disorder. The first report concluded that children who received dyadic developmental psychotherapy had clinically and statistically significant improvements in their functioning as measured by the Child Behavior Checklist, while the children in the control group showed no change one year after treatment ended. The study also used the Randolph Attachment Disorder Questionnaire as a measure, which has not been empirically validated for reactive attachment disorder. Statistical comparisons were performed using multiple t-tests rather than an analysis of variance; this has been criticized because t-tests increase the chance of finding any significant differences.\n\nThe treatment group comprised thirty-four subjects whose cases were closed in 2000/01. This was compared to a \"usual care group\" of thirty subjects, who were treated elsewhere. The published reports on this work do not specify the nature of \"usual care\" or clarify why the \"usual care\" group, who were assessed at Becker-Weidman's clinic, did not have treatment there. Treatment consisted of an average of 23 sessions over eleven months. The findings continued for an average of 1.1 years after treatment ended for children between the ages of six and fifteen years. There were no changes in the usual care-group subjects, who were re-tested an average of 1.3 years after the evaluation was completed.\n\nIn the follow-up study the results from the original study were maintained an average of 3.9 years after treatment ended. There were no changes in the usual care-group subjects, who were re-tested an average of 3.3 years after the evaluation was completed.\n\nBecker-Weidman's first study was considered by the APSAC Taskforce in their November 2006 Reply to Letters following their main report on attachment therapy. The Taskforce had in their original report criticised Becker-Weidman for claiming an evidence base to his therapy, and indeed for claiming to be the only evidence based therapy, where the Taskforce considered no evidence base existed. Becker-Weidman responded to this with an open letter citing his study. The Taskforce examined the (2006) study, criticized the methodology and stated that although the study was an important first step towards learning the facts about DDP outcomes, it fell far short of the criteria that must be met before designating a treatment as evidence based.\n\nBetween the Taskforce report and Reply to Letters, Craven & Lee (2006) undertook a literature review of 18 studies of interventions used for foster children and classified them under the controversial Saunders, Berliner, & Hanson (2004) system. They considered only two therapies aimed at treating disorders of attachment, each of which was represented by a single study: dyadic developmental psychotherapy and holding therapy. They placed both in Category 3 as \"supported and acceptable\". This classification means that the evidence basis is weak, but that there is no evidence of harm done by the treatment. The Craven & Lee classification report has been criticized as unduly favourable. This critique noted the absence of a comprehensive manual giving details of the dyadic developmental psychotherapy intervention—one of the necessary criteria for assessment using the Saunders et al. guidelines, and one without which no outcome study can be placed in any of the available categories. Craven and Lee rebutted this paper in a reply that concentrated on holding therapy rather than dyadic developmental psychotherapy.\n\nIt appears from the reports that attachment therapy techniques may have been used in addition to standard DDP. The therapist in Becker-Weidman's study instructed parents to use the \"attachment parenting methods\" of two authors who are described by Jean Mercer as advocating \"coercive and intimidating approaches to children in treatment\", specifically physical restraint and withholding of food and drink. Because of this deviation from the modern presentation of DDP, Mercer argues that the study cannot be considered a test of DDP in its current form. Mercer cites Becker-Weidman's research as an example of the Woozle effect, in which \"flawed, limited, or exaggerated data\" is uncritically repeated and republished until it achieves popular acceptance.\n\n"}
{"id": "41349829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41349829", "title": "EcoZoom", "text": "EcoZoom\n\nEcoZoom is a certified B Corporation that makes charcoal, wood and biomass cook stoves. The company has offices in Portland, Oregon and Nairobi, Kenya. EcoZoom holds the exclusive license to distribute stove technology designed by Aprovecho in developing countries and a second license to distribute in the United States.\n\nEcoZoom was started in April 2011 by Ben West to increase the distribution of improved cookstoves in developing nations. The company’s mission is to bring ecological products to the world. In 2016, the company introduced solar lighting products to their portfolio.\n\n2011\n2012\n2013\n2014\n2015\n2016\n\nEcoZoom stoves use a rocket stove design for efficient combustion of fuel. As a result, less fuel is used compared to an open fire with less smoke emitted, helping cooks from inhaling harmful smoke while using less natural resources.\n\nEcoZoom sells stoves direct-to-consumer in the US while completing multiple international projects in Haiti, Kenya, Mexico, Rwanda, Somalia, and South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5177377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177377", "title": "Environment and Planning", "text": "Environment and Planning\n\nThe Environment and Planning journals are five academic journals. They are described as \"interdisciplinary\", though they have a highly spatial focus, meaning that they are of most interest to human geographers and city planners. The journals are also of interest to the scholars of economics, sociology, political science, urban planning, architecture, ecology and cultural studies.\n\nThe five journals are:\n\n\nIn the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise in the United Kingdom, the highest number of submissions from geographers were articles from \"Environment and Planning A\", with \"Environment and Planning D\" fourth in the list.\n\nThe journals were published by Pion, a small publisher, until 2015, when Pion was taken over by Sage, one of the \"big four\" academic publishers. \n"}
{"id": "3207393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207393", "title": "GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBT Equality", "text": "GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBT Equality\n\nGLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBT Equality (GLMA) is an international organization of approximately 1,000 lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and ally (LGBT) healthcare professionals and students of all disciplines, including physicians, advanced practice nurses, physician assistants, nurses, behavioral health specialists, researchers and acamedicians, and their supporters in the United States and internationally. Founded in 1981 as the American Association of Physicians for Human Rights, GLMA \"came out of the closet\" and changed its name in 1994 to the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association. GLMA changed its name again in 2012 to GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBT Equality.\n\nGLMA’s mission is to ensure equality in healthcare for LGBT individuals and healthcare professionals. GLMA achieves its goals by using the health and medical expertise of its members in professional education, public policy work, patient education and referrals, and the promotion of research.\n\nGLMA’s Annual Conference on LGBT Health, generally held in the fall, is the world’s largest scientific gathering devoted to LGBT health issues and concerns. GLMA’s Annual Conference on LGBT Health educates practitioners and students—from across the health professions—about the unique health needs of LGBT individuals and families. The conference is a forum for discussion and exploration of how best to address these needs as well as the needs of LGBT health professionals and health profession students. GLMA’s Annual Conference on LGBT Health also reports on research into the health needs of LGBT people.\n\nGLMA \"works to combat homophobia within the medical profession and in society at large; to promote quality health care for LGBT and HIV-positive people; to foster a professional climate in which our diverse members can achieve their full potential; and to support members challenged by discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.\"\n\nGLMA worked with the American Medical Association (AMA) to adopt measures requiring \"the physician's nonjudgmental recognition of sexual orientation and behavior,\" and to reverse a 13-year-old AMA policy of encouraging programs to acquaint gay patients with \"the possibility of sex preference reversal in selected cases.\" They also have published the \"Journal of the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association\".\n\nThe mission of the Lesbian Health Fund (LHF), a project of GLMA, is to improve the health of lesbians and other sexual minority women (SMW) and their families through research. Founded in 1992, LHF has awarded more than $754,000 to fund lesbian health research, and is the only U.S. research fund dedicated solely to the unique health needs of lesbians and other SMW.\n\nIn the summer of 2006, GLMA undertook a project to investigate the causes and extent of methamphetamine use among gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSM), options for treating methamphetamine dependence, and how best to get methamphetamine-dependent gay men into appropriate treatment, as well as to explore other issues and controversies associated with these issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606601", "title": "Goldman Environmental Prize", "text": "Goldman Environmental Prize\n\nThe Goldman Environmental Prize is a prize awarded annually to grassroots environmental activists, one from each of the world's six geographic regions: Africa, Asia, Europe, Islands and Island Nations, North America, and South and Central America. Since the prize was established in 1989, a total of $15.9 million has been awarded to 157 people from more than 79 countries, as of 2013. The award is given by the Goldman Environmental Foundation headquartered in San Francisco, California. It is also called the \"Green Nobel.\"\n\nThe Goldman Environmental Prize was created in 1989 by civic leaders and philanthropists Richard N. Goldman and Rhoda H. Goldman. \n\nThe winners are selected by an international jury who receive confidential nominations from by a worldwide network of environmental organizations and individuals. Prize winners participate in a 10-day tour of San Francisco and Washington, D.C., for an awards ceremony and presentation, news conferences, media briefings and meetings with political, public policy, financial and environmental leaders. \n\nThe 2018 Goldman Environmental Prize ceremony marking the 29th anniversary took place on April 23, 2018 at the San Francisco Opera House.\n\nSource: Goldman Environmental Foundation\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2018 winners of the Goldman Prize include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40408055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40408055", "title": "Guazacapán language", "text": "Guazacapán language\n\nGuazacapán is a Xincan language of Honduras, from the region of Guazacapán. See Xincan languages for an overview.\n"}
{"id": "37694601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37694601", "title": "High-commitment management", "text": "High-commitment management\n\nHigh-commitment management emphasizes personal responsibility, independence, and empowerment of employees across all levels instead of focusing on one higher power; it always intended to keep commitment at high level “calling all the shots”. \n\nA high commitment system is unusual in its job design and cultural structure. These practices emphasize getting the tasks complete, but do it in a way that their employees enjoy doing it. According to Harvard Business School Professor Michael Beer, “leaders develop an organizational design, business processes, goals and measures, and capabilities that are aligned with a focused, winning strategy.” This kind of environment allows employees to approach tasks at ease, wearing jeans instead of suits and staying home to watch their children get on the bus for school before coming to work. Technology also plays a role in this system. Recently, technology has slaughtered barriers of communication, which makes this high-commitment model fit that much better. That father waiting for the bus can still answer phone calls and check emails for work, so is he working or is he spending time with his daughter? He can be doing both. As long as the job gets done, this system is casual on how it gets done, relieving employees of constant stress.\n\nA flat organizational structure is one of the biggest success factors. Individuals are responsible for their own decision-making and these decisions, their skill, and their performance is how they get paid. Instead of putting too much weight on the individual, “people are likely to see the locus of the control coming from ‘within’ through the adoption of self-created demands and pressures as opposed to external and making them feel subordinate.” While these companies allow each employee to be a manager in their own way and try not to distinguish its structure by higher levels of employment, it doesn’t mean that they lack these higher powers entirely. It's that under this system people aren’t relying on the general managers, CEOs, or other employees to do their work for them. This personal discipline is what drives the employees to help the company be successful. and eliminates the chance at a thought like, “Why would I want to help my company become better if I know I’m just going to get yelled at?” \n\nAnother focus of high commitment practices is their employee relationships. They only hire people who are flexible, determined, and are willing to handle challenges. Because this system relies on individual performance, there is a big emphasis on hiring the right people for the job. The detailed recruitment process can consist of many interviews with different members of the company, an induction course, and in some cases, team-building exercises. Once found, the right employees help create a strong bond and high trust throughout the entire company.\n\nHigh commitment workplaces are successful through their importance on an individual’s responsibility in order to help the team prosper. By creating a culture that motivates individuals to want to succeed while sustaining high commitment, “these firms stand out by having achieved long periods of excellence.” \n\nHigh-commitment management firms are designed by their founders or transformational chief executives to achieve sustained high commitment from employees. The application of high-commitment management in firms today originated from an alignment of the employees’ and the firm’s mission. Sociologists attribute this congruence as a product of performance and psychological collaboration between the firm and its employees. Since its initial developments, high commitment management has been driven by self-regulated behavior and performance-driven group dynamics. Contrary to the top-down leadership practices, high-commitment management took form as leaders engaged and listened to people, allowing ideas from different levels of the organization to push the firm forward.\n\nIn a study of illumination in the workplace of Hawthorne and the Western Electric Company, a sociologist from Harvard Business School, Elton Mayo, concluded that when the organization established experimental work groups, “the individuals became a team and the team gave itself wholeheartedly and spontaneously to cooperation.” Through a natural system of collaboration, the teams are not only responsible for the work but also the management of their group. Mayo’s research uncovered that teams under their own direction established a capacity for self-motivated learning and change. This concept of designing the work system with the full participation of the people proved to be a breakthrough for organizations during the 1990s. During that time, employees closest to the product and customer began to have increasing decision making capacities and capabilities.\n\nThe Hawthorne Experiments sought to determine a correlation between light levels and productivity. Researchers had divided the employees into teams of six and interviewed the individuals to determine the effect of the lighting. Mayo discovered that the interview program set up by the study inherently gave the employees a sense of higher purpose. Exposure of employee thoughts and concerns to managers appeared to be a fundamental aspect of the relation between managers and employees. Evidently, by having the ability to speak to their managers, the employees at Western Electric exhibited a dramatic improvement in their attitudes towards work. Essential to a highly committed work force, the interview program formally developed and sustained cooperation with management.\n\nThe Hawthorne experiment further highlighted that teams working without coercion from above or limitation from below could astonish even their own expectations of themselves. Sociologist Fritz Roethlisberger argued that this informal organization left the team responsible for addressing the myriad of problems that continuously arose. Roethlisberger noted by studying the chemistry of informal groups that human interactions and collaboration have the potential to set when teams have to face problems on their own. Together the individuals of the team strive to improve the processes of the team by adapting to different demands and learning from each other.\n\nCross training began to be heavily examined through the scope of modern Japanese management in the automobile industry in the 1970s. Sociologists examined the way in which the Japanese automobile firms cross-trained its employees through a company wide orientation and training program. As Japanese firms trained their employees in a multitude of aspects in the production process, sociologists discovered that the training brought the employees together and formed a connection in which all the employees were dedicated to the company’s mission. These established connections appeared to solicit cooperation among the work force. The Japanese auto plants revealed that flexibility within the production teams allowed employees to work on their own tasks while keeping others efficient.\n\nHigh-commitment practices are spin-offs from the natural system of managements. Like other management strategies in the natural system of management, High-commitment practices assume natural theories of motivation rather than the considerably different rational theories of motivation.\n\nIn terms of methods of motivating workers, differences between High Commitment Practices and strategies from the rational system of management are extreme. The rational system of management focuses on either punishments or incentives. For example, the earliest form of rational management, \"direct control\", encourages employee productivity by having supervisors oversee the production process and punish workers who are not producing enough outputs. Another form of rational management, \"bureaucratic control\", encourages productivity through career incentives like bonuses and promotions. However, High Commitment Practices, unlike any rational management, aim to stimulate productivity by encouraging employee commitment to the institution. For example, Data General, a corporation which advocates High Commitment Practices, manages to make employees love their tasks and grow attached to the corporation so much that many employees elect to work twelve hours, four more than Data General prescribes. Contrary to rational management, High Commitment Practices attempt to create scenarios in which employees aspire to deliver their best efforts.\n\nHigh Commitment Practices also differ from practices in the rational management system with regards to employee control. The rational system of management discourages job autonomy, believing that such freedom will only lower productivity because employees will elect not to work. For example, in \"scientific management\" and \"Fordism\", employees are micro-managed- they are given specific instructions on how to perform certain tasks. However, High Commitment Practices encourage job autonomy, creativity, and innovation, all of which institutions with High Commitment Practices believe will increase job satisfaction and commitment leading to increased outputs. While the rational system of management attempts to micro-manage employees, High Commitment Practices greatly encourage independence.\n\nWith respect to corporate structure, institutions employing rational management and institutions employing high commitment practices also differ. Institutions with rational management tend to have a steep hierarchy with many ranks between floor-workers and executives. For example, institutions employing bureaucratic control often have one entry level at the bottom of the hierarchy, and new recruits slowly work their ways up the seemingly endless ladder. Because these institutions have a steep hierarchy, those near the bottom of the chain are often alienated from higher ups Consequently, relationship between executives and workers are minimal. However, institutions which employ High Commitment Practices have fairly flat hierarchy and intra-firm networking is easy. As a result, most employees readily develop attachment to their on-job peers, bosses, and the institution, increasing their commitment. While the rational system of management maintains distance between executive and lower employees, High Commitment Practices foster good relationship between the two.\n\nWhile high-commitment practices are similar to other strategies in the system, particularly the Human Relations School, in terms of the three aspects previously discussed, their goals are different. Although both attempt to increase job satisfaction and make employees feel valued, High Commitment Practices seek to make employees feel attached to their institutions while the Human Relations School simply seek to make employees aspire to work because of the satisfaction gained from contributing outputs.\n\nWith the significant shift in the way firms are motivating their employees in recent years, many companies are beginning to realize that having a “strong corporate culture” is an important ingredient in organizational success. Employee commitment is “replacing traditional controls such as direct supervision and bureaucratic arrangements.” No longer do these high commitment workplaces rely on their CEOs to force the workers to produce, but instead, these workers are self-motivated to bring their best to the company.\n\nOne company that follows this high commitment model is Google. A little over a decade ago, Google was an unknown. Today, Google not only refers to the multinational corporation which provides Internet-related products and services, but it has also become a common verb many use every day—“just Google it.” What sets Google apart from many companies, however, is its unique corporate culture. Founded in 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the two men wanted Google to be a place where people would enjoy work. The company’s philosophies, which include principles such as “work should be challenging and the challenge should be fun” and “you can be serious without a suit”, are consistent with its innovative and informal environment.\n\nIn terms of organization, Google maintains “a casual and democratic atmosphere, resulting in its distinction as a ‘Flat’ company.” In its earlier years, Google had a fairly informal product-development system. Ideas moved upwards from “Googlers” without any formal review process from senior managers, and teams working on innovative projects were kept small. However, with the continuing expansion of the company, Google now holds weekly, all-hands (‘TGIF’) meetings at which employees ask questions directly to Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and other executives about any number of company issues. This is consistent with the idea that high commitment work systems “typically involve practices that enhance communication across organizational levels.” In addition, employees are encouraged to propose wild, ambitious ideas, and supervisors are assigned small teams to test if these ideas will work. Teams are made up of members with equal authority—“there is no top-down hierarchy”—and nearly everyone at Google carries a generic job title, such as “product manager.” \n\nGoogle hires those who are “smart and determined,” and it favors “ability over experience.” In an interview on the company’s corporate culture and hiring, Eric Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman, stressed the importance of evaluating potential hires’ passions and commitments in addition to their technical qualifications. He said that “people are going to do what they’re going to do, and you (company, leader) just assist them.” Google does not believe that its job is to manage the company; instead, it believes that its greatest task is to hire the right people. And once the company has those people, it “will see a building of ‘self-initiative’ behavior”—one of the important characteristics of people working in high commitment workplaces. As a result, all engineers at Google are allotted 20 percent of their time to work on their own ideas—some of which yield public offerings, such as Google News and Orkut, a social networking website.\n\nWhile there is substantial evidence that high commitment management practices have many benefits to the efficiency and well-being of the workplace as seen above, there are some disadvantages and difficulties found in the system.\n\nMuch of the research presenting strong evidence of success with high commitment management practices may actually be due to confounding variables. An example of this can be seen in research by Burton and O’Reilly who suggested that the benefits seen from high commitment practices may not be due to the practices themselves, but may result from on overarching system architecture or organizational logic. Another possibility they suggested was that good managers themselves pick this form of managing practice and therefore good managers may be a confounding variable. Thus it is possible that the relative success of these practices is in fact a result of reasons other than the practices themselves.\n\nIn the process of becoming a workplace with high commitment management practices, the transition can be difficult and in order to gain the full benefits of such practices full implementation is required. All companies must go through a transitioning stage from their previous form of management to high commitment management practices, however not all of the changes can be made at once. This transition can often be difficult for managers to find the right balance between enough and too much worker influence and change the management philosophy along with the practices. Full implementation of high commitment management practices is required in order to receive the full benefits of the system, and therefore during the transition period firms may not experience positive changes right away, which may provide disincentives for continuing the transition. This may explain why very few firms in the US have comprehensive commitment practices.\n\nHigh-commitment management practices are currently considered a universal approach seen to be effective in all firms, however the best form of management for a firm with a price-sensitive, high-volume commodity market will differ from a firm with a high-quality, low-volume market. This has been seen within the private and public sectors, where only some high-commitment management practices in the private sector have the same benefits in the public sector and the entire program cannot be transported. Managers may also face difficulty when implementing high commitment management practices as they face a tension between a consistent approach using the same practices throughout the entire workforce or adjusting their practices based on specific needs of different groups. As workforces become more diverse, this tension may become more pronounced.\n\nWhile it has been proven that workers feel positively towards high commitment management practices, it is also admitted that these practices portray workers as a resource or commodity that will be exploited by the organization. Therefore, even though positive effects have been shown, these practices are also seen as another management initiative to try to gain greater control and efficiency from employees. Therefore, these practices are still exploiting the worker. Workers do express excessive pressure and high insecurity when high commitment management practices are implemented. However, even though companies may have high commitment practices, which in itself mean companies will have little employee flexibility, if the nature of the company is such that they embrace change, then it is possible for these to coexist.\n\nTherefore, while there are many benefits proven to exist as a result of high commitment management practices, there are also disadvantages and difficulties incurred by management.\n"}
{"id": "17530777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17530777", "title": "Humur", "text": "Humur\n\nThe Humur live around the cities of Babanusa, Muglad and Alfoula. They are divided into two groups. The Ajaira, who live in the area from Muglad to Abiyai. There are seven clans in the Ajaira. The \"Nathir\" or leader of the Ajaira is Ali Nimr. The second group, the Falita, live in Babanusa, Alfoula and Kajira. The leader of the Falita is Abdul Elmonim Alshowein. There are five clans of the Falita.\n"}
{"id": "265554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265554", "title": "Igbo people", "text": "Igbo people\n\nThe Igbo people (; also Ibo, formerly also \"Iboe, Ebo, Eboe\",\n\"Eboans\", \"Heebo\";\nnatively Ṇ́dị́ Ìgbò ) are an ethnic group native to the present-day south-central and southeastern Nigeria. Geographically, the Igbo homeland is divided into two unequal sections by the Niger River – an eastern (which is the larger of the two) and a western section. The Igbo people are one of the largest ethnic groups in Africa.\n\nThe Igbo language is divided into numerous regional dialects, and somewhat mutually intelligible with the larger \"Igboid\" cluster.\nThe Igbo homeland straddles the lower Niger River, east and south of the Edoid and Idomoid groups, and west of the Ibibioid (Cross River) cluster.\n\nIn rural Nigeria, Igbo people work mostly as craftsmen, farmers and traders. The most important crop is the yam. Other staple crops include cassava and taro. The Igbos are also highly urbanized, with some of the largest metropolitan areas, cities and towns in Igboland being Onitsha, Enugu, Aba, Owerri, Orlu, Okigwe, Port Harcourt, Asaba, Awka, Nsukka, Nnewi, Umuahia, Abakaliki, Afikpo, Agbor and Arochukwu.\n\nBefore British colonial rule in the 20th century, the Igbo were a politically fragmented group, with a number of centralized chiefdoms such as Nri, Arochukwu, Agbor and Onitsha. \nFrederick Lugard introduced the \"Eze\" system of \"Warrant Chiefs\". Unaffected by the Fulani War and the resulting spread of Islam in Nigeria in the 19th century, they became overwhelmingly Christian under colonization. In the wake of decolonisation, the Igbo \ndeveloped a strong sense of ethnic identity.\nDuring the Nigerian Civil War of 1967–1970 the Igbo territories seceded as the short-lived Republic of Biafra. MASSOB, a sectarian organization formed in 1999, continues a non-violent struggle for an independent Igbo state.\n\nSmall ethnic Igbo populations are found in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea, as well as outside Africa.\n\n\"Igbo\" as an ethnic identity developed comparatively recently, in the context of decolonisation and the Nigerian Civil War.\nThe various Igbo-speaking communities were historically fragmented and decentralised; in the opinion of Chinua Achebe (2000), Igbo identity should be placed somewhere between a \"tribe\" and a \"nation\". Since the defeat of the Republic of Biafra in 1970, the Igbo are sometimes classed as a \"stateless nation\".\n\nThe Igboid languages form a cluster within the Volta–Niger phylum, most likely grouped with Yoruboid and Edoid.\nThe greatest differentiation within the Igboid group is between the Ekpeye and the rest.\nWilliamson (2002) argues that based on this pattern, proto-Igboid migration would have moved down the Niger from a more northern area in the savannah and first settled close to the delta, with a secondary center of Igbo proper more to the north, in the Awka area.\n\nPottery dated at around 2500 BC showing similarities with later Igbo work was found at Nsukka in the 1970s, along with pottery and tools at nearby Ibagwa; the traditions of the Umueri clan have as their source the Anambra valley. In the 1970s the Owerri, Okigwe, Orlu, Awgu, Udi and Awka divisions were determined to constitute \"an Igbo heartland\" from the linguistic and cultural evidence.\n\nGenetic studies have shown the Igbo to cluster most closely with other Niger-Congo-speaking peoples.\nThe predominant Y-chromosmoal haplogroup is E-V38 (E1b1a).\n\nThe Nri people of Igbo land have a creation myth which is one of the many creation myths that exist in various parts of Igbo land. The Nri and Aguleri people are in the territory of the Umueri clan who trace their lineages back to the patriarchal king-figure Eri. Eri's origins are unclear, though he has been described as a \"sky being\" sent by Chukwu (God). He has been characterized as having first given societal order to the people of Anambra. The historian Elizabeth Allo Isichei says \"Nri and Aguleri and part of the Umueri clan, [are] a cluster of Igbo village groups which traces its origins to a sky being called Eri.\"\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests that Nri hegemony in Igboland may go back as far as the 9th century, and royal burials have been unearthed dating to at least the 10th century. Eri, the god-like founder of Nri, is believed to have settled the region around 948 with other related Igbo cultures following after in the 13th century. The first Eze Nri (King of Nri) Ìfikuánim followed directly after him. According to Igbo oral tradition, his reign started in 1043. At least one historian puts Ìfikuánim's reign much later, around 1225 AD.\n\nEach king traces his origin back to the founding ancestor, Eri. Each king is a ritual reproduction of Eri. The initiation rite of a new king shows that the ritual process of becoming Ezenri (Nri priest-king) follows closely the path traced by the hero in establishing the Nri kingdom.\n- E. Elochukwu Uzukwu\nThe Kingdom of Nri was a religio-polity, a sort of theocratic state, that developed in the central heartland of the Igbo region. The Nri had seven types of taboos which included human (such as the birth of twins), animal (such as killing or eating of pythons), object, temporal, behavioral, speech and place taboos. The rules regarding these taboos were used to educate and govern Nri's subjects. This meant that, while certain Igbo may have lived under different formal administration, all followers of the Igbo religion had to abide by the rules of the faith and obey its representative on earth, the Eze Nri.\n\nTraditional Igbo political organization was based on a quasi-democratic republican system of government. In tight knit communities, this system guaranteed its citizens equality, as opposed to a feudalist system with a king ruling over subjects. This government system was witnessed by the Portuguese who first arrived and met with the Igbo people in the 15th century. With the exception of a few notable Igbo towns such as Onitsha, which had kings called Obi, and places like the Nri Kingdom and Arochukwu, which had priest kings; Igbo communities and area governments were overwhelmingly ruled solely by a republican consultative assembly of the common people. Communities were usually governed and administered by a council of elders.\nAlthough title holders were respected because of their accomplishments and capabilities, they were never revered as kings, but often performed special functions given to them by such assemblies. This way of governing was immensely different from most other communities of Western Africa, and only shared by the Ewe of Ghana. \"Umunna\" are a form of patrilineage maintained by the Igbo. Law starts with the \"Umunna\" which is a male line of descent from a founding ancestor (who the line is sometimes named after) with groups of compounds containing closely related families headed by the eldest male member. The \"Umunna\" can be seen as the most important pillar of Igbo society. It was also a culture in which gender was re-constructed and performed according to social need, “where gender and sex did not coincide. Instead, gender was flexible and fluid, allowing women to become men and men to become women” \n\nMathematics in indigenous Igbo society is evident in their calendar, banking system and strategic betting game called \"Okwe\". In their indigenous calendar, a week had four days, a month consisted of seven weeks and 13 months made a year. In the last month, an extra day was added. This calendar is still used in indigenous Igbo villages and towns to determine market days. They settled law matters via mediators, and their banking system for loans and savings, called Isusu, is also still used. The Igbo new year, starting with the month \"Ọ́nwạ́ M̀bụ́\" () occurs on the third week of February, although the traditional start of the year for many Igbo communities is around springtime in \"Ọ́nwạ́ Ágwụ́\" (June). Used as a ceremonial script by secret societies, the Igbo have an indigenous ideographic set of symbols called Nsibidi, originating from the neighboring Ejagham people. Igbo people produced bronzes from as early as the 9th century, some of which have been found at the town of Igbo Ukwu, Anambra state.\nA system of indentured servitude existed among the Igbo before and after the encounter with Europeans. Indentured service in Igbo areas was described by Olaudah Equiano in his memoir. He describes the conditions of the slaves in his community of Essaka, and points out the difference between the treatment of slaves under the Igbo in Essaka, and those in the custody of Europeans in West Indies:\n\n…but how different was their condition from that of the slaves in the West Indies! With us, they do no more work than other members of the community,… even their master;… (except that they were not permitted to eat with those… free-born;) and there was scarce any other difference between them,… Some of these slaves have… slaves under them as their own property… for their own use.\n\nThe Niger coast was an area of contact between African and European traders from the years 1434–1807. The Portuguese were the first traders, then the Dutch and finally the British. Prior to European contact, Igbo trade routes stretched as far as Mecca, Medina and Jeddah on the continent.\n\nChambers (2002) argued that many of the slaves taken from the Bight of Biafra across the Middle Passage would have been Igbo.\nThese slaves were usually sold to Europeans by the Aro Confederacy, who kidnapped or bought slaves from Igbo villages in the hinterland. Igbo slaves may have not been victims of slave-raiding wars or expeditions, but perhaps debtors or Igbos who committed within their communities alleged crimes. With the goal for freedom, enslaved Igbos were known to the British colonists as being rebellious and having a high rate of suicide to escape slavery. There is evidence that traders sought Igbo women. Igbo women were paired with Coromantee (Akan) men to subdue the men because of the belief that the women were bound to their first-born sons’ birthplace.\n\nIt is alleged that European slave traders were fairly well informed about various African ethnicities, leading to slavers' targeting certain ethnic groups which plantation owners preferred. Particular desired ethnic groups consequently became fairly concentrated in certain parts of the Americas. The Igbo were dispersed to colonies such as Jamaica, Cuba, Saint-Domingue, Barbados, the future United States, Belize and Trinidad and Tobago, among others.\n\nElements of Igbo culture can still be found in these places. For example, in Jamaican Patois, the Igbo word \"unu\", meaning \"you\" plural, is still used. \"Red Ibo\" (or \"red eboe\") describes a black person with fair or \"yellowish\" skin. This term had originated from the reported prevalence of these skin tones among the Igbo but eastern Nigerian influences may not be strictly Igbo. The word \"Bim\", a colloquial term for Barbados, was commonly used among enslaved Barbadians (Bajans). This word is said to have derived from \"bém\" in the Igbo language meaning 'my place or people', but may have other origins (see: Barbados etymology). A section of Belize City was named \"Eboe Town\" after its Igbo inhabitants. In the United States, the Igbo were imported most commonly to the Chesapeake Bay colonies and states of Maryland and Virginia, where they constituted the largest group of Africans. Since the late 20th century, a wave of Nigerian immigrants, mostly English and Igbo-speaking, have settled in Maryland, attracted to its strong professional job market.\n\nThe 19th-century British colonization effort in present-day Nigeria and increased encounters between the Igbo and other ethnicities near the Niger River led to a deepening sense of a distinct Igbo ethnic identity. The Igbo proved decisive and enthusiastic in their embrace of Christianity and Western education. Due to the incompatibility of the Igbo decentralized style of government and the centralized system including the appointment of warrant chiefs required for British indirect rule, British colonial rule was marked with open conflicts and much tension. Under British colonial rule, the diversity within each of Nigeria's major ethnic groups slowly decreased and distinctions between the Igbo and other large ethnic groups, such as the Hausa and the Yoruba, became sharper.\n\nColonial rule transformed Igbo society, as portrayed in Chinua Achebe's novel \"Things Fall Apart\". British rule brought about changes in culture, such as the introduction of Warrant Chiefs as Eze (indigenous rulers) where there were no such monarchies. Christian missionaries introduced aspects of European ideology into Igbo society and culture, sometimes shunning parts of the culture. The rumours that the Igbo women were being assessed for taxation sparked off the 1929 Igbo Women's War in Aba (also known as the 1929 Aba Riots), a massive revolt of women never encountered before in Igbo history.\n\nAspects of Igbo culture such as construction of houses, education and religion changed following colonialism.\nThe tradition of building houses out of mud walls and thatched roofs ended as the people shifted to materials such as cement blocks for houses and zinc roofs. Roads for vehicles were built. Buildings such as hospitals and schools were erected in many parts of Igboland. Along with these changes, electricity and running water were installed in the early 20th century. With electricity, new technology such as radios and televisions were adopted, and have become commonplace in most Igbo households.\n\nA series of ethnic clashes between Northern Muslims and the Igbo, and other ethnic groups of Eastern Nigeria Region living in Northern Nigeria took place between 1966 and 1967. Elements in the army had assassinated the Nigerian military head of state General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi (29 July 1966) and peace negotiations failed between the military government that deposed Ironsi and the regional government of Eastern Nigeria at the Aburi Talks in Ghana in 1967.\nThese events led to a regional council of the peoples of Eastern Nigeria deciding that the region should secede and proclaim the Republic of Biafra on May 30, 1967.\nLate General Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu made this declaration and became the Head of state of the new republic. The resultant war, which became known as the Nigerian Civil War or the Nigerian-Biafran War, lasted from July 6, 1967 until January 15, 1970, after which the federal government re-absorbed Biafra into Nigeria.\nSeveral million Eastern Nigerians died from the pogroms against them, such as the 1966 anti-Igbo pogrom where between 10,000 and 30,000 Igbo people were killed. In their struggle, the people of Biafra earned the respect of figures such as Jean-Paul Sartre and John Lennon, who returned his British honor, MBE, partly in protest against British collusion in the Nigeria-Biafra war. In July 2007 the former President of Biafra, Late General Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, renewed calls for the secession of the Biafran state as a sovereign entity.\n\nThe Nigerian–Biafran War left Igboland devastated. Fighting had completely destroyed many hospitals, schools, and homes. In addition to the loss of their savings, many Igbo people faced discrimination from other ethnic groups and from the new non-Igbo federal government. Some Igbo subgroups, such as the Ikwerre, started dissociating themselves from the larger Igbo population after the war. In the post-war era, people of eastern Nigeria changed the names of both people and places to non-Igbo-sounding words. For instance, the town of Igbuzo was anglicized to \"Ibusa\". Due to discrimination, many Igbo had trouble finding employment, and during the early 1970s, the Igbo became one of the poorest ethnic groups in Nigeria.\n\nIgboland was gradually rebuilt by its citizens and some contribution from the Nigerian government over a period of twenty years and the economy prospered again due to the rise of the petroleum industry in the adjacent Niger Delta region. This led to the establishment of new factories in southern Nigeria. Many Igbo people eventually took government positions, although many were engaged in private business. Since the early 21st century, there has been a wave of Nigerian Igbo immigration to other African countries, Europe, and the Americas.\n\nA series of black and white, silent films about the Igbo people made by George Basden in the 1920s and 1930s are held in the British Empire and Commonwealth Collection at Bristol Archives (Ref. 2006/070).\n\nThe 1930s saw the rise of Igbo unions in the cities of Lagos and Port Harcourt. Later, the Ibo Federal Union (renamed the Ibo State Union in 1948) emerged as an umbrella pan-ethnic organization. Headed by Nnamdi Azikiwe, it was closely associated with the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC), which he co-founded with Herbert Macaulay. The aim of the organization was the improvement and advancement (such as in education) of the Igbo and their indigenous land and included an Igbo \"national anthem\" with a plan for an Igbo bank.\n\nIn 1978 after Olusegun Obasanjo's military regime lifted the ban on independent political activity, the Ohaneze Ndi Igbo organization was formed, an elite umbrella organization which speaks on behalf of the Igbo people. Their main concerns are the marginalization of the Igbo people in Nigerian politics and the neglect of indigenous Igbo territory in social amenities and development of infrastructure. Other groups which protest the perceived marginalization of the Igbo people are the Igbo Peoples Congress (IPC). Even before the 20th century there were numerous Igbo unions and organizations existing around the world, such as the Igbo union in Bathurst, Gambia in 1842, founded by a prominent Igbo trader and ex-soldier named Thomas Refell. Another was the union founded by the Igbo community in Freetown, Sierra Leone by 1860, of which Africanus Horton, a surgeon, scientist and soldier, was an active member.\n\nDecades after the Nigerian-Biafran war, the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), a secessionist group, was founded in September 1999 by Ralph Uwazurike for the goal of an independent Igbo state. Since its creation, there have been several conflicts between its members and the Nigerian government, resulting in the death of members. After the 2015 Nigerian general elections a group known as the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) became the most prominent vocal group for the agitation of the creation of an independent state of Biafra through a radio station named Radio Biafra.\nFor the promotion of the Igbo language and culture, the Society for Promoting Igbo Language and Culture (SPILC) was founded in 1949 by Frederick Chidozie Ogbalu, and has since created a standard dialect for Igbo.\n\nIgbo culture includes the various customs, practices and traditions of the people. It comprises archaic practices as well as new concepts added into the Igbo culture either through evolution or outside influences. These customs and traditions include the Igbo people's visual art, use of language, music and dance forms, as well as their attire, cuisine and language dialects. Because of their various , the variety of their culture is heightened further.\n\nThe Igbo language was used by John Goldsmith as an example to justify deviating from the classical linear model of phonology as laid out in \"The Sound Pattern of English\". It is written in the Roman script as well as the Nsibidi formalized ideograms, which is used by the Ekpe society and Okonko fraternity, but is no longer widely used. Nsibidi ideography existed among the Igbo before the 16th century, but died out after it became popular among secret societies, who made Nsibidi a secret form of communication. Igbo language is difficult because of the huge number of dialects, its richness in prefixes and suffixes and its heavy intonation. Igbo is a tonal language and there are hundreds of different Igbo dialects and Igboid languages, such as the Ikwerre and Ekpeye languages. In 1939, Dr. Ida C. Ward led a research expedition on Igbo dialects which could possibly be used as a basis of a standard Igbo dialect, also known as \"Central Igbo\". This dialect included that of the Owerri and Umuahia groups, including the Ohuhu dialect. This proposed dialect was gradually accepted by missionaries, writers, publishers, and Cambridge University.\nIn 1789, \"The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano\" was published in London, England, written by Olaudah Equiano, a former slave. The book featured 79 Igbo words. In the first and second chapter, the book illustrates various aspects of Igbo life based on Olaudah Equiano's life in his hometown of Essaka. Although the book was one of the first books published to include Igbo material, \"Geschichte der Mission der evangelischen Brüder auf den caraibischen Inseln St. Thomas, St. Croix und S. Jan\" (), published in 1777, written by the German missionary C. G. A. Oldendorp, was the first book to publish any Igbo material.\n\nPerhaps the most popular and renowned novel that deals with the Igbo and their traditional life was the 1959 book by Chinua Achebe, \"Things Fall Apart\". The novel concerns influences of British colonialism and Christian missionaries on a traditional Igbo community during an unspecified time in the late nineteenth or early 20th century. Most of the novel is set in Umuofia, one of nine villages on the lower Niger.\n\nThe Igbo people have a musical style into which they incorporate various percussion instruments: the udu, which is essentially designed from a clay jug; an ekwe, which is formed from a hollowed log; and the ogene, a hand bell designed from forged iron. Other instruments include opi, a wind instrument similar to the flute, igba, and ichaka. Another popular musical form among the Igbo is Highlife. A widely popular musical genre in West Africa, Highlife is a fusion of jazz and traditional music. The modern Igbo highlife is seen in the works of Dr Sir Warrior, Oliver De Coque, Bright Chimezie and Chief Osita Osadebe, who were among the most popular Igbo highlife musicians of the 20th century.\n\nMasking is one of the most common art styles in Igboland and is linked strongly with Igbo traditional music. A mask can be made of wood or fabric, along with other materials including iron and vegetation. Masks have a variety of uses, mainly in social satires, religious rituals, secret society initiations (such as the Ekpe society) and public festivals, which now include Christmas time celebrations. Some of the best known include the Agbogho Mmuo () masks of the Northern Igbo which represent the spirits of deceased maidens and their mothers with masks symbolizing beauty and Ijele.\n\nOther impressive masks include Northern Igbo Ijele masks. At high, Ijele masks consist of platforms in diameter, supporting figures made of coloured cloth and representing everyday scenes with objects such as leopards. Ijele masks are used for honoring the dead to ensure the continuity and well-being of the community and are only seen on rare occasions such as the death of a prominent figure in the community.\n\nThere are many Igbo dance styles, but perhaps, Igbo dance is best known for its Atilogwu dance troops. These performances include acrobatic stunts such as high kicks and cartwheels, with each rhythm from the indigenous instruments indicating a movement to the dancer.\n\nThere is such variety among Igbo groups that it is not possible to define a general Igbo art style. Igbo art is known for various types of masquerade, masks and outfits symbolising people, animals, or abstract conceptions. Bronze castings found in the town of Igbo Ukwu from the 9th century, constitute the earliest sculptures discovered in Igboland. Here, the grave of a well-established man of distinction and a ritual store, dating from the 9th century AD, contained both chased copper objects and elaborate castings of leaded bronze. Along with these bronzes were 165,000 glass beads said to have originated in Egypt, Venice and India. Some popular Igbo art styles include Uli designs. The majority of the Igbo carve and use masks, although the function of masks vary from community to community.\n\nIgbo art is noted for Mbari architecture.\n\nMbari houses of the Owerri-Igbo are large opened-sided square planned shelters. They house many life-sized, painted figures (sculpted in mud to appease the Alusi (deity) and Ala, the earth goddess, with other deities of thunder and water). Other sculptures are of officials, craftsmen, foreigners (mainly Europeans), animals, legendary creatures and ancestors. Mbari houses take years to build in what is regarded as a sacred process. When new ones are constructed, old ones are left to decay. Everyday houses were made of mud and thatched roofs with bare earth floors with carved design doors. Some houses had elaborate designs both in the interior and exterior. These designs could include Uli art designed by Igbo women.\n\nOne of the unique structures of Igbo culture was the Nsude Pyramids, at the town of Nsude, in Abaja, northern Igboland. Ten pyramidal structures were built of clay/mud. The first base section was 60 ft. in circumference and 3 ft. in height. The next stack was 45 ft. in circumference. Circular stacks continued, till it reached the top. The structures were temples for the god Ala/Uto, who was believed to reside at the top. A stick was placed at the top to represent the god's residence. The structures were laid in groups of five parallel to each other. Because it was built of clay/mud like the Deffufa of Nubia, time has taken its toll requiring periodic reconstruction.\n\nMost Igbo are Christian; confessional groups are estimated at 56% Roman Catholic and 43% Protestant/Evangelical.\n\nThe Igbos were unaffected by the Islamic jihad waged in Nigeria in the 19th century, but a small minority converted to Islam in the 20th century. \n\nThe Igbo traditional religion is known Odinani. \nThe supreme deity is called Chukwu (\"great spirit\"); Chukwu created the world and everything in it and is associated with all things on Earth. They believe the Cosmos is divided into four complex parts: creation, known as Okike; supernatural forces or deities called Alusi; Mmuo, which are spirits; and Uwa, the world.\n\nChukwu is the supreme deity in Odinani as he is the creator, and the Igbo people believe that all things come from him and that everything on earth, heaven and the rest of the spiritual world is under his control. Linguistic studies of the Igbo language suggests the name \"Chukwu\" is a compound of the Igbo words \"Chi\" (spiritual being) and \"Ukwu\" (great in size). Each individual is born with a spiritual guide/guardian angel or guardian principle, \"Chi\", unique to each individual and the individual's fate and destiny is determined by their Chi. Thus the Igbos say that the siblings may come of the same mother but no two people have the same Chi and thus different destinies for all. Alusi, alternatively known as Arusi or Arushi (depending on dialect), are minor deities that are worshiped and served in Odinani. There are many different Alusi, each with its own purpose. When an individual deity is no longer needed, or becomes too violent, it is discarded.\nThe Igbo have traditionally believed in reincarnation. People are believed to reincarnate into families that they were part of while alive. Before a relative dies, it is said that the soon to be deceased relative sometimes give clues of who they will reincarnate as in the family. Once a child is born, he or she is believed to give signs of who they have reincarnated from. This can be through behavior, physical traits and statements by the child. A diviner can help in detecting who the child has reincarnated from. It is considered an insult if a male is said to have reincarnated as a female.\n\nChildren are not allowed to call elders by their names without using an honorific (as this is considered disrespectful). As a sign of respect, children are required to greet elders when seeing them for the first time in the day. Children usually add the Igbo honorifics \"Mazi\" or \"Dede\" before an elder's name when addressing them.\n\nAfter a death, the body of a prominent member of society is placed on a stool in a sitting posture and is clothed in the deceased's finest garments. Animal sacrifices may be offered and the dead person is well perfumed. Burial usually follows within 24 hours of death. In the 21st century, the head of a home is usually buried within the compound of his residence. Different types of deaths warrant different types of burials. This is determined by an individual's age, gender and status in society. Children are buried in hiding and out of sight; their burials usually take place in the early mornings and late nights. A simple untitled man is buried in front of his house and a simple mother is buried in her place of origin: in a garden or a farm-area that belonged to her father. In the 21st century, a majority of the Igbo bury their dead in the western way, although it is not uncommon for burials to be practiced in the traditional Igbo ways.\n\nThe process of marrying usually involves asking the young woman's consent, introducing the woman to the man's family and the same for the man to the woman's family, testing the bride's character, checking the woman's family background, and paying the brides' wealth. Marriages were sometimes arranged from birth through negotiation of the two families.\nIn the past, many Igbo men practiced polygamy. The polygamous family is made up of a man and his wives and all their children. Men sometimes married multiple wives for economic reasons so as to have more people in the family, including children, to help on farms. Christian and civil marriages have changed the Igbo family since colonization. Igbo people now tend to enter monogamous courtships and create nuclear families, mainly because of Western influence. Some Western marriage customs, such as weddings in a church, take place either before or after the lgbo cultural traditional marriage.\n\nTraditionally, the attire of the Igbo generally consisted of little clothing, as the purpose of clothing originally was simply to conceal private parts.Uli body art was used to decorate both men and women in the form of lines forming patterns and shapes on the body.\n\nWomen traditionally carry their babies on their backs with a strip of clothing binding the two with a knot at her chest, a practice used by many ethnic groups across Africa. This method has been modernized in the form of the child carrier. Maidens usually wore a short wrapper with beads around their waist and other ornaments such as necklaces and beads. Both men and women wore wrappers. Men would wear loin cloths that wrapped round their waist and between their legs to be fastened at their back, the type of clothing appropriate for the intense heat as well as jobs such as farming.\n\nIn Olaudah Equiano's narrative, Equiano describes fragrances that were used by the Igbo in the community of Essaka:\n\nOur principal luxury is in perfumes; one sort of these is an odoriferous wood of delicious fragrance: the other a kind of earth; a small portion of which thrown into the fire diffuses a most powerful odor. We beat this wood into powder, and mix it with palm oil; with which both men and women perfume themselves.\n\nAs colonialism became more influential, the Igbo adapted their dress customs. Clothing worn before colonialism became \"traditional\" and worn on cultural occasions. Modern Igbo traditional attire, for men, is generally made up of the Isiagu top, which resembles the Dashiki worn by other African groups. Isiagu (or \"Ishi agu\") is usually patterned with lions' heads embroidered over the clothing and can be a plain colour. It is worn with trousers and can be worn with either a ceremonial title holders hat or with the conventional known as \"Okpu Agu\". For women, a puffed sleeve blouse along with two wrappers and a head tie are worn.\n\nThe yam is very important to the Igbo as the staple crop. There are celebrations such as the New yam festival () which are held for the harvesting of the yam. During the festival, yam is eaten throughout the communities as celebration. Yam tubers are shown off by individuals as a sign of success and wealth. Rice has replaced yam for many ceremonial occasions. Other indigenous foods include cassava, garri, maize and plantains. Soups or stews are included in a typical meal, prepared with a vegetable (such as okra, of which the word derives from the Igbo language, Okwuru) to which pieces of fish, chicken, beef, or goat meat are added. Jollof rice is popular throughout West Africa and Palm wine is a popular alcoholic traditional beverage.\n\nThe Igbo people are natively found in Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo, Delta and Rivers State. The Igbo language is predominant throughout these areas, although Nigerian English (the national language) is spoken as well. Prominent towns and cities in Igboland include Aba, Enugu (considered the 'Igbo capital'), Onitsha, Owerri, Abakaliki, Asaba, and Port Harcourt among others. A significant number of Igbo people have migrated to other parts of Nigeria, such as the cities of Lagos, Abuja, and Kano.\n\nThe official data on the population of ethnic groups in Nigeria continues to be controversial as a minority of these groups have claimed that the government deliberately deflates the official population of one group, to give the other numerical superiority. The CIA World Factbook puts the Igbo population of Nigeria at 18% of a total population of 177 million, or approximately 32 million people.\n\nSoutheastern Nigeria, which is inhabited primarily by the Igbo, is the most densely populated area in Nigeria, and possibly in all of Africa. Most ethnicities that inhabit southeastern Nigeria, such as the closely related Efik and Ibibio people, are sometimes regarded as Igbo by other Nigerians and ethnographers who are not well informed about the southeast.\n\nAfter the Nigerian-Biafran War, many Igbo people emigrated out of the indigenous Igbo homeland in southeastern Nigeria due to an absence of federal presence, lack of jobs, and poor infrastructure. In recent decades the Igbo region of Nigeria has suffered from frequent environmental damage mainly related to the oil industry. Igbo people have moved to both Nigerian cities such as Lagos and Abuja, and other countries such as Gabon, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. Prominent Igbo communities outside Africa include those of London in the United Kingdom and Houston, Baltimore, Chicago, Detroit, Seattle, Atlanta and Washington, D.C. in the United States.\n\nAbout 21,000 Igbo people were recorded in Ghana in 1969.\nA small number (8,680) in Bioko island in 2002. Small numbers live in Japan making up the majority of the Nigerian immigrant population based in Tokyo. A large amount of the African population of Guangdong, China, are Igbo-speaking and are mainly businessmen trading between factories in China and southeastern Nigeria, particularly Enugu.\nOther Igbo immigrants are found in the Americas (Igbo Canadian, Igbo American and elsewhere.\n\nIn the 2003 PBS programme \"African American Lives\", Bishop T.D. Jakes had his DNA analyzed; his Y chromosome showed that he is descended from the Igbo.\nAmerican actors Forest Whitaker, Paul Robeson, and Blair Underwood have traced their genealogy back to the Igbo people.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nArt\n\nMusic\n\nEconomy\n\nPolitics\n\nSociety\n\nDiaspora\n\n"}
{"id": "46926245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46926245", "title": "Kalief Browder", "text": "Kalief Browder\n\nKalief Browder (May 25, 1993June 6, 2015) was an African American man from The Bronx, New York. In 2010, at the age of 16, Browder was accused of the theft of a backpack and its contents including a camera, $700, a credit card, and an iPod Touch. Awaiting trial, Browder was jailed on Rikers Island for three years with nearly two years of time spent in solitary confinement. He was released when the prosecutor's case was found to be lacking any evidence against Browder and the case's main witness was found to have left the United States. Two years following his release from prison, Browder died by suicide, hanging himself from an air conditioning unit outside of his mother's home. Browder's supporters say his suicide was the result of mental and physical abuse sustained in prison. His case has been cited by activists who call for the reform of the New York City criminal justice system, and attracted widespread attention in the years following his death. In 2017, Jay Z and Harvey Weinstein released the docuseries \"\".\n\nBrowder was placed into the care of Child Protective Services at birth due to his mother’s drug addiction. Browder was the youngest of seven biological siblings and one of five of the siblings who were given up for adoption. Browder's adoptive mother, Venida Browder, was experienced in child care, having raised thirty-four children including fostered children, adopted children, and her biological children by 2015. The family lived in a two-story brick house on Prospect Avenue near the Bronx Zoo.\n\nBrowder attended the New Day Academy. Staff described Browder as very smart and a \"fun guy\". Browder said his report cards were \"populated with Cs\".\n\nEight months before the arrest that led to his imprisonment, Browder was charged with third-degree grand larceny. Police testified that Browder crashed a stolen bakery truck into a stationary car while joyriding. Browder was charged as an adult due to the former New York law to charge juveniles as adults. He pleaded guilty but later said he was only a bystander. Browder was registered as a youthful offender and placed on probation.\n\nOn May 15, 2010, Browder and a friend were apprehended by police on Arthur Avenue near East 186th Street in the Bronx. Browder said he was on his way home from a party. He thought the police were carrying out a routine stop-and-frisk; he had undergone this police procedure on a number of occasions.\n\nPolice officers were responding to a 9-1-1 call placed by Roberto Bautista, a Mexican immigrant, about the theft of a backpack containing a camera, $700, a credit card and an iPod Touch. In his call Bautista said, \"Two male black guys...they took my brother's book bag...\" Browder said to the attending police officers, \"I did not rob anyone, you can check my pockets.\" The police searched Browder, but they did not find the backpack. Bautista was sitting in the back seat of a police car. He identified Browder and his friend as the thieves. He then said the theft had not taken place that night but two weeks earlier. Bautista's testimony of the date of the theft varied between interviews.\n\nBrowder asked the officers, \"What am I being charged for?\" He said, \"I didn't do anything!\" A police officer said to Browder, \"We're just going to take you to the precinct. Most likely you can go home.\" Browder and his friend were taken to the 48th Police Precinct Station. They were fingerprinted and kept in a holding cell for a few hours. Then, they were taken to the Bronx County Criminal Court, where they were processed at the court's central booking.\n\nSeventeen hours after the arrest, Browder was interrogated by a police officer and a prosecutor. The following day, Browder was charged with robbery, grand larceny, and assault. As he was on probation, Browder was not released. At Browder's arraignment, the charge given was second-degree robbery. Bail was set at $3,000. With a bail bondsman, the amount might have been $210-$450 (7%-15% of $3,000), but Browder's family could not raise this amount, so he was imprisoned at Rikers Island.\n\nBrowder was imprisoned at the Robert N. Davoren Center (R.N.D.C.) on Riker's Island. Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York said that the R.N.D.C. had a \"deep-seated culture of violence\" where inmates suffered \"broken jaws, broken orbital bones, broken noses, long bone fractures, and lacerations requiring stitches.\"\n\nBrowder said that inmates washed their own clothes with soap and a metal bucket, giving the clothes rust stains. Browder's mother began visiting every week and provided him with clean clothes and snack money. To avoid becoming a target among the inmates, he slept on top of his belongings, including his bucket. Browder said he felt the pressure to gain physical strength to defend himself from prison violence. He said, \"Every here and there I did a couple pullups or pushups. When I went in there, that's when I decided I wanted to get big\".\n\nBrowder was a victim of prison violence. On one occasion, he and other inmates were lined up against a wall. Correction Officers (CO) wanted to find the instigator of a prison fight. Browder and the inmates were punched, one by one. Browder said, \"Their noses were leaking, their faces were bloody, their eyes were swollen.\" The guards threatened the inmates with solitary confinement if they reported their injuries.\n\nOn October 20, 2010, a gang member spat in Browder's face. Later in the day, Browder punched the gang leader and then was set upon by fifteen gang members. On September 23, 2012, a film of Browder in handcuffs being assaulted by guards was recorded.\n\nAfter a fight with an inmate, Browder was put in solitary confinement for two weeks. He later said, \"He was throwing shoes at people. I told him to stop. I actually took his sneaker and I threw it, and he got mad. He swung on me, and we started fighting.\"\n\nAltogether, Browder spent nearly two years in solitary confinement, mostly after fights with inmates. Browder later said that while in solitary confinement, he was beaten by corrections officers when in the shower. He said a verbal confrontation with a guard would escalate into a physical altercation. during his time in solitary confinement, Browder was allowed activities such as reading and also studied for the General Educational Development (G.E.D) exam.\n\nBrendan O'Meara was appointed Browder's public defender. Browder always maintained that he was innocent. Although the assistant district attorney called Browder's a \"relatively straightforward case\", his trial was delayed by a backlog of work at the Bronx County District Attorney's office.\n\nSeventy-four days after his arrest, in July 2010, Browder was brought before a judge at the Bronx County Hall of Justice. The grand jury indicted Browder on a charge second-degree robbery. A second charge of punching and pushing Bautista was heard. Browder made a plea of \"not guilty\". Browder's family went to a local bail bondsman about the new charge but the posting of bail was denied due to Browder's prior violation of his probation.\n\nOn December 10, 2010, a potential trial date was made as prosecution and defense had submitted notices of readiness. Two hundred and fifty-eight days after his arrest, on January 28, 2011, Browder appeared in court. The prosecution requested a deferment of proceedings. Browder's record shows on June 23, 2011, the People not ready, request 1 week; August 24, 2011, the People not ready, request 1 day; November 4, 2011, the People not ready, prosecutor on trial, request 2 weeks; and December 2, 2011, prosecutor on trial, request January 3, 2012.\n\nBrowder's communication with O'Meara was mostly through Browder's mother. O'Meara said Browder was \"quiet, respectful, he wasn't rude\" but appeared \"tougher and bigger\" over time. Browder instructed O'Meara he wanted to go to trial. Browder was offered a plea bargain of 3.5 years in prison if he pleaded guilty. In June 2012, this amount was reduced to 2.5 years. Browder declined the plea bargain.\n\nBrowder's record shows on June 29, 2012, the People not ready, request one week; September 28, 2012, the People not ready, request two weeks; November 2, 2012, the People not ready, request one week; December 14, 2012, the People not ready, request one week. After 961 days in prison, Browder had appeared before eight judges. Browder later said, \"these guys are just playing with my case\".\n\nOn March 13, 2013, Browder appeared before a Brooklyn judge, Patricia DiMango. She offered Browder a plea bargain of immediate release for his admission of guilt to two misdemeanors with consideration of time already served. Browder refused the offer and was returned to prison. On May 29, 2013, DiMango freed Browder in anticipation of the dismissal of the charges against him one week hence. Bautista had returned to Mexico and could not give testimony against Browder.\n\nAfter his release, Browder and his brother, Akeem, sought legal representation. A family member found the Brooklyn prosecutor, Paul V. Prestia. In 2011, Prestia had represented a Haitian man who had been arrested in the Bronx and was wrongfully imprisoned for eight days.\n\nIn November 2013, Browder filed a lawsuit against the New York Police Department, the Bronx District Attorney, and the Department of Corrections. Prestia put that there had been a malicious prosecution and the court had been misled as to whether the prosecution would ever be ready for trial. Prestia also put to the court that the prosecution knew they would have no witness when Bautista went to Mexico. The City of New York denied these allegations.\n\nIn 2014, Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York took action against the City of New York for its use of \"unnecessary and excessive force\" on adolescents in Riker's Island. In January 2015, the New York City Council voted unanimously to end solitary confinement for inmates under the age of 21.\n\nSoon after his release, Browder passed the G.E.D. exam. He then enrolled at the Bronx Community College (BCC). Browder participated in the City University of New York's \"Future Now\" program, which offered a college education to previously incarcerated youths. Browder completed 11 credits and finished his semester with a grade point average of 3.562. Due to depression, Browder did not attend college in the fall semester but re-enrolled in the spring.\n\nOn May 11, 2015, Browder submitted a paper titled \"A Closer Look at Solitary Confinement in the United States\" for which he was scored an \"A\". He wrote \"Solitary confinement should be looked at as a whole around the United States and even though changes toward the solitary confinement system have begun in some states, more needs to be done and addressed around the country. In a lot of jails and prisons there are a lot of living circumstances and practices that go on within that are not addressed that people need to shed light on like solitary confinement, for example. Maybe another form of punishment or segregation should be implemented to deal with inmates who break jail rules as opposed to inmates who cause severe harm to other inmates and correction officers because the mental health risk it poses are too great.\"\n\nBrowder worked as a tutor in mathematics for the G.E.D. exam at the BCC. He wanted to work to support his mother. Browder worked for a time as a security guard but was dismissed when his history of mental illness came to light. He also handed out flyers near Wall street. Browder said, \"I see businessmen and businesswomen dressed in suits...I want to be successful, like them.\"\n\nHe attempted suicide in early 2011 and on February 8, 2012 when he tried to hang himself using strips of sheet tied to a ceiling light in the cell. Browder later said the CO's goaded him to commit suicide. On another occasion, after an appearance before a judge, Browder made a sharp implement from the bucket in his cell and started to slit his wrists. An officer intervened.\n\nAfter his release, Browder's symptoms of depression persisted. He said, \"People tell me because I have this case against the city I'm all right. But I'm not all right. I'm messed up. I know that I might see some money from this case, but that's not going to help me mentally. I'm mentally scarred right now. That's how I feel. Because there are certain things that changed about me and they might not go back.\" He also said, \"Before I went to jail, I didn't know about a lot of stuff, and, now that I'm aware, I'm paranoid. I feel like I was robbed of my happiness.\"\n\nIn November 2013, Browder made a suicide attempt and was admitted to the psychiatric ward of St. Barnabas Hospital. This was the first of three admissions to the ward.\n\nOn June 6, 2015 at 12:15 PM, Browder died by suicide by hanging himself from an air conditioning unit outside his bedroom window at his mother's home. Browder's mother discovered his body.\n\nOn June 11, 2015, mourners came together. A vigil lasting three hours was held near the Manhattan Detention Center. Mourners chanted, \"Justice for Kalief\". At the same time, a vigil was held on Rikers Island. People held up signs reading \"Black Lives Matter\".\n\nOn June 27, 2015, an event on Rikers Island was organized through Facebook under the banner, \"March to shut down Rikers -- Justice for Kalief Browder! No to criminalization!\" and the hashtags \"#resist Rikers\" and \"#Shutdown Rikers\". The event gained 500 Facebook responses. At the event, protesters held signs with the slogan \"Black Lives Matter\" written on them, photographs and paintings of Browder. The New York City Police Department and the Department of Corrections responded in a peaceful manner.\n\nOn August 10, 2015, fifty peaceful protesters led by Akeem, gathered at the Bronx Supreme Court, chanting \"Black Lives Matter\". It was the anniversary of the shooting death of Michael Brown.\n\nOn October 14, 2016, Browder's mother, Venida Browder died of complications of a heart attack. Prestia said, \"In my opinion, she literally died of a broken heart\" because the \"stress from this crusade coupled with the strain of the pending lawsuits against the city and the pain from the death were too much for her to bear.\" Akeem Browder shared similar thoughts, saying, \"My mother has been holding herself strong, but she's heartbroken.\"\n\nBrowder's estate continued his action against the City. Browder's brother, Akeem, told BuzzFeed News, \"We go back to court on March 21 [2017]. Judge is probably going to do what they've been doing — which is prolonging. It's a game that they play\".\n\nIn 2015, in Davis v. Ayala, the US Supreme Court Justice, Anthony Kennedy cited Browder's case. He said, \"There are indications of a new and growing awareness in the broader public of the subject of corrections and of solitary confinement in particular. See, for example, Gonnerman, \"Before the Law\", The New Yorker, October 6, 2014, p. 26 (detailing the multiyear solitary confinement of Kalief Browder, who was held—but never tried—for stealing a backpack); Schwirtz and Winerip, \"Man held at Riker's for 3 years without trial, kills himself\" New York Times, June 9, 2015, p. A18. ...These are but a few examples of the expert scholarship that, along with continued attention from the legal community, no doubt will aid in the consideration of the many issues solitary confinement presents. And consideration of these issues is needed.\"\n\nIn July 2015, the House of Representative, House Judiciary Committee, and House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee members John Conyers, Jr. and Sheila Jackson Lee sponsored and introduced bill H. R. 2875, the \"Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act of 2015\" and three other bills aimed at youth incarceration reform. One of the bills in the package was H. R. 3155, \"The Effective and Humane Treatment of Youth Act of 2015\" or \"Kalief's Law\", named in honor of Browder. The bill contained many measures, such as banning solitary confinement for youth inmates, prohibiting shackling and restraining of youth for court appearances unless there is sufficient justification, and requiring states to provide a speedy trial. It entered the introductory phase of lawmaking, and was referred to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations.\n\nOn January 25, 2016, President Barack Obama signed an executive order to ban the solitary confinement of juveniles in federal prisons. Penning an op-ed in \"The Washington Post\", Obama cited Browder's case: \"In 2013, Kalief was released, having never stood trial...He completed a successful semester at Bronx Community College. But life was a constant struggle to recover from the trauma of being locked up alone for 23 hours a day. One Saturday, he committed suicide at home. He was just 22 years old\".\n\nIn October 2016, the New York City Correction Commissioner, Joseph Ponte, penned an op-ed in the Gotham Gazette stating that New York City will cease locking prisoners in solitary confinement if they are between 16 and 21 years of age. He wrote, \"This is an unprecedented milestone in New York State correctional history and, even more important, across the nation. To date, no other city or state has accomplished comparable punitive-segregation reforms for the 19 21 year-old age group.\" Mayor Bill de Blasio said, \"Today's announcement shows that New York City is leading the nation down a new path toward rehabilitation and safety. New Yorkers can be proud that their correctional facilities are pioneering these smarter, more humane approaches.\" This marked the implementation of the measure that New York City officials had originally voted on in January 2015.\n\nOn March 31, 2017, Mayor Bill de Blasio said, \"New York City will close the Riker's Island jail facility. It will take many years. It will take many tough decisions. But it will happen.\"\n\nOn April 10, 2017, Governor Andrew Cuomo signed into law the \"Raise the Age\" initiative, which would send the majority of cases involving 16 and 17 year old defendants to the Family Court or be reviewed by judges with special training in social services.\n\nOn May 25, 2017 the corner of East 181 Street and Prospect Avenue in the Bronx was renamed \"Kalief Browder Way\" in his memory.\n\nIn the October 2014 issue of \"The New Yorker\", Jennifer Gonnerman wrote an article about Browder.\n\nIn November 2014, Browder and Prestia appeared on \"The View\", a morning talk show hosted by Rosie O'Donnell. On the show, Browder said his appearance on the show was a \"good opportunity to get [his] voice heard\". He also said it was difficult to speak about his experience in prison.\n\nThe rapper and businessman, Jay Z also contacted Browder.\n\nAva DuVernay's 2016 Oscar-nominated documentary, \"13th\", about race and mass incarceration includes video interviews with Browder.\n\nIn March 2017, a detailed six part television documentary series produced by Jay Z and Harvey Weinstein was broadcast on the Spike television network. It was titled \"\". Jay Z said, \"I knew right there that [Kalief] was a prophet. Some of our prophets go with tragedy, Martin Luther King, it ends tragically. But what comes from it, the life, the next iteration, the lives saved, and how this young man has moved culture forward is incredible.\"\n\nIn an essay, the singer, John Legend wrote, \"New York failed Kalief. The list of things that went wrong in his case begins with his first encounter with the NYPD, whose practice of targeting black teens is well documented. The idea that being accused of stealing a backpack would lead to his arrest and detention would be absurd if it weren't actually tragic.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32746448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32746448", "title": "Kangar union", "text": "Kangar union\n\nKangar union, (\"Qanghar Odaghu\") was a Turkic state in the territory of the entire modern Kazakhstan without Zhetysu. The ethnic name Kangar is a medieval name for the Kangly people, who are now part of the Kazakh, Uzbek, and Karakalpak nations. The Kangly (Qangly, Kang, Kangar, Kengeres, Kangdy, Kangarlyk, Kankalis) were a Turkic tribe known from the 2nd century BCE to past the 12th century CE. The Western Branch of Kangars after a defeat from Kypchaks of the Kimek Kaganate attacked and defeated the Bulgars, establishing the Kangar state in Eastern Europe (840-990 CE). The capital of the Kangar union was located in the Ulytau mountains.\n\nA modern interpretation of the etymology is that ethnonym \"Kangar\" consists of two roots, \"Kang/Kang\" (\"Qang/Qang\"), a Turkic for \"father, primogenitor\", and \"är\" \"people, men\", Kanger. An alternate etymology is that the word \"kangly\" in Old Turkic meant \"wagon, vehicle\", and is homonymous with the name of the Kangly tribe.\n\nKengeres' of the Orkhon inscriptions were known in the Islamic world and in the west as Bajanaks (Lat. \"Besenyo\", Turcic \"Pechenek\", \"Pechenegs\") whose self-designation was Kangar. Constantine Porphyrogenitus wrote that \"Kangar\" meant nobleness and bravery.\n\nAfter the capture of Zhetysu by the Chinese, Kangars become independent from the Turkic Kaganate. They repulsed Chinese from the southern Kazakhstan and Syr Darya cities. The Syr Darya cities retained their autonomy. The Oguzes in the southern Kazakhstan, Kimaks in the Irtysh River valley, Cumans in Mugodjar, and Kypchaks in the northern Kazakhstan became the vassals of the Kangar union.\n\nAt the end of the 7th century the Syr Darya cities rebelled and formed an alliance with the Sogdiana. The revolt was successful, but the Moslem Arab armies attacked Sogdiana from the south. The revolt has waned, and Kangars consented to the continued autonomy of the Syr Darya cities.\n\nAt the beginning of the 8th century the Oghuz confederation and the city of Tashkent seceded from the Kangar union. The Arabs continued raiding Sygnakh, Jend, and other rich Kangar cities.\n\nAfter the Arabs captured Sogdiana, they attacked the Kangar cities along the Syr Darya. The Arabs captured the southern Kazakhstan, and the Oguz confederation took control over the other Kangar cities along the Syr Darya. The Oguzes formed an alliance with the Kimak Kaganate. The Kangar Union dissolved. The western branch of the Kangars, known in the west under the name of their allied tribe of Pechenegs, captured the lands of the Khazar Kaganate, and created a Kangar successor state in the Eastern Europe.\n\nA mass migration of the Oghuz tribes in the middle of the 8th c. displaced population of the Kangar Union on the eastern borders of the Khazar Kaganate, forcing it to move into Khazarian territories. At first, Kangars settled in the territory between Yaik-Emba \"(Geeh)\" and Itil \"(Volga)\" rivers, then they advanced into the Khazar domain territories. The forceful influx of Kangars and their allied tribes seriously impacted Khazar populations with destruction of settlements and population, and the population mass escape to safer areas to the north and south, and the Magyars of Lebedia to the west. The Kangar tribal Union, better known in Europe as Pechenegs under a Slavic name of their subject allies, occupied a large swath of Khazaria extending from Don in the east to Pannonia in the west. Between the rivers Yaik and Emba, they controlled the Khazar trading route from Itil to Khorezm, dealing a hard blow to the Khazarian trade. The North Pontic Kangar state eventually established coexistent with Khazaria, while dominating North Pontic area of Khazaria from ca. 750 to ca. 900. Constantine Porphyrogenitus named three Kangar tribes \"(Chor (Charvat), Ertim, Yula)\", and four Bechen tribes \"(Kapan, Karabai, Kulbei, Tolmach)\", and their respective locations. Gardizi (ca. 1050) reported on the situation around 950: \"Bechens are nomads following rain and pasturage. Their territory extends a distance of thirty days in either direction \"(i.e. about 1,000x1,000 km)\", bordering Kipchaks in the north, Khazars on southwest, Oguz in the east, and Saqlabs \"(bilad as-Saqaliba, Bulgars)\" to the west. All these peoples raid Bechens, who likewise raid them...\". At the end, Kangars were displaced further west by the migration of the Kipchak tribes, who ca. 990 embarked on a massive migration into the E.Europe, supplanting Kangars-Bosnyaks in the east of the Kangar North Pontic state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1929198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929198", "title": "Khmer Krom", "text": "Khmer Krom\n\nThe Khmer Krom (, ) are ethnically Khmer people living in the south western part of Vietnam, where they are recognized as one of Vietnam's fifty-three ethnic minorities. \n\nIn the Khmer language, Krom means \"lower\" or \"below\", as it refers to an area of around modern day Saigon and the Mekong Delta, which used to be the southeasternmost territory of the Khmer Empire until its incorporation into Vietnam under the Nguyễn lords in the early 18th century. This marks the final stage of the Vietnamese \"March to the South\" (nam tiến).\n\nThe Vietnamese term is \"Khơ-me Crộm\" or \"Khơ-me dưới\", which literally means \"Khmers from below\".\n\nAccording to Vietnamese government figures (2009 census), there are 1,260,640 Khmer Krom in Vietnam. Other estimates vary considerably, with up to 7 million reported to Taylor (2014) in his \"The Khmer lands of Vietnam\".\n\nKhmer Krom emigrant communities in the US are located near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and in Washington State.\n\nAccording to the US-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) \"the Khmer Krom face serious restrictions of freedom of expression, assembly, association, information, and movement\".\n\nThe Khmer Krom identify ethnically with the Khmer people who constitute a distinct people at least since the late eighth century and the foundation of the Khmer Empire by Jayavarman II in 802 C.E. They retain deep linguistic, religious, customary and cultural links to Cambodia proper. The Mekong Delta region constituted for more than 800 years an integral part of the empire and the subsequent kingdom. The region's economic center was the city Prey Nokor, now Ho Chi Minh City.\n\nIn the 17th century a weakened Khmer state left the Mekong Delta poorly administered after repeated warfare with Siam. Concurrently Vietnamese refugees fleeing the Trịnh–Nguyễn War in Vietnam migrated into the area. In 1623 Cambodian king Chey Chettha II (1618–1628) officially sanctioned the Vietnamese immigrants to operate a custom house at Prey Nokor, then a small fishing village. The settlement steadily grew soon becoming a major regional port, attracting even more settlers.\n\nIn 1698 the Nguyễn Lords of Huế commissioned Nguyễn Hữu Cảnh, a Vietnamese noble to organize the territory along Vietnamese administrative lines, thus by \"de facto\" detaching it from the Kingdom of Cambodia and incorporating it into Vietnam.\n\nWith the loss of the port of Prey Nokor, then renamed Sài Gòn, Cambodia's control of the area grew increasingly tenuous while increasing waves of Vietnamese settlers to the Delta isolated the Khmer of the Mekong Delta from the Cambodian kingdom. By 1757 the Vietnamese had absorbed the provinces of Psar Dèk (renamed Sa Đéc in Vietnamese) on the Mekong itself, and Moat Chrouk (Vietnamized to Châu Đốc) on the Bassac River.\n\nMinh Mạng enacted assimilation policies upon the Khmer such as forcing them to adopt Sino-Vietnamese surnames, culture, and clothing. Minh Mang sinicized ethnic minorities including the Cambodians, in line with Confucianism as he diffused Vietnamese culture with China's Han civilization using the term Han people 漢人 for the Vietnamese. Minh Mang declared that \"We must hope that their barbarian habits will be subconsciously dissipated, and that they will daily become more infected by Han [Sino-Vietnamese] customs.\" These policies were directed at the Khmer and hill tribes.\n\nOn June 4, 1949 the French President Vincent Auriol signed the accord reincorporating Cochinchina to Vietnam. This was done without consulting the indigenous Khmer Krom.\n\nKhmer nationalist Son Ngoc Thanh (1908–77) was a Khmer krom, born in Trà Vinh, Vietnam. Thanh was active in the independence movement for Cambodia. With Japanese support he became the prime minister of Cambodia in March 1945 but was then quickly ousted with the return of the French later that year. Widely supported by the Khmer Krom during the First Indochina War, Thanh's role faded in Vietnam after 1954 as he became more embroiled with politics in Cambodia proper, forming an opposition movement against Prince Sihanouk.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War and direct American involvement between 1964 and 1974, the Khmer Krom were recruited by the United States Armed Forces to serve in MIKE Force. The force fought on the side of South Vietnam against the Viet Cong but in time the militia regrouped as the \"Front for the Struggle of Kampuchea Krom\" (). Headed by a Khmer Krom Buddhist monk, Samouk Sen, the group was nicknamed the \"White Scarves\" (; ) and allied itself with FULRO against South Vietnam. FULRO was an alliance of Khmer Krom, Montagnard, and Cham groups.\n\nThe anti-Communist prime minister of the Khmer Republic (1970 - 1975) Lon Nol planned to recapture the Mekong Delta from South Vietnam.\n\nAfter the Fall of Saigon in 1975 and the Communist take-over of all of Vietnam, the Kampuchea Krom militia found itself embattled with People's Army of Vietnam. Many of the fighters fled to Khmer Rouge-controlled Democratic Kampuchea hoping to find a safe haven to launch their operations inside Vietnam. The \"White Scarves\" arrived in Kiri Vong District in 1976, making overture to the Khmer Rouge and appealing to the leader Khieu Samphan directly for assistance. The force was disarmed and welcomed initially. Subsequent orders from the Khmer Rouge leadership however had Samouk Sen arrested, taken to Phnom Penh, tortured, and killed. His force of 67 Khmer Krom fighters were all massacred. During the following months, some 2,000 \"White Scarves\" fighters crossing into Kampuchea were systematically killed by the Khmer Rouge.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the Kampuchean Revolutionary Army attacked Vietnam in an attempt to reconquer the areas which were formerly part of the Khmer Empire, but this military adventure was a total disaster and precipitated the invasion of Democratic Kampuchea by the People's Army of Vietnam and subsequent downfall of the Khmer Rouge, with Vietnam occupying Kampuchea.\n\nMany independent NGOs report that the human rights of the Khmer Krom are being violated by the Vietnamese government. Khmer Krom are reportedly forced to adopt Vietnamese family names and speak the Vietnamese language. As well, the Vietnamese government has cracked down on non violent demonstrations by the Khmer Krom.\n\nUnlike some other minority people groups in Vietnam, the Khmer Krom are largely unknown by the Western world, despite efforts by associations of exiled Khmer Krom such as the Khmers Kampuchea-Krom Federation to publicize their plight with the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation. No Western government has yet raised the matter of the Khmer Krom's human rights with the Vietnamese government.\n\nThe \"Human Rights Council Universal Periodic Review Working Group\" was visited by the Khmer Kampuchea Krom Federation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33335391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33335391", "title": "Lipo language", "text": "Lipo language\n\nLipo (autonym: '; ), or Eastern Lisu\"', is a language of the Lisu people of China, similar to but not intelligible with Lisu proper. Some Lipo are classified by the government as Lisu, others as Yi. In some areas, the people prefer the name \"Lolopo\" or \"Lolongo\".\n\nSome Lipo (\"Lipa\" 利帕) speakers in Eryuan and Yongsheng counties are also referred to as \"Tujia\" (土家) (Yunnan 1956:19-20).\n\n"}
{"id": "20953588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20953588", "title": "List of gangs in the United States", "text": "List of gangs in the United States\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation website in 2014 stated that there were some 33,000 gangs in the United States which they classified as street gangs, motorcycle gangs or prison gangs. Notable criminal gangs having Wikipedia articles include:\n\nMembership in this group may overlap other groups above.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "33966790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33966790", "title": "List of titles and honours of the Portuguese Crown", "text": "List of titles and honours of the Portuguese Crown\n\nThis List of titles and honours of the Portuguese Crown sets out the many titles of the monarchs of the Kingdom of Portugal while the monarchy was still in place.\n\nNote: Titles marked with * are titles that were not still used or still held at the time of the deposition of the monarchy in Portugal in 1910. Titles marked with \" are titles that were personally held by the Portuguese monarch:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Titles marked with * are titles that were not still used or still held at the time of the deposition of the monarchy in Portugal in 1910.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9033416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9033416", "title": "Madjars", "text": "Madjars\n\nThe Madjars or Madi-yar people are a Turkic ethnic group in Kazakhstan. They number about 1,000–2,000 and live mostly in the Kostanay Region. \n\nTurkologist scholar Dr. Imre Baski claims that the ethnonym Madjar means 'faithful Muslim'.\n\nMadjars have the highest recorded rate of Y-DNA Haplogroup G: a level of 86.7% (45 individuals). This suggests that the Madjars are linked genetically to the neighbouring Argyn people of Kazakhstan, as well as various peoples of the Caucasus, and modern Iranians. \n\nWhile the Madjars have sometimes been linked onomastically to the Magyars (Hungarians). Proponents of this view include supporters of \"Hungarian Turanism\", such as Zsolt András Biró. However, it is not supported by any strong material evidence. In fact, haplogroup G is rare in Hungary (at a rate around 3%) and has much higher rates in parts of Western and Southern Europe (e.g. Italy and France). Southern German populations also have a higher rate of Haplogroup G than the Hungarian population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29341686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29341686", "title": "Mahafaly", "text": "Mahafaly\n\nThe Mahafaly are an ethnic group of Madagascar that inhabit the plains of the Betioky-Ampanihy area. Their name means either \"those who make holy\" or \"those who make happy\", although the former is considered more likely by linguists. In 2013 there were an estimated 150,000 Mahafaly in Madagascar. The Mahafaly are believed to have arrived in Madagascar from southeastern Africa around the 12th century. They became known for the large tombs they built to honor dead chiefs and kings. Mainly involved in farming and cattle raising, they speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group.\n\nThis ethnic group label has been used by other Malagasy and foreigners to describe the people who traditionally inhabited the southwestern coast of Madagascar, bounded inland by the Menarandra and Onilahy rivers. The people themselves do not use this label or identify as part of a single ethnic group, however, and prefer to identify along other kinship or geopolitical lines; the name Mahafaly holds no meaning for the people originating from this area and instead is a label imposed from the outside. The majority of the population is concentrated along the banks of the rivers that run through the otherwise largely arid territory.\n\nAccording to oral histories, the Mahafaly people trace their origins back to an early Maroserana noble, Olembetsitoto, who emerged as a leader in the 1500s with the migration of the Maroserana into the southwestern part of Madagascar. Prior to the arrival of the Maroserana, people settled in this portion of the island lived in communities ruled by chiefly families called \"andriantsileliky\". Maroserana migrants initially formed alliances with these families, but this eventually turned to conflict, with the Maroserana emerging as the victors; as the Maroserana came to power, they allowed the Andriantileliky to retain certain privileges and special status.\n\nAfter reigning for some years, Olembetsitoto went into seclusion. His followers believed that he had become holy (\"faly\") and made his land and people holy (\"maha-faly\") through this act, which mirrored popular belief around the principal Maroserana deity Andriamaro, which could not be seen, communicated through a medium intermediary, and commanded obedience by inspiring fear and awe. The followers of this noble remained united in their allegiance to him through the \"ombiasy\" (holy adviser) who served as an intermediary between the ruler and his people. One of the earliest documented Mahafaly political actions was In June 1649, when twelve Mahafaly envoys visited the French settlement at Fort Dauphin to successfully obtain the paid services of French mercenaries to help fight the Masikoro people who had stolen their king's cattle.\n\nThe Mahafaly polity began to splinter into independent kingdoms beginning around 1650 with the Sakatovo and Menarandra kingdoms. The Linta kingdom split away around two decades later, and the Onilahy kingdom was formed from the remaining territory around 1750. A conflict between the king of Menarandra and the neighboring Antandroy people to the west resulted in the annexation of the Antandroy province of Karimbola in the first half of the 18th century. Although the specifics of the history of these kingdoms before 1800 is not well known, the frequent changes in rulers within each kingdom points to instability and turmoil within the Maroserana dynasty: Linta had seven rulers, Sakatovo had six, Menarandra had three between 1750-1800, and Onilahy had two. The Onilahy kingdom reflected some Antemoro influences, such as calling their king by the title \"andrianony\".\n\nThe Mahafaly kingdom was one of the few that did not come under the control of the Merina Kingdom in the 19th century. The last Mahafaly king was Tsiampondy, who ruled from 1890 to 1911.\n\nMahafaly society is generally patriarchal. It is expected that male family members (fathers, sons, brothers) should live in close proximity to one another, while women are expected to move to their husband's village. Society is primarily structured around five types of kinship groups, with the immediate household as the most important. As in other parts of Madagascar, ancestors are venerated.\n\nHistorically, beginning with the first Maroserana ruler, the Mahafaly were ruled by kings of the Maroserana line. Kings were buried in tombs called \"volamena\" (\"gold\") and they were renamed after their death, a practice called \"anaratahina\", as it was taboo after death to speak the name a king had in life; all his followers were required to cut their hair at the start of the mourning period and any who did not comply were expelled from the community. Early Mahafaly kings lived in compounds that had paths radiating out toward each of the major surrounding villages in his territory, and his power was compounded by the possession of royal relics believed to hold supernatural powers. The king ruled over a society that was divided into those of privilege (\"renilemy\"), commoners (\"valohazomanga\") and migrants to the area from elsewhere (\"folahazomanga\"). The \"renilemy\" consisted of those who were descendants of the most powerful chief during the establishment of the Maroserana dynasty, Tsileliky (\"not conquerable\"); the descendents of Tsileliky's companions and favored subjects; and particular individuals (or their descendants) who had received a royal favor. The king was supported by a councillor (\"ombiasy\") as well as a priest (\"mpisoro\") who was responsible for conducting animal sacrifices at the communal altar (\"hangomaza-lava\"). The society was divided into numerous clans, some of which held particular responsibilities such as blacksmithing and honey collecting. Heads of these clans were elected under the title of \"royal friend\" (\"rainitsy ny mpanjaka\") and had an official councillor (\"ondaty-be\") similar to the king himself. Only the heads of clans and the king were authorized to carry a large iron spear (\"beraha\"), which served as a symbol of their status.\n\nThe household is the most important social affiliation among the Mahafaly. A household is defined as a group of cohabiting family members led by and \"belonging to\" the oldest male in the group. Children remain a member of their father's household until reaching adulthood, at which point young men establish their own house and family near their father's house, while young women marry and move into their husband's house. Men retain custody of children in the event of a divorce. It is not uncommon among traditional families for a man to have more than one wife. Immediate family members living together in a household are responsible for organizing the weddings and funerals of their family members, as well as covering expenses related to healing ceremonies (\"rombo\") for ill family members.\n\nA Mahafaly individual's social identity is also defined by his or her \"foko\" - a grouping of all descendants of a living man or woman; an individual belongs simultaneously to multiple foko. Members of a foko typically only gather or work together when the head of the foko is ill, in need of assistance, or has died, in which case the members will organize to take action as needed. An even stronger identity is one's \"tariha\", the living descendants of a male line of descent traced back to a common male ancestor who died recently enough that the oldest members of the group can trace their kinship ties to him and remember some features about him as a person. All sacrifices to the ancestors (\"soro\") are made in the name of this common ancestor, and the oldest male \"tariha\" member is responsible for carrying out these rituals on behalf of the group. Members of a tariha typically live near each other and form a village or cluster of villages.\n\nThe Mahafaly are mainly involved in farming and cattle raising. Zebu hold an important place in society for both economic and spiritual reasons, being seen as symbolic of life and nobility, as well as a means of linking the living to the ancestors. Members of a household work together to undertake farming and other livelihood activities to meet the family's subsistence needs. The younger male family members are typically responsible for herding the family's cattle and men of all ages work in the fields. Women assist with work in the fields and are also responsible for household tasks like cooking and fetching water, often assisted by their children and sometimes by their husband. Clothing in this region was traditionally made of spun cotton, which was cultivated locally; less frequently, locally spun silk was also sometimes used.\n\n\"Fady\" (taboos) have long played an important role in the cultural life of the Mahafaly. Historically, common taboos among the Mahafaly included a prohibition against women drinking from the same cup or sitting on the same mat as their husband, standing while speaking to a king, Mahafaly women were historically allowed to smoke tobacco but not to chew it. Throughout Mahafaly country it was forbidden for white people to enter; if one managed to penetrate the territory, the chief of that land was put to death. Kings had the power to place a taboo on certain words that could never be spoken again by members of the community.\n\nAs in much of Madagascar, the Mahafaly bury their dead in tombs. The tombs of family members were historically located in sacred forest areas far from the houses of the living, although due to deforestation and other factors this is no longer always the case. Tombs are typically clustered together and laid out according to the rank and role of the family members, with the eldest ancestor's tomb the furthest south, his descendants to his north, and wives and unmarried family members to his west. Funerals consist of several ceremonies, and zebu are sacrificed at each; their skulls are placed on top of the tomb. The first ceremony is one of preparation for the following events and the \"ombilahy\" zebu sacrificed at this ceremony is particularly important because the meat is shared with all those gathered as a gesture of unity and friendship.\n\nThe Mahafaly also decorate their tombs with \"aloalo\", tall wooden posts carved with geometric patterns and occasionally topped with carved zebu or other figures that hold significance for the deceased. These posts are meant to indicate that a person has died and attained the status of \"ancestor\" (\"razana\"), which serve as intermediaries between the living and God; the tomb is the ancestor's new home, as death is not seen as an ending but as a transformation into another phase of life. Aloalo today are considered an iconic symbol of Madagascar, and the Mahafaly homeland encompassing its semi-arid ecosystem and wealth of tombs and funerary art has been added to the Tentative List of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Tomb sites may only be visited during funerals or to retrieve wandering cattle but are otherwise strictly off limits.\n\nHouseholds are not allowed to produce their own aloalo or coffins or make use of their own tomb construction materials or \"ombilahy\" zebu - all must be purchased or commissioned from a specialized clan that the household has historically relied on to produce these items, and the household must pay for them in zebu and food. Carrying out the various ceremonies and tomb construction can take a year or more, during which time the wife of the deceased must stay with the corpse in the deceased's home. His oldest son is responsible for procuring the \"vatolahy\" - upright stone markers up to two meters tall that form part of the tomb structure - while his daughters are responsible for procuring the aloalo and sacrificial zebus; the remaining family members and friends procure the stones required for the construction of the tomb. The tomb's size is consequently dependent on the size of the family and the deceased's social standing.\nThe Mahafaly speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo.\n\nThe Mahafaly are primarily zebu cattle herders and pastoralists. Cotton has been cultivated by the Mahafaly since the 16th century. They also gather wild honey, sell charcoal, weave baskets and mats, practice woodworking, cultivate kitchen gardens and raise small livestock.\n\n"}
{"id": "671836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=671836", "title": "Mahesh Bhupathi", "text": "Mahesh Bhupathi\n\nMahesh Shrinivas Bhupathi (born 7 June 1974) is a retired Indian professional tennis player. In 1997, he became the first Indian to win a Grand Slam tournament (with Rika Hiraki). With his win at the Australian Open mixed doubles in 2006, he joined the elite group of eight tennis players who have achieved a career Grand Slam in mixed doubles. He is also the founder of International Premier Tennis League. In December 2016, Bhupathi was appointed as India's next non-playing Davis Cup captain and took over the reins from Anand Amritraj in February 2017. He is also a part of the Hon. Board of Advisors of IIMUN.\n\nMahesh Bhupathi is known as one of the top doubles players in the 1990s and 2000s. In 1999, Bhupathi won three doubles titles with Leander Paes, including the French Open and Wimbledon. He and Paes became the first doubles team to reach the finals of all four Grand Slams, the first time such a feat has been achieved in the open era and the first time since 1952. On 26 April of that year, they became the world no. 1 doubles team. Bhupathi also won the US Open mixed doubles with Ai Sugiyama of Japan.\n\nIn 2006, Bhupathi teamed with Martina Hingis in the Australian Open mixed doubles competition. Entering the tournament unseeded and as wildcards, the first-time pair defeated four seeded opponents along the way, while only dropping a single set throughout. Bhupathi and Hingis defeated the sixth-seeded team of Daniel Nestor and Elena Likhovtseva in straight sets, 6–3, 6–3, to capture the championship. It was the sixth mixed doubles Grand Slam for Bhupathi, and a first for Hingis. By winning the Australian Open, Bhupathi completed a career Grand Slam in mixed doubles.\n\nIn 2007, Bhupathi and Radek Štěpánek reached the 2007 Australian Open men's doubles event's quarterfinals. Bhupathi teamed with Štěpánek at the 2007 French Open to make the doubles semifinals, defeating two-year defending champions Jonas Björkman and Max Mirnyi in the quarterfinals. The team lost to the eventual champions Mark Knowles and Daniel Nestor. After Wimbledon, Bhupathi teamed with Pavel Vízner to win the 2007 Canada Masters, defeating the top-ranked doubles team Bob and Mike Bryan en route. After this victory, he won a tournament in New Haven with Nenad Zimonjić. At the 2007 US Open, he and Zimonjić paired in doubles. After the US Open, the team that beat Bhupathi and Štěpánek in the French Open semifinals, Knowles and Nestor, split up. Bhupathi became Knowles' partner, while Zimonjić became Nestor's, but back surgery meant he was out until the end of the year.\n\nIn 2009, Bhupathi and compatriot Sania Mirza won the mixed doubles title at the Australian Open, beating Nathalie Dechy and Andy Ram, 6–3, 6–1, in the final. The Indian pair thus made up for the disappointment of the previous year's final when they were beaten by Sun Tiantian and Nenad Zimonjić. With this win, Bhupathi's count in mixed doubles Grand Slam titles increased to seven.\n\nBhupathi broke up his partnership with Knowles and began playing once again with Max Mirnyi, with whom he played to win the 2002 US Open. In 2011, Bhupathi reunited with former playing partner Leander Paes for the 2011 Australian Open. The team reached the final, but lost 3–6, 4–6 to the Bryan brothers.\nOn 7 June 2012, Bhupathi and Sania Mirza won the French Open mixed doubles.\nOn 4 November 2012, Bhupathi and partner Rohan Bopanna won the Paris Masters cup. In spite of suffering a setback with their loss against Jonathan Marray and Frederik Nielsen in the ATP Tour Finals opener, the Indian duo reached the final round of the ATP Tour Finals, but suffered a defeat at the hands of Marcel Granollers and Marc López.\n\nBhupathi and Bopanna played with different partners for the first three months of 2013, Bhupathi winning the tournament in Dubai in March with Michaël Llodra, but rejoined starting with the Monte-Carlo Masters.\n\nMahesh Bhupathi is known for his big serve. According to Nadal, his strong back hand makes him the best for an Ad Court player. Roger Federer acclaims him as one of the best players of all time. He often discusses strategies between the serves with his partner during the match and also communicates using finger-at-the-back signals.\n\nBhupathi appeared with Paes in six season finales. In 2011, they appeared, for the first time since 2002, after securing qualification in mid-October.\n\nBhupathi played at the year-end championships with Paes from 1997–2000 and in 2002, reaching three finals. In 1997, they lost the final to Rick Leach and Jonathan Stark. They lost the 1999 final to Sébastien Lareau and Alex O’Brien. In 2000, they lost the final to Donald Johnson and Pieter Norval.\n\nBhupathi also qualified with Max Mirnyi in 2003, 2004, and 2010, when they finished runners-up to Daniel Nestor and Nenad Zimonjić.\n\nHe appeared at the finals with Mark Knowles in 2008 and 2009. In 2012, he and Rohan Bopanna made it to the final, where they lost to Marcel Granollers and Marc López.\n\nBy winning the 2006 Australian Open title, Bhupathi completed the mixed doubles Career Grand Slam. He became the eighth male player in history to achieve this.\n\nBhupathi has donned Indian colours numerous times for the Davis Cup as well as other international tournaments, including the Asian Games.\n\nBhupathi has played 55 matches for India in the Davis Cup (from 1995 to 2011), winning 35 and losing 20. Out of the 35 matches that he won, 27 of his victories came in doubles matches.\n\nIn 2006, Bhupathi won the doubles championship with Leander Paes at the Asian Games in Doha.\n\nIn 2001, he was awarded the Padma Shri, one of India's highest civilian awards. Bhupathi is an alumnus of the University of Mississippi in the United States. He is the founder of Globosport India private Limited which he started in 2002 as a sports and entertainment agency.\n\nHe married model Shvetha Jaishankar in 2002 but the couple got divorced in 2009 after seven years of marriage. He then married Miss Universe 2000 Lara Dutta in a civil ceremony on 16 February 2011 at Bandra, Mumbai. It was followed by a Christian ceremony on 20 February 2011 at Sunset Point in Goa.\n\nOn 1 August 2011, Dutta confirmed that she was pregnant with their first child. Their daughter Saira was born on 20 January 2012. In 2010, the couple started a film production company, Big Daddy Productions.\n\nIn 2014, Mahesh Bhupathi launched an authentic Indian sports brand, ZEVEN, which has been active to revolutionize the sports arena of India. The company currently endorses Ravindra Jadeja, Rohan Bopanna, Shikhar Dhawan and Mary Kom, amongst others.\n\n\nBhupathi and Leander Paes partnered in the men's doubles event at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, but lost the quarterfinals, to Roger Federer and Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland, who went on to win the gold medal.\n\nPaes and Bhupathi decided to team up again at the Australian Open 2011, ending a nine-year separation on the ATP circuit. They reached the finals of the event, but lost to American twins Bob and Mike Bryan. Paes stated at the time that the best thing has been to have their friendship back.\n\nThe Indian duo has a 303–103 career record together. They have a Davis Cup record of longest winning streak in doubles, with 23 straight wins.\n\nLeander Paes wanted to play with Mahesh Bhupathi in the men's doubles event of the London Olympics, to be held July–August 2012.\nOn 19 June 2012, the All India Tennis association relented to the demands of Bhupathi and Bopanna of not playing along Paes. Two teams were sent for the London Olympics- 2012, with Mahesh Bhupathi and Rohan Bopanna as one team and the other team consisting of Leander Paes and Vishnu Vardhan. Bhupathi also accused AITA of using Sania Mirza as bait for Leander's participation in the Olympics. When AITA relented to the wishes of Bhupathi and Bopanna and permitted them to play together, they lost in the second round to the unseeded French pairing of Richard Gasquet and Julien Benneteau.\n\nThe duo of Bhupathi and Paes has the longest doubles streak in Davis Cup history.\n\nBhupathi has also been involved in developing tennis facilities in India and, along with his company Globosport, has played a key rôle in developing and managing the careers of many Indian athletes, including Sania Mirza.\n\nMahesh Bhupathi announced the founding of the International Premier Tennis League on 25 May 2013, in Paris. The initial plan was to start the league with six charter franchises in Asia with the inaugural season commencing in November 2014. Bhupathi said the league would be modeled after the Indian Premier League, a cricket league in India. Justin Gimelstob said that the league would be star-driven as World Team Tennis was in the 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5374125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5374125", "title": "Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission", "text": "Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission\n\nThe Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (Abbreviation: MCMC; ) is a regulatory body and its key role is the regulation of the communications and multimedia industry based on the powers provided for in the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission Act 1998, the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998, and the Strategic Trade Act 2010. Pursuant to these Acts, its role is also to implement and promote the Government's national policy objectives for the communications and multimedia sector. MCMC is also charged with overseeing the new regulatory framework for the converging telecommunications and broadcasting industries and online activities. In 2001, MCMC's role was expanded to include overseeing the postal service sector pursuant to the Postal Services Act 1991 and licensing of the Certification Authorities under the Digital Signature Act 1997.\n\nOn June 1, 2014, the commission dropped its Malay abbreviation, SKMM from its corporate name while its English abbreviation MCMC were remained in use.\n\nPrimary functions of the MCMC are as follows:\n\n\nThe Alliance for Affordable Internet is a coalition of private sector, public sector, and not-for-profit organisations who have come together to advance the shared aim of affordable access to both mobile and fixed-line Internet in developing countries. The World Wide Web Foundation serves as the secretariat for the Alliance. The primary goal is to see the UN Broadband Commission Broadband Target of entry-level broadband services priced at less than 5% of average monthly income realised. Malaysia tops the list of 46 countries, in particular emerging economies, on the Affordability Index followed by Mauritius and Brazil. The internet access price that reach majority of the people was the result of the success of National Broadband Initiative (NBI), application of technology advancement along with progressive policy and regulatory framework.\n\n\nGet Malaysian Business Online (GMBO)\nClick Wisely (\"Klik Dengan Bijak\")\n1Malaysia Netbook Programme\nYouth Communication Package (\"Pakej Komunikasi Belia\")\nU-Library (\"U-Pustaka\")\n1Malaysia Internet Centre (\"Pusat Internet 1Malaysia\")\nAlliance for Affordable Internet\nNational Broadband Initiative\n\n"}
{"id": "45041127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45041127", "title": "Max Delbrück Medal", "text": "Max Delbrück Medal\n\nThe Max Delbrück Medal has been awarded annually since 1992 by the Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine (German: \"Max - Delbrück - Centrum für Molekulare Medizin\" or MDC). Named after the German biophysicist Max Delbrück, it is presented in Berlin to an outstanding scientist on the occasion of the annual \"Berlin Lecture on Molecular Medicine\", which the MDC organizes together with other Berlin research institutions and Bayer HealthCare. The award recipient usually delivers a lecture after the award.\n\nSource: MDC\n\n"}
{"id": "56608363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56608363", "title": "Miss District of Columbia's Outstanding Teen", "text": "Miss District of Columbia's Outstanding Teen\n\n\"For the state pageant affiliated with Miss Teen USA, see Miss District of Columbia Teen USA\"\nThe Miss District of Columbia's Outstanding Teen competition is the pageant that selects a representative from District of Columbia for the Miss America's Outstanding Teen pageant.\n\nNatalie Beckford of Washington, D.C. was crowned Miss District of Columbia's Outstanding Teen on April 13, 2018. She competed for the title of Miss America's Outstanding Teen 2019 on July 28, 2018 in Orlando, Florida.\n\nThe following is a visual summary of the results present in table seen below. The year in parentheses indicates year of Miss America's Outstanding Teen competition the award/placement was garnered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37783638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37783638", "title": "Moral exclusion", "text": "Moral exclusion\n\nMoral exclusion is a psychological process where members of a dominant group view their own group and its norms as superior to others, belittling, marginalizing, excluding, even dehumanizing targeted groups. A distinction should be drawn between active exclusion and omission. The former requires intent and is a form of injustice, known as moral exclusion; while the latter is thoughtlessness (Leets, 2001, Forsyth, 2010). The targeted group is viewed as undeserving of morally mandated rights and protections (Forsyth, 2010). When conflict between groups escalates, the in-group/out-group bias between the groups heightens. Severe violence between groups can be either the antecedent or the outcome of moral exclusion. At its extreme it is a bidirectional phenomenon that defies precise origin.\n\n\nThroughout the course of history there have been instances in which human beings treat others as less than human and undeserving of equal moral treatment. Occurrences such as the Nazi Genocide during World War II and the African slave trade have led researchers to question whether or not human beings have the tendency to deem others as \"worthy\" or \"unworthy\" of moral treatment. Furthermore, if it were the case that humans label one another as acceptable or unacceptable and treat each other accordingly, it is important to examine the rationalization that occurs during this process. This is the type of thinking that spurred Morton Deutsch, Susan Opotow and Ervin Staub to investigate the processes of dehumanization and moral exclusion.\n\nSusan Sutherland Isaacs, and other members of the object-relations school of psychoanalysis, set the stage for moral exclusion research with the theory that perceiving certain people as \"allies\" and others as \"enemies\" is intrinsic to human nature (Deutsch, 1990; as cited in Isaacs, 1946). This categorization of persons creates a marked distinction between \"good\" and \"bad\", leading to the exclusion of those who are negatively perceived from the moral community. Deutsch, Opotow and Staub have defined the moral community, or scope of justice, to be a \"...psychological boundary for fairness, within which concerns with justice and moral rules govern our conduct,\" (Deutsch, 1974, 1985; Opotow, 1990; Staub, 1987, 1990). Such exclusion has been thought to be evolutionary, as it is beneficial to individuals to avoid others who are harmful and seek out those that are helpful.\n\nHenri Tajfel conducted multiple experiments that returned the conclusion that people's \"...actions are unambiguously directed at favouring the members of their ingroup as against the members of the outgroup (Tajfel, 1971). Moreover, Tajfel reported that individuals can be placed in an outgroup for any number of reasons, including (but not limited to), \"ideology, skin color, age, and cognitive capacity,\" (Tajfel, 1978; as cited in Opotow, 1995). Given these findings, the assumption can be made that human beings have an innate tendency to classify those around them into definite categories, thereby creating a foundation for exclusion. Once these individuals are outside the scope of justice, they are no longer considered to have the right to fair treatment and equality (Opotow, 1995).\n\nMoral exclusion has few critiques, but research on this phenomenon has limitations. Allen-Collinson's (2009) study on research administrations was purely restricted to an academic setting and therefore was a small-scale project that had limitations regarding restricted population range, and diverse roles of the research administrators that were interviewed. These factors made it difficult to find conclusive results regarding research administrators as being negatively marked due to moral exclusion.\n\nLeets' discussion regarding moral exclusion and social justice (2001) was limited by the restricted population that was being sampled and the possibility for biases occurring within the self-report measures. Specifically, only university students and focus groups were sampled, which could detract from the generalizability of the study. Furthermore, subjects may have responded in a \"socially desirable\" fashion when completing the self-report measures that were utilized to determine participants' assessments of a socially sensitive issue. (Leets, 2001).\n\nTileaga reported that there was not significant research pertaining to the process by which certain groups become discriminated against. He propounded, \"The issue of precisely how some particulars groups of people become (or are made) the target of prejudice (extreme prejudice) has been under-explored,\" (Tileaga, 2007).\n\nEvery culture has its own set of values for behavior and communication that exist somewhere along a moral continuum. What constitutes the substance of the continuum may differ by culture, although each culture's continuum has two ends. One pole represents the aforementioned, \"scope of justice\" and the other pole represents what is considered \"un\"just, cruel or dehumanizing \"within\" that culture (Deutsch, 1990). The root of exclusion begins with basic categorization. The us/them dichotomy is an embedded psychological process, occurring without conscious thought. As humans we make these distinctions repeatedly. Initially, elevating ingroup and diminishing outgroup may occur in inconsequential ways, as demonstrated by Tajifel's minimal group paradigm. Ordinary behaviors function as dynamic processes that shift cultural norms all the time; for example, American men used to wear top hats as part of everyday dress, but John F. Kennedy changed that. Going hat-less is now a social norm.\n\nHowever, seemingly benign changes in behavior can function as an entry point for shifting into a system of destruction (Staub, 1992). People change through their own actions; practicing new habits, seemingly trivial acts, gradually alter both an individual and a collective psyche. For example, at its inception using the salute, \"Heil Hitler,\" was not explicitly harmful to anyone. Yet scholars now perceive adoption of this greeting as a seminal turning point in the most commonly known system of nefarious acts against a group of people (Staub, 1992). The innocuous becomes insidious. Because individuals hold positions at various levels of corporate and governmental structures, the institutionalization of particular modes of thinking and behaving happens gradually. When individuals in positions of authority adopt customs they are legitimized. When cultural norms shift toward exclusion of certain groups they can be rationalized; thereby granting legitimization of behavior into the collective consciousness. Ofreneo and de Vela (2006) developed a model to depict systems of violence situated within a society which are co-created by the social psychological process of moral exclusion, cultural norms that justify violence, and the economic and political hierarchies of power that maintain it. Individuals' psyches function in group norms in three levels of society where moral exclusion roots and recreates itself. At the bottom is the social psychological, within an individual psyche. In the middle of the model is the social cultural, informal group level interaction where behavior is either ignored or applauded which normalizes it or condemned and eradicates it. At the top is the social structure, governments, corporations, and institutions that solidify and reify cultural norms through legislation and policy decisions.\n\nMoral exclusion includes situations of distinct severity, such as war, genocide, and slavery. Some examples are controversial, like abortion, immigration, and the death penalty. The crux of the matter, invariably, is who has the ability to determine who is worthy of human dignities. In each example, the standard a group or society uses to exclude the other is culturally derived. That is to say, within each culture the criteria for who is cast out is based on particular values. Intercultural differences in the standard exist, but are associated with power within that culture.\n\nNo setting is immune from marginalizing members. For instance, moral exclusion IS an area of academic study, yet within academia, instances of the phenomena exist. Allen-Collinson (2009) analyzes moral exclusion, in the article, Negative 'marking'\" University research administrators and the contestation of moral exclusion. The degradation of research administrators among their academic colleagues is examined and findings indicate that research administrators were being subjected to a dimension of excluding practices; such as, negative labeling and marking. Academic staff had been labeled both informally, and through documentation by their colleagues and administration as \"assistant\" or \"support staff\", fundamentally downplaying their skills and expertise. Another dimension of moral exclusion that appeared was the rendering of research administrators as invisible by either excluding them from research related committees as actual academic staff or by not acknowledging their presence in regular staff meetings.\n\nGenocide is the act of purposefully exterminating a mass of people because of their identification with a particular group. The most commonly known occurrence of genocide is that of the WWII treatment of Jewish people by the Nazis. Nazis took away fundamental rights of Jewish people by forcing them to relocate out of their homes into camps where they were experimented on, tortured, and killed. Following the war in 1948, a Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Genocide is not an outdated relic of war, since 1951 there have been dozens of documented horrific Genocides in history; many continue.\n\nThe centuries-old conflict between the Palestinians and Israelis stems from moral exclusion. Both are convicted in their own belief that they are the \"chosen\" people and the rightful inhabitant of the land. Each group is intolerant of the other's beliefs, customs, and perceived rights to the land. Consequently, they are perennially warring and killing one another because they believe the other has no right to exist.\n\nIn the central African states of Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo another territorial dispute over resources, land, and ethnic superiority is that of the Tutsi and Hutu peoples. Although a National policy of reconciliation that prohibits discussion of the 1994 genocide and promotes using the national label of \"Rwandan,\" rather than the ethnic categories of the past, civil unrest continues.\n\nWithin American history, our forefathers believed that they were morally superior to Africans. Contemporary scholars, such as Michel Focault, describe this as cultural imperialism. Yet, at the time the forcible kidnapping of Africans from their homes was justified. It was culturally and institutionally sanctioned. Our legal system permitted this practiced. European-Americans who enslaved Africans in United States history took away the basic human rights of African slaves in order to have them subject to their orders. Slaves were brutally beaten and treated inhumanely. Even when slavery was abolished, enactments such as the Jim Crow laws kept African-Americans from certain basic rights and access to public space, because some European-Americans believed African-Americans were not worthy of equality to them.\n\nAnother example includes undocumented students, immigrants to the United States, and people who look like immigrants. Regarding undocumented students, this refers to children born in the United States to parents who had illegally entered the U.S These students are actual U.S. citizens, but have been in danger of exportation or being denied the opportunity to go to school in the United States because they lack appropriate documentation. This is an issue in many states. Particular to Arizona, the state legislature passed a law, Arizona SB 1070, granting police officers the capability to stop anyone they suspect may be illegally in the U.S. and ask them to present their birth certificate. As explored by Mukherjee, Molina and Adams (2012), this legislation may be intended to contain illegal immigration, or it may be ethnic categorization as the basis for excluding rights to certain U.S. citizens who do not look like the dominant group. A similar type of moral exclusion is seen in the treatment of people in the city of New York. Individuals can be stopped, questioned and frisked without cause, because they \"look suspicious\" to police officers in the area. The police officers believe they have the authority to violate these peoples' rights in order to meet certain standards in their respective divisions. See video link [1].\n\nIn the United States every citizen is held to be entitled to basic rights (the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness). Yet, the justice department has been granted the legitimate power to alter life quality of those in prison. A person in prison is stripped of their freedom, privacy, right to vote; even their right to life if placed under the death penalty. Society has deemed it justifiable to deny incarcerated persons many basic rights and privileges. Since the inmate uprising at Attica in 1971, prison reform has improved conditions, making this 1971 quote from \"The Nation,\" seem implausible to have happened in America.\n\nThe basic fact that prisoners, too, are human is one that society has yet to accept. \"WE are MEN!\" the Attica inmates wrote in a manifesto addressed to \"the people of America.\" \"We are not beasts and do not intend to be beaten or driven as such.\" At the top of a list of \"demands\" was the basic request that officials \"provide adequate food, water, and shelter for all inmates.\" Others included \"adequate medical treatment,\" \"realistic, effective rehabilitation programs,\" \"true religious freedom,\" an end to \"censorship of newspapers, magazines [and] letters\" and, tellingly, \"a program for the recruitment and employment of a significant number of black and Spanish-speaking officers.\nCapital punishment is a controversial issue. Within the American justice system, the most heinous crimes such as treason, espionage, and murder can incur the death penalty. Those who commit perverse crimes are viewed as unworthy of owning a place within the bounds of the moral community. In this view, egregious criminal activity is paid for by forfeiting the right to live. Making such a judgement precedes and justifies our decision to execute humans. In America everybody believes that murder is wrong; humans should not kill each other, yet people are executed when they do things that place them in an extreme outgroup. Additionally, some believe that life imprisonment is inhumane.\n\nOpotow, Gerson, and Woodside (2005), explore moral exclusion theory in terms of teaching peace education and providing a structured and systematic approach to the complex issue of peace. Opotow et al. (2005) lists four key social dilemmas that moral exclusion systematically illustrates in the study of conflict, war, and peace: educating for coexistence, educating for human rights, educating for gender equality, and educating for environmentalism. According to Opotow et al. (2005), pairing moral exclusion with these key areas provides a larger scope for and situates peace education as a grave topic warranting study and understanding by students of all ages. Furthermore, Opotow and coauthors assert that moral exclusion should be seen as a human factor, a capacity of every person, rather than its limited scope as malicious actions of certain aberrant people.\n\nWhen such conceptualized, the value of mindfully considering habituated behaviors and adopting methods for change is illuminated. Citizens in the scope of the moral community have a responsibility to extend the circle of humanity and effect change through deliberately modifying norms. The aforementioned model of Ofrena and de Vela (2006)explains how justness can be cultivated at each of the three levels of society. At the bottom is the social psychological. Within an individual psyche, individuals can recognize and treat all others with basic human dignity. In the middle of the model is the social cultural. Informal group level interaction, including undesirable labeling, marginalizing, or dehumanizing behavior can be redirected. At the top is the social scaffolding of governments, corporations, and institutions that have the power to redistribute more equitable ideas, thereby solidifying nonviolence as a cultural norm. Norms are social constructions of complex interaction and can be changed through social action, which must occur at each level described.\n\nDissent is a valuable tool for social change. Choosing not to speak against discriminatory, prejudicial, and marginalizing customs, normalizes and recreates them. Speaking out against inappropriate actions can change them; this can take many forms. For example, telling a friend when language or actions are objectionable because they contribute to the marginalization of others is a simple action with potential larger consequence, although difficult to enact. Participating in more structured forms of dissent may be easier to participate in. Thirteen types of activism described by Roland Watson in 2005 are detailed by @lissnup (Anita Hunt) on her blog, with links to Twitter. Traditional forms of activism include marches, sit-ins, and occupations; such as, the recent Occupy Wall Street movement. Less traditional forms of activism are becoming more popular. Social media is increasingly used as a tool to propel activism. Music has always been a public forum with the ability to drastically alter culture and carry messages of dissent.\n\nConsequently, when moral exclusion is seen as a human capacity it logically follows that all humans also have the capacity to limit its consequences. As Opotow et al. (2005) suggest, Moral Exclusion Theory can be coupled with peace education to better understand conflict between groups that lead to extreme situations such as genocide, and also shift to educating about the importance of an inclusionary focus for groups and individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "43616446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43616446", "title": "Nicole Baukus", "text": "Nicole Baukus\n\nNicole Nadra Baukus (born April 2, 1989) is an American woman convicted of two counts of vehicular manslaughter stemming from an accident on June 29, 2012 where she was driving intoxicated. Baukus pleaded guilty to the charges and was sentenced to 38 years in prison with the possibility of parole. Highway surveillance cameras showed Baukus' vehicle traveling on the wrong side of Interstate 45 after she had consumed alcohol at a nearby bar. A later request for a new trial was denied. Nicole Baukus attended and graduated from Oak Ridge High School in Conroe, Texas.\n\nBaukus was charged with two counts of second-degree felony intoxication manslaughter and one count of third-degree felony intoxication assault. After initially pleading not guilty to the charges against her, she pleaded guilty to two counts of vehicular manslaughter on August 1, 2013. Baukus was sentenced to a maximum of 15 years in prison on each count. She is currently eligible for parole in 2021. The judge in her trial, Michael Seiler, resigned from the bench to avoid prosecution from matters unrelated to this case.\n\nBaukus filed an appeal of her conviction which was denied with a dissenting opinion in the Texas 9th District Court of Appeals. She filed a Petition for Discretionary Review with the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals which was refused. On September 11, 2017, Ms. Baukus filed a writ of habeas corpus in the 435th District Court of Montgomery County, Texas with allegations of police misconduct, planting of evidence, prosecutorial misconduct, and ineffective assistance of her trial lawyer. The case is now pending before the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals.\n"}
{"id": "1322219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1322219", "title": "Niqāb", "text": "Niqāb\n\nA niqab or niqāb (; ', \"[face] veil\"; also called a ruband) is a garment of clothing that covers the face, worn by a small minority of Muslim women as a part of a particular interpretation of hijab (\"modesty\"). According to the majority of Muslim scholars and Islamic schools of thought, the niqab is not a requirement of Islam; however a minority of Muslim scholars assert that the niqab is required, especially in the Hanbali Muslim faith tradition. Those Muslim women who observe the niqab, wear it in public areas and in front of non-mahram (non-related) men.\n\nThe face veil pre-dates Islam, and had been used by certain Arabian pre-Islamic cultures. Culturally, it is \"a custom imported from Najd, a region in Saudi Arabia and the power base of its Salafi fundamentalist form of Islam. Within Muslim countries it is very contested and considered fringe.\"\n\nToday, the niqab is most often worn in its region of origin: the Arab countries of the Arabian Peninsula — Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates. However, even in these countries, the niqab is neither a universal cultural custom nor is it culturally compulsory. In other parts of the Muslim world outside of the Arabian Peninsula, where the niqab has slowly spread to a much smaller extent, it is regarded warily by Sunni and non-Sunni Muslims alike \"as a symbol of encroaching fundamentalism.\" Nevertheless, the niqab is worn by a small minority of Muslims in not only Muslim-majority regions such as Somalia, Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, the Palestinian territories, and Southern Iran, but also among a minority of Muslims in regions where Muslims are themselves a minority, like India and Europe.\n\nThe terms niqab and burqa are often conflated; a niqab covers the face while leaving the eyes uncovered, while a burqa covers the entire body from the top of the head to the ground, with only a mesh screen allowing the wearer to see in front of her.\n\nWomen who wear the niqab are often called '; this word is used both as a noun and as an adjective. However, the correct form ' (plural ') as ' is used in a derogatory manner (much as with ' versus '). Colloquially, women in niqab are called ', with the plural '.\n\nThe face-veil was originally part of women's dress among certain classes in the Byzantine Empire and was adopted into Muslim culture during the Arab conquest of the Middle East.\n\nHowever, although Byzantine art before Islam commonly depicts women with veiled heads or covered hair, it does not depict women with veiled faces. In addition, the Greek geographer Strabo, writing in the first century AD, refers to some Median women veiling their faces; and the early third-century Christian writer Tertullian clearly refers in his treatise \"The Veiling of Virgins\" to some \"pagan\" women of \"Arabia\" wearing a veil that covers not only their head but also the entire face. Clement of Alexandria commends the contemporary use of face coverings. There are also two Biblical references to the employment of covering face veils in Genesis 38.14 and Genesis 24.65, by Tamar and by Rebeccah, Judah and Abraham's daughters-in-law respectively. These primary sources show that some women in Egypt, Arabia, Canaan and Persia veiled their faces long before Islam. In the case of Tamar, the Biblical text, 'When Judah saw her, he thought her to be a harlot; because she had covered her face' indicates customary, if not sacral, use of the face veil to accentuate rather than disguise sexuality.\n\nThere is a difference of opinion and interpretation amongst scholars in Islam as to the permissibility or prohibition of covering the face. These fall into three different general interpretations, one held by a majority and two held by a minority.\n\nThe first interpretation, the opinion of the overwhelming majority of Islamic scholars, states that the niqab is optional at most. Within this view, there is disagreement as to when the niqab becomes prohibited even for those who would choose to wear it at other times.\n\nThe second interpretation, the opinion of a small minority of Islamic scholars, states that the niqab is outright obligatory (fard) to wear at all times in the presence of non-mahram males.\n\nThe third interpretation, also a small minority opinion, states that the niqab is outright prohibited and against Islam to wear at any time, in any company.\n\nThe niqab has continued to arouse debate between Muslim scholars and jurists both past and present concerning whether it is prohibited, fard (obligatory), mustahabb (recommended/preferable), or 'urf (cultural).\n\nAccording to the rulings of mainstream Sunni Islam, nothing at all is mentioned of niqab in the Qur'an. Moreover, even in some Hadith, it is clearly stated that the Prophet Muhammad himself taught women, in the example of his companion Abu Bakr's daughter Asma' bint Abu Bakr, that they need not veil (niqab) either their face or their hands:\n\nAlthough there is no Islamic scripture, neither Quaranic nor Hadith, where females are required to cover their face and hands, there is on the contrary a Hadith where it is narrated that the Prophet himself taught, in accordance to his Sunnah, that it is in fact forbidden (haraam), at least during Hajj and Umrah, for females to veil (niqab) their face, even if at other times the female insists on wearing niqab, against Islamic scripture: \n\nWithin the majority Islamic legal opinion that the niqab is never obligatory, different schools and scholars disagree as to whether wearing niqab at any time (not just during Hajj and Umrah) is 'urf (a cultural practice) which should merely be discouraged; or if it is bid'ah say'iah, an innovation which opposes the Qur'an and Sunnah contrary to Islam, and is to be prohibited.\nIn deference to the minority legal opinion which rules niqab to be obligatory, most other Muslim scholars and Islamic schools of thought have ruled that the preference is not to prohibit niqab as bid'ah say'iah, but as 'urf to be discouraged.\n\nThere are, nevertheless, scholars who have issued fatwas decreeing niqab to be against Islam, including the Grand Mufti of Egypt. Notably, the niqab is condemned for the Sunni Islamic world by the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, Sheikh Haji Muhammad Sayyid Tantawy, in his 7000-page Exegesis (Tafsir) of Al-Qur'an, written over 10 years. A renowned scholar and head of the Islamic world's preeminent religious institute, Tantawy has stated that \"the niqab is a cultural tradition and has nothing to do with Islam.\" His comments followed an incident in which he forced a school girl to remove her niqab during a visit to an Al-Azhar school, when Tantawy reportedly said that he would call for an official ban for the face veil in Islamic schools.\n\nTantawy's decision stems from his views that younger Muslims have lost touch with traditional Islamic scholarship and have come under the influence of imams from the Salafi (Wahhabi) branch in Saudi Arabia. Sharia law, according to certain public commentators (e.g., Mudar Zahran) and Islamic scholars, in fact bans women from wearing the niqab in Mecca during worship.\nIn the majority opinion of Islamic scholars, a woman or girl may lawfully wear the niqab, but in return may not criticize other Muslim women who properly cover their bodies, but do not wear the niqab to cover their face (i.e. hijabis). The niqabi (niqab wearer) is also prohibited from pressing the practice on others. In this practice of mutual tolerance, the niqabi shall also not be criticized for her belief or tradition holding niqab to be obligatory, or for her good-faith error on the side of modesty.\n\nThe opinions of the four traditional mainstream Sunni schools of jurisprudence are as follows:\n\nAccording to scholars like Tirmidhī and Ḥārith b. Hishām, however, all of a woman's body is awrah, including her face, hands, and even fingernails. There is a dispensation though that allows a woman to expose her face and hands, e.g. when asking for her hand in marriage, because it is the centre of beauty.\n\nAccording to the Salafi point of view, it is obligatory (fard) for a woman to cover her entire body when in public or in presence of non-mahram men. Some interpretations say that a veil is not compulsory in front of blind, asexual or gay men.\n\nThe Islamic scholar Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani, while a teacher at Islamic University of Madinah, wrote a book supporting his view that the niqab is not a binding obligation upon Muslim women. His opponents within the Saudi establishment ensured that his contract with the university was allowed to lapse without renewal.\n\nIn the Shi'a Ja'fari school of fiqh, covering the face is not obligatory. However, the Shia religious leadership is divided on the issue of niqab. For example, Ayatollah Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei was among the learned who, based upon the Quran and the hadith, believed that women should wear the niqab as per \"obligatory precaution (Ihtiyat wujubi). Many Shia women living in countries such as Bahrain, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia or Iraq wear it on a daily basis.\n\nThe claimed rationale of the niqab comes from Hadith. It was known that the wives of the Prophet Muhammad covered themselves around non-mahram men. However the Quran explicitly states that the wives of the Prophet are held to a different standard. It is claimed that under Islam the niqab is a requirement for the wives of Muhammad. The following verse from the Qur'an is cited as support for this:\n\nThis verse was in response to harassment on the part of the \"hypocrites\", although it does not clearly refer to covering the face itself. It is also argued by some Muslims that the reasons for the niqab are to keep Muslim women from worrying about their appearances and to conceal their looks.\n\nThe niqab is controversial in Europe. In France specifically, although the niqab is not individually targeted, it falls within the scope of legislation which bans the wearing of any religious items (Christian, Jewish, Muslim, or other) in certain public areas.\n\nIn 2004, the French Parliament passed a law to regulate \"the wearing of symbols indicating religious affiliation in public educational establishments\". This law forbids all emblems that outwardly express a specific religious belief to be worn in French public schools. This law was proposed because the Stasi Commission, a committee that is supposed to enforce secularity in French society, was forced to deal with frequent disputes about headscarves in French public schools, as outsiders of the practice did not understand the scarves’ purpose and therefore felt uncomfortable.\n\nAlthough the French law addresses other religious symbols – not just Islamic headscarves and face coverings – the international debate has been centered around the impact it has on Muslims because of the growing population in Europe, especially France, and the increase in Islamophobia.\n\nIn July 2010, the National Assembly in France passed \"Loi Interdisant La Dissimulation Du Visage Dans L'espace Public\", (Act Prohibiting Concealment of the Face in Public Space). This act outlawed the wearing of clothing that covers one's face in any public space. Violators of the ban on veils and coverings are liable to fines of up to 150 Euros and mandatory classes on French citizenship. Anyone found to have forced a woman to wear a religious covering faces up to two years in prison as well as a 60,000 Euro fine.\n\nThe then president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy publicly stated \"The burqa is not welcome in France because it is contrary to our values and the ideals we have of a woman's dignity\". Sarkozy further explained that the French government sees these enactments as a way to successfully ease Muslims into French society and to promote gender equality.\n\nIn October 2018, the United Nations Human Rights Committee declared that France's ban disproportionately harmed the right of women to manifest their religious beliefs, and could have the effects of \"confining them to their homes, impeding their access to public services and marginalizing them.\"\n\nThere are many styles of \"niqab\" and other facial veils worn by Muslim women around the world. The two most common forms are the \"half niqab\" and the \"gulf-style\" or \"full niqab\".\n\nThe \"half niqab\" is a simple length of fabric with elastic or ties and is worn around the face. This garment typically leaves the eyes and part of the forehead visible.\n\nThe \"gulf-style\" or \"full niqab\" completely covers the face. It consists of an upper band that is tied around the forehead, together with a long wide piece of fabric which covers the face, leaving an opening for the eyes. Many full niqab have two or more sheer layers attached to the upper band, which can be worn flipped down to cover the eyes or left over the top of the head. While a person looking at a woman wearing a niqab with an eyeveil would not be able to see her eyes, the woman wearing the niqab would be able to see out through the thin fabric.\n\nOther less common and more cultural or national forms of niqab include the Afghan style burqa, a long pleated gown that extends from the head to the feet with a small crocheted grille over the face. The \"Pak Chador\" is a relatively new style from Pakistan, which consists of a large triangular scarf with two additional pieces. A thin band on one edge is tied behind the head so as to keep the chador on, and then another larger rectangular piece is attached to one end of the triangle and is worn over the face, and the simple \"hijāb\" wrapped, pinned or tied in a certain way so as to cover the wearer's face.\n\nOther common styles of clothing popularly worn with a \"niqab\" in Western countries include the khimar, a semi-circular flare of fabric with an opening for the face and a small triangular underscarf. A khimar is usually bust-level or longer, and can also be worn without the \"niqab\". It is considered a fairly easy form of headscarf to wear, as there are no pins or fasteners; it is simply pulled over the head. Gloves are also sometimes worn with the niqab, because many \"munaqqabāt\" believe no part of the skin should be visible other than the area immediately around the eyes or because they do not want to be put in a position where they would touch the hand of an unrelated man (for instance, when accepting change from a cashier). Most \"munaqqabāt\" also wear an overgarment (jilbab, abaya etc.) over their clothing, though some munaqabat in Western countries wear a long, loose tunic and skirt instead of a one-piece overgarment.\n\nThe niqab in Egypt has a complex and long history. On 8 October 2009, Egypt's top Islamic school and the world's leading school of Sunni Islam, Al-Azhar, banned the wearing of the niqab in classrooms and dormitories of all its affiliate schools and educational institutes.\n\nThe niqab was traditionally worn in Southern Iran from the arrival of Islam until the end of the Qajar era. There were many regional variations of niqab, which were also called ruband or pushiye. Traditionally, Iranian women wore chadors long before Islam arrived.\n\nThe 20th century ruler, Reza Shah, banned all variations of face veil in 1936, as incompatible with his modernistic ambitions. Reza Shah ordered the police to arrest women who wore the niqab and to remove their face veils by force. This policy outraged the clerics who believed it was obligatory for women to cover their faces. Many women gathered at the Goharshad Mosque in Mashhad with their faces covered to show their objection to the niqab ban.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1979 wearing the niqab was no longer against the law, but it was considered by the government to be a \"badge of backwardness.\" During these years, wearing the niqab and chador became much less common and instead most religious women wore headscarves only. Fashionable hotels and restaurants refused to admit women wearing niqabs. High schools and universities actively discouraged or even banned the niqab, though the headscarf was tolerated.\n\nAfter the new government of 'Islamic Republic' was established, the niqab ban was not enforced by officials.\n\nIn modern Iran, the wearing of niqab is not common and is only worn by certain ethnic minorities and a minority of Arab Muslims in the southern Iranian coastal cities, such as Bandar Abbas, Minab and Bushehr. Some women in the Arab-populated province of Khuzestan still wear niqab.\n\nIn 2015, the constitutional Council of Islamic Ideology issued the fatwa that women are not required to wear niqab or cover their hands or feet under Shariah.\n\nSaudi women are not required by a secular law to wear the niqab. However, the niqab is an important part of Saudi culture and in most Saudi cities (including Riyadh, Mecca, Medina, Abha, etc.) the vast majority of women cover their faces.\nThe Saudi niqab usually leaves a long open slot for the eyes; the slot is held together by a string or narrow strip of cloth. In 2008, the Mohammad Habadan, a religious authority in Mecca, reportedly called on women to wear veils that reveal only one eye, so that women would not be encouraged to use eye make-up.\n\n1,200 niqab-wearing teachers were transferred to administrative duties in the summer of 2010 in Syria because the face veil was undermining the secular policies followed by the state as far as education is concerned. In the summer of 2010, students wearing the niqab were prohibited from registering for university classes. The ban was associated with a move by the Syrian government to re-affirm Syria's traditional secular atmosphere.\n\nOn 6 April 2011 it was reported that teachers would be allowed to once again wear the niqab.\n\nSince antiquity, the Arab tradition of wearing the niqab has been practiced by women living in Yemen. Traditionally, girls begin wearing veils in their teenage years.\n\nAcceptance of the niqab is not universal in Yemen. Senior member of the Al-Islah political party, Tawakel Karman, removed her niqab at a human rights conference in 2004 and since then has called for \"other women and female activists to take theirs off\".\n\nCovering the face was enforced by the Taliban regime with the traditional Afghan face veil called the burka.\n\nThe niqab is outlawed in Azerbaijan, where the overwhelming majority of the population is Muslim. Niqabi women, just like women wearing hijab, cannot work as public servants, neither can they continue studies at schools, including the private schools. Although there is no single law banning niqab at private companies, it would be nearly impossible for a niqabi woman to find work.\n\nIn February 2010, an Arab country's unnamed ambassador to Dubai had his marriage annulled after discovering that his bride was cross-eyed and had facial hair. The woman had worn a niqab on the occasions that the couple had met prior to the wedding. The ambassador informed the Sharia court that he had been deliberately deceived by the bride's mother, who had shown him photographs of the bride's sister. He only discovered this when he lifted the niqab to kiss his bride. The court annulled the marriage, but refused a claim for compensation.\n\nSultaana Freeman gained national attention in 2003 when she sued the US state of Florida for the right to wear a niqab for her driver's license photo. However, a Florida circuit court ruled there was no violation in the state requiring her to show her face to a camera in a private room with only a female employee to take the picture, in exchange for the privilege of driving. The ruling was affirmed by the appellate court.\n\nOne female non-Muslim student at Eastern Michigan University spent a semester in 2005 wearing a niqab for a class project (she referred to the face veil as a \"burqa\"). Her stated experiences, such as her own feeling as if no one wanted to be near her, led her to assert that conservative Muslim dress is disapproved of in the United States.\n\nSome Muslim Palestinian women, particularly students, have worn white niqabs during Arab protest activities relating to the Arab–Israeli conflict. These women have reportedly worn green banners with Arabic messages in them.\n\nIn 2006, Female candidates from the Hamas party campaigned during the Palestinian Authority parliamentary elections, wearing niqabs. Since Hamas seized control of Gaza from Fatah during the Battle of Gaza (2007), Muslim women in Gaza have been wearing, or were mandated to wear, niqabs in increasingly large numbers\n\nIn July 2015, Cameroon banned the face veil including the burqa after two women dressed in the religious garments completed a suicide attack killing 13. This was also done in order to counter extremism in public and places of work.\n\nIn June 2015, the full face veil was banned in Chad after veiled Boko Haram bombers disguised as women completed multiple suicide attacks.\n\nIn May 2015, the Republic of the Congo banned the face veil in order to counter extremism. The decision was announced by El Hadji Djibril Bopaka, the president of the country's Islamic High Council.\n\nThe Moroccan government distributed letters to businesses on 9 January 2017 declaring a ban on the burka. The letters indicated the \"sale, production and import\" or the garment were prohibited and businesses were expected to clear their stock within 48 hours.\n\nIn May 2010, an armed robbery committed by a man wearing a face veil and sunglasses raised calls to ban the Islamic veil; a request for new legislation was dismissed by both Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Liberal leader Tony Abbott.\n\nIn 2017 the government of Tajikistan passed a law requiring people to \"stick to traditional national clothes and culture\", which has been widely seen as an attempt to prevent women from wearing Islamic clothing, in particular the style of headscarf wrapped under the chin, in contrast to the traditional Tajik headscarf tied behind the head.\n\nAlthough the burqa is a more emphatic symbol, the niqab has also been prominent in political controversies on Islamic dress in Europe.\n\nIn Yugoslavia wearing the niqab or forcing women to wear it were forbidden in order to prevent the subjugation of women to men.\n\nIn 2007, the government of the Netherlands planned a legal ban on face-covering Islamic clothing, popularly described as the 'burqa ban', which included the niqab. In 2015, a partial ban of the niqab and burqa were approved by the Dutch government. The parliament still had to approve the measure. In November 2016, the legal ban on face-covering was approved by parliament. On 26 June 2018, a partial ban on face covering (including niqabs) on public transport and in buildings and associated yards of educational institutions, governmental institutions and healthcare institutions was enacted, with a number of exceptions.\n\nOn 29 April 2010, the Belgian Chamber of Representatives adopted a law prohibiting people to wear \"attire and clothing masking the face in such a way that it impairs recognizability\". The penalty for violating this directive can run from up to 14 days imprisonment and a 250 euro fine.\n\nIn August 2014, the Chief of Protocol for the city of Brussels Jean-Marie Pire tore the niqab off a Qatari princess who had asked him for directions in Brussels. On 11 July 2017 the ban in Belgium was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) after having been challenged by two Muslim women who claimed their rights had been infringed.\n\nIn autumn 2017, the Danish parliament (Danish: Folketinget) agreed to adopt a law prohibiting people to wear \"attire and clothing masking the face in such a way that it impairs recognizability\". A full ban on both niqabs and burqas was announced on 31 May 2018. The ban came into force on 1 August 2018 and carries a fine of 1000 DKK, about 134 euro, by repeat offending the fine may reach 10 000 DKK. Then targets all garments that covers the face, such as fake beards or balaclavas. Supporters of the ban claim that the ban facilitates integration of Muslims into Danish society while Amnesty International claimed the ban violated women's rights. A protest numbering 300-400 people was held in the Nørrebro district of Copenhagen organised by Socialist Youth Front, \"Kvinder i Dialog\" and \"Party Rebels\".\n\nThe first fine was issued in Hørsholm in August 2018 to a woman dressed in a niqab who was in a fistfight with another woman on an escalator in a shopping centre. During the fight their her face-covering veil fell off, but as police approached, she put them on again and police issued the fine. Both women were suspected of public order violations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, comments by Jack Straw, MP started a national debate over the wearing of the \"veil\" (niqab), in October 2006. Around that time there was media coverage of the case of Aishah Azmi, a teaching assistant in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, who lost her appeal against suspension from her job for wearing the niqab while teaching English to young children. It was decided that being unable to see her face prevented the children from learning effectively. Azmi, who had been interviewed and hired for the position without the niqab, allegedly on her husband's advice, argued it was helping the children understand different people's beliefs. In 2010, a man committed a bank robbery wearing a niqab as a disguise.\n\nOn 13 July 2010 France's lower house of parliament overwhelmingly approved a ban on wearing burqa-style Islamic veils. The legislation forbids face-covering Muslim veils in all public places in France and calls for fines or citizenship classes, or both. The bill also is aimed at husbands and fathers — anyone convicted of forcing someone else to wear the garb risks a year of prison and a fine, with both penalties doubled if the victim is a minor.\n\nIn Italy, a law issued in 1975 strictly forbids wearing of any attire that could hide the face of a person. Penalties (fines and imprisonment) are provided for such behaviour. The original purpose of the anti-mask law was to prevent crime or terrorism. The law allows for exemptions for a \"justified cause\", which has sometimes been interpreted by courts as including religious reasons for wearing a veil, but others –including local governments– disagree and claim religion is not a \"justified cause\" in this context.\n\nIn 2012 in Norway, a professor at the University of Tromsø denied a student's use of niqab in the classroom. The professor claimed Norway's parliament granted each teacher the right to deny the use of niqab in his/her classroom. Clothing that covers the face, such as a niqab, is prohibited in some schools and municipalities.\n\nIn autumn 2017, Norway government adopted a law prohibiting people to wear \"attire and clothing masking the face in such a way that it impairs recognizability\" in schools and in universities.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg stated in an interview that in Norwegian work environments it is essential to see each other's faces and therefore anyone who insists on wearing a niqab is in practice unemployable. Solberg also views the wearing of the niqab as a challenge to social boundaries in the Norwegian society, a challenge that would be countered by Norway setting boundaries of its own. Solberg also stated that anyone may wear what they wish in their spare time and that her comments applied to professional life but that any immigrant has the obligation to adapt to Norwegian work life and culture.\n\nIn June 2018, the parliament of Norway passed a bill banning clothing covering the face at educational institutions as well as daycare centres, which included face-covering Islamic veils. The prohibition applies to pupils and staff alike.\n\nIn 2016, a legal ban on face-covering Islamic clothing was proposed for adoption by the Latvian parliament.\n\nIn 2016, a legal ban on face-covering Islamic clothing was adopted by the Bulgarian parliament.\n\nIn 2017, a legal ban on face-covering Islamic clothing was adopted by the Austrian parliament.\n\nIn 2017, a legal a ban on face-covering clothing for soldiers and state workers during work was approved by German parliament. Also in 2017, a legal ban on face-covering clothing for car and truck drivers was approved by German Ministry of Traffic.\n\nIn July 2017, German state Bavaria approved a legal ban on face-covering clothing for teachers, state workers and students at university and schools. In August 2017, the state of Lower Saxony (German: \"Niedersachsen\") banned the burqa along with the niqab in public schools. This change in the law was prompted by a Muslim pupil in Osnabrück who wore the garment to school for years and refused to take it off. Since she has completed her schooling, the law was instituted to prevent similar cases in the future.\n\nIn 2012, a poll by Uppsala University found that Swedes responded that face-covering Islamic veils are either completely unacceptable or fairly unacceptable, 85% for the burqa and 81% for the niqāb. The researchers noted these figures reprented a compact resistance to the face-covering veil by the population of Sweden.\n\nIn July 2016, the Canton of Ticino banned face-covering veils.\n\nIn September 2018, a ban on face-covering veils was approved with a 67% vote in favour in the canton of St Gallen. The largest Islamic community organisation in Switzerland, the Islamic Central Council, recommended that Muslim women continue to cover their faces.\n\nIn 2002, Sultaana Freeman (formerly Sandra Keller, who converted to Islam in 1997 when marrying a Muslim man), sued the U.S. state of Florida for the right to wear a niqab for her driver's license photo. However, a Florida appellate court ruled that there was no violation in the state requiring her to show her face to a camera in a private room with only a female employee to take the picture, in exchange for the privilege of driving. The prevailing view in Florida is currently that hiding one's face on a form of photo identification defeats the purpose of having the picture taken, although 15 other states (including Arkansas, California, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, and Louisiana) have provisions that allow for driver's licenses absent of an identifying photograph in order to accommodate individuals who may have a religious reason to not have a photograph taken. In 2012, a string of armed robberies in Philadelphia were committed by people disguised in traditional Islamic woman's garb; Muslim leaders were concerned that the use of the disguises could put Muslim women in danger of hate crimes and inflame ethnic tensions.\n\nThe niqab is banned in the Canadian province of Quebec in all publicly funded services. One cannot receive public service or provide public service with their faces covered. On October 18, 2017, Bill 62 passed into law after a 66-51 vote in the Quebec National Assembly. The new law is entitled \"An Act to foster adherence to State religious neutrality and, in particular, to provide a framework for requests for accommodation on religious grounds in certain bodies\". However, regulations regarding the ban's implementation, and religious accommodations, are not expected until July 2018.\n\nOn 16 November 2015 the first act of Canada's newly appointed Minister of Justice and Attorney General Jody Wilson-Raybould was to assure women who chose to wear the niqāb during the Oath of Allegiance of their right to do so. In December 2011 then-Citizenship and Immigration Minister Jason Kenney announced a policy directive from the Federal Government under then-Prime Minister Stephen Harper that Muslim women must remove niqābs throughout the citizenship ceremony where they declare their Oath of Allegiance. Zunera Ishaq, a Sunni Muslim woman living in Mississauga, Ontario, challenged and won the niqāb ban in the case of \"Canada v Ishaq\" on 5 October 2015. The Federal Court of Appeal decision in her favour was seen by some as \"an opportunity to revisit the rules governing the somewhat difficult relationship between law and policy.\" In October 2015 Harper had appealed the Supreme Court of Canada to take up the case. With the election of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on 19 October 2015, the niqāb debate was settled as the Liberal government chose to not \"politicize the issue any further.\" Minister Wilson-Raybould, who is the first Indigenous person to be named as Justice Minister, explained as she withdrew Harper's appeal to the Supreme Court, \"In all of our policy as a government we will ensure that we respect the values that make us Canadians, those of diversity, inclusion and respect for those fundamental values.\" The Justice Minister spoke with Zunera by telephone to tell her the news prior to making her official announcement.\n\nElections Canada, the agency responsible for elections and referenda, stated that Muslim women can cover their faces while voting. The decision was criticized by the Conservative Party of Canada, Bloc Québécois, and Liberal Party of Canada. The New Democrats were not opposed to the decision. The Conservative federal Cabinet had introduced legislation to parliament that would bar citizens from voting if they arrived at polling stations with a veiled face.\n\nThe niqāb became an issue in the 2007 election in Quebec after it became public knowledge that women wearing the niqāb were allowed to vote under the same rules as electors who did not present photo identification (ID); namely, by sworn oath in the presence of a third party who could vouch for their identity. The chief electoral officer received complaints that this policy was too accommodating of cultural minorities (a major theme in the election) and thereafter required accompaniment by bodyguards due to threatening telephone calls. All three major Quebec political parties were against the policy, with the Parti Québécois and Action démocratique du Québec vying for position as most opposed. The policy was soon changed to require all voters to show their face, even if they did not carry photo ID. However, Quebec residents who wear the niqāb stated they were not opposed to showing their faces for official purposes, such as voting. Salam Elmenyawi of the Muslim Council of Montreal estimated that only 10 to 15 Muslim voters in the province wear the niqāb and, since their veils have become controversial, most would probably not vote.\n\nIn October 2009, the Muslim Canadian Congress called for a ban on burqa and niqāb, saying that they have \"no basis in Islam\". Spokesperson Farzana Hassan cited public safety issues, such as identity concealment, as well as gender equality, stating that wearing the burqa and niqāb is \"a practice that marginalizes women.\"\n\nIn December 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that Muslim women who wear the niqāb must remove it in some cases when testifying in court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15164960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164960", "title": "Onafhankelijke Post en Telecommunicatie Autoriteit", "text": "Onafhankelijke Post en Telecommunicatie Autoriteit\n\nThe (OPTA, ) was an independent Dutch government agency charged with enforcing Dutch law on telecommunication, post and cable TV services that operated between 1997 and 2013. It was set up in 1997 as part of major government changes in the Dutch telecommunication sector and was absorbed by the Consumer and Markets Authority in April 2013.\n\nHeadquartered in The Hague it was created to ensure competitiveness in the newly opened Dutch market for telephony and other telecom activities. Prior to 1997, KPN had a monopoly on the Dutch market, but after deregulation, other companies could also enter the market. It was OPTAs responsibility to make sure that KPN would not push the new players out of the market through its sheer size.\n\nThe Dutch cable TV network is one of the densest in the world, with over 95 percent of Dutch households having access to cable TV. OPTA also used to regulate this market, and was a mediator in disputes between providers, although OPTA decisions could be appealed in court.\n\nOPTA's function and legal position were similar to the American Federal Communications Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "27884424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27884424", "title": "Pakistanis in Russia", "text": "Pakistanis in Russia\n\nPakistanis in Russia are a fairly small community; in 2004, there were up to 2,000 expatriates, with almost all belonging to the Pashtun ethnic group. A significant number of individuals are international students undergoing medicine in various universities and colleges. Most Pakistanis are concentrated around large cities, including the capital Moscow. The community has established a Pakistani mosque in St. Petersburg Polytechnic. \nThere is also a Pakistan Study Centre which operates in the Russian State Library, founded by the embassy and local community.\nMoreover, University of Punjab has signed an agreement with Moscow State University in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "4971862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4971862", "title": "Parallel construction", "text": "Parallel construction\n\nParallel construction is a law enforcement process of building a parallel—or separate—evidentiary basis for a criminal investigation in order to conceal how an investigation actually began. In the US, a particular form is evidence laundering, where one police officer obtains evidence via means that are in contrast to the Fourth Amendment's protection against unreasonable searches and seizures, and then passes it on to another officer, who builds on it and gets it accepted by the court under the good-faith exception as applied to the second officer. This practice gained support after the Supreme Court's 2009 \"Herring v. United States\" decision.\n\nIn August 2013, a report by Reuters revealed that the Special Operations Division (SOD) of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration advises DEA agents to practice parallel construction when creating criminal cases against Americans that are based on NSA warrantless surveillance. The use of illegally obtained evidence is generally inadmissible under the fruit of the poisonous tree doctrine.\n\nTwo senior DEA officials explained that the reason parallel construction is used is to protect sources (such as undercover agents or informants) or methods in an investigation. One DEA official had told Reuters: \"Parallel construction is a law enforcement technique we use every day. It's decades old, a bedrock concept.\"\n\nAn example from one official about how parallel construction tips work is being told by Special Operations Division that: \"Be at a certain truck stop at a certain time and look for a certain vehicle.\" DEA would alert state troopers and they may wait for that certain vehicle and decide to use drug searching dogs to see if there is any illegal drug-related activity. Parallel construction allows the prosecution building the drug case to hide the source of where the information came from to protect confidential informants or undercover agents who may be involved with the illegal drug operation from endangering their lives.\n\nA number of former federal agents had used parallel construction during their careers, according to Reuters interviews. Most of the former agents had defended the practice of parallel construction because no falsified evidence or illegally obtained material were presented in courts. A judge can rule evidentiary material inadmissible if it is suspected that the evidence was obtained illegally.\n\nParallel construction in this case in the US usually is the result of tips from the DEA's Special Operations Division that are derived from sources within foreign governments, intelligence agencies or court-authorized domestic phone recordings. According to a senior law enforcement official and a former US military intelligence official tips are not given to the DEA until citizenship is verified to avoid any illegal wiretapping of US citizens who are abroad. US authorities require a warrant to wiretap domestic US-persons (citizens and non-citizens alike) and to wiretap US citizens who are abroad.\n\nThe Reuters piece occurred amid reporting of the 2013 NSA leaks, although it made no \"explicit connection\" to the Snowden leaks.\n\n\"The Register\" argues the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 introduces parallel construction for evidence obtained through surveillance under the act, and prevents it being revealed or questioned in court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1228466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228466", "title": "Polish plait", "text": "Polish plait\n\nPolish plait (\"Plica polonica\" in Latin), plica, or trichoma is a formation of hair. This term can refer to a hairstyle or supposes a medical condition. It also relates to the system of beliefs in European folklore, and healing practices in traditional medicine in Poland that supported neglected, matted hair as an amulet, or as a catchment for illness leaving the body.\n\nPlica Polonica (synonym, \"plica neuropathica\"; common name, \"Polish plait\") is an uncommon condition in which the hair shaft becomes entangled irreversibly, forming a mass which is matted and sometimes can be sticky and moist.\n\nIn this condition, the protective layer of the hair (cuticle) is damaged, and the cortex of the hair is exposed. The cortex is a more moist and sticky part of the hair than the outer layer, and the affected hairs adhere to each other and other unaffected hairs. Several factors may contribute to this condition: chemical exposure, hair with natural kinks, hair extensions, quality of water and shampoo, or absence of hair grooming and poor hair care techniques. It may also be caused by or accompanied with lice infestation (pediculosis) leading to inflammation of the scalp, or the mass can become malodorous.\n\nLarry Wolff in his book \"Inventing Eastern Europe: The Map of Civilization on the Mind of Enlightenment\" mentions that in Poland, for about a thousand years, some people wore the hair style of the Scythians. Zygmunt Gloger in his \"Encyklopedia staropolska\" mentions that Polish plait was worn as a hair style by some people, regardless of gender, in the Pinsk region and the Masovia region at the beginning of the 19th century. He used the term \"kołtun zapuszczony\" which denotes artificial formation of Polish plait. According to folklore studies today, the style was formed using liquids or wax. Among liquids, a mixture of wine and sugar was used or washing hair daily with water in which herbs were boiled. The most commonly used herb was Vinca (\"Vinca major\"), followed by Lycopodium clavatum and moss, which caused hair to mat. A similar effect can be had by rubbing hair with wax, or inserting a piece of a candle at the hair ends. Newer Polish dictionaries mention \"plica\" as a disease, but the old ones also mention artificially created plica.\n\nThe Polish plait was quite common in Europe during past centuries when hair grooming was largely neglected. It affected mostly the peasantry, but was not unusual among higher social classes.\n\nDue to superstitious beliefs, the Polish plait used to be particularly common in Poland, hence its English and Latin name. Similarly, in German it is called \"Weichselzopf\", or Vistula plait, after a river in Poland. Initially, the plait was considered an amulet to keep illness away from the body, as it was believed that when disease resolved it left the body to live in the hair, resulting in lessened suffering. For this reason, people not only allowed it to develop, but even encouraged it. According to M. Marczewska, who researched the subject from the perspective of folklore studies, animistic beliefs and long-held pagan beliefs relating to illness viewed illness as caused by an invading evil spirit, which by convalescence left the body and was less problematic when living in the hair formation, which was then shed naturally or cut and ritualistically disposed of by persons specializing in folk medicine or practitioners of folk magic. As people believed that the formation of plica was a sign of resolving of disease, plica, as a hairstyle, was also formed artificially by washing with mixtures of herbs, sweetened wine, waxing, etc.\n\nIn the early 17th century, people began to believe plaits were an external symptom of an internal illness. A growing plait was supposed to take the illness \"out\" of the body, and therefore it was rarely cut off; in addition, the belief that a cut-off plait could avenge itself and bring an even greater illness discouraged some from attacking it. It was also believed that casting a magic spell on someone could cause that person to develop a Polish plait, hence also the name \"elflock\" was used in English, also \"Hexenzopf\" (witches' plait) in German.\n\nThese convictions were so widespread and strong that some people lived their whole lives with a Polish plait. A plait could sometimes grow very long – even up to 80 cm (31.5\"). Polish plaits could take various forms, from a ball of hair to a long tail. Plaits were even categorized; plaits were \"male\" and \"female\", \"inner\" and \"outer\", \"noble\" and \"fake\", \"proper\" and \"parasitical\".\n\nBritish diarist and Samuel Johnson's friend, Hester Thrale, in her book \"Observations and Reflections Made in the Course of a Journey through France, Italy, and Germany\", described a Polish plait she saw in 1786 in the collection of the Elector of Saxony in Dresden: \"the size and weight of it was enormous, its length four yards and a half [about 4.1 m]; the person who was killed by its growth was a Polish lady of quality well known in King Augustus's court.\"\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, when ideas of the racial and ethnic superiority of Western civilization began to circulate, it became common to use the terms \"Plica Polonica\" (Polish plait) and \"Plica Judiaica\" (Jewish plait), as well as the term \"Polish ringworm\" in English. In addition to antisemitism, there was also prejudice against Eastern Europeans. According to Larry Wolff's book \"The Invention of Eastern Europe\", Poles were considered \"semi-Asians\", the descendants of Tatars and barbarians. Maurice Fishberg in his book \"The Jews: A Study of Race and Environment\" mentions both terms. It was a common belief that plica was a contagious disease which originated in Poland after the Mongol invasion and later spread to other countries. Diderot wrote in his encyclopedia entry, due to his misunderstanding of the text in Polish chronicler Martin Cromer, that the Tatar invasion of Poland was the source of plica. An example of the belief in the spread of plica as a contagious disease by foreign hosts was the Victorian-era British belief that the plica was spread like a disease by Polish traders in artificial hair, not from neglect by the affected British. George Lefevre, in his book \"An Apology for the Nerves\" mentions the terms \"plica Polonica\" and \"plica Judiaca\" and also gives information about the belief that wearing the Polish national costume can cause plica in the wearer. He describes the case of a woman in Berlin who did not wear the Polish national costume, yet was affected with plica. He concluded, \"Neither, therefore, are strangers free from it, nor is produced by dress alone.\"\n\nZygmunt Gloger in the \"Encyklopedia Staropolska\" argued that according to research done by the Grimm Brothers and Rosenbaum, \"plica polonica\" and the idea that it spread from Poland was an error, as it was also found among the Germanic population of Bavaria and Rhine River area. He said that the word \"weichselzopf\" (Vistula plait) was a later alteration of the name \"wichtelzopf\" (plait of a wight); \"wichtel\" means wight in German, a being or sentient thing.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, some medical professionals waged a war against superstition and lack of hygiene among the peasantry, and traditional folk medicine. Many plaits, often to the horror of their owners, were cut off. In Western Galicia, Professor Józef Dietl made a particular effort to examine and treat Polish plaits. He was also a politician, and his methods of dealing with persons with plicas are controversial today: he organized an official census of people suffering from the disease, they were not allowed to receive help by charitable organizations, were forbidden entrance to some buildings such as schools and offices, and he also proposed fines, which spawned rumors that plaits would be taxed. Those practices were said to have helped eradicate the Polish plait in the region. A huge, 1.5-meter long, preserved plica can be seen in the Museum of the Faculty of Medicine (Medical College, Jagiellonian University) in Kraków. In the areas of Poland which were occupied by the Russian Empire, young men with plica were exempt from service in the tsarist army. It is unknown how many plicas were natural or how many were man-made dreadlocks. The Polish word for the Polish plait, \"kołtun\", is now used figuratively in Poland to denote an uneducated person with an old-fashioned mindset.\n\nPlica was believed to be caused by supernatural entities. The names often describe the believed cause of tangled hair. In Britain this condition was believed to be caused by elves, hence the name \"elflock\" (mentioned in Shakespearean poetry and folk tales), although this term could refer to tangles much milder than a Polish plait. Folk belief in Germany associated it with witches or wights (Hexen or Wichtel) giving plica the names Hexenzopf or Wichtelzopf; in Poland, the cause was an unclean spirit. One of the names of plica in Polish was wieszczyca, \"wieszcz\" means bard, specifically, a folk poet with the gift of prophesy or a vampire-like living person. In German folklore, plica appears in one of the Brothers Grimm's fairy tales - a girl didn't comb her hair for one year and found golden coins in her plica.\n\nMany illnesses were associated with plica and were synonymous with the folk name for this condition. According to Marczewska, about thirty diseases were associated with plica in Polish folklore. In German and Bohemian spells, there are as many as seventy diseases. Poles were afraid to upset the unclean spirit, and, to pacify it, inserted offerings such as coins into the plica. Kołtun (or \"gościec\", its Polish folk name) did not necessarily describe only the hair formation, it also described the bodily illness without the presence of tangled hair. Pain (especially in joints), rheumatism, etc. were synonymous with it. If plica was present, it was blamed for whims and cravings, which needed to be satisfied promptly; people around a person with plica needed to assist the sufferer to comply with the cravings. Marczewska points out that one old Polish dictionary stated that kołtun created strong cravings, especially for wine (which was imported and expensive).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20938527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938527", "title": "Prostitution in ancient Rome", "text": "Prostitution in ancient Rome\n\nProstitution in ancient Rome was legal and licensed. In ancient Rome, even Roman men of the highest social status were free to engage prostitutes of either sex without incurring moral disapproval, as long as they demonstrated self-control and moderation in the frequency and enjoyment of sex. At the same time, the prostitutes themselves were considered shameful: most were either slaves or former slaves, or if free by birth relegated to the \"infames\", people utterly lacking in social standing and deprived of most protections accorded to citizens under Roman law, a status they shared with actors and gladiators, all of whom, however, exerted sexual allure. Some large brothels in the 4th century, when Rome was becoming officially Christianized, seem to have been counted as tourist attractions and were possibly state-owned.\n\nLatin literature makes frequent reference to prostitutes. Historians such as Livy and Tacitus mention prostitutes who had acquired some degree of respectability through patriotic, law-biding, or euergetic behavior. The high-class \"call girl\" \"(meretrix)\" is a stock character in Plautus's comedies, which were influenced by Greek models. The poems of Catullus, Horace, Ovid, Martial, and Juvenal, as well the \"Satyricon\" of Petronius, offer fictional or satiric glimpses of prostitutes. Real-world practices are documented by provisions of Roman law that regulate prostitution, and by inscriptions, especially graffiti from Pompeii. Erotic art in Pompeii and Herculaneum from sites presumed to be brothels has also contributed to scholarly views on prostitution.\n\nA \"meretrix\" (plural: \"meretrices\") was a higher class, registered female prostitute; the more pejorative \"scortum\" could be used for prostitutes of either gender. Unregistered, lower class or casual prostitutes fell under the broad category \"prostibulae\". Although both women and men might engage male or female prostitutes, evidence for female prostitution is the more ample. A prostitute could be self-employed and rent a room for work. A girl (\"puella\", a term used in poetry as a synonym for \"girlfriend\" or \"meretrix\" and not necessarily an age designation) might live with a procuress or madame \"(lena)\" or even go into business under the management of her mother, though \"mater\" might sometimes be a mere euphemism for \"lena\". These arrangements suggest the recourse to prostitution by free-born women in dire financial need, and such prostitutes may have been regarded as of relatively higher repute or social degree. Prostitutes could also work out of a brothel or tavern for a procurer or pimp \"(leno)\". Most prostitutes seem to have been slaves or former slaves.\n\nIn Roman law, the status of meretrices was specifically and closely regulated. They were obliged to register with the aediles, and (from Caligula's day onwards) to pay imperial tax. They were regarded as \"infamous persons\" and were denied many of the civic rights due to citizens. They could not give evidence in court, and Roman freeborn men were forbidden to marry them. There were, however, degrees of \"infamia\" and the consequent loss of privilege attendant on sexual misbehaviour. A convicted adulteress of citizen status who registered herself as a \"meretrix\" could thus as least partly mitigate her loss of rights and status.\n\nSome professional prostitutes, perhaps to be compared to courtesans, cultivated elite patrons and could become wealthy. The \"dictator\" Sulla is supposed to have built his fortune on the wealth left to him by a prostitute in her will. Romans also assumed that actors and dancers were available to provide paid sexual services, and courtesans whose names survive in the historical record are sometimes indistinguishable from actresses and other performers. In the time of Cicero, the courtesan Cytheris was a welcome guest for dinner parties at the highest level of Roman society. Charming, artistic, and educated, such women contributed to a new romantic standard for male-female relationships that Ovid and other Augustan poets articulated in their erotic elegies.\n\nFrom the late Republican or early Imperial era onwards, \"meretices\" may have worn the toga when in public, through compulsion or choice. The possible reasons for this remain a subject of modern scholarly speculation. Togas were otherwise the formal attire of citizen men, while respectable adult freeborn women and matrons wore the stola. This crossing of gender boundaries has been interpreted variously. At the very least, the wearing of a toga would have served to set the \"meretrix\" apart from respectable women, and suggest her sexual availability; Bright colors \"Colores meretricii\" and jewelled anklets also marked them out from respectable women.\n\nExpensive courtesans wore gaudy garments of see-through silk.\n\nSome passages in Roman authors seem to indicate that prostitutes displayed themselves in the nude. Nudity was associated with slavery, as an indication that the person was literally stripped of privacy and the ownership of one's own body. A passage from Seneca describes the condition of the prostitute as a slave for sale:\n\nNaked she stood on the shore, at the pleasure of the purchaser; every part of her body was examined and felt. Would you hear the result of the sale? The pirate sold; the pimp bought, that he might employ her as a prostitute.\nIn the \"Satyricon\", Petronius's narrator relates how he \"saw some men prowling stealthily between the rows of name-boards and naked prostitutes\". The satirist Juvenal describes a prostitute as standing naked \"with gilded nipples\" at the entrance to her cell. The adjective \"nudus\", however, can also mean \"exposed\" or stripped of one's outer clothing, and the erotic wall paintings of Pompeii and Herculaneum show women presumed to be prostitutes wearing the Roman equivalent of a bra even while actively engaged in sex acts.\n\nMost prostitutes were slaves or freedwomen, and it is difficult to determine the balance of voluntary to forced prostitution. Because slaves were considered property under Roman law, it was legal for an owner to employ them as prostitutes. The 1st-century historian Valerius Maximus presents a story of complicated sexual psychology in which a freedman had been forced by his owner to prostitute himself during his time as a slave; the freedman kills his own young daughter when she loses her virginity to her tutor.\n\nAlthough rape was a crime in ancient Rome, the law only punished the rape of a slave if it \"damaged the goods\", since a slave had no legal standing as a person. The penalty was aimed at providing the owner compensation for the \"damage\" of his property.\n\nThere is some evidence that slave prostitutes could benefit from their labor; in general, slaves could earn their own money by hiring out their skills or taking a profit from conducting their owner's business.\n\nSometimes the seller of a female slave attached a \"ne serva\" clause to the ownership papers to prevent her from being prostituted. The \"ne serva\" clause meant that if the new owner or any owner afterwards used the slave as a prostitute she would be free.\n\nA law of Augustus allowed that women guilty of adultery could be sentenced to forced prostitution in brothels. The law was abolished in 389.\n\nProstitution was regulated to some extent, not so much for moral reasons as to maximize profit. Prostitutes had to register with the aediles. She gave her correct name, her age, place of birth, and the pseudonym under which she intended practicing her calling. If the girl was young and apparently respectable, the official sought to influence her to change her mind; failing in this, he issued her a \"license for debauchery\" (\"licentia stupri\"), ascertained the price she intended exacting for her favors, and entered her name in his roll. Once entered there, the name could never be removed, but must remain for all time, an insurmountable bar to repentance and respectability.\n\nCaligula inaugurated a tax upon prostitutes (the \"vectigal ex capturis\"), as a state impost: \"he levied new and hitherto unheard of taxes; a proportion of the fees of prostitutes;—so much as each earned with one man. A clause was also added to the law directing that women who had practiced prostitutery and men who had practiced procuration should be rated publicly; and furthermore, that marriages should be liable to the rate\". Alexander Severus retained this law, but directed that such revenue be used for the upkeep of the public buildings, that it might not contaminate the state treasure. This infamous tax was not abolished until the time of Theodosius I, but the real credit is due to a wealthy patrician named Florentius, who strongly censured this practice, to the Emperor, and offered his own property to make good the deficit which would appear upon its abrogation.\n\nRoman brothels are known from literary sources, regionary lists, and archaeological evidence. A brothel is commonly called a lupanar or \"lupanarium\", from \"lupa\", \"she-wolf\", slang for \"prostitute,\" or \"fornix\", a general term for a vaulted space or cellar. According to the regionaries for the city of Rome, \"lupanaria\" were concentrated in Regio II; the Caelian Hill, the Suburra that bordered the city walls, and the valley between the Caelian and Esquiline Hills.\n\nThe Great Market (\"macellum magnum\") was in this district, along with many cook-shops, stalls, barber shops, the office of the public executioner, and the barracks for foreign soldiers quartered at Rome. Regio II was one of the busiest and most densely populated quarters in the entire city — an ideal location for the brothel owner or pimp. Rent from a brothel was a legitimate source of income.\n\nThe regular brothels are described as exceedingly dirty, smelling of characteristic odors lingering in poorly ventilated spaces and of the smoke from burning lamps, as noted accusingly by Seneca: \"you reek still of the soot of the brothel\".\n\nSome brothels aspired to a loftier clientele. Hair dressers were on hand to repair the ravages wrought by frequent amorous conflicts, and water boys \"(aquarioli)\" waited by the door with bowls for washing up.\n\nThe licensed houses seem to have been of two kinds: those owned and managed by a pimp \"(leno)\" or madam \"(lena)\", and those in which the latter was merely an agent, renting rooms and acting as a supplier for his renters. In the former, the owner kept a secretary, \"villicus puellarum\", or an overseer for the girls. This manager assigned a girl her name, fixed her prices, received the money and provided clothing and other necessities. It was also the duty of the villicus, or cashier, to keep an account of what each girl earned: \"give me the brothel-keeper's accounts, the fee will suit\".\n\nThe mural decoration was also in keeping with the object for which the house was maintained; see erotic art in Pompeii and Herculaneum. Over the door of each cubicle was a tablet \"(titulus)\" upon which was the name of the occupant and her price; the reverse bore the word \"occupata\" (\"occupied, in service, busy\") and when the inmate was engaged the tablet was turned so that this word was out. Plautus speaks of a less pretentious house when he says: \"let her write on the door that she is \"occupata\"\". The cubicle usually contained a lamp of bronze or, in the lower dens, of clay, a pallet or cot of some sort, over which was spread a blanket or patch-work quilt, this latter being sometimes employed as a curtain. The fees recorded at Pompeii range from 2 to 20 \"asses\" per client. By comparison, a legionary earned around 10 asses per day (225 denarii per year), and an as could buy 324 g of bread. Some brothels may have had their own token coin system, called spintria.\n\nBecause intercourse with a meretrix was almost normative for the adolescent male of the period, and permitted for the married man as long as the prostitute was properly registered, brothels were commonly dispersed around Roman cities, often found between houses of respected families. These included both large brothels and one-room \"cellae meretriciae\", or \"prostitute's cots\". Roman authors often made distinctions between \"good faith\" meretrices who truly loved their clients, and \"bad faith\" prostitutes, who only lured them in for their money.\n\nThe arches under the circus were a favorite location for prostitutes or potential prostitutes. These arcade dens were called \"fornices\", from which derives the English word \"fornication\". The taverns, inns, lodging houses, cook shops, bakeries, spelt-mills and like institutions all played a prominent part in the underworld of Rome.\n\nThe taverns were generally regarded by the magistrates as brothels and the waitresses were so regarded by the law. The poem \"The Barmaid\" (\"Copa\"), attributed to Virgil, proves that even the proprietress had two strings to her bow, and Horace, in describing his excursion to Brundisium, narrates his experience, or lack of it, with a waitress in an inn. This passage, it should be remarked, is the only one in all his works in which he is absolutely sincere in what he says of women. \"Here like a triple fool I waited till midnight for a lying jade till sleep overcame me, intent on venery; in that filthy vision the dreams spot my night clothes and my belly, as I lie upon my back.\" In the Aeserman inscription we have another example of the hospitality of these inns, and a dialogue between the hostess and a transient. The bill for the services of a girl amounted to 8 \"asses\". This inscription is of great interest to the antiquary, and to the archeologist. That bakers were not slow in organizing the grist mills is shown by a passage from Paulus Diaconus: \"as time went on, the owners of these turned the public corn mills into pernicious frauds. For, as the mill stones were fixed in places under ground, they set up booths on either side of these chambers and caused prostitutes to stand for hire in them, so that by these means they deceived very many, some that came for bread, others that hastened thither for the base gratification of their wantonness.\" From a passage in Festus, it would seem that this was first put into practice in Campania: \"prostitutes were called 'aelicariae', 'spelt-mill girls, in Campania, being accustomed to ply for gain before the mills of the spelt-millers\". \"Common strumpets, bakers' mistresses, refuse the spelt-mill girls,\" says Plautus.\n\nProstitutes had a role in several ancient Roman religious observances, mainly in the month of April. On April 1, women honored Fortuna Virilis, \"Masculine Luck\", on the day of the Veneralia, a festival of Venus. According to Ovid, prostitutes joined married women \"(matronae)\" in the ritual cleansing and reclothing of the cult statue of Fortuna Virilis. Usually, the line between respectable women and the \"infames\" was carefully drawn: when a priestess traveled through the streets, attendants moved prostitutes along with other \"impurities\" out of her path.\n\nOn April 23, prostitutes made offerings at the Temple of Venus Erycina that had been dedicated on that date in 181 BC, as the second temple in Rome to Venus Erycina (Venus of Eryx), a goddess associated with prostitutes. The date coincided with the Vinalia, a wine festival. \"Pimped-out boys\" (\"pueri lenonii)\" were celebrated on April 25, the same day as the Robigalia, an archaic agricultural festival aimed at protecting the grain crops.\n\nOn April 27, the Floralia, held in honor of the goddess Flora and first introduced about 238 BC, featured erotic dancing and stripping by women characterized as prostitutes. According to the Christian writer Lactantius, \"in addition to the freedom of speech that pours forth every obscenity, the prostitutes, at the importunities of the rabble, strip off their clothing and act as mimes in full view of the crowd, and this they continue until full satiety comes to the shameless lookers-on, holding their attention with their wriggling buttocks\". Juvenal also refers to the nude dancing, and perhaps to prostitutes fighting in gladiatorial contests.\n\nIn Medieval Europe, a meretrix was understood as any woman held in common, who “turned no one away”. It was generally understood that money would be involved in this transaction, but it did not have to be: rather, it was promiscuousness that defined the meretrix.\n\nMedieval Christian authors often discouraged prostitution, but did not consider it a serious offence and under some circumstances even considered marrying a harlot to be an act of piety. Every woman was considered to contain a latent meretrix, so that it was possible to both rise out of and fall into the category, as with tales of prostitutes repenting to become saints.\n\nCertain modern professors of feminism have argued that a \"meretrix\" in the medieval mindset is closer to our modern understanding of a sexual identity or orientation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "843369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843369", "title": "Public holidays in France", "text": "Public holidays in France\n\nThere are 11 official public holidays in France. The Alsace region and the Moselle department observe 2 additional days. . Contrary to most countries, these holidays do not shift when they fall during a week-end, which means that the average number of observed public holidays \"falling on weekdays\" is 8.7 and ranges from 7 to 10. Most Asian countries and all North American countries observe between 2 and 10 more public holidays per year \"on weekdays\".\n\nPublic holidays in France are:\n\nSee (Wikipedia page in French), to have all the dates (French Overseas Departments (DOM) added).\n\n\"Note:\" French law dictates that work should stop, but be paid, only for the \"Fête du Travail\" (May Day, 1 May), except in industries where it is infeasible to stop working. The rest of the public holidays are listed in statute law, but law does not dictate that work should stop; however a leave from work may be granted by the employer or by \"convention collective\" (agreement between employers' and employees’ unions).\n\nIn 2005, French prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin removed Pentecost Monday's status as a public holiday. This decision was eventually overruled by French courts in 2008. Employers are free to decide whether to make Whit Monday a day off or not.\n"}
{"id": "11612629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11612629", "title": "Rade people", "text": "Rade people\n\nThe Rade (also Ê Đê or Rhade) are an Austronesian ethnic group of southern Vietnam (population 270,348 in 1999).\n\nThe Rade language is one of the Chamic languages, a subfamily of the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family. Other Cham languages are spoken in central Vietnam and in Aceh, Sumatra; The Cham are more distantly to related to the Malayic languages of Indonesia, Malaysia and Madagascar and to the Philippine languages.\n\nThe Cham developed a writing system developed on the basis of the Latin script in the 1920s.\n\nThe Rade practice matrilineal descent. Descent is traced through the female line, and family property is in the hands of and inherited from women. The basic kinship unit is the matrilineage; these are grouped into higher-level matrilineal sibs (matrisibs). The Rade are further divided into two phratries.\n\nThe women of a matrilineage and their spouses and children live together in a longhouse. The lineage holds corporate property such as paddy land, cattle, gongs, and jars; these are held by the senior female of the matrilineage. The lineage also engages in the farming of common lands and maintenance of the longhouse. The head of the longhouse itself is a man, with the position most commonly inherited by the spouse of the daughter or sister-in-law of the previous longhouse head.\n\nMatrilineages and matrisibs are exogamous, with both sexual intercourse and marriage prohibited. The phratries also impose some restrictions on marriage. Couples violating these restrictions must sacrifice a buffalo, though violating phratry restrictions are generally not seen as being as serious, and require only the sacrifice of a pig. Residence is matrilocal.\n\nRade villages were traditionally autonomous and governed by an oligarchy of leading families. Some villages became locally dominant, but none formed any larger political structures.\n\nEpics (Rade language: \"klei khan\"), such as Klei khan Y Dam San, H'Bia Mlin, Dam Kteh Mlan, Mdrong Dam, etc. are told by epic tellers (Rade language: \"po khan\") next to the fire, through the night.\n\nEde music is very diverse and playing music is the way that Ede people communicate to both other people, and according to their beliefs, God (Ede language: yang).\n\n\n\nA typical house of Rade people is the longhouse made of bamboo and wood. The longhouse's length is measured by the number of collar beams (Rade language: \"de\"). Once a girl living in the house gets married, the house is lengthened by one compartment, as the matrilocal aspect of Rade marriage means that the husband will live in his wife's house. The orientation of buildings are North-South.\n\nThe longhouse's space is divided into two parts: \"Gah\" part's area makes up 1/3- 2/3 the total area is considered as the living room and the other part includes bedrooms. There are two doors: the front door is for men, the back door is for women and two stairs: male stair and female stair.\n\nLonghouses can be 100 meters long and house from three to nine families. A traditional description of the size of the longhouse is: \"The house is as long as the gong's echo\".\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, American and South Vietnamese military advisers feared that the Viet Cong would convert Rhade tribesman in the Đắk Lắk Province to their support. They instituted a program by which American Special Forces sought to train the Rhade in \"village self-defense programs.\" These self-defense programs were highly controversial.\n\nAccording to William Duiker, United States Foreign Officer and East-Asian professor, the training efforts, called \"Civilian Irregular Defense Groups\" (CIDG), were plagued with problems of arbitrary authority on the part of Vietnamese authorities and officers. During the summer of 1964, \"...Vietnamese arrogance led immediately to problems, and in September a serious revolt broke out among the Rhadé [sic] tribesmen in Ban Me Thout. Only with the aid of U.S. advisers was the crisis defused.\"\n\nThe Rade made up a portion of the United States' Montagnard allies, and after the war some fled to the United States, mainly residing in North Carolina.\n\n\nL. Sabatier has collected 236 articles. The highest number of articles is of marriage and family matter, followed by property ownership and relationship between the head of villages and villagers. The main principles are that communal nature and equality are under guarantee. Judges are called \"khoa phat kdi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11940601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11940601", "title": "Rasool Ellore", "text": "Rasool Ellore\n\nRasool Ellore Reddy (born 8 October 1964), also known as Rasool, is an Indian cinematographer, screenwriter, and director known for his works in Telugu cinema, and bollywood. He is the brother-in-law of noted cinematographer S. Gopal Reddy. He is known for his works in films such as \"Gaayam\", \"Gulabi\", \"Chitram\", and others. He made his debut as a director with the romantic comedy, \"Okariki Okaru\". He has garnered three state Nandi Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1298253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298253", "title": "Shah Shujah Durrani Sadozai", "text": "Shah Shujah Durrani Sadozai\n\nShuja Shah Durrani Sadozai (also known as \"Shāh Shujāʻ\", \"Shah Shuja\", \"Shoja Shah\",\"Shuja Sadozai\" \"Shuja al-Mulk\") (4 November 1785 – 5 April 1842) was ruler of the Durrani Empire from 1803 to 1809. He then ruled from 1839 until his death in 1842. Shuja Shah was of the Sadozai clan of the Popalzai Durranis group of Ethnic Pashtuns. He became the fifth Emir of Afghanistan.\n\nShuja Shah was the governor of Herat and Peshawar from 1798 to 1801. He proclaimed himself as King of Afghanistan in October 1801 (after the deposition of his brother Zaman Shah), but only properly ascended to the throne on July 13, 1803. In Afghanistan, a blind man by tradition cannot be Emir, and so Shuja had his brother Zaman blinded, however not killed. After coming to power in 1803, Shuja ended the blood feud with the powerful Barakzai family and also forgave them. To create an alliance with them, he married their \"sister\" Wa'fa Begum.\n\nShuja allied Afghanistan with the United Kingdom in 1809, as a means of defending against an invasion of Afghanistan and The Punjab by Russia. In 1809, a British diplomatic mission was sent to Afghanistan, which at the time was to the British a remote and mysterious part of Asia. According to Mountstuart Elphinstone, \"The King of Kabul [Shah Shuja] was a handsome man\". He also wrote \"of an olive complexion with a thick black beard ... his voice clear, his address princely.\" Shuja wore the Koh-i-Noor (\"Mountain of Light\") diamond in one of his bracelets when Elphinstone visited him. William Fraser, who accompanied Elphinstone to meet Shah Shuja was \"struck with the dignity of his appearance and the romantic Oriental awe.\" Fraser also judged him to be \"about tall\" and his skin colour was \"very fair, but dead...his beard was thick jet black and shortened a little by the obliquely upwards, but turned again at the corners ... The eyelashes and the edges of his eyelids were blackened with antimony.\" He also described Shuja's voice as \"loud and sonorous\".\nIn June 1809, he was overthrown by his predecessor Mahmud Shah and went into exile in The Punjab, where he was captured by Jahandad Khan Bamizai and imprisoned at Attock (1811–1812) and then taken to Kashmir (1812–1813) by Atta Muhammad Khan. When Mahmud Shah's vizier Fateh Khan invaded Kashmir alongside Maharaja Ranjit Singh's army, he chose to leave with the Sikh army. He stayed in Lahore from 1813 to 1814. During his time in India, Shuja lost the Koh-i-Noor diamond to Maharaja Singh. He stayed with Singh so that later on he could strike a deal for their support to attack Dost Mohammad Khan. \n\nFrom 1818 onward, Shuja who liked to live in a lavish style with his wives and concubines had collected a pension from the East India Company, which thought he might prove useful one day. Shuja stayed first in Punjab and later in Ludhiana with Zaman Shah. The place where he stayed in Ludhiana is presently occupied by the Main Post Office near Mata Rani Chowk and inside it there is a white marble stone commemorating his stay there.\n\nDuring his time in exile, Shuja indulged his cruelty by removing the noses, ears, tongues, penises, and testicles of his courtiers and slaves when they displeased him in the slightest. When the American adventurer Dr. Josiah Harlan visited Shuja's court in exile he noted that all of Shuja's courtiers and slaves were missing some part of their bodies as all had in some way displeased their master at some point along the line, to whom they were all slavishly devoted to despite his abuse of them as Harlan noted that there was an \"earless assemblage of mutes and eunuchs in the ex-king's service\". When Shuja went out for picnic with his four wives and the wind blew down his tent, Shuja flew into a rage and he had the man responsible for putting up his tent, Khwajah Mika-a slave from East Africa who had already had his ears chopped off-to be castrated on the spot as punishment for not erecting his tent more firmly, much to Harlan's horror. Shuja's grand vizier, Mullah Shakur had grown his hair long to cover up that both his ears had been chopped off while he spoke in the distinctive high-pitched voice of a eunuch; Harlan noted he was lucky as the rest of his body was still intact. Despite or perhaps because he was mutilated, Shuja's grand vizier took a great deal of pleasure in mutilating others and was always inciting his master to have somebody mutilated. Harlan noted all of the men around Shuja were missing at least one part of their bodies, if not more, and all seemed extremely afraid of their master, who was apt to fly into a rage whenever he did not get his way with anything, and when he was angry, body parts tended to get severed. Harlan commend on \"the grace and dignity of His Highness's demeanor\", observing the sense of power he projected, but also that \"years of disappointment had created in the countenance of the ex-King an appearance of melancholy and resignation.\" Harlan, a man without much military experience and knowledge of Pashto, offered to lead an invasion of Afghanistan to restore Shuja, an offer that led the former monarch to break \"into a poetical effusion in praise of Kabul\" and its gardens, its trees laden with fruits, and its music culminating with \"Kabul is called the Crown of the Air. I pray for the possession of those pleasures which my native country alone can afford\". When Harlan pressed him on whatever he wanted to accept his offer or not, Shuja agreed. Harlan had a tailor sew up an American flag, which Harlan hosted up in Ludhiana, and started to recruit mercenaries for the invasion of Afghanistan, suggesting that he was working for the U.S. government (which he was not). Harlan ultimately grew disillusioned with Shuja, writing he did not view him as the \"legitimate monarch, the victim of treasonable practices\", but rather as \"a wayward tyrant, inflexible in moods, vindictive in his enmities, faithless in his attachments, unnatural in his affections. He remembered his misfortunes only to avenge them\".\n\nIn 1833 he struck a deal with Maharaja Ranjit Singh of the Punjab: He was allowed to march his troops through Punjab, and in return he would cede Peshawar to the Sikhs if they could manage to take it. In a concerted campaign the following year, Shuja marched on Kandahar while the Sikhs, commanded by General Hari Singh Nalwa attacked Peshawar. In July, Shuja Shah was narrowly defeated at Kandahar by the Afghans under Dost Mohammad Khan and fled. The Sikhs on their part reclaimed Peshawar.\n\nIn 1838 he had gained the support of the British and the Sikh Maharaja Ranjit Singh for wresting power from Dost Mohammad Khan. George Eden, 1st Earl of Auckland, believed that most Afghans would welcome the return of Shuja as their rightful ruler, but in fact by 1838, most people in Afghanistan could not remember him, and those that did remembered him as a cruel, tyrannical ruler whom they absolutely hated. During the march on Kabul, the main British camp was attacked by a force of Ghazis, of whom 50 were captured. When the prisoners were brought before Shuja, one of them used a knife he had hidden in his robes to stab to death one of Shuja's ministers, causing Shuja to fly into one of his rages and to order all 50 prisoners to be beheaded on the spot. The British historian Sir John William Kaye wrote the \"wanton barbarity\" of the mass execution as all 50 prisoners were beheaded strained the campaign, stating the \"shrill cry\" of the prisoners as they waited to be executed was the \"funeral wail\" of the \"unholy policy\" of attempting to restore Shuja. Shuja was restored to the throne by the British on August 7, 1839, 30 years after his deposition, but did not remain in power when the British left. Upon being restored, Shuja announced that he considered his own people to be \"dogs\" who needed to be taught to be obedient to their master, and spent his time exacting bloody vengeance on those Afghans whom he felt had betrayed him, making him extremely unpopular with his people. He shut himself away in the Bala Hissar, Kabul, and on leaving it he was assassinated by Shuja ud-Daula, at the insistence of Wazir Akbar Khan on April 5, 1842.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4279853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279853", "title": "The Beginning Was the End", "text": "The Beginning Was the End\n\nThe Beginning Was the End is a 1971 pseudo-scientific book written by Oscar Kiss Maerth that claims that mankind evolved from cannibalistic apes. Its premise:\n\nMaerth wrote the book in a Chinese monastery.\n\nIt was first published in West Germany as \"Der Anfang war das Ende – Der Mensch entstand durch Kannibalismus\" (Econ Verlag GmbH, Düsseldorf und Wien, 1971), then translated by Judith Hayward and published in Great Britain by Michael Joseph, Ltd, 1973 and re-issued by Sphere Books, Ltd, London in 1974, . It has been translated into eight languages.\n\nMaerth asserted that the eating of brain produces an aphrodisiac effect (presumably due to the vast amount of hormones in it), and that this initially caused apes to become addicted to them, organizing brain hunts wherein the males of another tribe were eaten and the females raped in a frenzy of brain-induced sex and violence. However, this diet also inadvertently increased brain size and intelligence while triggering the loss both of body hair and of our innate psychic abilities. Thus man gradually came into being, remaining cannibalistic until 50,000 years ago. Modern humans, alienated from their surroundings now that they've no telepathic contact with nature and each other as animals do, suffering from a distorted sexuality resulting from hormonal imbalances, and driven insane from the constant pressure of their unnaturally large brains pressing on the inside of their skulls, are inevitably destroying themselves with pollution, overpopulation, racial integration and ultimately, nuclear war. He foresees a return to cannibalism in the near future, and suggests that the reader should drop out of society, embrace a vegetarian diet, steep himself in the wisdom of the East and perhaps employ various wooden frames and wire devices to alter the shape of his skull as some ancient cultures did, thus relieving the pressure on the brain and partially restoring psychic powers.\nThe book contains no references whatsoever, based alternately on alleged conversations with present-day cannibals, the eating of ape brain by the author and direct insight from deep meditation. Many parts have been deemed by some as being outright racist, particularly the photographic plates comparing various ethnic faces (primarily Arab and African) to apes. He says that blacks have smaller brains than whites and that contemporary cannibal tribes are seeking to remedy this discrepancy by consuming brains in a frantic attempt to catch up, though he estimates that it would take them roughly 100,000 years to do so.\n\nThe book's legacy comes largely from the new wave band Devo, who incorporated several elements of the book into their concept of \"de-evolution\" and even adopted the book's title for their short film, \"In the Beginning was the End: The Truth About De-evolution\". Bassist/synth player/vocalist Gerald V. Casale said of the book, \"It's a better story than the Bible as far as DEVO's concerned.\" The cover of the 1989 album \"\" is based on the cover of the US paperback edition.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Devo attempted to have the book reprinted with an introduction by them. This met with no success, due to copyright issues. The book is now quite collectable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59100164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59100164", "title": "United By Blue", "text": "United By Blue\n\nUnited By Blue is a for-profit company based in Philadelphia. It is an outdoor lifestyle brand that focuses on sustainable products including apparel, bags, and accessories. It was founded by Brian Linton in 2010. The aim of United By Blue is to have rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. It was certified as a B Corporation due to its meet on social sustainability and environmental performance standards, meet accountability standards, and to be transparent to the public according to the score it receive on the assessment by B Lab.\n"}
{"id": "1369435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1369435", "title": "Vaqueiros de alzada", "text": "Vaqueiros de alzada\n\nThe Vaqueiros d'alzada (\"nomadic cowherds\" in Asturian language, from their word for cow, cognate of Spanish \"Vaquero\") are a northern Spanish nomadic people in the mountains of León and Asturias, who practiced transhumance, i.e. moving seasonally with cattle. \nHistorically, they had been discriminated against by the valley dwellers (\"xaldos\") and by the church in Asturias, because vaqueiros were a free people in the mountains. There are few studies about the origin of vaqueiros and their culture. They distinguish themselves by their costumes and dialect. Their nomadic lifestyle placed them out of the reach of the Church and the Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "12667477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12667477", "title": "Wave of democracy", "text": "Wave of democracy\n\nIn political science, a wave of democracy refers to a major surge of democracy in history. The term \"Third Wave of Democracy\" was first coined by Samuel P. Huntington, a political scientist at Harvard University in his article published in the \"Journal of Democracy\" and further expounded in his 1991 book \"\". \n\nHuntington describes global democratization as coming in three waves, the first beginning in the early 19th century and the third being a current event. Other scholars, such as Seva Gunitsky of University of Toronto, have referred to 13 waves from the 18th century to the Arab Spring (2011-2012).\n\nThe First wave of democracy began in the early 19th century when suffrage was granted to the majority of white males in the United States (\"Jacksonian democracy\"). At its peak, the first wave saw 29 democracies in the world. This continued until 1922, when Benito Mussolini rose to power in Italy. The ebb of the first wave lasted from 1922 until 1942, during which the number of democracies in the world dropped to a mere 12.\n\nThe Second wave began following the Allied victory in World War II, and crested nearly 20 years later in 1962 with 36 recognised democracies in the world. The Second wave ebbed as well at this point, and the total number dropped to 30 democracies between 1962 and the mid-1970s. But the \"flat line\" would not last for long, as the third wave was about to surge in a way no one had ever seen.\n\nScholars have noted that the appearance of \"waves\" of democracy largely disappears when women's suffrage is taken into account; moreover, some countries change their positions quite dramatically: Switzerland, which is typically included as part of the first wave, did not grant women the right to vote until 1971.\n\nThe Third wave began in 1974 (Carnation Revolution, Portugal) and included the historic democratic transitions in Latin America in the 1980s, Asia Pacific countries and regions (Philippines, South Korea, and Taiwan) from 1986 to 1988, Eastern Europe after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and sub-Saharan Africa beginning in 1989. The expansion of democracy in some regions was stunning. In Latin America only Colombia, Costa Rica, and Venezuela were democratic by 1978 and only Cuba and Haiti remained authoritarian by 1995, when the wave had swept across twenty countries. Exact tallies of the number of democracies vary depending on the criteria used for assessment, but by some measures there are well over 100 democracies in the world today, a marked increase in just a few decades. Many of these newer democracies are not fully \"consolidated,\" however, meaning that while they have electoral institutions in place, political democracy remains fragile. Reasons for this fragility include economic instability, continued elite dominance of politics, ongoing military interference in civilian affairs, and others.\n\nCountries undergoing or having undergone a transition to democracy during a wave are subject to democratic backsliding. Political scientists and theorists believe that the third wave has crested and will soon begin to ebb, just as its predecessors did in the first and second waves. Indeed, in the period immediately following the onset of the \"war on terror\" after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, some backsliding was evident. How significant or lasting that erosion is remains a subject of debate.\n\nAfter the Great Recession of 2008, a number of countries backslided from democracy including Thailand, Cambodia, Philippines, Turkey, Hungary, Poland, Honduras and the Maldives. Some other countries have had democratic transitions however, such as Tunisia and the Gambia. There has also been limited democratic reform in some countries, such as Burma and Morocco. \n\nExperts have associated the collapse of several dictatorships in the Middle East and North Africa, phenomenon known as Arab Spring, with the events which followed the fall of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe. The similarity between the two phenomena inspired hope for a fourth wave of democratization. However, a few months after the apparent beginning of the transition, most of the Arab political openings closed, causing an inevitable pull-back. One of the most alarming cases was that of Egypt, where the government, controlled by the military, did not facilitate the democratic transition in any way. On the contrary, it strove to silence the protests by arresting peaceful protesters and by “trying them in military tribunals.” A concrete example is provided by the story of Maikel Nabil, an Egyptian blogger convicted to be imprisoned for three years for “insulting the military establishment.” The main causes of the regression and crisis in all the affected countries are attributed to corruption, unemployment, social injustice, and autocratic political systems.\n\nDespite the apparently unsolvable situation, the UN, under the administration of Ban Ki-Moon, tried to work as a mediator between the governments and the protesters. Moreover, according to Larry Diamond, the engagement of the United States of America in the democratic transition of the Arab world was fundamental. He attributed to the country the role of mentor and example for the newborn democracies.\n\nDigital media played a much longer term role in creating favorable conditions for uprisings, helped to publicize key igniting events, and then facilitated those uprisings and their diffusion; but digital media did not do this alone or as suddenly as some observers have claimed. The story of the Arab Spring, according to Howard and Hussain, began over a decade ago as Internet access and mobile phones began to diffuse rapidly through North Africa and the Middle East. The citizens that could afford internet access, the wealthy and powerful mostly, played a huge role in the Egypt, Tunisia, and Bahrain uprisings. Over time, online criticisms of regimes became more public and common, setting the stage for the Arab Spring. Digital media also allowed women and other minorities to enter these political discussions, and, ultimately, the ensuing protests and revolutions as well.\n\nIn a 2018 study in \"Perspectives on Politics,\" Seva Gunitsky of University of Toronto refers to thirteen waves of democracy:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33972", "title": "Wolfgang Pauli", "text": "Wolfgang Pauli\n\nWolfgang Ernst Pauli (; ; 25 April 1900 – 15 December 1958) was an Austrian-born Swiss and American theoretical physicist and one of the pioneers of quantum physics. In 1945, after having been nominated by Albert Einstein, Pauli received the Nobel Prize in Physics for his \"decisive contribution through his discovery of a new law of Nature, the exclusion principle or Pauli principle\". The discovery involved spin theory, which is the basis of a theory of the structure of matter.\n\nPauli was born in Vienna to a chemist Wolfgang Joseph Pauli (\"né\" Wolf Pascheles, 1869–1955) and his wife Bertha Camilla Schütz; his sister was Hertha Pauli, the writer and actress. Pauli's middle name was given in honor of his godfather, physicist Ernst Mach. Pauli's paternal grandparents were from prominent Jewish families of Prague; his great-grandfather was the Jewish publisher Wolf Pascheles. Pauli's father converted from Judaism to Roman Catholicism shortly before his marriage in 1899. Pauli's mother, Bertha Schütz, was raised in her own mother's Roman Catholic religion; her father was Jewish writer Friedrich Schütz. Pauli was raised as a Roman Catholic, although eventually he and his parents left the Church. He is considered to have been a deist and a mystic.\n\nPauli attended the Döblinger-Gymnasium in Vienna, graduating with distinction in 1918. Only two months after graduation, he published his first paper, on Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity. He attended the Ludwig-Maximilians University in Munich, working under Arnold Sommerfeld, where he received his PhD in July 1921 for his thesis on the quantum theory of ionized diatomic hydrogen ().\n\nSommerfeld asked Pauli to review the theory of relativity for the \"Encyklopädie der mathematischen Wissenschaften\" (\"Encyclopedia of Mathematical Sciences\"). Two months after receiving his doctorate, Pauli completed the article, which came to 237 pages. It was praised by Einstein; published as a monograph, it remains a standard reference on the subject to this day.\nPauli spent a year at the University of Göttingen as the assistant to Max Born, and the following year at the Institute for Theoretical Physics in Copenhagen, which later became the Niels Bohr Institute in 1965. From 1923 to 1928, he was a lecturer at the University of Hamburg. During this period, Pauli was instrumental in the development of the modern theory of quantum mechanics. In particular, he formulated the exclusion principle and the theory of nonrelativistic spin.\n\nIn 1928, he was appointed Professor of Theoretical Physics at ETH Zurich in Switzerland where he made significant scientific progress. He held visiting professorships at the University of Michigan in 1931, and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton in 1935. He was awarded the Lorentz Medal in 1931.\n\nAt the end of 1930, shortly after his postulation of the neutrino and immediately following his divorce and the suicide of his mother, Pauli experienced a personal crisis. He consulted psychiatrist and psychotherapist Carl Jung who, like Pauli, lived near Zurich. Jung immediately began interpreting Pauli's deeply archetypal dreams, and Pauli became one of the depth psychologist's best students. He soon began to criticize the epistemology of Jung's theory scientifically, and this contributed to a certain clarification of the latter's thoughts, especially about the concept of synchronicity. A great many of these discussions are documented in the Pauli/Jung letters, today published as \"Atom and Archetype\". Jung's elaborate analysis of more than 400 of Pauli's dreams is documented in \"Psychology and Alchemy\".\n\nThe German annexation of Austria in 1938 made him a German citizen, which became a problem for him in 1939 after the outbreak of World War II. In 1940, he tried in vain to obtain Swiss citizenship, which would have allowed him to remain at the ETH.\n\nPauli moved to the United States in 1940, where he was employed as a professor of theoretical physics at the Institute for Advanced Study. In 1946, after the war, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States and subsequently returned to Zurich, where he mostly remained for the rest of his life. In 1949, he was granted Swiss citizenship.\n\nIn 1958, Pauli was awarded the Max Planck medal. In that same year, he fell ill with pancreatic cancer. When his last assistant, Charles Enz, visited him at the Rotkreuz hospital in Zurich, Pauli asked him: \"Did you see the room number?\" It was number 137. Throughout his life, Pauli had been preoccupied with the question of why the fine structure constant, a dimensionless fundamental constant, has a value nearly equal to 1/137. Pauli died in that room on 15 December 1958.\n\nPauli made many important contributions as a physicist, primarily in the field of quantum mechanics. He seldom published papers, preferring lengthy correspondences with colleagues such as Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, with whom he had close friendships. Many of his ideas and results were never published and appeared only in his letters, which were often copied and circulated by their recipients.\n\nPauli proposed in 1924 a new quantum degree of freedom (or quantum number) with two possible values, in order to resolve inconsistencies between observed molecular spectra and the developing theory of quantum mechanics. He formulated the Pauli exclusion principle, perhaps his most important work, which stated that no two electrons could exist in the same quantum state, identified by four quantum numbers including his new two-valued degree of freedom. The idea of spin originated with Ralph Kronig. George Uhlenbeck and Samuel Goudsmit one year later identified Pauli's new degree of freedom as electron spin.\n\nIn 1926, shortly after Heisenberg published the matrix theory of modern quantum mechanics, Pauli used it to derive the observed spectrum of the hydrogen atom. This result was important in securing credibility for Heisenberg's theory.\n\nPauli introduced the 2 × 2 Pauli matrices as a basis of spin operators, thus solving the nonrelativistic theory of spin. This work is sometimes said to have influenced Paul Dirac in his creation of the Dirac equation for the relativistic electron, though Dirac stated that he invented these same matrices himself independently at the time, without Pauli's influence. Dirac invented similar but larger (4x4) spin matrices for use in his relativistic treatment of fermionic spin.\n\nIn 1930, Pauli considered the problem of beta decay. In a letter of 4 December to Lise Meitner \"et al.\", beginning, \"Dear radioactive ladies and gentlemen\", he proposed the existence of a hitherto unobserved neutral particle with a small mass, no greater than 1% the mass of a proton, in order to explain the continuous spectrum of beta decay. In 1934, Enrico Fermi incorporated the particle, which he called a neutrino, into his theory of beta decay. The neutrino was first confirmed experimentally in 1956 by Frederick Reines and Clyde Cowan, two and a half years before Pauli's death. On receiving the news, he replied by telegram: \"Thanks for message. Everything comes to him who knows how to wait. Pauli.\"\n\nIn 1940, he re-derived the spin-statistics theorem, a critical result of quantum field theory which states that particles with half-integer spin are fermions, while particles with integer spin are bosons.\n\nIn 1949, he published a paper on Pauli–Villars regularization: regularization is the term for techniques which modify infinite mathematical integrals to make them finite during calculations, so that one can identify whether the intrinsically infinite quantities in the theory (mass, charge, wavefunction) form a finite and hence calculable set which can be redefined in terms of their experimental values, which criterion is termed renormalization, and which removes infinities from quantum field theories, but also importantly allows the calculation of higher order corrections in perturbation theory.\n\nPauli made repeated criticisms of the modern synthesis of evolutionary biology, and his contemporary admirers point to modes of epigenetic inheritance as supportive of his arguments.\n\nThe Pauli effect was named after the anecdotal bizarre ability of his to break experimental equipment simply by being in the vicinity. Pauli was aware of his reputation and was delighted whenever the Pauli effect manifested. These strange occurrences were in line with his investigations into the legitimacy of parapsychology, particularly his collaboration with C. G. Jung on the concept of synchronicity.\n\nRegarding physics, Pauli was famously a perfectionist. This extended not just to his own work, but also to the work of his colleagues. As a result, he became known in the physics community as the \"conscience of physics,\" the critic to whom his colleagues were accountable. He could be scathing in his dismissal of any theory he found lacking, often labelling it \"ganz falsch\", utterly wrong.\n\nHowever, this was not his most severe criticism, which he reserved for theories or theses so unclearly presented as to be untestable or unevaluatable and, thus, not properly belonging within the realm of science, even though posing as such. They were worse than wrong because they could not be proven wrong. Famously, he once said of such an unclear paper: \"It is not even wrong!\"\n\nHis supposed remark when meeting another leading physicist, Paul Ehrenfest, illustrates this notion of an arrogant Pauli. The two met at a conference for the first time. Ehrenfest was familiar with Pauli's papers and was quite impressed with them. After a few minutes of conversation, Ehrenfest remarked, \"I think I like your Encyclopedia article [on relativity theory] better than I like you,\" to which Pauli shot back, \"That's strange. With me, regarding you, it is just the opposite.\" The two became very good friends from then on.\n\nA somewhat warmer picture emerges from this story, which appears in the article on Dirac:\n\nWerner Heisenberg [in \"Physics and Beyond\", 1971] recollects a friendly conversation among young participants at the 1927 Solvay Conference, about Einstein and Planck's views on religion. Wolfgang Pauli, Heisenberg, and Dirac took part in it. Dirac's contribution was a poignant and clear criticism of the political manipulation of religion, that was much appreciated for its lucidity by Bohr, when Heisenberg reported it to him later. Among other things, Dirac said: \"I cannot understand why we idle discussing religion. If we are honest – and as scientists honesty is our precise duty – we cannot help but admit that any religion is a pack of false statements, deprived of any real foundation. The very idea of God is a product of human imagination. [ ... ] I do not recognize any religious myth, at least because they contradict one another. [ ... ]\" Heisenberg's view was tolerant. Pauli had kept silent, after some initial remarks. But when finally he was asked for his opinion, jokingly he said: \"Well, I'd say that also our friend Dirac has got a religion and the first commandment of this religion is 'God does not exist and Paul Dirac is his prophet'\". Everybody burst into laughter, including Dirac.\n\nMany of Pauli's ideas and results were never published and appeared only in his letters, which were often copied and circulated by their recipients. Pauli may have been unconcerned that much of his work thus went uncredited, but when it came to Heisenberg's world-renowned 1958 lecture at Göttingen on their joint work on a unified field theory, and the press release calling Pauli a mere \"assistant to Professor Heisenberg\", Pauli became offended, denouncing Heisenberg's physics prowess. The deterioration between them resulted in Heisenberg ignoring Pauli's funeral, and writing in his autobiography that Pauli's criticisms were overwrought. Pauli was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 1953. In 1958 he became foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn May 1929, Pauli left the Roman Catholic Church. In December of that year, he married Käthe Margarethe Deppner. The marriage was an unhappy one, ending in divorce in 1930 after less than a year. He married again in 1934 to Franziska Bertram (1901–1987). They had no children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24485277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24485277", "title": "Women in the patristic age", "text": "Women in the patristic age\n\nThe status of women in the patristic age, as defined by the Church Fathers, is a contentious issue within Christianity because the patristic writers clearly sought to restrict the influence of women in civil society as well as in the life of the Church. \n\nThe patristic era, which extends roughly from 150 AD to 500 AD, was arguably harsher than the Middle Ages themselves in attributing social roles to women, hence the expression \"patriarchy\" used by modern-day feminists.\n\nAristotle believed that women are colder than men and thus a lower form of life. His assumption carried forward unexamined to Galen and others until the 16th century.\n\nIn the classical age, which shaped patristic views, male sexuality and power were closely associated, and female sexuality was associated with passivity. Church Fathers opposed to practice of independent female ascetism because it threatened to emancipate women from men. To take one's pleasure was to be virile, to accept it servile.\n\nThroughout the Patristic age, women held a variety of positions in Church office and performed ecclesiastical duties. Despite recurrent opposition of women in office by various Councils and Church fathers like Tertullian, women were influential in shaping the hierarchy of Christianity. By the end of the 6th century, the Church officially recognized three orders of women: deaconesses, widows and virgins. The surviving evidence also suggests the existence of female presbyters and even bishops, the extent of which is unclear because of the scarcity of remaining records.\n\nIn the Eastern Church, women were being ordained as deaconesses from the 3rd century to at least the 7th century, from Armenia to Gaul. By the 3rd century, the office of deaconesses was well attested by the \"Didascalia Apostolorum\". The office was further classified in the Council of Nicaea as well as the Apostolic Constitutions of the 4th century in which the ordination ceremony for the deaconess is outlined, confirming its place as an order supported by the Church. Evidence for female deacons in the West emerges in the 5th century but few inscriptions survive as a result of several synods’ efforts to eliminate them. The female diaconate in the West certainly existed, though was not widely accepted. Moreover, it was subject to local interpretations and was often confused with the order of widows. Although the role of the deaconess was liturgical in nature, it remained limited to duties considered improper for a male to perform, such as instructing women, assisting women in disrobing and anointing their body in the holy rite of baptism.\n\nBy the early 3rd century, the qualification for the office of widows was well established and its duties were clearly outlined in various Church Orders. Some inscriptions, such as The Apostolic Tradition reveal that widows were to be ecclesiastically enrolled, but not ordained. Others, like the Testamentum Domini explicitly state that widows were to have an ordained office, with duties surpassing the usual service of prayer. Regardless of the status they were granted, the Church irrefutably held widows in high esteem. In contrast, virgins were not considered church offices, nor were they appointed by ordination. In some areas however, they were considered members of the clergy and part of the ecclesiastical order, like those of Tertullian’s Carthage and other African congregations.\n\nRepeated attempts were made by councils to eliminate the order of female presbyters. Their existence, albeit small in quantity, is indicated through epigraphical and literary evidence. Documented incidences of female presbyters are limited, with records suggesting they were most common in the Montanist movement in the East and the Priscillianist movement in the West. Although both movements were later deemed heretical, evidence also exists to support the presence of female presbyters within the “orthodox” Church. A letter from Pope Gelasius from the end of the 5th century acknowledges their sacerdotal duties in Southern Italy and Sicily, whose communities and bishops evidently accepted these positions. Some argue that perhaps their governing role in communities as presbyters assigned women the authority to teach and exercise sacramental and liturgical functions. Nevertheless, the precise responsibilities of female presbyters remains largely unclear.\n\nThe early Church largely succeeded in excluding women from this office. Despite this, some Christian groups like the Montanists did appoint women as bishops. Latin inscriptions from Italy and Dalmatia certainly suggest their presence there as bishops in the 5th and 6th centuries. As a result of sparse epigraphical evidence, it is arguable whether women exercised the role of bishop in other areas and Christian groups.\n\nTertullian's views on women went further: \"The curse God pronounced on your sex still weighs on the world. …You are the devil's gateway…. You are the first that deserted the divine laws. All too easily you destroyed the image of God, Adam. Because you deserved death, it was the son of God who had to die\".\n\nSt Jerome, the well known Biblical scholar and translator of the Bible into Latin (the Vulgate) had a simple view of women. To him \"woman is the root of all evil.\" Like most early Christian theologians, Jerome glorified virginity and looked down on marriage. His reasoning was also rooted in Genesis: \"Eve in paradise was a virgin ... understand that virginity is natural and that marriage comes after the Fall.\"\n\nFirmilian tells of a woman who went into an ecstasy and came out a prophetess. \"That woman who first through marvels or deceptions of the demons did many things to deceive the faithful, among other things... she dared to do this, namely that by an impressive invocation she feigned she was sanctifying bread, and offering a sacrifice to the Lord.\"\n\nJohn Chrysostom, bishop of Constantinople at the beginning of the 5th century, said of biblical women that they \"were great characters, great women and admirable…. Yet did they in no case outstrip the men, but occupied the second rank\" (\"Epistle to the Ephesians\", Homily 13). Commenting on , \n\nChrysostom said that \"the male sex enjoyed the higher honor. Man was first formed; and elsewhere he shows their superiority…. He wishes the man to have the preeminence in every way.\" Of women he said that \"The woman taught once, and ruined all. On this account therefore he saith, let her not teach. But what is it to other women, that she suffered this? It certainly concerns them; for the sex is weak and fickle, and he is speaking of the sex collectively.\" (\"1 Timothy\", Homily 9).\n\nAugustine elevated the contempt of women and sex to a level unsurpassed before. To him, women's inferiority to men was so obvious that he felt that he had to ask the question: \"Why was woman created at all\". He concluded that woman was created purely for procreation and for nothing else. The expulsion of Adam and Eve from paradise, according to him, was purely the fault of Eve.\n\nGregory of Nazianzus, the Bishop of Constantinople had this to say about women, \"Fierce is the dragon and cunning the asp; But women have the malice of both.\"\n\nAccording to the theologian Origen, women are worse than animals because they are continuously full of lust. Origen does not approve of the sexual act even in marriage and taught that although widowers can remarry, they are by no means crowned for this. He also argued in his commentary on that female prophets never spoke publicly in the assembly.\n\nSt. Clement of Alexandria had such a contempt for women that he believed such a feeling must be universal. He wrote, in his book Paedagogus that in women, \"the consciousness of their own nature must evoke feelings of shame\". He also suggested that women should also fetch from the pantry things that we need.\n\nGregory of Nyssa taught that the sexual act was an outcome of the fall and that marriage is the outcome of sin.\n\nThe c. 4th century council of Elvira made some canons (church law) restricting women concerning divorce, adultery and abortion:\n\nIn his First Apology Justin Martyr cautioned that it was wicked to dispose of children through exposure to the elements, given that almost all those who are exposed were raised to prostitution.\n\nJustin also added a warning against consorting with prostitutes because it was possible that one \"may possibly be having intercourse with his own child, or relative, or brother\" unknowingly, due to the practice of infant exposure.\n\nA number of minority movements, deemed heretical by the wider church, gave a more prominent place to the ministry of women and in some cases allowed them to participate in the priestly ministry. These include Montanism in the 2nd and 3rd century, the Quintillians and Collyridians in the 4th century, and Priscillianism in the 4th century. These heretical sects provided occasion for the institutional church to condemn the ecclesiastical ministry of women.\n\n"}
{"id": "34424212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34424212", "title": "World League for Sexual Reform", "text": "World League for Sexual Reform\n\nThe World League for Sexual Reform was a League for coordinating policy reforms related to greater openness around sex. The organization advocated a ten-point platform which included:\n\n\nIn 1921 Magnus Hirschfeld organised the First Congress for Sexual Reform, which led to the formation of the League. Ralf Dose has written an overview of the League. Congresses were held in Copenhagen (1928), London (1929), Vienna (1930), and Brno (1932). Congress speakers included: Magnus Hirschfeld, Norman Haire, Vera Brittain, Dora Russell, Charles Vickery Drysdale (from the Malthusian League), Stella Browne, Ernst Gräfenberg, Marie Stopes, M. D. Eder (a pioneer psychiatrist), Laurence Housman, George Ives, Eden Paul, Felix Abraham (who with Dr Levy-Lenz performed the world’s first sex-change operation in 1931 at Hirschfeld’s Institut für Sexualwissenschaft in Berlin), Bernard Shaw, Bertrand Russell, Ethel Mannin, Harry Benjamin, Peter Schmidt, William J. Robinson (an American contraception crusader) and Jack Flügel, a Freudian psychologist who assisted Norman Haire and Dora Russell organize the Congress and also led the Men's Dress Reform Party. Although not a speaker, Albert Einstein was in contact with the Congress.\n\nIn 1928 Francis Turville-Petre, British archaeologist and friend of Christopher Isherwood, stayed at Hirschfeld's Institute of Sexual Research in Weimar Berlin. Whilst based in Berlin, Turville-Petre was an active member of the Scientific Humanitarian Committee, which campaigned for gay legal reform and tolerance, and attended the Second Congress in Copenhagen in 1928.\n\nIn 1929 Magnus Hirschfeld presided over the third international congress held at Wigmore Hall, London. Harley Street sexologist, Norman Haire as secretary and Dora Russell as treasurer, jointly organized the event. Magnus Hirschfeld's speech praised British scientists as \"distinguished pioneers in eugenics\". A number of British feminists attended the 1929 conference, including Naomi Mitchison (whose paper was \"Some Comment on the Use of Contraceptives by Intelligent Persons\"), Dora Russell (\"Marriage and Freedom\"), Janet Chance, a pioneer of abortion-law reform (\"A Marriage Education Centre in London\"), Vera Brittain, a writer and pacifist (\"The Failure of Monogamy\") and Stella Browne (\"The Right to Abortion\").\n\nIn 1932, the fourth international conference of the WLSR was organized and hosted by Hugo Iltis in Brno. Plans for a fifth conference in Moscow were scrubbed because of the political stresses caused by the growing power of Hitler and Stalin.\n\nMany of the WLSR's books and records were destroyed by the Nazis during a raid in Berlin on the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft in May 1933.\n"}
