{"id": "3675940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675940", "title": "2Baba", "text": "2Baba\n\nInnocent Ujah Idibia (born in Shomolu, Lagos State, Nigeria), known by his stage name 2Baba, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, record producer and entrepreneur. Prior to July 2014, he went by the stage name 2face Idibia. He is one of the most decorated and successful Afro pop artists in Africa, and is also one of the most bankable artists in Africa.\n\n2Baba has received one MTV Europe Music Award, one World Music Award, five Headies Awards (Hip-hop award), four Channel O Music Video Awards and one BET award for his musical work, four MTV Africa Music Awards, one MOBO award, one KORA award, and numerous additional nominations.\n\nInnocent Idibia was born in Jos, Nigeria\n. He is from the Idoma ethnic group in the southern part of Benue State, in central Nigeria. He attended Mount Saint Gabriel's Secondary School in Makurdi, Benue State. He enrolled at Institute of Management & Technology, Enugu (IMT), where he did his preliminary National Diploma course in business administration and management. While attending IMT, he performed at school organised shows and parties, as well as other regional schools such as the University of Nigeria and Enugu State University of Science & Technology. He eventually dropped out to pursue his music career. While attending IMT, 2face Idibia started composing and singing jingles at the GB Fan Club at Enugu State Broadcasting Services (ESBS) in 1996.\n\nAlso in 1996, he adopted the stage name \"2Face\" (Tuface). He cited the reason as \"trying to demarcate my personal life with my business life.\n\nHe moved to Lagos and started performing with rapper Blackface Naija. He had met BlackFace while attending IMT. With Blackface (Ahmedu Augustine Obiabo) and with musician Faze (Chibuzor Oji), he went on to form the trio band Plantashun Boiz.\n\nPlantashun Boiz released two successful albums: \"Body and Soul\" (2000) and \"Sold Out\" (2003)under the Nelson Brown's owned Label (Dove Records) before disbanding in 2004. Relations were marred for many years during which the band broke up and its members started their solo careers. Long after the break-up known as the \"Faze vs Tuface\" beef, the band came back together in 2007 for the purpose of recording a third and final album entitled \"Plan B\" (2007).\n\nAfter the disbandment of Plantashun Boyz in 2004, all band members sought separate musical careers. 2face Idibia released his debut solo album \"Face 2 Face\" (2004), which established him as a viable solo artist.\n\nFollowing the release of his debut album, he released his second album \"Grass 2 Grace\" in 2006, which contained hits \"One Love\", \"True Love, \"4 Instance\". He is the founder of Hypertek Entertainment. \n\nIn 2006, his song \"African Queen\" was used in the soundtrack for the film \"Phat Girlz\", which was released internationally.\n\nHe released a promotion album in 2008 called \"The Unstoppable\" releasing the single \"Enter the Place\". Problems with album distribution in 2007 caused as shift of the release date of the album from 2008 to early 2009. In 2010, 2face released an \"international edition\" of the same under the title \"The Unstoppable International Edition\" making him the first Nigerian artist to have an appropriately priced international album. 2face released two more singles from the international version of his \"Unstoppable\" album. The international edition of the album won two awards at the 2010 SoundCity Music Video Awards. He also won the Channel O Music Video Awards Best African Western award and the MTV Africa Music Awards for Best Male and Artist of the year.\n\nUpon leaving the music label Kennis Music, he set up his own record label known as Hypertek Entertainment. He is part of the Sony All African One8 Project alongside seven other musicians across Africa recording a single with R. Kelly and Prince Lee titled \"Hands Across the World\". He is the first non-Liberian to become an honorary member of the Liberian music society in recognition for his outstanding contribution to the growth of music in Africa. He has been named Red cross ambassador society of Nigeria. 2face has several collaborations all over the globe, giving his collaborators the opportunity to win an awards for each duet such as street credibility by 9ice, possibility by p-square and lots more. He is adored by his colleagues and every entertainer in Nigeria music industry as a role model. 2face and heavy weight American Rapper Jay Z met in NYC 2014.\n\n2face Idibia has also been an ambassador for quite a number of brands including Guinness, Nigerian Breweries etc. He is also the brand ambassador for National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control.\n\nThe FORTYfied All-Star Tribute Concert, stylised as #FORTYfied, was an all-star tribute concert organised by 2face Idibia to celebrate his 40th birthday and influence in the music of Nigeria. Hosted by Basketmouth, the STAR Lager Beer-sponsored concert was held on 20 September 2015 at the Eko Hotel and Suites Convention Centre. The concert was attended by dignitaries and featured performances from notable musicians including Wizkid, Burna Boy, Timaya, D'banj, Sound Sultan, Patoranking, Vector tha Viper, Wande Coal and Seyi Shay.\n\nHe is also the owner of the Buckwyld and Breathless concert\n\n2Face has experienced near-death events, including gunshots from an armed robbery.\n\nOn 2 May 2012, 2Face Idibia and Annie Macaulay married in Lagos, Nigeria in a private ceremony. 2face announced his marriage via his Twitter page. Annie Macaulay and 2Face had their traditional wedding on 8 March 2013 in Eket, Akwa-Ibom State Nigeria. The couple also had a white wedding in Dubai, on Saturday 23 March 2013 with Nigerian and Ghanaian celebrities all present to see the long term couple tie the knot.\n\nHis wife, Annie Idibia, 17 August 2015, announced that she has opened a beauty salon in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, called BeOlive Hair Studio. 2face has 7 children from 4 different women.\n\n2Face has established an NGO called 2Face Idibia Reach-Out Foundation. whose motto is \"service to humanity\".\n\nIn 2009, 2Face was appointed as ambassador by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control. He released a song \"Man Unkind\" to raise awareness on the menace of fake and sub-standard food and drug products in Nigeria. In 2009, he was presented with the prestigious International Youth Ambassador for Peace Summit and the Nigeria Youth Merit Award by the National Youth Council of Nigeria in recognition of his contributions to youth development in Nigeria. Tu Face is presently one of the Judges in The Voice Nigeria, alongside other artists like Timi Dakolo, Patoraking and Waje.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59203638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59203638", "title": "Abd Allah ibn Hanzala", "text": "Abd Allah ibn Hanzala\n\nʿAbd Allāh ibn Ḥanẓala ibn Abī ʿĀmir al-Anṣārī (625/26 – August 683) was the leader of the Ansar faction of Medina during the city’s revolt against Caliph Yazid I in 682–683. He was killed when he led his forces to confront Yazid’s expeditionary army at the Battle of al-Harrah in August 683.\n\nAbd Allah was the son of Hanzala ibn Abi ‘Amir, a \"sahaba\" (companion) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad who had been slain at the Battle of Uhud in 625. Abd Allah was born after his father’s death. He became known as “Ibn al-Ghasīl” after his father’s nickname “al-Ghasīl al-Malāʾika”. \n\nWhen Yazid I succeeded his father Muawiya I as caliph, the move was opposed by the Ansar. The latter were the early supporters of Muhammad from Medina and this group had included Abd Allah’s father. Abd Allah himself was part of a delegation from Medina sent by the Umayyad governor of the city, Uthman ibn Muhammad, to reconcile with Yazid in the Umayyad capital Damascus. Despite the warm reception, the delegation left Damascus with the conviction that Yazid was unfit to be caliph. Abd Allah was the most vocal in his criticism and was chosen by the Ansar to be their leader. Meanwhile, the Quraysh of Medina, who also opposed Yazid, chose Abd Allah ibn Muti as the leader of their faction.\n\nTogether, the Ansar and Quraysh drove out the Umayyads from Medina, prompting Yazid to dispatch an army led by Muslim ibn Uqba to bring the city into submission. The army, composed of the Arab tribesmen of Syria, took up strategic positions in the Harrah just east of Medina where they met the Ansar led by Abd Allah. During the ensuing battle, the faction of Medina was defeated and Abd Allah was slain. According to historians Ch. Pellat and K. V. Zettersteen, Abd Allah had fought with “remarkable bravery ... but finally fell under the blows of the Syrians”. His body was subsequently decapitated and his head was given to Ibn Uqba. Meanwhile, the two soldiers credited with his death were rewarded by Yazid.\n"}
{"id": "18293238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18293238", "title": "Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti", "text": "Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti\n\nAbdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti,(Arabic:عبدالرحمن بن اسماعيل الجبرتي) also known as Darod,(Arabic:دارود) Dawud or Da'ud, is the common ancestor of the Somali and Omani Darod clan. According to early Islamic books and local tradition, Abdirahman descended from Aqeel ibn Abi Talib, a member of the Banu Hashim and the cousin of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nAuthors such as Ibn Hawqal, Al-Muqaddasi and Ibn Said have confirmed the early presence of Arabian tribes in municipalities such as Berbera, Zeila, Jabarta (an old metropolis now in ruins), and Massawa in the northern Horn of Africa.\n\nAl-Masudi wrote about the specific Arabian families and tribes that lived in Jabarta and Zeila in his 9th century book \"Aqeeliyoon\". This book sheds light on one individual, a Sufi Sheikh of the Qadiriyyah order called Isma'il ibn Ibrahim al-Jabarti, who fathered several children, one of which was named Abdirahman.\n\nAccording to such early Islamic books and Somali tradition, Muhammad ibn Aqil's descendant Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti (Darod) fled his homeland in the Arabian Peninsula after an argument with his uncle. During the 10th or 11th century CE, he is believed to have then settled in northern Somalia just across the Red Sea. He subsequently married Dobira, the daughter of the Dir clan chief, which is said to have given rise to the Darod clan family. Thus, it established matrilateral ties with the Samaale main stem.\n\nAccording to the British anthropologist and Somali Studies veteran I.M. Lewis, while the traditions of descent from noble Arab families related to Muhammad are most probably expressions of the importance of Islam in Somali society, \"there is a strong historically valid component in these legends which, in the case of the Darod, is confirmed in the current practice of a Dir representative officiating at the ceremony of installation of the chief of the Darod family.\"\n\nA similar clan mythology exists for the Isaaq, who are descended from one Sheikh Ishaq ibn Ahmad al-'Alawi, another Banu Hashim who came to Somalia around the same time. As with Sheikh Isaaq, there are also numerous existing hagiologies in Arabic which describe Sheikh Darod's travels, works and overall life in northern Somalia, as well as his movements in Arabia before his arrival. Besides historical sources such as Al-Masudi's \"Aqeeliyoon\", a modern \"manaaqib\" (a collection of glorious deeds) printed in Cairo in 1945 by Sheikh Ahmad bin Hussen bin Mahammad titled \"Manaaqib as-Sheikh Ismaa'iil bin Ibraahiim al-Jabarti\" also discusses Sheikh Darod and his proposed father Isma'il al-Jabarti, the latter of whom is reportedly buried in Bab Siham situated in the Zabid District of western Yemen.\n\nSheikh Darod's own tomb is in Haylaan, situated in the Hadaaftimo Mountains in northern Somalia, and is the scene of frequent pilgrimages. Sheikh Isaaq is buried nearby in Maydh, as is Sheikh Harti, a descendant of Sheikh Darod and the progenitor of the Harti Darod sub-clan, whose tomb is located in the ancient town of Qa’ableh.\n\nSheikh Darod's \"mawlid\" (birthday) is also celebrated every Friday with a public reading of his \"manaaqib\". One source, which does not conform with the common literature on him, also links Abdirahman to the Harla tribe.\n\nAccording to many medieval and modern Islamic historians, Darod is descended from Aqeel ibn Abi Talib, the cousin of Muhammad and brother of Ali ibn Abi Talib. An ancient Islamic history book, called \"Aqeeliyoon\" by Al-Masudi, talks in detail about the descendants of Aqeel ibn Abi Talib, wherein Darod is also mentioned. The book gives Sheikh Darod's lineage as Abdirahmaan Bin Ismaa'iil Bin Ibraahim Bin Abdirahmaan Bin Muhammed Bin Abdi Samad Bin Hanbal Bin Mahdi Bin Ahmed Bin Abdalle Bin Muhammed Bin Aqail Bin Abu-Talib Bin Abdul-Mutalib Bin Hashim Bin Qusaya.\n\nAccording to \"Allaa'i Alsuniyah Fi Al-Aqab Al-Aqeeliyah\" (2006) by Ahmed bin Ali Al-Rajihi Al-Aqeeli, the lineage of Sheikh Darod/Da'ud is: \"Da'ud ibn Ismail ibn Ibrahim ibn Abdulsamad ibn Ahmed ibn Abdallah ibn Ahmed Ibn Ismail ibn Ibrahim ibn Abdallah ibn Isma'il ibn Ali ibn Abdallah ibn Muhammad ibn Hamid ibn Abdallah ibn Ibrahim ibn Ali ibn Ahmed ibn Abdallah ibn Muslim ibn Abdallah ibn Muhammad ibn Aqeel ibn Abi-Talib Al-Hashimi Al-Qurashi\". Al-Aqeeli adds that Sheikh Isma'il's sons include Abi-Bakar, Da'ud, Ahmad and Abdulsamad, whose other offspring inhabit the Hadhramaut and Mahra regions in Southern Arabia.\n\n"}
{"id": "17404409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17404409", "title": "Artificial Life (journal)", "text": "Artificial Life (journal)\n\nArtificial Life is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that covers the study of man-made systems that exhibit the behavioral characteristics of natural living systems. Its articles cover system synthesis in software, hardware, and wetware. \"Artificial Life\" was established in 1993 and is the official journal of the International Society of Artificial Life. It is published online and in hard copy by the MIT Press.\n\n\"Artificial Life\" is abstracted and indexed in Academic Search, Biological Abstracts, BIOSIS Previews, CSA Mechanical & Transportation Engineering Abstracts, Compendex, Current Contents, EMBASE, Excerpta Medica, Inspec, MEDLINE, METADEX, PubMed, Referativny Zhurnal, Science Citation Index Expanded, Scopus, and The Zoological Record. \n\n"}
{"id": "805228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=805228", "title": "Best practice", "text": "Best practice\n\nA best practice is a method or technique that has been generally accepted as superior to any alternatives because it produces results that are superior to those achieved by other means or because it has become a standard way of doing things, e.g., a standard way of complying with legal or ethical requirements.\n\nBest practices are used to maintain quality as an alternative to mandatory legislated standards and can be based on self-assessment or benchmarking. Best practice is a feature of accredited management standards such as ISO 9000 and ISO 14001.\n\nSome consulting firms specialize in the area of best practice and offer pre-made templates to standardize business process documentation. Sometimes a best practice is not applicable or is inappropriate for a particular organization's needs. A key strategic talent required when applying best practice to organizations is the ability to balance the unique qualities of an organization with the practices that it has in common with others.\n\nGood operating practice is a strategic management term. More specific uses of the term include good agricultural practices, good manufacturing practice, good laboratory practice, good clinical practice and good distribution practice.\n\nBest practice is a form of program evaluation in public policy. It is the process of reviewing policy alternatives that have been effective in addressing similar issues in the past and could be applied to a current problem. Determining best practices to address a particular policy problem is a commonly used but little understood tool of analysis because the concept is vague and should therefore be examined with caution. Vagueness stems from the term \"best\" which is subjective. While some research and evidence must go into determining a practice the \"best\" it is more helpful to simply determine if a practice has worked exceptionally well and why. Instead of it being \"the best\", a practice might simply be a smart practice, a good practice, or a promising practice. This allows for a mix and match approach for making recommendations that might encompass pieces of many good practices.\n\nEugene Bardach provides the following theoretical framework in his book \"A Practical Guide for Policy Analysis\", Eightfold Path (policy analysis) for best practices:\n\nBardach advises the policy analyst to maintain realistic expectations when seeking a best practice in public policy analysis, because the practice may not be solving the problem at all and it may instead produce unfavorable results. Because a practice seems to be tailored to a specific policy problem and also based on solid research, it does not necessarily mean it is creating good results. However, the research can produce thought-provoking concepts on what can and can not work when put into practice.\n\nIn policy analysis, a best practice is a clear and concrete behavior that solves a problem or achieves a goal. Smart practices take advantage of an idle opportunity at a low cost and little risk. Bardach refers to this as finding the free lunches. These are opportunities for creative policy improvements such as cost-based pricing or input substitution that have the possibility to generate public value at a very low cost.\n\nBreaking loose from conventions and challenging assumptions can also be way to take advantage of an idle opportunity. An example of this is the highly controversial practice of the government contracting out a community good or service to nonprofits or the private sector. This challenges the assumption that a community good or service must be financed through taxation and delivered by government employees.\n\nThe primary mechanism in a smart practice is the ability or the means of achieving a goal in a cost-effective manner. The secondary mechanisms include implementing features, supportive features and optional features. It can be very complicated to separate between the functions in getting the mechanism to work and the features that support those functions.\n\nBardach recommends when adapting smart practices for another source, it is important to identify the core essence of the practice while allowing flexibility for how it is implemented so it remains sensitive to local conditions. Robust smart practices are adaptable to various conditions, have many operational features, and can employ similar but diverse ways to achieve their goals.\n\nIn addition to the reasons why a smart practice might succeed, an analyst should describe potential vulnerabilities that could lead a smart practice to fail—these weaknesses are generic vulnerabilities. Two types of vulnerabilities are worth particular attention: 1) poor general management capacity, which makes it more difficult to effectively implement a smart practice, and 2) weaknesses inherent to the practice itself. Policymakers must develop safeguards in order to minimize the risk of generic vulnerabilities.\n\nThe final step in identifying an appropriate best practice for a policy problem is to ensure that the context from which the practice is derived is comparable to the context in which it will be applied. Risks to implementing the selected best practice in the applied context as well as what support structures can be put in place need to be anticipated in order to maximize the likelihood of success. If utilizing a pilot or demonstration program \"best practice\" the success of that practice needs to be discounted in order to account for the better than average favorable conditions pilot and demonstration programs usually operate under. These conditions include increased enthusiasm, advantageous political and economic conditions, and less bureaucratic resistance due to the lack of permanency in pilot programs. Finally, when considering implementing a \"best practice\" on a wide scale one must be aware of the weakest link sites with minimal to no resources and how those sites will be supported in order to create the desired policy outcomes.\n\nExcessive optimism about the expected impact of untested smart practices is a common critique. If a current practice is known to be ineffective, implementing a promising alternative after weighing the alternatives may be worth the risk.\n\nBretschneider et al. offers an alternate methodology for Best Practices research . Bretschneider's approach is much more technical than Bardach's, and explores issues of completeness and comparability. He addresses the fact that fully establishing whether a practice is truly a best practice would require assessment in all contexts, while in practice, only example cases are analyzed. Bretschneider also stresses the fact that in order for something to be considered a \"best practice\" it must be arrived at through a comparative process between methodologies. In order for a BPA (as defined by Bretschneider) to be valid, it must take into account all relevant approaches, since neglecting to do so would lead to inappropriate usage of the term \"best.\" Comparing sample practices may yield a good practice, but may also be altogether unreliable, depending on how the sample was selected.\n\nThere are many examples of the use of best/smart practice evaluations in Public Policy.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) produces a document called The Clean Energy-Environment Guide to Action. It is designed to share successful state best practices to determine what is most suitable for them to use in generating clean energy policies and programs. The guide includes 16 clean energy policies and programs that offer opportunities for states to save energy, improve air quality, lower greenhouse gas emission and increase economic development.\n\nAn example of a successful best practice from the guide is building codes for energy efficiency. This practice is to use building energy codes to set requirements that establish a minimum level of energy efficiency standards for residential and commercial buildings. California Energy Code Title 24 is one \"best practice\" that is highlighted in this guide. The following points for energy code implementation is to educate and train key audiences, supply the right resources, and to provide budget and staff for the program.\n\nEugene Bardach has a list of smart practice candidates in his book \"A Practical Guide for Policy Analysis\", Eightfold Path (policy analysis). One example is the tutoring program for children in grades 1-3 called Reading One-to-One. The program from Texas includes one on one tutoring with supervision and simple structured instruction in phonemic awareness. Phonemic awareness is one highly regarded predictor of how well a child will learn to read in the first two years of school. The program takes advantage of the fact that many children, especially ESL students, fail in reading because it is very hard for second language students to understand and pronounce sounds in English. The program is easily duplicated at a relatively low cost because of the straight forward teaching materials, systematic methods and administrative oversight.\n\nIn September 2013 at the New York State Conference for Mayors and Municipal Officials, successes, ideas and information on best practices were shared among government peers. A best practice that was highlighted at the conference was how Salinas, California is rebuilding their economy by engaging technology companies with their agricultural business in order to grow jobs. Salinas is taking advantage of an idle opportunity. The area already has abundant lettuce fields and now the city is marketing itself as a lab for agricultural technology. This public/private partnership includes a new nonprofit called the Steinbeck Innovation Foundation to increase investment in new technologies to help the area's agricultural industry.\n\nIn recent years, public agencies and non-governmental organizations have been exploring and adopting best practices when delivering health and human services. In these settings, the use of the terms \"promising practices\", \"best practices\", and \"evidence-based practices\" is common and often confusing as there is not a general consensus on what constitutes promising practices or best practices. In this context, the use of the terms \"best practices\" and \"evidence-based practices\" are often used interchangeably. Evidence-based practices are methods or techniques that have documented outcomes and ability to replicate as key factors.\n\nDespite these challenges, the literature suggests that there is some common use of and criteria for identifying best practices. For example, a general working definition used by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in referring to a promising practice is defined as one with at least preliminary evidence of effectiveness in small-scale interventions or for which there is potential for generating data that will be useful for making decisions about taking the intervention to scale and generalizing the results to diverse populations and settings.\n\nSince evidence of effectiveness, the potential for taking the intervention to scale and generalizing the results to other populations and settings are key factors for best practices, the manner in which a method or intervention becomes a best practice can take some time and effort. The table below demonstrates the process for a promising practice to achieve the status of research-validated best practice.\n\nThe National Registry of Evidence-Based Programs and Practices (NREPP) is a searchable online registry of interventions supporting substance abuse prevention and mental health treatment that has been reviewed and rated by independent reviewers. NREPP accepts submissions for interventions that meet minimum requirements to be considered for review. Minimum requirements include (1) demonstration of one or more positive outcomes among individuals, communities, or populations; (2) evidence of these outcomes has been demonstrated in at least one study using an experimental or quasi-experimental design; (3) the results of these studies have been published in a peer-reviewed journal or other professional publication, or documented in a comprehensive evaluation report; and (4) implementation materials, training and support resources, and quality assurance procedures have been developed and are ready for use by the public. NREPP is not an exhaustive list of interventions and inclusion in the registry does not constitute an endorsement.\n\nThere is existing controversy about the lack of culturally appropriate evidence-based best practices and the need to utilize a research-based approach to validate interventions. Some communities have deployed practices over a long period of time that has produced positive outcomes as well as a general community consensus to be successful. The California Reducing Disparities Project (CRDP) is working to identify such practices. CRDP intends to improve access, quality of care, and increase positive outcomes for racial, ethnic and cultural communities. These communities have been identified as (1) African American, (2) Asian/Pacific Islanders, (3) Latinos, (4) lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender, questioning, and (5) Native Americans. Strategic Planning Workgroups composed of mental health providers and community members as well as consumers and family members are given the task of identifying new approaches toward reducing disparities. The five Strategic Planning Workgroups work to identify new service delivery approaches defined by multicultural communities for multicultural communities using community-defined evidence to improve outcomes and reduce disparities. Community- defined evidence is defined as “a set of practices that communities have used and determined to yield positive results as determined by community consensus over time and which may or may not have been measured empirically but have reached a level of acceptance by the community.”\n\nFinancing Clean Air Programs, and example taken from NGA\n\nThis is a quick guide put together by the NGA Center for Best Practices. It explores what clean air programs currently exist and how they are being financed. Rather than stating one best practice to tackling clean air, this report creates a table of the different programs, how they are being financed, and in what state. Governors and their staffs can then look for characteristics and solutions that are most realistic and applicable to their situation. The key is to tailor current practices that are in the world to the specific situation you are looking to solve. Best practices are meant to give insight into existing strategies.\n\nThe concept of best practice has been employed extensively in environmental management. For example, it has been employed in aquaculture such as recommending low-phosphorus feed ingredients, in forestry to manage riparian buffer zones, in livestock and pasture management to regulate stocking rates, and in particular, best management practices have been important to improving water quality relating to nonpoint source pollution of fertilizers in agriculture as well as the identification and adoption of best practice for controlling salinity. However, in the context of complex environmental problems such as dryland salinity, there are significant challenges in defining what is best in any given context. Best management practice for complex problems is context specific and often contested against a background of imperfect knowledge. In these contexts, it is more useful to think of best management practice as an adaptive learning process rather than a fixed set of rules or guidelines. This approach to best practice focuses on fostering improvements in quality and promoting continuous learning.\n\nSTEM Program explanation is taken from Angela Baber's report to the NGA.\n\nThe NGA has identified science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) as important skills that need to be developed in community colleges in order to create a strong workforce. Many states are creating or have created STEM Programs to address this issue. In order for these programs to work governors should:\n\nThe U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) makes evidence-based recommendations on clinical preventive services. The Task Force recommendations are based on systematic reviews and assessment of the available medical evidence.\nThe San Francisco Public Health Department conducted The Transgender Best Practices Guide project, a best practices document for cultural and service competency in working with transgender clients within HIV/AIDS service- provision settings. Following an intensive literature search and consumer focus group, a Working Group composed of noted community leaders; activists, professionals, and transgender consumers participated in the development of the Best Practices guide. Topics covered by the Best Practices guide include mental health issues; gender identity; hormone use and clinical care practices. The Best Practices guide is currently in production; it will be published and distributed to EMA providers, as well as to select organizations nationwide. In addition, four large-scale EMA provider training will be provided to educate providers on the Best Practices recommendations and standard measures. This is the first national federally funded effort to develop a Best Practices guide for providers who serve the HIV positive transgender community.\n\nThe nonprofit/voluntary sector is generally lacking tools for sharing and accessing best practices. Steps are being taken in some parts of the world, for example in the European Union, where the Europe 2020 Strategy has as a top priority the exchange of good practices and networking (including the nonprofit sector).\n\nAn initiative of sharing good practices in terms of human resources (HR) and leadership among European nonprofit organizations was financed by the EU and launched in 2013, called HR Twinning. The platform allows the public to search for good practices and its members the possibility to share their practices, engage in discussions in the forum section and enroll their organization. Membership is free. The project is currently limited to a European audience.\n\nNearly every industry and professional discipline discusses best practices. Areas of note include information technology development (such as new software,) construction, transportation, business management, sustainable development and various aspects of project management. Best practices also occur in healthcare to deliver high-quality care that promotes best outcomes. Best practices are used within business areas including sales, manufacturing, teaching, computer programming, road construction, health care, insurance, telecommunication and public policy.\n\nThere are some criticisms of the term \"best practice.\" Eugene Bardach claims that the work necessary to deem and practice the \"best\" is rarely done. Most of the time, one will find \"good\" practices or \"smart\" practices that offer insight into solutions that may or may not work for a given situation.\n\nMichael Quinn Patton jokes in his book about qualitative research and evaluation methods \"the only best practice in which I have complete confidence is avoiding the label 'best practice'\" and elaborates further \"The allure and seduction of best-practice thinking poisons genuine dialogue about both what we know and the limitations of what we know. [...] That modeling of and nurturing deliberative, inclusive, and, yes, humble dialogue may make a greater contribution to societal welfare than the search for generalizable, \"best-practice\" findings – conclusions that risk becoming the latest rigid orthodoxies even as they are becoming outdated anyway.\" Quinn proposes avoiding asking or entertaining the question \"Which is best?\" and says that more nuanced questions related to conditions and contexts should be asked instead. He further suggests terms which \"tend less toward overgeneralization\" like \"better practices, effective practices,\" or \"promising practices\".\n\nScott Ambler challenges the assumptions that there can be a recommended practice that is best in all cases. Instead, he offers an alternative view, \"contextual practice,\" in which the notion of what is \"best\" will vary with the context. Similarly, Cem Kaner and James Bach provide two scenarios to illustrate the contextual nature of \"best practice\" in their article. In essence, such critiques are consistent with the contingency theory, which was developed during the 1950s and 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5455133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5455133", "title": "C. K. Fauver", "text": "C. K. Fauver\n\nClayton King Fauver (August 1, 1872 – March 3, 1942) was an American football coach during the late 19th century. In 1895, he became the first paid coach at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. In 1896, Fauver served as the head coach at Oberlin College, compiling a record of 5–3–1. Fauver was also a Major League pitcher for the Louisville Colonels.\n\nFauver was born on August 1, 1872 in North Eaton, Ohio. He was the son of Alfred and Elizabeth (King) Fauver. He lived in North Eaton until his family moved to Oberlin, Ohio where he attended Oberlin Academy. Fauver father was a prominent citizen in Lorain County, Ohio where he served as Lorain County commissioner and Mayor of the town of Oberlin. Clayton Fauver had several siblings including Alfred Fauver, a former Lorain County Surveyor, Louis B. Fauver who played football with Clayton Fauver at Oberlin, and twin brothers, Edward Fauver and Edgar Fauver, who were both were well-known coaches and college athletic administrators.\n\nFauver entered Oberlin College in 1893 and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1897. He was active on campus including being on the debate team, assistant editor of the student newspaper and manager of the annual yearbook. A talented athlete, he played varsity football and baseball and was captain of the football team in 1893 and 1894, and captain of the baseball team in 1896.\n\nFauver earned a varsity letter in football at Oberlin in 1892, 1893, 1894 and 1895.\nIn 1892, Fauver was not a student at the college but a student at the Oberlin Academy, a college predatory school run by the college. He still played on the college football team, which included his brother Louis B. Fauver, a 24-year-old freshman, and was coached by John W. Heisman. This team was captained by its quarterback Carl Sheldon Williams and finished the season undefeated with a record of 7–0 including a season with an opening victory over Ohio State University After winning its first six games against teams from Ohio, Oberlin crossed the border to play regional power Michigan. In a controversial game known for rough and dirty play, including a Michigan player being kicked out for punching an Oberlin player and the Umpire, Oberlin claimed a 24 to 22 win Because of injuries to other players, Fauver helped the Yoeman effort by playing two positions. In middle game he moved from left tackle to right tackle. The game ended with a dispute over the time remaining. Oberlin contended the game was over resulting in an Oberlin win. Michigan contended there was still time left. Oberlin left the field so they could catch a train back to Ohio. The Michigan stayed on a field and ran a play with no opposition that resulted in a touchdown. Both teams claimed victory. Oberlin finished the season with a 16–0 victory over Western Reserve.\n\nIn 1893 Fauver was elected captain of the varsity football team after Will Merriam resigned. The team was coached by E. B. \"Jake\" Camp and finished with a 6–1 record including victories over Ohio State, Chicago and Illinois. Fauver helped by scoring a touchdown against Ohio State and blocking a punt against Chicago. Oberlin won the first 6 games but lost the last one to Case Institute of Technology by a score of 8–22. The team was hampered by injuries and lack of practice due to exams. The injuries forced Fauver to move from the line to the backfield for the game.\n\nBefore the 1894 season Fauver brought national attention to Oberlin by being featured in Spalding Athletic Equipment Company football guide. The 1894 Oberlin Yeoman were again coached by John W. Heisman. Fauver once again was elected captain, but Heisman moved him from the tackle to right halfback. The team finished with a record of 4–3–1. Fauver was injured late in season in a loss to Adelbert College, also known then as Western Reserve. He missed the Michigan game but returned to his right half back position for a victory over Penn State University. This victory was short lived when Walter Camp later overruled the game officials allowing a game winning kick by Penn State.\nFauver once again played on Oberlin varsity football team in 1895. The team finished with a record of 4–1–1 under former Yale University player W. M. \"Billy\" Richards. The record allowed it to self proclaim the team as champion of Ohio.\n\nIn 1895, before he graduated from Oberlin, Fauver was hired by Miami University in Oxford, Ohio to coach the football team. He arrived two days before the Wittenberg game and stay three weeks. In addition to coaching, Fauver also suited up and played in games. The Miami University student newspaper praised his play versus Wittenberg for being \"in almost every play\" and credited him for knocking down six player in one play. Fauver is credited with an undefeated record of 3–0 with victories over Wittenberg, Butler, and Cincinnati.\nIn 1896, Fauver served as the head coach at Oberlin College, compiling a record of 5–3–1. All of Fauver's losses came to regional powers Michigan, Illinois and Chicago. His victories all came against teams from Ohio including a 16–0 win against Ohio State. The only other blemish was his team also tied in-state rival Western Reserve by a score of 6–6 after beating them yearly in the year by a score of 4–0. This record allowed Oberlin to claim the 1896 Ohio State Championship.\nFauver returned to coaching in 1902. While teaching law, he became the head baseball coach at Western Reserve. In his only season he compiled a 6–5 record.\n\nWhile attending law school in Cleveland, Fauver played Major League Baseball for the Louisville Colonels. On September 7. 1899 played his first and only Major League game. Fauver started at pitcher against the Pittsburgh Pirates. He threw a complete game with no earned runs. The following season, he played for the Cleveland Lake Shores of the American League (pre Major League status). He pitched in 10 games with a 4–6 record. He also batted .206 scoring 2 runs for the Lake Shores.\n\nIn 1900 Fauver received a LL. B. from Western Reserve Law School in Cleveland, Ohio. He stayed in Cleveland where he was an attorney as well as teaching law at Western Reserve. In 1916 he moved to New York City where he continued his legal career where he specialized in import and export trade law. During this time he became Vice-President and General Counsel of Gaston Williams and Wigmore. From 1931 to 1933 he was a partner in the New Rochelle, New York firm of Fauver, Albertson & Schoble.\n\nEven with living in Cleveland and New York, Fauver was still involved with Oberlin. In 1920 he became a trustee of Oberlin College. In 1933 he returned to the city of Oberlin as both an investment executive for the college as well as the President of Oberlin Savings Bank. On March 3, 1942 Fauver died of coronary thrombosis while travelling from Ohio to Florida. He had stopped in Chatsworth, Georgia for the night because of a snow storm. While preparing to continue his journey the next morning, he collapsed on the stairs of the hotel.\n"}
{"id": "20891798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20891798", "title": "Carlos Yates", "text": "Carlos Yates\n\nCarlos Yates (died August 13, 1989) was an American college basketball player for George Mason University.\n\nYates began his collegiate career at George Mason and played for the Patriots all four years. He was the Eastern College Athletic Conference's (ECAC) Rookie of the Year in 1982 and its Co-Player of the Year in 1983 (along with James Madison's Dan Ruland). He was selected to four straight All-ECAC South Conference First Teams from 1981 to 1985. In addition, Yates earn honorable mention All-America honors those four straight years. On January 31, 1983 during Yates's sophomore season, he was selected by Sports Illustrated as their National Player of the Week.\n\nYates is George Mason University's all-time leading scorer in men's basketball history with 2,420 points as well as the state of Virginia's fourth all-time leading scorer. He also holds the school record for career field goals made and attempted and free throws made and attempted.\n\nYates was drafted fourth overall by the Florida Suncoast Stingers in the 1985 Continental Basketball Association draft.\n\nYates was shot and killed on August 13, 1989 near Robert F. Kennedy Stadium in southeast Washington, D.C.\n"}
{"id": "49438675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49438675", "title": "Croydon Cat Killer", "text": "Croydon Cat Killer\n\nThe Croydon Cat Killer was thought to be an individual who killed, dismembered and decapitated more than 500 cats and various other animals across England, beginning in 2014 in Croydon. Reports of cat deaths attributed to the killer were spread across and around London, and as far north as Manchester. However, in 2018 the Metropolitan Police concluded that the mutilations had not been carried out by a human and were likely caused by wildlife predation or scavenging on cats killed in vehicle collisions. \n\nSome experts, such as Richard Ward, a lecturer and historian of crime and the reporting of crime at the University of Exeter, have stated the view that the Croydon Cat Killer case is an example of a moral panic.\n\nIn October 2015 South Norwood Animal Rescue and Liberty (SNARL), a small local group of animal welfare activists based in South Norwood, reported incidents of cat mutilation to the police and RSPCA. That November, the Metropolitan Police began to investigate the mutilations, under the name \"Operation Takahe\" and led by Detective Sergeant Andy Collin.\n\nIn January 2016 it was reported that 30,000 local people signed a petition requesting the police conduct DNA testing of the corpses. \n\nBy February 2016, the deaths of 10 cats (four in Croydon and one each in Streatham, Mitcham Common, Sutton, Charlton, Peckham and Finchley) had been linked by an examining vet who wished to remain anonymous. However, the police at this time said the number of cases was in single digits In February 2016 it was reported that police had yet to find any evidence that the animals were deliberately killed by a human. At this time an investigating vet stated that he found raw chicken in the stomachs of several killed cats and suggested the animals had probably been lured by the killer with the offer of meat. \n\nIn March 2016, Det. Sgt. Collin said that the perpetrator might be only mutilating the corpses after the animals had already died and might only face charges relating to public order or theft. He noted that of the six cases being investigated, five of the cats had not been claimed which would make it difficult to bring charges of theft or criminal damage. As of March 2016, no human DNA had been recovered. \n\nIn April 2016 it was reported that the RSPCA believed that the deaths were due to blunt trauma, “likely consistent with being hit by a moving vehicle”. SNARL claimed that the animals were killed deliberately, perhaps by being thrown against a wall. By April 2016, SNARL had recorded 50 attacks across Crystal Palace, Mitcham, Streatham, Peckham, Charlton, Richmond, Orpington, and Farnborough in south London, Finchley, Tottenham and Archway in north London, Stepney in the east, and Guildford in Surrey. SNARL reported that other animals including foxes and rabbits have been attacked in the same way. \n\nIn June 2016, SNARL speculated that there had been 100 kills following a decapitated cat being found in Morden. At this time police stated that they had spent 1,020 hours on the inquiry since December 2015.\n\nBy July 2016, the media and SNARL had begun referring to the attacker as the \"M25 Cat Killer\" after new reports, including a cat killed in Whyteleafe, Surrey, suggested the killer was operating around the M25 motorway. After reports of animal deaths in Maidstone, Sevenoaks and seven other locations, SNARL adopted the terms \"M25 Animal Killer\" and \"UK Cat Killer\".\n\nDet. Sgt. Collin, speaking in 2017 about a possible motive stated “Cats are targeted because they are associated with the feminine... The killer can't deal with a woman or women who are troubling him”. He added that he was worried that “at some stage he'll escalate or feel brave enough to move on to vulnerable women and girls.” Vince Egan, associate professor of forensic psychology at the University of Nottingham has said: “In some individuals we have seen animal cruelty as part of a broader pattern in which humans are also harmed. It is far more likely that this reflects a rather more banal pattern of anti-social behaviour, such as drunkenness or something that doesn’t go further. But when we have so little to go on you have to keep your mind open.”\n\nIn September 2017, ArroGen Veterinary Forensics began re-examining some animals to help the police and RSPCA to bring prosecutions.\n\nIn October 2017 it was reported that the killer was suspected of mutilating over 370 animals. Det. Sgt. Collin stated that it was possible there were copycats.\n\nIn December 2017, police linked five cat deaths around Northampton from August to November that year to the same killer, but later police stated the Northampton deaths were not being linked to the others though a 31-year-old man had been arrested. \n\nIt was reported in August 2018 that, three years after the first report of the Croydon Cat Killer, no evidence relating to an individual who may be committing the alleged crimes had been found. There was no evidence found of clothing, human DNA or a murder weapon and no CCTV footage had been recovered.\n\nIn September 2018, the Metropolitan Police reported that in three instances where CCTV footage was obtained, foxes could be seen carrying bodies or body-parts of cats. In one case, CCTV showed a fox carrying a cat's head into a school playground at Catford. In post-mortem examinations conducted by the Head of Veterinary Forensic Pathology at the Royal Veterinary College, fox DNA was found on the cats bodies. The Met closed the investigation on September 20th, saying foxes mutilating the bodies of cats that died in road traffic accidents was the most likely explanation.\n\nIn February 2016, the animal rights charity PETA offered a £5,000 reward (raised from an initial £2,000 in December 2015) to anyone providing information to the police that leads to the arrest and conviction of the serial cat killer (or killers).\n\nPublic figures local to Croydon such as Martin Clunes, Dermot O'Leary and Caroline Flack used their social media accounts to raise awareness of the crime in the hope it would lead to an arrest. In an email to Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, actor Clunes wrote, \"As someone who shares my home with several four-legged companions I read with horror that some of the cats had been decapitated, disemboweled or dismembered – this is the stuff of nightmares.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Vice Media released a half-hour documentary about the purported cat killer and SNARL.\n\nThe cases were featured in - Series 2, Episode 4.\n\nIn September 2018, about 20,000 people were outraged from Metropolitan Police's announcement to close the case of Croydon Cat Killer. Vinnii West, who started the petition says the Metropolitan Police admitted the deaths of cats were attributed to cars and foxes.\n\nIn July 2018, Stephen Harris, retired professor of environmental sciences at the University of Bristol, who had studied fox behaviour for 50 years wrote an article in \"New Scientist.\" He asserted that there is no \"killer\" and the pattern of blunt-force trauma followed by removal of the head and tail once the blood has congealed is consistent with road traffic accidents then scavenging by foxes. In the 1990s there was a similar panic following the discovery of dozens of cat deaths in Greater London. The RSPCA sought Harris’s advice at this time. Those events led to the Metropolitan police opening Operation Obelisk in 1998. However, they quietly dropped the case in 1999 after Harris inspected several cats. He concluded that they had been killed by cars and mutilated by foxes. Harris stated “We have known for decades that foxes chew the head or tail off carcasses, including dead cats”.\n\nParallels have been drawn between the Croydon Cat Killer and moral panics, in which public fear and lurid headlines amplify perceptions of danger which puts pressure on authorities to act. Richard Ward, lecturer and historian of crime and the reporting of crime at the University of Exeter has stated that the creation of Operation Takahe appears to be the result of such a moral panic.\n"}
{"id": "34290758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34290758", "title": "Ferry v. Rauhfelsen of Giralda", "text": "Ferry v. Rauhfelsen of Giralda\n\nCh. Ferry v. Rauhfelsen of Giralda (9 January, 1937 – 1943) also known as Ferry, a Doberman Pinscher, best known for being Best in Show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in both 1939 while owned by Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge. He was the grandfather of two-time champion, Rancho Dobe's Storm.\n\nFerry was born in Germany on 9 January, 1937 to dam Ch. Jessy v. Sonnenhoehe, a German dog, and sire Ch. Troll v. Englesberg, an American and Canadian champion. His dam is described by the Doberman Pinscher Club of America (DPCA) as the most important dam of her time, with around 80% of dogs polled at a DPCA Show in the 1940s being related to her. Willi Rothfuss was his breeder and original owner. He won the male class of a Doberman only show in 1938, a title of Dobermann Verein Sieger (DVS), at the same show his sister Freya won the female class. Although he was entered in that show, he was mainly kept as a pet.\n\nGeraldine Rockefeller Dodge was looking for a dog to win the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, to repeat her 1932 success. Her dog handler, McClure Halley, was sent to Europe to find the best dog he could, and returned with Ferry to Dodge's surprise as she was not expecting a Doberman Pinscher.\n\nHe arrived in the USA just before the 1939 Westminster show and was promptly entered in it. He won his breed, and the Working Group, qualifying him for the Best in Show round where he faced an Cocker Spaniel, a Beagle, a Smooth Fox Terrier, a Yorkshire Terrier and a Standard Poodle. He won the title, and went on to win a further twelve Best in Shows out of the thirteen shows he entered whilst in Dodge's ownership. These wins included the International Kennel Club of Chicago Dog Show, and the Rochester Kennel Club show. He was not entered in Westminster in the following year. Issues with Ferry's temperament were noted, and reported his Westminster Best in Show judge could not touch him. His second place showing was at the Chicago show in 1940, being beaten by the English Setter Maro of Maridor in the Best in Show round.\n\nDodge announced Ferry's retirement and sold him to L. R. \"Jim\" Randle, from San Francisco, to replace his dog Ch. Jockel v Burgund. He was given to handler Russell Zimmerman to show him in conformation shows throughout the Western United States. When Zimmerman was unavailable, Ben Brown would handle him. Reportedly Ferry attempted to intimidate Brown by charging at him when he let him out of the crate on the first occasion. After shutting the crate door in Ferry's face three times, he and Brown became good friends and Brown described him as one of the best dogs he ever handled.\n\nFerry changed handlers on several more occasions until he was in the hands of Harold Duffy. He was found in Duffy's kennels dead at the age of six and a half, a necropsy reported that he had been beaten to death.\n\nHe was used at stud several times while in the Western United States, producing litters for several kennels. One such Kennel was Rancho Dobe, and Ferry's grandson Ch. Rancho Dobe's Storm went on to win Best in Show twice at the Westminster Show, one of only eight dogs to have done so.\n\n"}
{"id": "629041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629041", "title": "Flat cat", "text": "Flat cat\n\nIn Robert A. Heinlein's science fiction novel \"The Rolling Stones\", flat cats are a species of Martian animal.\n\nIn the chapter \"Free Enterprise\", the character Mr. Angelo, a shopkeeper on Mars, introduces Castor and Pollux Stone to a flat cat:\n\nThe boys take the flat cat onto the family space ship, where it soon has eight \"kittens\", each of which soon gives birth again, until the ship is overwhelmed with flat cats. The family solves the problem by rounding up the flat cats and putting them into the storage hold at low temperature, where they hibernate. They are later revived and sold to miners in the asteroid belt.\n\nHeinlein's flat cats are often said to have been the inspiration for the tribbles of the \"\" episode \"The Trouble with Tribbles\". The similarities to the flat cats and the some specific story events involving them was brought to the attention of the Star Trek staff when Desilu/Paramount's primary in-house clearance group, Kellam de Forest Research, submitted a report on the script on August of 1967, noting the similarities of “a small, featureless, fluffy, purring animal, friendly and loving, that reproduces rapidly when fed, and nearly engulfs a spaceship”. So worrisome was this matter that the producers contacted Heinlein and asked for a waiver, which Heinlein granted. In his authorized biography Heinlein said he was called by producer Gene Coon about the issue and agreed to waive claim to the \"similarity\" to his flat cats because he’d just been through one plagiarism lawsuit and did not wish to embroil himself in another. He had misgivings upon seeing the actual script but let it go, an action he later regretted: \n\nHeinlein freely acknowledged that he took some inspiration from Ellis Parker Butler 1905 story \"Pigs Is Pigs\", but was careful not to plagiarize him, and the similarities are primarily that the creatures reproduce rapidly and overrun a place. Conversely, the tribbles copy not only the flat cats' general appearance, behavior, the effects of their purring on people, and the particulars of their reproduction when fed and unfed—but that they are obtained from a merchant who does not warn customers of their dangers, and ultimately unloaded from the ship onto another unsuspecting party.\n\nThe screenwriter of the episode, David Gerrold, admits that he had read the Heinlein book years before writing his screenplay but claims he was not consciously aware of the similarities until the Kellam de Forest report. According to him, Heinlein asked only for an autographed copy of the script and, in a note to Gerrold, “Let me add that I felt that the analogy to my flat cats was mild enough to be of no importance\".\n"}
{"id": "14166082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14166082", "title": "Gaius Fabius Hadrianus", "text": "Gaius Fabius Hadrianus\n\nGaius Fabius Hadrianus was praetor in 84 BC and propraetor 83–82 in the Roman province of Africa. He is known primarily for the sensational circumstances of his death: during an uprising at the beginning of Sulla's second civil war, the governor’s residence was set on fire and Hadrianus was burned alive.\n\nNext to nothing is known of the early career of Hadrianus. He has been identified with the C. Fabius Hadrianus who was a moneyer (\"monetalis\") in 102 BC; several examples of his coins are known.\n\nFollowing his praetorship in 84, Hadrianus forced out Metellus Pius, his predecessor as governor of Africa and a partisan of Sulla. An alternative view is that Metellus did not hold a legitimate governorship, but was attempting to seize power in Africa in 84 when Hadrianus held a duly appointed office. Since Hadrianus began his term during the last consulship of Cornelius Cinna, he is usually considered in league with the \"populares\". His governorship would have redirected tribute from Africa to the cause of Cinna and the Marians.\n\nMetellus fled to Numidia and the protection of Hiempsal II. Hadrianus allied with Hiarbas, a rival for the Numidian kingship, and succeeded in temporarily ousting Hiempsal, who hid out with Metellus and his men in Mauretania under the protection of Bocchus I. The actions of Hadrianus incurred the enmity of the pro-Sullan upper classes in Africa. During an uprising in Utica (in modern-day Tunisia), he was killed when the official residence was set on fire. The sources uniformly emphasize that he was burned alive.\n\nHadrianus's tenure was remembered for greed and harshness. A.N. Sherwin-White called him \"beastly.\" A chronological examination of the sources indicates that Cicero’s characterization of Hadrianus likely colored the view of historians who came later. In the course of his prosecution of Verres, Cicero makes a threatening comparison to Hadrianus and the manner of his death, saying that the defendant was even worse:\n\nCicero uses the word \"domus\", “house,” which directs attention away from Hadrianus’s status as a promagistrate; Livy calls it properly the \"praetorium\", the official residence of the governor. The 1st-century AD historian Valerius Maximus echoes Cicero’s account closely: “After Hadrianus antagonized the Roman citizens settled at Utica with his sleazy governance and consequently was burned alive by them, no inquest was held at Rome to investigate the matter, nor did anyone bother to file a complaint.” \n\nAlthough Hadrianus is sometimes said to have been “fluctuating between the parties of Cinna and Sulla,” it is unclear what facts indicate support of Sulla. As both Cicero and Valerius Maximus note, the Sullan regime established that same year took no action in the matter, even though the legitimate governor of a major province had been killed. Both sources state that the violence in Utica was instigated not by Africans rebelling against Rome, but by Roman citizens (\"cives\"). At first glance, Orosius seems to contradict both Cicero and Valerius, claiming that Hadrianus was burned alive with his entire household because he had fomented rebellion among the slaves of Africa, whose masters apparently reacted with firewood and homicidal arson. The \"populares\" were often accused by the conservative elite, factually or not, of resorting to slaves to apply violence, and the killing might best be viewed in the context of the Sullan proscriptions of 82.\n\nEven if Hadrianus was not among those proscribed, his death as a Cinnan holdover was timely. He was succeeded as governor of Africa by the most famous of Sulla’s henchmen and supporters, Pompeius Magnus; at the age of only 24, Pompey had not held the offices prerequisite to a governorship, but having declared the primacy of sword over law, he defeated the Marians, a contingent of whom were still occupying Africa, along with their Numidian allies. Pompey remained in Africa till 79, when he claimed his controversial first triumph for his victories there.\n"}
{"id": "17508739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17508739", "title": "Ghost sickness", "text": "Ghost sickness\n\nGhost sickness is a cultural belief among some traditional indigenous peoples in North America, notably the Navajo, and some Muscogee and Plains cultures, as well as among Polynesian peoples. People who are preoccupied and/or consumed by the deceased are believed to suffer from ghost sickness. Reported symptoms can include general weakness, loss of appetite, suffocation feelings, recurring nightmares, and a pervasive feeling of terror. The sickness is attributed to ghosts or, occasionally, to witches or witchcraft. Children are thought to be especially at risk of being affected because they are not as attached to their new bodies.\n\nIn the Muscogee (Creek) culture, it is believed that everyone is a part of an energy called \"Ibofanga\". This energy supposedly results from the flow between mind, body, and spirit. Illness can result from this flow being disrupted. Therefore, their \"medicine is used to prevent or treat an obstruction and restore the peaceful flow of energy within a person\". Purification rituals for mourning \"focus on preventing unnatural or prolonged emotional and physical drain.\"\n\nThe grief resolution processes for traditional Native Americans are qualitatively different than those usually seen in mainstream Western cultures. In 1881, there was a federal ban on some of the traditional mourning rituals practised by the Lakota and other tribes. Lakota expert Maria Yellow Horse Brave Heart proposes that the loss of these rituals may have caused the Lakota to be \"further predisposed to the development of pathological grief\". Some manifestations of unresolved grief include seeking visions of the spirits of deceased relatives, obsessive reminiscing about the deceased, longing for and believing in a reunion with the deceased, fantasies of reappearance of the deceased, and belief in one's ability to project oneself to the past or to the future.\n\nThere are a variety of mainstream psychological theories about Ghost Sickness. Putsch states that \"Spirits or 'ghosts' may be viewed as being directly or indirectly linked to the cause of an event, accident, or illness\". Both Erikson and Macgregor report substantiating evidence of psychological trauma response in ghost sickness, with features including withdrawal and psychic numbing, anxiety and hypervigilance, guilt, identification with ancestral pain and death, and chronic sadness and depression.\n\nReligious leaders within the Navajo tribe repeatedly perform ceremonies to eliminate the all-consuming thoughts of the dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "2026585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026585", "title": "Happy Human", "text": "Happy Human\n\nThe Happy Human is an icon that has been adopted as an international symbol of secular humanism. \nCreated by Dennis Barrington, the figure was the winning design in a competition arranged by Humanists UK (formerly the British Humanist Association) in 1965. Various forms of it are now used across the world by humanist organisations of all sizes including Humanists UK, International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) and The American Humanist Association (AHA).\n\nThe trademark is still held by Humanists UK, which freely licenses use of the symbol by bona fide Humanist organisations worldwide.\n\nThe Happy Human was created in response to a Humanists UK competition in 1965, after many years of discussion as to what a logo should look like. After some time without progress, radio presenter Margaret Knight backed a popular movement among Humanists UK's membership to commission such a logo, triggering publicity officer Tom Vernon to announce the competition. Of the several hundred designs from a number of countries that were considered, Dennis Barrington's simple design was favoured for its perceived universalism. Within the space of a few years, the logo had emerged as a symbol of Humanism, not just of Humanists UK and was adopted by humanist organisations around the world.\n\nSince the 1990s, humanist groups have taken on looser, more figurative versions of the Happy Human logo, such as the logos used by Humanisterna (Sweden), Humanistischer Verband Deutschlands (German), Union of Rationalist Atheists and Agnostics (Italy), and the European Humanist Federation. In 2017, the British Humanist Association, which originated the Happy Human, debuted a new, single line-drawing style Happy Human when it renamed as Humanists UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14266311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14266311", "title": "Harry Adamson", "text": "Harry Adamson\n\nHarry Adamson (c. 1913 – after 1937) was an English professional footballer who played at centre forward. He was born in Scunthorpe.\n\nAdamson was playing for Upton Colliery when he signed for Football League club Bradford City in October 1933. He played just 29 league games for the club in three years but scored 19 goals, including ten from only 12 games in 1934–35 to be the club's leading goal-scorer. He left for Aldershot in May 1937.\n"}
{"id": "13800990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13800990", "title": "Indraff", "text": "Indraff\n\nIndraff (1938–1963) was a gray Arabian stallion, foaled on May 9, 1938 and bred by Roger Selby of Ohio. His sire was Raffles and his dam was Indaia. Both his sire and dam were bred by the Crabbet Arabian Stud in England and imported to the United States by Selby.\n\nAs a colt, before he grayed out, Indraff had a blaze and a front stocking. Indraff was sold as a young horse to Donald Schutz, who kept him as a breeding stallion for a number of years before selling him to Bazy McCormick Miller, later Bazy Tankersley of Al-Marah Arabians. Schutz used the money to begin Schutz Brothers, a business manufacturing horse equipment, ran today by Schutz's son, Mitchell Schutz. Indraff was registered with the Arabian Horse Club Registry of America, the precursor to the Arabian Horse Association as number 1575.\n\nIndraff sired 254 purebred Arabian foals, and had over 2700 grandget. He was one of the foundation sires of the Al-Marah breeding program, one of the most prolific and influential farms in United States Arabian breeding circles.\n\nIndraff died on August 22, 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1391825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391825", "title": "Interplanetary Internet", "text": "Interplanetary Internet\n\nThe interplanetary Internet (based on IPN, also called \"InterPlaNet\") is a conceived computer network in space, consisting of a set of network nodes that can communicate with each other. Communication would be greatly delayed by the great interplanetary distances, so the IPN needs a new set of protocols and technology that are tolerant to large delays and errors. Although the Internet as it is known today tends to be a busy \"network of networks\" with high traffic, negligible delay and errors, and a wired backbone, the interplanetary Internet is a store and forward \"network of internets\" that is often disconnected, has a wireless backbone fraught with error-prone links and delays ranging from tens of minutes to even hours, even when there is a connection.\n\nSpace communication technology has steadily evolved from expensive, one-of-a-kind point-to-point architectures, to the re-use of technology on successive missions, to the development of standard protocols agreed upon by space agencies of many countries. This last phase has gone on since 1982 through the efforts of the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS), a body composed of the major space agencies of the world. It has 11 member agencies, 28 observer agencies, and over 140 industrial associates.\n\nThe evolution of space data system standards has gone on in parallel with the evolution of the Internet, with conceptual cross-pollination where fruitful, but largely as a separate evolution. Since the late 1990s, familiar Internet protocols and CCSDS space link protocols have integrated and converged in several ways; for example, the successful FTP file transfer to Earth-orbiting STRV 1B on January 2, 1996, which ran FTP over the CCSDS IPv4-like Space Communications Protocol Specifications (SCPS) protocols. Internet Protocol use without CCSDS has taken place on spacecraft, e.g., demonstrations on the UoSAT-12 satellite, and operationally on the Disaster Monitoring Constellation. Having reached the era where networking and IP on board spacecraft have been shown to be feasible and reliable, a forward-looking study of the bigger picture was the next phase.\nThe Interplanetary Internet study at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) was started by a team of scientists at JPL led by Vinton Cerf and the late Adrian Hooke. Cerf is one of the pioneers of the Internet on Earth, and currently holds the position of distinguished visiting scientist at JPL. Hooke was one of the founders and directors of CCSDS.\n\nWhile IP-like SCPS protocols are feasible for short hops, such as ground station to orbiter, rover to lander, lander to orbiter, probe to flyby, and so on, delay-tolerant networking is needed to get information from one region of the Solar System to another. It becomes apparent that the concept of a \"region\" is a natural architectural factoring of the Interplanetary Internet.\n\nA \"region\" is an area where the characteristics of communication are the same. Region characteristics include communications, security, the maintenance of resources, perhaps ownership, and other factors. The Interplanetary Internet is a \"network of regional internets\".\n\nWhat is needed then, is a standard way to achieve end-to-end communication through multiple regions in a disconnected, variable-delay environment using a generalized suite of protocols. Examples of regions might include the terrestrial Internet as a region, a region on the surface of the Moon or Mars, or a ground-to-orbit region.\n\nThe recognition of this requirement led to the concept of a \"bundle\" as a high-level way to address the generalized Store-and-Forward problem. Bundles are an area of new protocol development in the upper layers of the OSI model, above the with the goal of addressing the issue of bundling store-and-forward information so that it can reliably traverse radically dissimilar environments constituting a \"network of regional internets\".\n\nDelay-tolerant networking (DTN) was designed to enable standardized communications over long distances and through time delays. At its core is something called the Bundle Protocol (BP), which is similar to the Internet Protocol, or IP, that serves as the heart of the Internet here on Earth. The big difference between the regular Internet Protocol (IP) and the Bundle Protocol is that IP assumes a seamless end-to-end data path, while BP is built to account for errors and disconnections — glitches that commonly plague deep-space communications.\n\nBundle Service Layering, implemented as the Bundling protocol suite for delay-tolerant networking, will provide general purpose delay-tolerant protocol services in support of a range of applications: custody transfer, segmentation and reassembly, end-to-end reliability, end-to-end security, and end-to-end routing among them. The Bundle Protocol was first tested in space on the UK-DMC satellite in 2008.\n\nIn addition to reliably copying a file from one entity (such as a spacecraft or ground station) to another entity, CFDP has the capability to reliably transmit arbitrary small messages defined by the user, in the metadata accompanying the file, and to reliably transmit commands relating to file system management that are to be executed automatically on the remote end-point entity (such as a spacecraft) upon successful reception of a file.\n\nThe dormant InterPlanetary Internet Special Interest Group of the Internet Society has worked on defining protocols and standards that would make the IPN possible. The Delay-Tolerant Networking Research Group (DTNRG) is the primary group researching Delay-tolerant networking (DTN). Additional research efforts focus on various uses of the new technology.\n\nThe canceled Mars Telecommunications Orbiter had been planned to establish an Interplanetary Internet link between Earth and Mars, in order to support other Mars missions. Rather than using RF, it would have used optical communications using laser beams for their higher data rates. \"Lasercom sends information using beams of light and optical elements, such as telescopes and optical amplifiers, rather than RF signals, amplifiers, and antennas\"\n\nNASA JPL continued to test the DTN protocol with their Deep Impact Networking (DINET) experiment on board the \"Deep Impact\"/EPOXI spacecraft in October, 2008.\n\nIn May 2009, DTN was deployed to a payload on board the ISS. NASA and BioServe Space Technologies, a research group at the University of Colorado, have been continuously testing DTN on two Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA) payloads. CGBA-4 and CGBA-5 serve as computational and communications platforms which are remotely controlled from BioServe's Payload Operations Control Center (POCC) in Boulder, CO. In October 2012 ISS Station commander Sunita Williams remotely operated Mocup (Meteron Operations and Communications Prototype), a \"cat-sized\" Lego Mindstorms robot fitted with a BeagleBoard computer and webcam, located in the European Space Operations Centre in Germany in an experiment using DTN. These initial experiments provide insight into future missions where DTN will enable the extension of networks into deep space to explore other planets and solar system points of interest. Seen as necessary for space exploration, DTN enables timeliness of data return from operating assets which results in reduced risk and cost, increased crew safety, and improved operational awareness and science return for NASA and additional space agencies.\n\nDTN has several major arenas of application, in addition to the Interplanetary Internet, which include sensor networks, military and tactical communications, disaster recovery, hostile environments, mobile devices and remote outposts. As an example of a remote outpost, imagine an isolated Arctic village, or a faraway island, with electricity, one or more computers, but no communication connectivity. With the addition of a simple wireless hotspot in the village, plus DTN-enabled devices on, say, dog sleds or fishing boats, a resident would be able to check their e-mail or click on a Wikipedia article, and have their requests forwarded to the nearest networked location on the sled's or boat's next visit, and get the replies on its return.\n\nEarth orbit is sufficiently nearby that conventional protocols can be used. For example, the International Space Station has been connected to the regular terrestrial Internet since January 22, 2010 when the first unassisted tweet was posted . However, the space station also serves as a useful platform to develop, experiment, and implement systems that make up the interplanetary Internet. NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA) have used an experimental version of the interplanetary Internet to control an educational rover, placed at the European Space Operations Centre in Darmstadt, Germany, from the International Space Station. The experiment used the DTN protocol to demonstrate technology that one day could enable Internet-like communications that can support habitats or infrastructure on another planet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3348747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3348747", "title": "Keaoua Kekuaokalani", "text": "Keaoua Kekuaokalani\n\nKeaoua Kekua-o-kalani (sometimes known as Kaiwi-kuamoo Kekua-o-kalani) was a nephew of the king Kamehameha I, the chief from Hawaii Island who unified the Hawaiian islands.\n\nHe was the son of Kamehameha's younger brother Keliimaikai and Kamehameha's half-sister Kiʻilaweau. After Kamehameha died in 1819, Keaoua rebelled against Kamehameha's successor, his son Kamehameha II. Keaoua's rebellion was brief; he was killed in battle about 21 December 1819.\n\nHis grandmother was Manono I, and his wife was Manono II.\n\nAfter Kamehameha died, power was officially assumed by Kamehameha's son Liholiho. Liholiho, at the urging of powerful female chiefs such as Kaʻahumanu, abolished the kapu system that had governed life in Hawaii for centuries. Henceforth, men and women could eat together, women could eat formerly forbidden foods, and official worship at the stone platform temples, or heiaus, was discontinued. This event is called the Ai Noa, or free eating.\n\nAs historian Gavan Daws points out, this was a decision taken by the chiefs, and it primarily affected the state religion. Commoners could still worship their family protective deities (aumakua); hula teachers could make offerings to Laka and Hawaii islanders could make offerings to the goddess Pele.\n\nSome chiefs felt that if they were to abandon the kapus and the services at the heiaus, they would lose the religious justification and support for their rule. Liholiho, they felt, was courting disaster, and must be opposed, lest he take down everyone with him.\n\nIf Liholiho were to die or be overthrown, Keaoua would have a good claim to the throne. He was outraged by the abandonment of the sacred traditions and withdrew from the royal court. He staying at Kailua-Kona, on Hawaii Island, and retired to Kaawaloa at Kealakekua Bay. Many Ai Noa opponents joined him and urged him to try for the throne, saying, \"The chief who prays to the god, he is the chief who will hold the rule.\" Some of the Hawaiians living in Hamakua, on the north coast, rebelled outright and killed some soldiers sent against them. The situation was perilous.\n\nLiholiho and his chiefs took counsel and decided to send emissaries to Keaoua, asking him to abandon his defiance, return to Kailua, and rejoin the free eating. Keaoua received the emissaries with apparent deference and said he was ready to return to Kailua the next day, but would not join in the free eating. The emissaries retired to rest, thinking the problem solved.\n\nAccording to Kamakau, Keaoua's supporters spent the night arguing with their leader, urging him to kill the emissaries and mount a decisive rebellion. Keaoua forbade any assassinations but the next morning, when he and his followers were to board canoes for the return to Kailua, he refused. He said he and his men (drawn up in ranks, in warrior regalia) would go by land.\n\nThis was tantamount to war. Liholiho sent forces under Kalanimoku to intercept Keaoua. Their forces met at Kuamoo, just South of Keauhou Bay. Keaoua was eventually killed by rifle fire. His wife Manono, sister of Kalanimoku and former wife of Kamehameha I, who had been fighting at her husband's side, begged for mercy but was shot down as well. The rest of Keaoua's army scattered and Liholiho's victory was complete.\n\nThis was the only armed rebellion in favor of the old religion.\n\nThe gymnasium at Old Kona Airport State Recreation Area is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "55013640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55013640", "title": "Killing of David Black", "text": "Killing of David Black\n\nPrison Officer David Black was killed on 1 November 2012 by the New IRA. He was the first prison officer to be killed by Republicans since the Good Friday Agreement.\n\nBlack was driving to work in Maghaberry Prison when he was shot by the New IRA at 7:30 am. He was near the Lurgan turn off on the M1 when he was fired upon by another car.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55667899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55667899", "title": "Langa massacre", "text": "Langa massacre\n\nOn 21 March 1985, on the 25th anniversary of the Sharpeville massacre, members of the South African Police opened fire on a crowd of people gathered on Maduna Road between Uitenhage and Langa township in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. The crowd had been attending a funeral of one the six who had been slain by the apartheid police on 17 March 1985. They had gathered at Maduna Square and were heading towards the house where the funeral was held when the police blocked the road with two armoured vehicles and ordered the crowd to disperse. When the crowd failed to comply immediately, police opened fire on the crowd, killing 35 people and leaving 27 wounded. The incident became known as the Uitenhage/Langa massacre.\n\nIn March 1985, tensions between the African population in Uitenhage's townships and the apartheid government reached boiling point. Between 8 and 10 March, police reported 23 incidents of arson and 18 of stone-throwing, causing damage estimated at R220 000. Minister of Law and Order Louis le Grange, had visited Uitenhage with the commissioner of police, General Johan Coetzee, on 19 February. They had been told that ‘soft’ weaponry was no longer effective for riot control purposes. On 14 March, Uitenhage’s most senior police officers, the Order Group, decided to take stronger action to regain control. As from 15 March, police patrols were no longer issued with teargas, rubber bullets and birdshot; instead they were given heavy ammunition.\n\nThe increased police presence and use of heavy ammunition in the townships of Uitenhage resulted in the killing of six black youth. The funeral of four of the six was to be held on Sunday 17 March 1985 and a stay away was called for Monday 18 March as part of ‘Black Weekend’.The name 'Black Weekend' comes from the fact that the KwaNobuhle township community had chosen that weekend to bury four people killed by the apartheid police earlier in March 1985. Police said that three petrol bombs were thrown at a police vehicle in Langa during this weekend. Police also shot and killed a young man during on 17 March 2017. The houses of two police officers in Langa were destroyed by fire.\n\nCaptain Goosen from the Uitenhage branch applied for a court order which banned all funerals on weekends, Mondays and public holidays from Chief Magistrate MH Steyn. The order was granted on the grounds that limiting funerals would help curb political actions against the apartheid government. The community of Langa then rescheduled the funerals for Thursday, 21 March 2017. Goosen realised that the 21 March marked the 25 anniversary of the 1960 Sharpeville massacre, where the apartheid police killed 69 black Africans. He then applied for another order to have the funeral postponed yet again, this time approaching Uitenhage Magistrate M. J. Groenwald, who accordingly ruled that funerals could only be held on a Sunday. The first orders which banned funeral on weekends, Mondays and public holidays and the second which banned funerals except on Sundays were both in effect at the same time, leading to a sense of confusion and resentment in the township of Uitenhage.\n\nOn 21 March 1985, Lieutenant John Fouche and his team patrolled the township of Langa until 8am and found it quiet, they then headed to KwaNobuhle township. Warrant Officer F.W Pentz and his team patrolled KwaNobuhle township and did not find any signs of protest or marching. However, a warrant officer Lekubo noticed a crowd gathering at Maduna Square. He relayed the message to the police headquarters in Uitenhage. Pentz and his team then drove through the crowd and parked the police vehicle on the side of the road. Pentz, who had been in KwaNobuhle township, headed to the police headquarters in Uitenhage, returned with a white police officer who had not been part of original patrol squad that morning. He then drove down the 23rd Street and came across the crowd had seen. Pentz sent a message to Lieutenant Fouche via radio that his patrol needed assistance before accelerating along Maduna Road to small hill between the crowd and the white residential area. A team led by Fouche joined Pentz's team and the two vehicles formed a cordon facing the crowd in a \"V\" position.\n\nPolice teams led by Fouche and Pentz tried to disperse the crowd. However, the crowd continued to march peacefully. Realising that the crowd was not following their (police) orders, the police fired 41 rounds of SSG shotgun ammunition, three round of R1 ammunition and an unrecorded number of rounds of 9mm bullets from their automatic rifles. The shooting left 35 people dead and 27 wounded.\n\nOn Saturday, 13 April 1985, a mass burial was held to mourn the deaths of 29 people who had died after being shot by police in Langa township, Uitenhage on 21 March was held at KwaNobuhle Stadium. The 29 deceased people were buried in a mass grave in KwaNobuhle Cemetery. The families of the other six people who died from the massacre opted for private burials.\n\nThe Kannemeyer Commission was appointed the day after the shooting with Judge Donald Kannemeyer as its chairperson and sole member. The Kannemeyer Commission reported that 20 people were shot dead and at least 27 were wounded, and that the majority had been shot in the back. He found that, in the circumstances, the police could not be blamed for issuing orders to open fire. Although, Kannemeyer did not find the police guilty, he added that the police were armed with lethal weapons rather than standard riot control gear because of a deliberate policy adopted by senior officers, and the police should thus have foreseen that an order to open fire would result in fatalities. The report went on to say that police evidence of the weapons carried by the crowd was exaggerated. Charges of public violence laid against 31 people following the Langa massacre of March 1985 were dropped a year later. Of the 31 charged, 21 had been injured by police gunfire.\n\nIn 1986, an inquest at the New Brighton courts in Port Elizabeth found that the deaths were not the result of any act or negligence constituting a crime on the part of anyone. The inquest findings were based on the evidence heard by Kannemeyer and it was considered unnecessary to call any of the witnesses to give their evidence to the inquest. As a result of this decision, the families of the deceased withdrew from the inquest proceedings. In 1987, Minister of Law and Order paid out R2,3-million to 51 people injured or widowed in the Uitenhage massacre. The government had admitted that the police had acted wrongfully and negligently and that this was the cause of the incident.\n\nA year after the 1985 Langa massacre, a memorial tombstone dedicated to those who died was unveiled in the KwaNobuhle Cemetery. The tombstone was vandalised in June 1987 and re-erected in March 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22233215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22233215", "title": "Liphistius batuensis", "text": "Liphistius batuensis\n\nLiphistius batuensis is a species of trapdoor spider from Malaysia. It is thought to be restricted to the Batu Caves, near Kuala Lumpur. It was first collected by H. C. Abraham in 1923, and has been described as a living fossil.\n\nAdults build a nest which is long with an opening some wide, from which six to ten strands of silk radiate out in a semicircle. The movement of an insect against these threads is detected by the spider which then rushes out and captures the insect. Spiderlings build smaller nests, only across, and seem to abandon these during development to build a bigger nest; intermediate sizes of nest are not seen.\n\nSpiders of all ages may fall prey to cave-dwelling centipedes.\n"}
{"id": "26073178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26073178", "title": "List of cemeteries in Malaysia", "text": "List of cemeteries in Malaysia\n\n"}
{"id": "10233700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10233700", "title": "List of cricketers who were murdered", "text": "List of cricketers who were murdered\n\nThis is a chronological list of cricketers who have played in first-class cricket, List A, or at a similar level, who were murdered. This does not include those who were killed in wars. They are listed separately at List of cricketers who were killed during military service.\n"}
{"id": "6078469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6078469", "title": "Marengo (horse)", "text": "Marengo (horse)\n\nMarengo (c. 1793–1831) was the famous war horse of Napoleon I of France. Named after the Battle of Marengo, through which he carried his rider safely, Marengo was imported to France from Egypt in 1799 as a six-year-old. The grey Arabian was probably bred at the famous El Naseri Stud. Although small (only ) he was a reliable, steady, and courageous mount.\n\nMarengo was wounded eight times in his career, and carried the Emperor in the Battle of Austerlitz, Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, Battle of Wagram, and Battle of Waterloo. He also was frequently used in the 80-mile gallops from Valladolid to Burgos, which he often completed in five hours. As one of 52 horses in Napoleon's personal stud, Marengo fled with these horses when it was raided by Russians in 1812, surviving the retreat from Moscow; however, the stallion was captured in 1815 at the Battle of Waterloo by William Petre, 11th Baron Petre.\n\nPetre brought the horse back to the United Kingdom and sold him on to Lieutenant-Colonel Angerstein of the Grenadier Guards. Marengo stood at stud (unsuccessfully) at New Barnes, near Ely, at the age of 27. He eventually died at the old age of 38, and his skeleton (minus two hooves) was preserved and later passed to the Royal United Services Institute and is now on display at the National Army Museum in Chelsea, London. One of the remaining hooves was given to the officers of the Brigade of Guards by John Julius Angerstein as a snuff box. The fourth hoof was mounted as a silver inkwell and retained by the family; it is still owned by the family but is now on loan to the Household Cavalry Museum. The Duke of Wellington was asked to disinter his own horse, Copenhagen, to be exhibited alongside Marengo, but refused to do so. Coincidentally, one of Copenhagen's hooves was also later used as an ornament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35977763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35977763", "title": "Marwysgafn", "text": "Marwysgafn\n\nMarwysgafn is a Welsh term meaning a \"deathbed song\". Used by poets when they sense they are close to death, the poet confesses and asks for forgiveness. Marwysgafns were primarily popular during the Poets of the Princes period. \n"}
{"id": "30695457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30695457", "title": "Morality of violence", "text": "Morality of violence\n\nIn ethics, questions regarding the morality of violence ask under what conditions, if any, the use of violence can be morally justified. Three prominent views on the morality of violence are (1) the pacifist position, which states that violence is always immoral, and should never be used; (2) the utilitarian position, which states that violence can be used if it brings about a net \"good\" for society; (3) a hybrid of these two views which both looks at what good comes from the use of violence, while also examining the types of violence used.\n\nChristian theologians have traditionally argued against the morality of violence, arguing that Christians should love their enemies as well as their friends. Benito Mussolini often spoke about the morality of violence, arguing that violence was moral, and that it had spiritual importance as an expression of human will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2383226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2383226", "title": "Moroi", "text": "Moroi\n\nA moroi (sometimes moroii in modern fiction; pl. \"moroi\") is a type of vampire or ghost in Romanian folklore. A female moroi is called a moroaică (pl. \"moroaice\"). In some versions, a moroi is a phantom of a dead person which leaves the grave to draw energy from the living.\n\nMoroi are often associated with other figures in Romanian folklore, such as strigoi (another type of vampire), vârcolac (werewolf), or pricolici (werewolf). As with most concepts in folklore, the exact characteristics ascribed to moroi are variable from source to source. Wlislocki reported a belief that the child of a woman impregnated by a \"nosferat\" (a sort of incubus-vampire) would be extremely ugly and covered with thick hair, very quickly becoming a moroi.\n\nThey are also sometimes referred to in modern stories as the living offspring of two strigoi. It may also signify an infant who died before being baptized. The origins of the term \"moroi\" are unclear, but it is thought by the Romanian Academy to have possibly originated from the Old Slavonic word \"mora\" (\"nightmare\") (compare the Russian \"kikimora\").\n\nMoroi can also be forms of demons which possess a living body, usually the body of a bear. Moroi can be put under the control of a strigoi.\n\nThe concept of \"moroi\" and \"strigoi\" have been fictionalized in popular culture, somewhat less often than traditional vampires.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4397127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397127", "title": "Neil Stonechild", "text": "Neil Stonechild\n\nNeil Stonechild (August 24, 1973 – November 25, 1990) was a Saulteaux First Nations teenager who died of hypothermia. There were accusations that the Saskatoon Police Service may have taken him to the northwest section of the city and abandoned him in a field on a night when temperatures were below −28 °C (−18 °F). The practice is known as a starlight tour, and a number of such cases in Saskatoon area have been referred to collectively as the Saskatoon freezing deaths.\n\nStonechild was an accomplished wrestler, having won a bantamweight provincial title in Saskatchewan. On the night of his disappearance, he was the subject of a Canada-wide warrant for his arrest on a charge of being unlawfully-at-large from a community home.\n\nStonechild's friend Jason Roy was with Stonechild the night of his death. When first interviewed by the police in 1990, Roy stated that he had \"blacked out\" shortly after he and Stonechild had parted company. In 2000, however, Roy stated that the last time he saw Stonechild alive was shortly before midnight, that Stonechild was handcuffed in the back of a police cruiser with a cut on his face, and that the last words Stonechild said to him were, \"Jay, help me. They're going to kill me.\"\n\nWhen first interviewed by the police in 1990, 5 days after Stonechild's disappearance, Roy provided a handwritten, signed statement stating that he and Stonechild had drunk most of a 40-ounce bottle of vodka between them. Roy also stated that he and Stonechild had parted company at \"about 1130 pm\", and that he had \"blacked out\" and had no recollection of what happened after he and Stonechild separated that night. In 2000, however, Roy stated that the last time he saw Stonechild alive, Stonechild was handcuffed in the back of a police cruiser \"gushing blood\" from a cut on his face, and that the last words Stonechild said to him were \"Jay, help me. They're going to kill me.\" Jason Roy's family was ultimately put into an RCMP witness protection program.\n\nRoy also stated that he had given the police officers a false name – Tracy Lee Horse – when they questioned him.\n\nShortly after talking to Jason Roy, Constable Brad Senger and Larry Hartwig encountered Neil Stonechild's cousin, Bruce Genaille, and questioned him on suspicion that he was Stonechild. In 2003, Genaille told the inquiry that there had been nobody in the back of the cruiser at the time.\n\nAt 11:56 p.m. on November 24, 1990, Constable Brad Senger performed a query on the Canadian Police Information Centre (CPIC) computer system for the names \"Tracy Horse\" and Tracy Lee Horse\", the false name provided by Jason Roy. Three minutes later, at 11:59 p.m., Constable Senger performed a CPIC query for the name \"Neil Stonechild\". Five minutes later, at 12:04 a.m., November 25, 1990, Constable Hartwig conducted a CPIC query of the name \"Bruce Genaille\". Genaille testified at the Wright inquiry that there had been nobody in the back of the cruiser when Hartwig and Senger questioned him.\n\nHis body was found, with one shoe missing, on November 29 by two construction workers. In the initial investigation of his death, the Saskatoon police determined that there was no foul play. Ten years later, however, his companion on November 24/25, Jason Roy, said Stonechild had been in police custody. Roy said he had seen his friend in the back of a police cruiser. In 2000 the Royal Canadian Mounted Police investigated Stonechild's death and the deaths of other First Nations individuals thought to have been in police custody.\n\nIn 2003, the Saskatchewan provincial government held a Commission of Inquiry (the Wright Inquiry) into Stonechild's death. The report concluded that Stonechild had been picked up by the police shortly before he died on the outskirts of the city. The inquest reported that the officers did not record the interaction in their log books. It concluded that marks on Stonechild's wrists and on his nose could have been caused by handcuffs. The report also concluded that relations between the police and First Nations are problematic. However, the inquiry found that at the time of the death the police investigation was not adequate to conclude what the circumstances were surrounding Neil Stonechild's death. The inquiry concluded on May 19, 2004.\n\nFollowing the inquest, police officers Larry Hartwig and Brad Senger were fired. It was appealed but the firings were upheld.\n\nIn 2015, author Candis McLean published \"When Police Become Prey: The Cold Hard Facts of Neil Stonechild's Freezing Death\", which presented evidence to exonerate the police officers involved in the case. A book signing that would have coincided with the 25th anniversary of Stonechild's death was cancelled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3334896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3334896", "title": "Nine nights", "text": "Nine nights\n\nNine-Nights, also known as Dead Yard, is a funerary tradition practiced in the Caribbean (primarily Belize, Grenada, Dominica, Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana, Trinidad, Haiti and the Dominican Republic). It is an extended wake that lasts for several days, with roots in African religious tradition. During this time, friends and family come together to the home of the deceased. They share their condolences and memories while singing hymns and eating food together. \n\nIn the old days, the nights were calm and reserved for the most part - but that tradition has changed with the times. Today, these gatherings resemble parties much more than they resemble wakes (though this is not true for all “nine-nights”).\n\nNine-Nights are no longer a time to mourn, but a time to celebrate since the loved one is no longer suffering in life. When friends come they do not come with just condolences, instead they come with food, drink and music; this is after all a celebration. True to its name this celebration last nine nights and days with the ninth and final night being the night before the church service (Though some modern Islanders only celebrate for seven days and seven nights). On the ninth night the family prepares the food for all who come. \n\nAs tradition has is on the ninth night it is believed that the spirit of the deceased passes through the party gathering food and saying goodbye before continuing on to its resting place. Out of all the nights this night is the most revered since it is the end of the celebration. Stories about the deceased and the fondest memories are shared, along with prayers. Games, such as Dominos, are played as well as singing hymns, which is also done on the other nights as well.\n\nOn the ninth night a table is set up under a tent with food for the loved one, though no one is allowed to eat from it before midnight because it is believed that this is the time that the spirit passes through. Along with the food are drinks, most often Jamaican rum with no less than 100 proof. The types of food on the table can vary from one celebration to the next, but typically fried fish and bammy are the main foods on the table. This time is very important to the family because it gives them time to celebrate the life of their loved one and to be able to say their goodbyes.\n\nIn order for the deceased to move on there is a process that must happen. First, there is the \"seeing\". This is when someone looks at a doorway and sees the spirit. They then tell someone and that person tells someone and so on. The leader of the ceremony greets the duppy (spirit) and then the night song begins. This is a song played for the duppy while he or she is told stories by the elders. Traditionally on the ninth night of the deceased's death their bed and mattress are turned up against the wall, in order to encourage the spirit (Jamaican patois \"duppy\") to leave the house and enter the grave. Then the leader of the ceremony uses a piece of white chalk to draw a cross over the exit that the spirit used to leave, allowing the spirit to never return.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago many Christians participate in a 'wake' in the days leading up to the funeral service which resembles the 'nine nights' traditions of other islands. In this country, Christians celebrate the 'nine-nights' service nine days after the death of the deceased which may coincide with a few days after the funeral service and burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "6564411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6564411", "title": "Number Three (Battlestar Galactica)", "text": "Number Three (Battlestar Galactica)\n\nD'Anna Biers (Number Three) is a fictional character from the re-imagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" television series, played by Lucy Lawless.\n\nThree first appeared in the episode \"Final Cut\" as D'Anna Biers, a reporter for the Fleet News Service. In this episode, she is given full access to \"Galactica\" by Commander Adama to film a documentary about the military. During filming, D'Anna comes across the Cylon prisoner Sharon \"Athena\" Agathon and discovers she is pregnant when Dr. Cottle rushes to save her baby from miscarriage. D'Anna is ordered to remove the evidence by Adama on the grounds it could jeopardize fleet security. The episode concludes with a group of Cylons watching the documentary as well as the removed footage—it is in this scene that D'Anna's identity as a Cylon is first revealed.\n\nIn the episode \"Downloaded\", D'Anna debriefs newly resurrected Caprica Six and Sharon \"Boomer\" Valerii and helps them to integrate back into Cylon society. When the two begin to show sympathy towards the humans, D'Anna reacts with disgust. Ultimately she is killed by Caprica Six to protect Anders, a resistance fighter. After D'Anna has resurrected (offscreen), she claims this to be the first act of Cylon-on-Cylon violence in their history. Caprica averted Three's own unwitting act of Cylon-on-Cylon violence, patricide in fact, as Anders is later revealed to be one of the Final Five, the creators of D'Anna and all other Humanoid Cylons. Three is also unaware of Boomer destroying a Basestar filled with copies of herself, as well as Athena gunning down on two separate occasions a Number Six and a Number Eight who threatened Karl \"Helo\" Agathon on Caprica.\n\nIn the third season episode \"Exodus\", D'Anna (it is never explained whether this is the Fleet journalist copy or the \"Downloaded\" copy but more likely one of these than a new one) is plagued by disturbing dreams. She visits a human oracle who tells her Hera, the hybrid child of Helo and Athena, still lives and Number Three will play a vital role in the child's destiny. Athena, now a commissioned officer of the Colonial Fleet, later infiltrates the Cylons' New Caprica headquarters. D'Anna tells her her child is alive, but a distrustful Athena kneecaps her. After almost all humans have escaped the planet, D'Anna finds Hera accidentally left behind due to the deaths of her adoptive mother and bodyguards, and takes her into the care of the Cylons.\n\nIn response to dreams which she believes are messages from God, D'Anna begins a series of suicides in an apparent attempt at enlightenment. She is determined to learn the truth despite suicide being a major taboo in Cylon society. In the period of time before she awakens in a new body, she experiences a vision of five figures bathed in light, whom she believes are the five unknown humanoid Cylon models, the \"Final Five\".\n\nD'Anna engages in a sexual affair with both Gaius Baltar and Caprica Six, and claims to love both. However, in the episode \"The Eye of Jupiter\", she ends the relationship with Caprica Six, claiming they have different destinies. Ignoring the consensus decision of the other humanoid Cylons, D'Anna proceeds with Baltar to the temple on the algae planet. Cavil finds her in the temple and orders her at gunpoint not to proceed any further, realizing she has come to find out the identities of the Final Five. However, Baltar shoots him from behind. D'Anna continues and finds herself in a glowing room surrounded by five hooded beings in gleaming white robes. She moves closer and finally sees their faces, realizing who they are. She asks one of them for forgiveness, saying she never knew. She then slumps to the floor and dies, with Baltar pleading for her to tell him if he's one of them (\"Rapture\").\n\nAs D'Anna resurrects, Cavil is present, displeased with her for disregarding the Cylon taboo against seeking out the Final Five, which he himself programmed to cover up his tracks. He claims the Cylons have reached a consensus all members of the Number Three model are inherently flawed and suffer from messianic delusions. All copies would therefore be \"boxed\" — deactivated with their memories placed into cold storage. The boxing is carried out by Cavil. \n\nLater, when the Cylons split over whether or not to seek out the Final Five Cylon models, which they learn are in the Colonial fleet, the Number Twos, Sixes and Eights (except Boomer) call for the Threes to be unboxed to end the deadlock.\n\nIn the episode \"Faith\", the hybrid says \"The missing three will give you the five who have come from the home of the thirteenth\". Six and Starbuck realize Three, having previously seen the final five, will be able to recognize the final five from among the presumed humans in the fleet, and as the five are \"from the home of the thirteenth\" they are from Earth, the home of the thirteenth tribe of humans. Thus they believe resurrecting Three will allow the five to be found and give the fleet a way home to Earth. It turns out much later, in the episode \"Sometimes a Great Notion\", that \"who have come from the home of the thirteenth\" is to be taken literally on a different level.\n\nThe copy known as D'Anna is revived by Cavil in \"The Hub\". Cavil hopes she will be able to mediate peace between the warring Cylon factions, but she kills him and is taken away by Helo and a Number Eight. All other copies of Number Three are destroyed during the attack on the Resurrection Hub. Helo takes D'Anna to Roslin, where D'Anna tells the President she will only reveal the identities of the Final Five once she is assured of her own safety.\n\nIn \"Revelations\", D'Anna becomes the de facto leader of the rebel Cylons, and informs Adama and Roslin she will hold members of the Galactica crew hostage until the Cylons in the Colonial fleet — she notes there are only four, not five — rejoin their brethren. D'Anna then accompanies Adama to the Galactica, declaring her demands to the assembled crew (and the Final Four, all of whom are present); Lee Adama, acting as president, assures her he will make no effort to stop the Four from leaving if they so choose; Tory Foster acts immediately, leaving with D'Anna under the guise of delivering Roslin's medication to her. The others hesitate, and D'Anna soon begins executing hostages. After Col. Tigh reveals himself, as well as Tyrol and Anders, D'Anna responds to Lee's threat to execute them by targeting the Colonial Fleet with the basestar's nuclear weapons. Baltar successfully persuades her to stand down, and Lee shortly thereafter reveals to her Starbuck's discovery of a Colonial signal apparently coming from Earth. Though at first hesitant, convinced the humans would never forgive the Cylons and their conflict would never end, she agrees to Lee's proposal they go to Earth together. She is a member of the landing party that discovers the planet to be an irradiated, post-apocalyptic wasteland.\n\nAt the conclusion of \"Sometimes a Great Notion\", Saul Tigh approaches D'Anna to tell her the fleet is about to leave. D'Anna chooses to stay behind on Earth. She tells him: \"You know all this is just going to happen again and again... and again. So I'm getting off this merry-go-round.\" She adds she would rather die on Earth with her ancestors than at Cavil's hands in the cold and dark of space.\n\nD'Anna, the final number three copy, remains behind on the wasteland of the original Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "56690675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56690675", "title": "Nyasaland Famine 1949", "text": "Nyasaland Famine 1949\n\nThe Nyasaland Famine 1949 was a famine that occurred in the Shire Highlands in the Southern Province of Nyasaland (now Malawi) and a part of the Central Province in 1949, extending into the early part of 1950. The immediate cause was severe droughts in December 1948 to January 1949 and in March 1949 that destroyed much of the maize crop on which the people of the affected areas relied during its main growing season. This followed two years of erratic rainfall and poor harvests which had depleted the farmers’ granaries. The effect of crop failure was intensified by the failure of the colonial government to maintain an emergency grain reserve, delays in importing sufficient relief supplies and its requirement that most of the relief provided was paid for. The official death toll from starvation was some 200 people, which may be an underestimate, and excludes those dying of diseases exacerbated by malnutrition.\n\nThere is significant disagreement on the underlying causes of the famine. At first, it was blamed on over-intensive cultivation causing soil erosion and on growing tobacco rather than food crops. Later, colonial underdevelopment through land expropriation, levying rents and taxes on African farmers and underpaying them for their labour and produce was suggested. More recently, attention has been focussed to the uneven economic and social development of the protectorate in the 1930s and 1940s. This created, firstly, an increased number of employees and tradesmen needing to buy their food but who were dependent on uncertain surpluses arising the system of subsistence agricultural rather than on farmers producing food for the market, and governmental marketing organisations that disincentivised the production of maize by underpaying farmers for it. In addition, these changes created an underclass of those without adequate access to farmland or secure employment, vulnerable in times of food shortage, and including many women.\n\nThroughout the colonial period, the main subsistence crop of the upland areas that formed much of Nyasaland was maize, which had been introduced from Mozambique, probably starting from the 18th century, and which supplanted sorghum and millet as the staple cereal in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. By the end of the colonial era, maize accounted for 60% of the areas planted with food crops, providing Nyasaland’s inhabitants with over half their calories. Very few cattle were kept in the Shire Highlands, although many smallholders kept a few sheep or goats and most had at least a few chickens.\nThe traditional maize grown in 1949 was late-maturing variety, requiring at least five to eight centimetres of rainfall in each of the first three months of growth, and another month to ripen. The Shire Highlands generally meets these conditions in the normal five-month growing but, as maize cultivation was mostly rain-fed, variations in the annual rainfall led to substantial fluctuation in crop production\nMost of Nyasaland’s rain was generated when the Intertropical Convergence Zone passed over the country, usually between November and March each year, but the amount of rainfall varied with the influence of the El Niño–Southern Oscillation and other climate anomalies. Regional climatic studies have identified an intense episode of drought throughout Southern Africa between 1946 and 1949. This caused widespread famine in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia in 1947 and less severe droughts in Nyasaland in 1947 and 1948 that led to poor harvests in those years. The severe famine in southern Malawi in 1949 was probably the last phase of this episode of drought.\n\nIn the 1940s, Nyasaland smallholders relied on hand hoeing, and a farming family including two able-bodied adults whose main crop was maize could cultivate 4.5 to 5 acres (2.0 hectares) a year; single women were barely able to farm one hectare without assistance. Around 1949, average maize yields were 0.4 ton to an acre (0.9 tonne a hectare). Pressure on land increased from the 1940s and even those with access to sufficient arable land might suffer seasonal hunger before harvests and occasionally more serious food shortages in years of inadequate rainfall. Other family units with less land or labour available were frequently at risk of hunger.\nAbout 70% of African smallholders in the Shire Highlands occupied Native Trust Land, for which they paid no rent. This amounted to around 50% of the land in that area and, as the local population increased, Native Trust Land became congested, and much of it was used for almost continuous maize monocropping without crop rotation or fallow. Only those with larger holdings could grow significant amounts of cash crops, and tobacco, the one widely grown with government encouragement in the Central Province, was less suited to the wetter Shire Highlands and was not encouraged there.\nAnother 30% of African farmers were tenants on European owned estates. These estates occupied almost 700,000 acres (280,000 hectares) in the Shire Highlands or about 50% of the available land, including much of the most fertile land in this area. Their tenants owed rent, originally satisfied by a form of labour rent called thangata. but by 1949 it was paid either in cash or by delivering specified quantities of tobacco or other cash crops. Although there was a significant amount of available land on these estates and rural landlessness was rare, the obligation to produce cash crops to pay rent reduced the land and labour that could be devoted to growing the tenants' own food crops.\n\nBefore the Second World War, little was done in Nyasaland to encourage the production and distribution of food. Although town dwellers needed to purchase their food, little was grown commercially, as towns were few and small and transport was expensive. It was left to African smallholders and tenants sell their surpluses on local markets and for small-scale African entrepreneurs to distribute food over limited areas. In normal years, most farmers had only small surpluses to sell in local markets. In addition, government policies had a disincentive effect on maize production.\n\nThe Nyasaland government made a number of wartime emergency regulations to control agricultural production, and it made some of these permanent in the post-war period. In 1947, it set up a Maize Control Board, aiming to ensure supplies of maize were maintained for over 67,000 workers and town dwellers in the Southern Province and others elsewhere who were unable to grow their own food. However, it was underfunded, it paid very low prices for crops and was reluctant to promote higher maize production for the home market or for export on the grounds of cost.\n\nThe Maize Control Board aimed to handle only around 5% of the national crop and to set up a small grain reserve. However, as its first two years of operation coincided with poor harvests, it only managed to buy around 2% of the crop in 1947 and in 1948 and could not establish any reserve. After the famine, the Board more than doubled the price it paid for maize and handled from 7% of the maize crop in 1951, rising to over 10% of an increased crop in 1952.\n\nAlthough seasonal hunger before crops were ready to harvest was common in Nyasaland, famine was relatively infrequent in the Shire Highlands during the century after 1850, and the area was sometimes a refuge for those fleeing famine from nearby areas of Mozambique. One drought recorded by early missionaries was in the years 1861 to 1863, which coincided with a time of acute political upheaval that dislocated agriculture, and another occurred in 1922.\nThe 1949 famine occurred in an area of Nyasaland undergoing rapid economic change in the period after the Second World War. Blantyre District was not simply an area of subsistence farming but one of growing employment in the nearby towns of Blantyre and Limbe, on European-owned tobacco or tea estates or as migrant labour in the Rhodesias and South Africa. Many local African smallholders grew cash crops, mainly tobacco, and farm land was becoming congested and under pressure to produce enough food crops for a growing urban and rural population. The population of Blantyre District was becoming differentiated and much of it, urban and rural, relied on cash earnings to purchase some or all of their food needs.\nThe 1949 famine was most severe in the Lunzu and Lirangwe areas of Blantyre District, north of Blantyre city, and was an experience beyond the memory of all except the oldest inhabitants, who remembered the 1922 famine. Serious food shortages also occurred in Dedza and Port Herald (Nsanje) districts.\n\nThe rainfall in 1947 and 1948 had been erratic, and in 1947 swarms of locusts had destroyed crops. These events forced farmers to use their stored maize, emptying the reserves in their granaries in advance of the 1949 harvest.\nThe rainy season of 1948-9 began well in Blantyre District, but the rains lessened in November and December 1948, and six rainless weeks followed in late December and January 1949, normally the wettest period, and no rain clouds were seen. There were considerable local variations, but the worst affected areas had only half their average annual rainfall and lost up to a third of their expected crop. Some of the earliest-planted maize survived but much of the main crop died, and some farmers were unable to replant for lack of rain and because few had more seed to plant after the poor harvests of the previous two years. Those with land near riverbanks that retained moisture could harvest some crops, others had relatives in less severely affected areas or received food rations from their employers, but the majority were dependent on what their own land could grow.\n\nThe initial government response was hampered by a lack of maize to distribute. In January, the local District Commissioner became concerned about a growing black market in maize flour in Blantyre market and arranged for maize held in a government store to be sold in the town market, although the one ton a day sold was only sufficient for around 500 families. In February 1949, the governor of Nyasaland did not consider that large amounts of famine relief would be needed. He asked the Southern Rhodesian government to send 1,000 tons of maize as soon as possible, and appointed a local businessman as African Foodstuffs Commissioner to arrange supplies of maize and other staple foods, hoping that the business community would assist in its distribution.\nAfter some light rains in February, there was a further four week drought in March 1949. By then, the situation had become really serious as the remaining maize in farmers’ granaries was exhausted and much of their cash savings had to be used to buy food and their livestock sold. Many walked long distances to areas that still had maize for sale or foraged for wild foods. The latter included wild varieties of yam and other tubers, edible roots, small mammals and insects. In many cases, help from better-off relatives dried up as the drought continued, and many men deserted the wives and families that they could not feed.\nSmall amounts of sweet potatoes and cassava planted by some farmers were available from May to September, but only in September 1949 did the government open food distribution centres. These sold maize at three pence a pound and allowed families to purchase 20 pounds for five shillings each week. Those people without cash, even women deserted by their husbands, had to work for food, as only small numbers of the very elderly and destitute were given minimal free rations. Initially, these centres issued whole maize kernels which had to be pounded but, by January 1950, some of the centres issued ready milled maize, as many women were too weak to pound it, and could not afford to have it milled.\n\nDespite the government food distribution, in December 1949 and January 1950, many people in the worst affected areas, particularly young children and the old, showed signs of severe malnutrition, and deaths occurred among the most vulnerable. Some feeding camps were set up where the elderly and destitute were fed maize porridge twice a day, and the worst cases were taken to Blantyre hospital. Around 200 people were reported to have died of starvation: the shock caused by these famine-related deaths was disproportionate to this official mortality figure, because serious famine had reappeared in this area without warning after an absence of more than a quarter of a century This mortality figure may also be an underestimate and it excludes many weakened by hunger, particularly young children and the elderly, that died of diseases they might otherwise have recovered from.\n\nThe government issued free maize seed and cassava cuttings to those sufficiently able-bodied to plant them, and the 1950 harvest was reasonably good despite the weakness of many farmers. In the planting season of 1950/51 many planted drought-resistant cassava as well as maize. The people in the worst-affected areas took some years to recover physically from the famine and to repay debts and build up food reserves and saving. The social effects, where men had deserted their families or relatives had refused to help distressed families, lasted for many years.\n\nAfrican businessmen or skilled workers and the better-paid government employees that had sufficient cash or assets were little affected by the famine, as were soldiers, policemen and employees of European or Asian enterprises that were given food rations as part of their pay. Self-employed artisans and traders and those in low-paid often casual employment suffered a drastic fall in income as their customers prioritised buying food, or their employment ceased: the degree to which they suffered depended on what savings or saleable assets they had. \nHow smallholding farmers managed depended on what cash and food reserves, livestock or other assets they had. In normal times, female-headed households, including those of widows and deserted wives, were often the poorest group in the community, with little access to land. They often survived by casual work such as beer-brewing or food-for-work labour, both of which ended during the famine. Unless their relatives helped them, these women and their families were very vulnerable. On the other hand, many households of migrant workers received cash from absent husbands throughout the famine.\n\nIn the early months of 1949, when it was clear that most of the maize crop planted in late 1948 would be lost because of drought, the Nyasaland government asked the Rhodesian Maize Control Board, which had been set-up in the 1930s and maintained buffer stocks and imported of maize to send maize to Nyasaland by rail, even though there were already shortages in Northern Rhodesia and one was predicted for Mashonaland. Around 12,500 tons of maize was supplied by these means, 7,500 by June 1949.\nAs widespread crop failure in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia in 1947 had depleted regional stocks, further emergency supplies had to be brought from further afield. A total of 12,500 tons of maize was imported by sea during the remainder of 1949 and 1950, mostly from the United States and East Africa.\nOne a problem finding enough ships in the post-war period to transport the purchased maize by sea to the congested port of Beira. A second was that rail link from Beira to Malawi was interrupted by the collapse of the bridge at Chiromo in late 1948, which limited the amount of maize that could be imported and then distributed through a poorly developed road network. Once the supplies of maize reached the affected areas the government opened food distribution centres in September 1949 to sell maize at controlled prices.\n\nThe governor Sir Geoffrey Francis Taylor Colby stated that maize rations should be used, firstly, to support essential services such as police and the army, secondly to provide relief in the most affected areas and, thirdly, to contribute towards a reserve, which reached 6,000 tons after the 1950 harvest. He was particularly concerned that making maize available at food distribution centres would discourage people from making their own provisions against future famines.\nThe effects of the drought of 1948-49 were exacerbated by the colonial government’s failure to hold food reserves or provide relief supplies rapidly. Although the last major famine in the Shire Highlands was in 1922, there had been local food shortages here, particularly in Blantyre District in 1939, 1941 and 1947. Resistance to holding food stocks arose partly from the weak finances of the Nyasaland government, but also from an attitude that government food stores would discourage farmers from keeping their own food reserves.\n\nThis attitude changed in the aftermath of the 1949 famine and governor Colby took a number of steps to prevent a recurrence. Some of these steps were clearly beneficial: in addition to setting up a reserve maize store, he instructed the Maize Control the Board to increase the price paid for maize significantly, which encouraged farmers to grow maize for sale. In addition, he asked the owners of private estates to grow maize for their own workers on their own land, rather than purchasing it from smallholders. To reduce the overcrowding that existed in some Native Trust land, the government accelerated a scheme to purchase surplus land on the estates, although the largest purchases were from 1952 onwards.\nThe first of two more doubtful steps was the reduction in the price that the Native Tobacco Board paid for tobacco grown on Native Trust lands. The governor’s intention was to reduce the volume of tobacco grown while increasing its quality and using the increased profit the Board made for agricultural development. This significantly reduced the incomes of most of the farmers that had grown tobacco and did little in the short term to increase the quality of the crop. The introduction in the early 1950s of a compulsory registration scheme for tobacco growers led to a 20% reduction in their numbers by 1955.\nSecondly, the agricultural development that the governor proposed involved the appointment of government agricultural officers to enforce soil conservation and land use legislation that was bitterly resented by many African smallholders as it involved them in unpaid labour and took some cultivable land out of use. Although the main architect of these schemes claimed they were vital to prevent an environmental catastrophe, this view was later contradicted and, until the 1980s, soil fertility remained adequate.\n\nAlthough the immediate cause of an almost complete failure of the maize harvest in large parts of the Shire Highlands was a lack of rain at critical points in the growing season, the extent of the ensuing famine in the area has been attributed to a number of additional causes. Later research has cast doubt on the reality of those causes that were widely canvassed at the time, and suggested other possible reasons.\nEven before 1949, Nyasaland’s colonial Agriculture Department held negative views about African agricultural practices, and predicted that these would cause a rapid decline in soil fertility This is contradicted by more recent research, which showed that in 1998, almost 50 years after the 1949 famine, most soils in Malawi were adequate for growing maize, as fertility had declined much less rapidly than the department had forecast. Most soils still had sufficient organic material and nutrients, if barely so, although they would benefit from chemical fertilisers or manure.\nAnother view that attempted to place a degree of blame on African smallholders on Native Trust Land was that they were growing tobacco to the detriment of food production. Relatively little tobacco was grown on Native Trust Land in the Shire Highlands, partly as the Native Tobacco Board discouraged it where it competed with the European-owned private estates and partly as grades of leaf suitable for cigarettes were difficult to grow in the climate of the Shire Highlands. Farm surveys indicate that only farmers with larger holdings in that area grew tobacco, and these retained most of their land for food crops.\nTenants on the private estates often did grow tobacco and other saleable crops to pay in lieu of cash rents, although some preferred to grow maize to sell in local markets and pay a cash rent. Some large private estates were destroying soil fertility by seeking quick profits: a government survey showed they were badly managed and deforested, and that their soil and grassland was abused. However, most tenants had sufficiently large plots to feed their families and grow the required cash crops; only those tenants with insufficient land or labour suffered in the famine.\n\nNyasaland has been described as an Imperial Slum, or as a failed Colonial State by two leading proponents of the underdevelopment view of colonialism. The imposition of rents on tenants on private estates and underpayment for the produce of smallholders, together with taxes on both groups, certainly constituted a significant burden. However, in the economic boom of the 1940s, these impositions were less significant than in earlier periods.\n\nBoth Vail and Mandala suggest that the Imperial government showed little interest in Nyasaland, a country without valuable resources but with heavy administration costs. These authors concentrate on the period before 1939, when government revenue was low, with much coming from taxes on Africans and most absorbed in routine administration costs, leaving very little available for development. Both also concentrate on the inefficiency and perceived high cost of the protectorate’s transport system.\n\nHowever, Vail’s argument that the cost of railway links impoverished the country, preventing the government from promoting efficient peasant agriculture is overstated for the latter part of the half-century he covers. The Nyasaland government only had to pay interest and repay capital on the loans for constructing the Trans-Zambezia Railway or Zambezi Bridge if its revenues exceeded target figures. During the period 1930 to 1947, it only paid interest in 1936 and repaid no capital. All the accrued liabilities passed to the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland in 1953.\n\nThe seasonal hunger common in pre-colonial gave rise to several coping strategies. In a subsistence economy, farmers grew food for their families’ needs and small surpluses were usually stored, bartered for livestock or given to dependants Markets where food was exchanged for cash were established during the colonial era, and it is likely that introduction of a market economy eventually created an underclass of the chronically malnourished poor. Older strategies were supplemented by the use of cash to make good food deficits, whether it was earned directly, remitted by a migrant worker relative or borrowed.\nSome coping strategies were still in use in 1949, including growing drought resistant crops like millet, cassava or sweet potatoes in case the maize crop failed, gathering wild food or relying on support from family or friends. However, the growing of sorghum and millet was actively discouraged by government agricultural policies, as was the cultivation of riverbanks and marshland. Although these policies originated before the 1949 famine, they were not relaxed during or immediately after it.\n\nThese strategies were meant to deal with seasonal hunger, but they helped some during, at least the early stages of famine, but not others.\n\nThe colonial economy created winners and losers: in 1949, most of Nyasaland’s people either experienced hunger that was not life-threatening and the most privileged suffered little or no hunger. It was the new vulnerable groups that arose during the colonial period who suffered most in that famine. These included men made landless by eviction from private estates, widows and deserted wives with children, unable to cultivate enough land, and casual employees and those self-employed people reliant on a buoyant economy.\n\nIn the terms proposed by Amartya Sen, the above groups either lacked a food entitlement or their food entitlement had been sharply reduced by a change in circumstances, and their exposure to famine was an entitlement failure. A minority of people in Nyasaland in 1949, soldiers, police, some workers private estates and domestic servants received food rations or food at subsidised prices. Urban workers such as clerks earned enough to give them food security and the families of migrant workers often had cash remittances that gave them security.\nHowever, the majority of people in 1949 depended on agriculture not rations or earnings. In the years before 1949, a rising population led to fear of land shortage, to more intense cultivation and possibly to some over-cropping. Even so, in the 30 years following the famine, smallholders adapted to smaller farm plots with a substantial increase in the production of maize and other food crops, once the incentives they received made this possible. It was therefore not having access to sufficient land to grow their own food or a secure cash income that created the casualties of the 1949 famine. It was not that there was insufficient land or that it was badly managed so much as its distribution was uneven.\n\nFor around 30 years after the 1949 famine, the country suffered no significant droughts and its farmers were able to adapt to smaller plots and increase in the production of maize and other food crops substantially, with the benefit of improved seeds and fertilizer. Between 1950 and 1979 the annual maize crop exceeded consumption except in 1963, 1970, 1975 and 1976 and shortfalls were made good from reserves. However, after 1980 food insecurity became an increasing problem, leading to a perennial Malawian food crisis.\n\nBad weather in 1980, 1990, 1997 and 1998 significantly reduced maize harvests, but famines were avoided. In 1997 and 1998, famine was avoided by the release of government grain reserves and overseas maize purchases, whereas in 2001 and 2002, when harvests were not as bad as in 1997 or 1998, deficiencies in grain reserves and import delays led to a significant famine.\n\nMalawi suffered widespread food shortages in the 1990s and 2000s, and several of the issues which arose then were apparent in 1949. These included the use of land for farming tobacco and other non-food crops, the growth of an underclass of land-poor or landless rural people dependent on casual work and the strict governmental controls on growing and marketing of certain crops. In more recent times, as in 1949, it was the lack of food reserves within the country and delays in importing relief supplies that turned shortages into famine. Even the idea, probably incorrect in 1949, that soil fertility was declining and soil erosion was becoming critical had become true by 1992, when cultivation had spread up hillsides and onto steep Rift Valley slopes, where erosion was inevitable and unsustainable.\n\n"}
{"id": "22837841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22837841", "title": "OpenCog", "text": "OpenCog\n\nOpenCog is a project that aims to build an open source artificial intelligence framework. OpenCog Prime is an architecture for robot and virtual embodied cognition that defines a set of interacting components designed to give rise to human-equivalent artificial general intelligence (AGI) as an emergent phenomenon of the whole system. OpenCog Prime's design is primarily the work of Ben Goertzel while the OpenCog framework is intended as a generic framework for broad-based AGI research. Research utilizing OpenCog has been published in journals and presented at conferences and workshops including the annual Conference on Artificial General Intelligence. OpenCog is released under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License.\n\nOpenCog is in use by more than 50 companies, including Huawei and Cisco.\n\nOpenCog was originally based on the release in 2008 of the source code of the proprietary \"Novamente Cognition Engine\" (NCE) of Novamente LLC. The original NCE code is discussed in the PLN book (ref below). Ongoing development of OpenCog is supported by Artificial General Intelligence Research Institute (AGIRI), the Google Summer of Code project, Hanson Robotics, SingularityNET and others.\n\nOpenCog consists of:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2008, the Machine Intelligence Research Institute (MIRI), formerly called Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence (SIAI), sponsored several researchers and engineers. Many contributions from the open source community have been made since OpenCog's involvement in the Google Summer of Code in 2008 and 2009. Currently MIRI no longer supports OpenCog. OpenCog has received funding and support from several sources, including the Hong Kong government, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation and Hanson Robotics. The OpenCog project is currently affiliated with SingularityNET and Hanson Robotics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "122329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=122329", "title": "Out-of-body experience", "text": "Out-of-body experience\n\nAn out-of-body experience (OBE or sometimes OOBE) is an experience in which a person seems to perceive the world from a location outside their physical body. An OBE is a form of autoscopy (literally \"seeing self\"), although the term \"autoscopy\" more commonly refers to the pathological condition of seeing a second self, or doppelgänger.\n\nThe term \"out-of-body experience\" was introduced in 1943 by G. N. M. Tyrrell in his book \"Apparitions\", and was adopted by researchers such as Celia Green and Robert Monroe as an alternative to belief-centric labels such as \"astral projection\", \"soul travel\", or \"spirit walking\". OBEs can be induced by brain traumas, sensory deprivation, near-death experiences, dissociative and psychedelic drugs, dehydration, sleep, and electrical stimulation of the brain, among others. It can also be deliberately induced by some. One in ten people have an OBE once, or more commonly, several times in their life.\n\nNeuroscientists and psychologists regard OBEs as dissociative experiences arising from different psychological and neurological factors.\n\nThose experiencing OBEs sometimes report (among other types of immediate and spontaneous experience) a preceding and initiating lucid-dream state. In many cases, people who claim to have had an OBE report being on the verge of sleep, or being already asleep shortly before the experience. A large percentage of these cases refer to situations where the sleep was not particularly deep (due to illness, noises in other rooms, emotional stress, exhaustion from overworking, frequent re-awakening, etc.). In most of these cases subjects perceive themselves as being awake; about half of them note a feeling of sleep paralysis.\n\nAnother form of spontaneous OBE is the near-death experience (NDE). Some subjects report having had an OBE at times of severe physical trauma such as near-drownings or major surgery. Near-death experiences may include subjective impressions of being outside the physical body, sometimes visions of deceased relatives and religious figures, and transcendence of ego and spatiotemporal boundaries. Typically the experience includes such factors as: a sense of being dead; a feeling of peace and painlessness; hearing of various non-physical sounds, an out-of-body experience; a tunnel experience (the sense of moving up or through a narrow passageway); encountering \"beings of light\" and a God-like figure or similar entities; being given a \"life review\", and a reluctance to return to life.\n\nAlong the same lines as an NDE, extreme physical effort during activities such as high-altitude climbing and marathon running can induce OBEs. A sense of bilocation may be experienced, with both ground and air-based perspectives being experienced simultaneously.\n\n\n\n\nIn the fields of cognitive science and psychology OBEs are considered dissociative experiences arising from different psychological and neurological factors. Scientists consider the OBE to be an experience from a mental state, like a dream or an altered state of consciousness without recourse to the paranormal.\n\nCharles Richet (1887) held that OBEs are created by the subject's memory and imagination processes and are no different from dreams. James H. Hyslop (1912) wrote that OBEs occur when the activity of the subconscious mind dramatizes certain images to give the impression the subject is in a different physical location. \nEugéne Osty (1930) considered OBEs to be nothing more than the product of imagination. Other early researchers (such as Schmeing, 1938) supported psychophysiological theories. G. N. M. Tyrrell interpreted OBEs as hallucinatory constructs relating to subconscious levels of personality.\n\nDonovan Rawcliffe (1959) connected the OBE experience with psychosis and hysteria. Other researchers have discussed the phenomena of the OBE in terms of a distortion of the body image (Horowitz, 1970) and depersonalization (Whitlock, 1978). The psychologists Nandor Fodor (1959) and Jan Ehrenwald (1974) proposed that an OBE is a defense mechanism designed to deal with the threat of death. According to (Irin and Watt, 2007) Jan Ehrenwald had described the out-of-body experience (OBE) \"as an imaginal confirmation of the question for immortality, a delusory attempt to assure ourselves that we possess a soul that exists independently of the physical body. The psychologists Donald Hebb (1960) and Cyril Burt (1968) wrote on the psychological interpretation of the OBE involving body image and visual imagery. Graham Reed (1974) suggested that the OBE is a stress reaction to a painful situation, such as the loss of love. John Palmer (1978) wrote that the OBE is a response to a body image change causing a threat to personal identity.\n\nCarl Sagan (1977) and Barbara Honegger (1983) wrote that the OBE experience may be based on a rebirth fantasy or reliving of the birth process based on reports of tunnel-like passageways and a cord-like connection by some OBErs which they compared to an umbilical cord. Susan Blackmore (1978) came to the conclusion that the OBE is a hallucinatory fantasy as it has the characteristics of imaginary perceptions, perceptual distortions and fantasy-like perceptions of the self (such as having no body). Ronald Siegel (1980) also wrote that OBEs are hallucinatory fantasies.\n\nHarvey Irwin (1985) presented a theory of the OBE involving attentional cognitive processes and somatic sensory activity. His theory involved a cognitive personality construct known as psychological absorption and gave instances of the classification of an OBE as examples of autoscopy, depersonalization and mental dissociation. The psychophysiologist Stephen Laberge (1985) has written that the explanation for OBEs can be found in lucid dreaming. David Hufford (1989) linked the OBE experience with a phenomenon he described as a nightmare waking experience, a type of sleep paralysis. Other scientists have also linked OBEs to cases of hypnagogia and sleep paralysis (cataplexy).\n\nIn case studies fantasy proneness has been shown to be higher among OBErs than those who have not had an OBE. The data has shown a link between the OBE experience in some cases to fantasy prone personality (FPP). In a case study involving 167 participants the findings revealed that those who claimed to have experienced the OBE were \"more fantasy prone, higher in their belief in the paranormal and displayed greater somatoform dissociation.\" Research from studies has also suggested that OBEs are related to cognitive-perceptual schizotypy.\n\nTerence Hines (2003) has written that spontaneous out-of-body experiences can be generated by artificial stimulation of the brain and this strongly suggests that the OBE experience is caused from \"temporary, minor brain malfunctions, not by the person's spirit (or whatever) actually leaving the body.\" In a study review of neurological and neurocognitive data (Bünning and Blanke, 2005) wrote that OBEs are due to \"functional disintegration of lower-level multisensory processing and abnormal higher-level self-processing at the temporoparietal junction.\" Some scientists suspect that OBEs are the result of a mismatch between visual and tactile signals.\n\nRichard Wiseman (2011) has noted that OBE research has focused on finding a psychological explanation and \"out-of-body experiences are not paranormal and do not provide evidence for the soul. Instead, they reveal something far more remarkable about the everyday workings of your brain and body.\" A study conducted by Jason Braithwaite and colleagues (2011) linked the OBE to \"neural instabilities in the brain's temporal lobes and to errors in the body's sense of itself\". Braithwaite \"et al\". (2013) reported that the \"current and dominant view is that the OBE occurs due to a temporary disruption in multi-sensory integration processes.\"\n\nWriters within the fields of parapsychology and occultism have written that OBEs are not psychological and that a soul, spirit or subtle body can detach itself out of the body and visit distant locations. Out-of-the-body experiences were known during the Victorian period in spiritualist literature as \"travelling clairvoyance\". The psychical researcher Frederic Myers referred to the OBE as a \"psychical excursion\". An early study which described alleged cases of OBEs was the two volume \"Phantasms of the Living\", published in 1886 by the psychical researchers Edmund Gurney, Myers and Frank Podmore. The book was largely criticized by the scientific community as the anecdotal reports lacked evidential substantiation in nearly every case.\nThe Theosophist Arthur Powell (1927) was an early author to advocate the subtle body theory of OBEs. Sylvan Muldoon (1936) embraced the concept of an etheric body to explain the OBE experience. The psychical researcher Ernesto Bozzano (1938) had also supported a similar view describing the phenomena of the OBE experience in terms of bilocation in which an \"etheric body\" can release itself from the physical body in rare circumstances. The subtle body theory was also supported by occult writers such as Ralph Shirley (1938), Benjamin Walker (1977) and Douglas Baker (1979). James Baker (1954) wrote that a mental body enters an \"intercosmic region\" during the OBE. Marilynn Hughes states that the experiences are the projection of the spiritual body from the physical for the purpose of the soul's purification. Robert Crookall in many publications supported the subtle body theory of OBEs.\n\nThe paranormal interpretation of OBEs has not been supported by all researchers within the study of parapsychology. Gardner Murphy (1961) wrote that OBEs are \"not very far from the known terrain of general psychology, which we are beginning to understand more and more without recourse to the paranormal\".\n\nIn the 1970s, Karlis Osis conducted many OBE experiments with the psychic Alex Tanous. For a series of these experiments he was asked whilst in an OBE state to try to identify coloured targets that were placed in remote locations. Osis reported that in 197 trials there were 114 hits. However, the controls to the experiments have been criticized and according to Susan Blackmore, the final result was not particularly significant as 108 hits would be expected by chance. Blackmore noted that the results provide \"no evidence for accurate perception in the OBE\".\n\nIn April 1977, a patient from Harborview Medical Center known as Maria claimed to have experienced an out-of-body experience. During her OBE she claimed to have floated outside her body and outside of the hospital. Maria would later tell her social worker Kimberly Clark that during the OBE she had observed a tennis shoe on the third floor window ledge to the north side of the building. Clark would go to the north wing of the building and by looking out of the window could see a tennis shoe on one of the ledges. Clark published the account in 1985. The story has since been used in many paranormal books as evidence a spirit can leave the body.\n\nIn 1996, Hayden Ebbern, Sean Mulligan and Barry Beyerstein visited the Medical Center to investigate the story. They placed a tennis shoe on the same ledge and discovered that the shoe was visible from within the building and could have easily been observed by a patient lying in bed. They also discovered the shoe was easily observable from outside the building and suggested that Maria may have overheard a comment about it during her three days in the hospital and incorporated it into her OBE. They concluded \"Maria's story merely reveals the naiveté and the power of wishful thinking\" from OBE researchers seeking a paranormal explanation. Clark did not publish the description of the case until seven years after it happened, casting doubt on the story. Richard Wiseman has said that although the story is not evidence for anything paranormal it has been \"endlessly repeated by writers who either couldn't be bothered to check the facts, or were unwilling to present their readers with the more skeptical side of the story.\"\n\nEarly collections of OBE cases had been made by Ernesto Bozzano (Italy) and Robert Crookall (UK). Crookall approached the subject from a spiritualistic position, and collected his cases predominantly from spiritualist newspapers such as the \"Psychic News\", which appears to have biased his results in various ways. For example, the majority of his subjects reported seeing a cord connecting the physical body and its observing counterpart; whereas Green found that less than 4% of her subjects noticed anything of this sort, and some 80% reported feeling they were a \"disembodied consciousness\", with no external body at all.\n\nThe first extensive scientific study of OBEs was made by Celia Green (1968). She collected written, first-hand accounts from a total of 400 subjects, recruited by means of appeals in the mainstream media, and followed up by questionnaires. Her purpose was to provide a taxonomy of the different types of OBE, viewed simply as an anomalous perceptual experience or hallucination, while leaving open the question of whether some of the cases might incorporate information derived by extrasensory perception.\n\nIn 1999, at the 1st International Forum of Consciousness Research in Barcelona, International Academy of Consciousness research-practitioners Wagner Alegretti and Nanci Trivellato presented preliminary findings of an online survey on the out-of-body experience answered by internet users interested in the subject; therefore, not a sample representative of the general population.\n\n1,007 (85%) of the first 1,185 respondents reported having had an OBE. 37% claimed to have had between two and ten OBEs. 5.5% claimed more than 100 such experiences. 45% of those who reported an OBE said they successfully induced at least one OBE by using a specific technique. 62% of participants claiming to have had an OBE also reported having enjoyed nonphysical flight; 40% reported experiencing the phenomenon of self-bilocation (i.e. seeing one's own physical body whilst outside the body); and 38% claimed having experienced self-permeability (passing through physical objects such as walls). The most commonly reported sensations experienced in connection with the OBE were falling, floating, repercussions e.g. myoclonia (the jerking of limbs, jerking awake), sinking, torpidity (numbness), intracranial sounds, tingling, clairvoyance, oscillation and serenity.\n\nAnother reported common sensation related to OBE was temporary or projective catalepsy, a more common feature of sleep paralysis. The sleep paralysis and OBE correlation was later corroborated by the Out-of-Body Experience and Arousal study published in \"Neurology\" by Kevin Nelson and his colleagues from the University of Kentucky in 2007. The study discovered that people who have out-of-body experiences are more likely to suffer from sleep paralysis.\n\nAlso noteworthy, is the Waterloo Unusual Sleep Experiences Questionnaire that further illustrates the correlation. William Buhlman, an author on the subject, has conducted an informal but informative online survey.\n\nIn surveys, as many as 85% of respondents tell of hearing loud noises, known as \"exploding head syndrome\" (EHS), during the onset of OBEs.\n\nIn 1968, Charles Tart conducted an OBE experiment with a subject known as Miss Z for four nights in his sleep laboratory. The subject was attached to an EEG machine and a five-digit code was placed on a shelf above her bed. She did not claim to see the number on the first three nights but on fourth gave the number correctly. The psychologist James Alcock criticized the experiment for inadequate controls and questioned why the subject was not visually monitored by a video camera. Martin Gardner has written the experiment was not evidence for an OBE and suggested that whilst Tart was \"snoring behind the window, Miss Z simply stood up in bed, without detaching the electrodes, and peeked.\" Susan Blackmore wrote \"If Miss Z had tried to climb up, the brain-wave record would have showed a pattern of interference. And that was exactly what it did show.\"\n\nThere are several possible physiological explanations for parts of the OBE. OBE-like experiences have been induced by stimulation of the brain. OBE-like experience has also been induced through stimulation of the posterior part of the right superior temporal gyrus in a patient. Positron-emission tomography was also used in this study to identify brain regions affected by this stimulation. The term \"OBE-like\" is used above because the experiences described in these experiments either lacked some of the clarity or details of normal OBEs, or were described by subjects who had never experienced an OBE before. Such subjects were therefore not qualified to make claims about the authenticity of the experimentally-induced OBE.\n\nBritish psychologist Susan Blackmore and others suggest that an OBE begins when a person loses contact with sensory input from the body while remaining conscious. The person retains the illusion of having a body, but that perception is no longer derived from the senses. The perceived world may resemble the world he or she generally inhabits while awake, but this perception does not come from the senses either. The vivid body and world is made by our brain's ability to create fully convincing realms, even in the absence of sensory information. This process is witnessed by each of us every night in our dreams, though OBEs are claimed to be far more vivid than even a lucid dream.\n\nIrwin pointed out that OBEs appear to occur under conditions of either very high or very low arousal. For example, Green found that three quarters of a group of 176 subjects reporting a single OBE were lying down at the time of the experience, and of these 12% considered they had been asleep when it started. By contrast, a substantial minority of her cases occurred under conditions of maximum arousal, such as a rock-climbing fall, a traffic accident, or childbirth. McCreery has suggested that this paradox may be explained by reference to the fact that sleep can supervene as a reaction to extreme stress or hyper-arousal. He proposes that OBEs under both conditions, relaxation and hyper-arousal, represent a form of \"waking dream\", or the intrusion of Stage 1 sleep processes into waking consciousness.\n\nResearch by Olaf Blanke in Switzerland found that it is possible to reliably elicit experiences somewhat similar to the OBE by stimulating regions of the brain called the right temporal-parietal junction (TPJ; a region where the temporal lobe and parietal lobe of the brain come together). Blanke and his collaborators in Switzerland have explored the neural basis of OBEs by showing that they are reliably associated with lesions in the right TPJ region and that they can be reliably elicited with electrical stimulation of this region in a patient with epilepsy. These elicited experiences may include perceptions of transformations of the patient's arms and legs (complex somatosensory responses) and whole-body displacements (vestibular responses).\n\nIn neurologically normal subjects, Blanke and colleagues then showed that the conscious experience of the self and body being in the same location depends on multisensory integration in the TPJ. Using event-related potentials, Blanke and colleagues showed the selective activation of the TPJ 330–400 ms after stimulus onset when healthy volunteers imagined themselves in the position and visual perspective that generally are reported by people experiencing spontaneous OBEs. Transcranial magnetic stimulation in the same subjects impaired mental transformation of the participant's own body. No such effects were found with stimulation of another site or for imagined spatial transformations of external objects, suggesting the selective implication of the TPJ in mental imagery of one's own body.\n\nIn a follow up study, Arzy et al. showed that the location and timing of brain activation depended on whether mental imagery is performed with mentally embodied or disembodied self location. When subjects performed mental imagery with an embodied location, there was increased activation of a region called the \"extrastriate body area\" (EBA), but when subjects performed mental imagery with a disembodied location, as reported in OBEs, there was increased activation in the region of the TPJ. This leads Arzy et al. to argue that \"these data show that distributed brain activity at the EBA and TPJ as well as their timing are crucial for the coding of the self as embodied and as spatially situated within the human body.\"\n\nBlanke and colleagues thus propose that the right temporal-parietal junction is important for the sense of spatial location of the self, and that when these normal processes go awry, an OBE arises.\n\nIn August 2007 Blanke's lab published research in \"Science\" demonstrating that conflicting visual-somatosensory input in virtual reality could disrupt the spatial unity between the self and the body. During multisensory conflict, participants felt as if a virtual body seen in front of them was their own body and mislocalized themselves toward the virtual body, to a position outside their bodily borders. This indicates that spatial unity and bodily self-consciousness can be studied experimentally and is based on multisensory and cognitive processing of bodily information.\n\nIn August 2007, Henrik Ehrsson, then at the Institute of Neurology at University College of London (now at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden), published research in \"Science\" demonstrating the first experimental method that, according to the scientist's claims in the publication, \"induced\" an out-of-body experience in healthy participants. The experiment was conducted in the following way:\n\nBoth critics and the experimenter himself note that the study fell short of replicating \"full-blown\" OBEs. As with previous experiments which induced sensations of floating outside of the body, Ehrsson's work does not explain how a brain malfunction might cause an OBE. Essentially, Ehrsson created an illusion that fits a definition of an OBE in which \"a person who is awake sees his or her body from a location outside the physical body.\"\n\nIn 2001, Sam Parnia and colleagues investigated out of body claims by placing figures on suspended boards facing the ceiling, not visible from the floor. Parnia wrote \"anybody who claimed to have left their body and be near the ceiling during resuscitation attempts would be expected to identify those targets. If, however, such perceptions are psychological, then one would obviously not expect the targets to be identified.\" The philosopher Keith Augustine, who examined Parnia's study, has written that all target identification experiments have produced negative results. Psychologist Chris French wrote regarding the study \"unfortunately, and somewhat atypically, none of the survivors in this sample experienced an OBE.\"\n\nIn the autumn of 2008, 25 UK and US hospitals began participation in a study, coordinated by Sam Parnia and Southampton University known as the AWARE study (AWAreness during REsuscitation). Following on from the work of Pim van Lommel in the Netherlands, the study aims to examine near-death experiences in 1,500 cardiac arrest survivors and so determine whether people without a heartbeat or brain activity can have documentable out-of-body experiences. As part of the study Parnia and colleagues have investigated out of body claims by using hidden targets placed on shelves that could only be seen from above. Parnia has written \"if no one sees the pictures, it shows these experiences are illusions or false memories\".\n\nIn 2014 Parnia issued a statement indicating that the first phase of the project has been completed and the results are undergoing peer review for publication in a medical journal. No subjects saw the images mounted out of sight according to Parnia's early report of the results of the study at an American Heart Association meeting in November 2013. Only two out of the 152 patients reported any visual experiences, and one of them described events that could be verified. The two NDEs occurred in an area were \"no visual targets had been placed\".\n\nOn October 6, 2014, the results of the study were published in the journal \"Resuscitation\". Among those who reported a perception of awareness and completed further interviews, 46 per cent experienced a broad range of mental recollections in relation to death that were not compatible with the commonly used term of NDEs. These included fearful and persecutory experiences. Only 9 per cent had experiences compatible with NDEs and 2 per cent exhibited full awareness compatible with OBEs with explicit recall of 'seeing' and 'hearing' events. One case was validated and timed using auditory stimuli during cardiac arrest. According to Caroline Watt \"The one 'verifiable period of conscious awareness' that Parnia was able to report did not relate to this objective test. Rather, it was a patient giving a supposedly accurate report of events during his resuscitation. He didn't identify the pictures, he described the defibrillator machine noise. But that's not very impressive since many people know what goes on in an emergency room setting from seeing recreations on television.\"\n\nAs of May 2016, a posting at the UK Clinical Trials Gateway website describes plans for AWARE II, a two-year multicenter observational study of 900-1500 patients experiencing cardiac arrest, with subjects being recruited as August 1, 2014 and a trial end date of May 31, 2017.\n\nA recent functional imaging study reported the case of a woman who could experience out of body experience at will. She reported developing the ability as a child and associated it with difficulties in falling sleep. Her OBEs continued into adulthood but became less frequent. She was able to see herself rotating in the air above her body, lying flat, and rolling in the horizontal plane. She reported sometimes watching herself move from above but remained aware of her unmoving \"real\" body. The participant reported no particular emotions linked to the experience. \"[T]he brain functional changes associated with the reported extra-corporeal experience (ECE) were different than those observed in motor imagery. Activations were mainly left-sided and involved the left supplementary motor area and supramarginal and posterior superior temporal gyri, the last two overlapping with the temporal parietal junction that has been associated with out-of-body experiences. The cerebellum also showed activation that is consistent with the participant's report of the impression of movement during the ECE. There was also left middle and superior orbital frontal gyri activity, regions often associated with action monitoring.\"\n\nThe Monroe Institute's Nancy Penn Center is a facility specializing in or out-of-body experience induction. The Center for Higher Studies of the Consciousness in Brazil is another large OBE training facility. The International Academy of Consciousness in southern Portugal features the Projectarium, a spherical structure dedicated exclusively for practice and research on out-of-body experience. Olaf Blanke's Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience has become a well-known laboratory for OBE research.\n\nAstral projection is a paranormal interpretation of out-of-body experiences that assumes the existence of one or more non-physical planes of existence and an associated body beyond the physical. Commonly such planes are called \"astral\", \"etheric\", or \"spiritual\". Astral projection is often experienced as the spirit or astral body leaving the physical body to travel in the spirit world or astral plane.\n\n"}
{"id": "23785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23785", "title": "Phrenology", "text": "Phrenology\n\nPhrenology () is a pseudomedicine primarily focused on measurements of the human skull, based on the concept that the brain is the organ of the mind, and that certain brain areas have localized, specific functions or modules. Although both of those ideas have a basis in reality, phrenology extrapolated beyond empirical knowledge in a way that departed from science. Developed by German physician Franz Joseph Gall in 1796, the discipline was very popular in the 19th century, especially from about 1810 until 1840. The principal British centre for phrenology was Edinburgh, where the Edinburgh Phrenological Society was established in 1820.\n\nAlthough now regarded as an obsolete amalgamation of primitive neuroanatomy with moral philosophy, phrenological thinking was influential in 19th-century psychiatry. Gall's assumption that character, thoughts, and emotions are located in specific parts of the brain is considered an important historical advance toward neuropsychology.\n\nPhrenologists believe that the human mind has a set of various mental faculties, each one represented in a different area of the brain. For example, the faculty of \"philoprogenitiveness\", from the Greek for \"love of offspring\", was located centrally at the back of the head (see illustration of the chart from \"Webster's Academic Dictionary\").\n\nThese areas were said to be proportional to a person's propensities. The importance of an organ was derived from relative size compared to other organs. It was believed that the cranial skull—like a glove on the hand—accommodates to the different sizes of these areas of the brain, so that a person's capacity for a given personality trait could be determined simply by measuring the area of the skull that overlies the corresponding area of the brain.\n\nPhrenology, which focuses on personality and character, is distinct from craniometry, which is the study of skull size, weight and shape, and physiognomy, the study of facial features.\n\nPhrenology is a process that involves observing and/or feeling the skull to determine an individual's psychological attributes. Franz Joseph Gall believed that the brain was made up of 27 individual organs that determined personality, the first 19 of these 'organs' he believed to exist in other animal species. Phrenologists would run their fingertips and palms over the skulls of their patients to feel for enlargements or indentations. The phrenologist would often take measurements with a tape measure of the overall head size and more rarely employ a craniometer, a special version of a caliper. In general, instruments to measure sizes of cranium continued to be used after the mainstream phrenology had ended. The phrenologists put emphasis on using drawings of individuals with particular traits, to determine the character of the person and thus many phrenology books show pictures of subjects. From absolute and relative sizes of the skull the phrenologist would assess the character and temperament of the patient.\n\nGall's list of the \"brain organs\" was specific. An enlarged organ meant that the patient used that particular \"organ\" extensively. The number – and more detailed meanings – of organs were added later by other phrenologists. The 27 areas varied in function, from sense of color, to religiosity, to being combative or destructive. Each of the 27 \"brain organs\" was located under a specific area of the skull. As a phrenologist felt the skull, he would use his knowledge of the shapes of heads and organ positions to determine the overall natural strengths and weaknesses of an individual. Phrenologists believed the head revealed natural tendencies but not absolute limitations or strengths of character. The first phrenological chart gave the names of the organs described by Gall; it was a single sheet, and sold for a cent. Later charts were more expansive.\n\nAmong the first to identify the brain as the major controlling center for the body were Hippocrates and his followers, inaugurating a major change in thinking from Egyptian, biblical and early Greek views, which based bodily primacy of control on the heart. This belief was supported by the Greek physician Galen, who concluded that mental activity occurred in the brain rather than the heart, contending that the brain, a cold, moist organ formed of sperm, was the seat of the animal soul—one of three \"souls\" found in the body, each associated with a principal organ.\n\nThe Swiss pastor Johann Kaspar Lavater (1741–1801) introduced the idea that physiognomy related to the specific character traits of individuals, rather than general types, in his \"Physiognomische Fragmente\", published between 1775 and 1778. His work was translated into English and published in 1832 as \"The Pocket Lavater, or, The Science of Physiognomy\". He believed that thoughts of the mind and passions of the soul were connected with an individual's external frame.\n\nOf the forehead, When the forehead is perfectly perpendicular, from the hair to the eyebrows, it denotes an utter deficiency of understanding. (p. 24)\n\nIn 1796 the German physician Franz Joseph Gall (1758–1828) began lecturing on organology: the isolation of mental faculties and later cranioscopy which involved reading the skull's shape as it pertained to the individual. It was Gall's collaborator Johann Gaspar Spurzheim who would popularize the term \"phrenology\".\n\nIn 1809 Gall began writing his principal work, \"The Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous System in General, and of the Brain in Particular, with Observations upon the possibility of ascertaining the several Intellectual and Moral Dispositions of Man and Animal, by the configuration of their Heads\". It was not published until 1819. In the introduction to this main work, Gall makes the following statement in regard to his doctrinal principles, which comprise the intellectual basis of phrenology:\n\nThrough careful observation and extensive experimentation, Gall believed he had established a relationship between aspects of character, called \"faculties\", with precise \"organs\" in the brain.\n\nJohann Spurzheim was Gall's most important collaborator. He worked as Gall's anatomist until 1813 when for unknown reasons they had a permanent falling out. Publishing under his own name Spurzheim successfully disseminated phrenology throughout the United Kingdom during his lecture tours through 1814 and 1815 and the United States in 1832 where he would eventually die.\n\nGall was more concerned with creating a physical science, so it was through Spurzheim that phrenology was first spread throughout Europe and America. Phrenology, while not universally accepted, was hardly a fringe phenomenon of the era. George Combe would become the chief promoter of phrenology throughout the English-speaking world after he viewed a brain dissection by Spurzheim, convincing him of phrenology's merits.\n\nThe popularization of phrenology in the middle and working classes was due in part to the idea that scientific knowledge was important and an indication of sophistication and modernity. Cheap and plentiful pamphlets, as well as the growing popularity of scientific lectures as entertainment, also helped spread phrenology to the masses. Combe created a system of philosophy of the human mind that became popular with the masses because of its simplified principles and wide range of social applications that were in harmony with the liberal Victorian world view. George Combe's book \"On the Constitution of Man and its Relationship to External Objects\" sold over 200, 000 copies through nine editions. Combe also devoted a large portion of his book to reconciling religion and phrenology, which had long been a sticking point. Another reason for its popularity was that phrenology balanced between free will and determinism. A person's inherent faculties were clear, and no faculty was viewed as evil, though the abuse of a faculty was. Phrenology allowed for self-improvement and upward mobility, while providing fodder for attacks on aristocratic privilege. Phrenology also had wide appeal because of its being a reformist philosophy not a radical one. Phrenology was not limited to the common people, and both Queen Victoria and Prince Albert invited George Combe to read the heads of their children.\n\nThe American brothers Lorenzo Niles Fowler (1811–1896) and Orson Squire Fowler (1809–1887) were leading phrenologists of their time. Orson, together with associates Samuel Robert Wells and Nelson Sizer, ran the phrenological business and publishing house \"Fowlers & Wells\" in New York City. Meanwhile, Lorenzo spent much of his life in England where he initiated the famous phrenological publishing house, L.N Fowler & Co., and gained considerable fame with his \"phrenology head\" (a china head showing the phrenological faculties), which has become a symbol of the discipline. Orson Fowler was known for his octagonal house.\n\nPhrenology came about at a time when scientific procedures and standards for acceptable evidence were still being codified. In the context of Victorian society, phrenology was a respectable scientific theory. The Phrenological Society of Edinburgh founded by George and Andrew Combe was an example of the credibility of phrenology at the time, and included a number of extremely influential social reformers and intellectuals, including the publisher Robert Chambers, the astronomer John Pringle Nichol, the evolutionary environmentalist Hewett Cottrell Watson, and asylum reformer William A.F. Browne. In 1826, out of the 120 members of the Edinburgh society an estimated one third were from a medical background. By the 1840s there were more than 28 phrenological societies in London with over 1000 members. Another important scholar was Luigi Ferrarese, the leading Italian phrenologist. He advocated that governments should embrace phrenology as a scientific means of conquering many social ills, and his \"Memorie Riguardanti La Dottrina Frenologica\" (1836), is considered \"one of the fundamental 19th century works in the field\".\n\nTraditionally the mind had been studied through introspection. Phrenology provided an attractive, biological alternative that attempted to unite all mental phenomena using consistent biological terminology. Gall's approach prepared the way for studying the mind that would lead to the downfall of his own theories. Phrenology contributed to development of physical anthropology, forensic medicine, knowledge of the nervous system and brain anatomy as well as contributing to applied psychology.\n\nJohn Elliotson was a brilliant but erratic heart specialist who became a phrenologist in the 1840s. He was also a mesmerist and combined the two into something he called phrenomesmerism or phrenomagnatism. Changing behaviour through mesmerism eventually won out in Elliotson's hospital, putting phrenology in a subordinate role. Others amalgamated phrenology and mesmerism as well, such as the practical phrenologists Collyer and Joseph R. Buchanan. The benefits of combining mesmerism and phrenology was that the trance the patient was placed in was supposed to allow for the manipulation of his/her penchants and qualities. For example, if the organ of self-esteem was touched, the subject would take on a haughty expression.\n\nPhrenology was mostly discredited as a scientific theory by the 1840s. This was due only in part to a growing amount of evidence against phrenology. Phrenologists had never been able to agree on the most basic mental organ numbers, going from 27 to over 40, and had difficulty locating the mental organs. Phrenologists relied on cranioscopic readings of the skull to find organ locations. Jean Pierre Flourens' experiments on the brains of pigeons indicated that the loss of parts of the brain either caused no loss of function, or the loss of a completely different function than what had been attributed to it by phrenology. Flourens' experiment, while not perfect, seemed to indicate that Gall's supposed organs were imaginary. Scientists had also become disillusioned with phrenology since its exploitation with the middle and working classes by entrepreneurs. The popularization had resulted in the simplification of phrenology and mixing in it of principles of physiognomy, which had from the start been rejected by Gall as an indicator of personality. Phrenology from its inception was tainted by accusations of promoting materialism and atheism, and being destructive of morality. These were all factors which led to the downfall of phrenology. Recent studies, using modern day technology like Magnetic Resonance Imaging have further disproven phrenology claims.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, a revival of interest in phrenology occurred, partly because of studies of evolution, criminology and anthropology (as pursued by Cesare Lombroso). The most famous British phrenologist of the 20th century was the London psychiatrist Bernard Hollander (1864–1934). His main works, \"The Mental Function of the Brain\" (1901) and \"Scientific Phrenology\" (1902), are an appraisal of Gall's teachings. Hollander introduced a quantitative approach to the phrenological diagnosis, defining a method for measuring the skull, and comparing the measurements with statistical averages.\n\nIn Belgium, Paul Bouts (1900–1999) began studying phrenology from a pedagogical background, using the phrenological analysis to define an individual pedagogy. Combining phrenology with typology and graphology, he coined a global approach known as psychognomy.\n\nBouts, a Roman Catholic priest, became the main promoter of renewed 20th-century interest in phrenology and psychognomy in Belgium. He was also active in Brazil and Canada, where he founded institutes for characterology. His works \"Psychognomie\" and \"Les Grandioses Destinées individuelle et humaine dans la lumière de la Caractérologie et de l'Evolution cérébro-cranienne\" are considered standard works in the field. In the latter work, which examines the subject of paleoanthropology, Bouts developed a teleological and orthogenetical view on a \"perfecting evolution,\" from the paleo-encephalical skull shapes of prehistoric man, which he considered still prevalent in criminals and savages, towards a higher form of mankind, thus perpetuating phrenology's problematic racializing of the human frame. Bouts died on March 7, 1999. His work has been continued by the Dutch foundation PPP (\"Per Pulchritudinem in Pulchritudine\"), operated by Anette Müller, one of Bouts' students.\n\nDuring the 1930s Belgian colonial authorities in Rwanda used phrenology to explain the so-called superiority of Tutsis over Hutus.\n\nEuropeans looking for a scientific basis for their racism found phrenology attractive as justification for European superiority over other \"lesser\" races. By comparing skulls of different ethnic groups it supposedly allowed for ranking of races from least to most evolved. Broussais, a disciple of Gall, proclaimed that the Caucasians were the \"most beautiful\" while peoples like the Australian Aboriginal and Maori would never become civilized since they had no cerebral organ for producing great artists. Few phrenologists argued against the emancipation of the slaves. Instead they argued that through education and interbreeding the lesser peoples could improve. Another argument was that the natural inequality of people could be used to situate them in the most appropriate place in society. Gender stereotyping was also common with phrenology. Women whose heads were generally larger in the back with lower foreheads were thought to have underdeveloped organs necessary for success in the arts and sciences while having larger mental organs relating to the care of children and religion. While phrenologists did not contend the existence of talented women, this minority did not provide justification for citizenship or participation in politics.\n\nOne of the considered practical applications of phrenology was education. Due to the nature of phrenology people were naturally considered unequal with very few people would have a naturally perfect balance between organs. Thus education would play an important role in creating a balance through rigorous exercise of beneficial organs while repressing baser ones. One of the best examples of this is Félix Voisin who for approximately ten years ran a reform school in Issy for the express purpose of correction of the mind of children who had suffered some hardship. Voisin focused on four categories of children for his reform school:\n\nPhrenology was one of the first to bring about the idea of rehabilitation of criminals instead of vindictive punishments that would not stop criminals, only with the reorganizing a disorganized brain would bring about change. Voisin believed along with others the accuracy of phrenology in diagnosing criminal tendencies. Diagnosis could point to the type of offender, the insane, an idiot or brute, and by knowing this an appropriate course of action could be taken. A strict system of reward and punishment, hard work and religious instruction, was thought to be able to correct those who had been abandoned and neglected with little education and moral ground works. Those who were considered mentally challenged could be put to work and housed collectively while only criminals of intellect and vicious intent needed to be confined and isolated. Phrenology also advocated variable prison sentences, the idea being that those who were only defective in education and lacking in morals would soon be released while those who were mentally deficient could be watched and the truly abhorrent criminals would never be released. For other patients phrenology could help redirect impulses, one homicidal individual became a butcher to control his impulses, while another became a military chaplain so he could witness killings. Phrenology also provided reformist arguments for the lunatic asylums of the Victorian era. John Conolly, a physician interested in psychological aspects of disease, used phrenology on his patients in an attempt to use it as a diagnostic tool. While the success of this approach is debatable, Conolly, through phrenology, introduced a more humane way of dealing with the mentally ill.\n\nIn psychiatry, phrenology was proposed as a viable model in order to reform the disciplinary field. The South Italian psychiatrist Biagio Miraglia proposed a new classification of mental illness based on brain functions as they were described by Gall. In Biagio Gioacchino Miraglia's view, madness is consequent to dysfunctions of the cerebral organs: “The organs of the brain that may become ill in isolation or in complex get their activities infected through energy, or depression, or inertia or deficiency. So the madness can take the appearance of these three characteristic forms; i.e. for enhanced activity, or for depressed activity, or for inertia or deficiency of brain activities”.\n\nIn the Victorian era, phrenology as a psychology was taken seriously and permeated the literature and novels of the day. Many prominent public figures. such as the Reverend Henry Ward Beecher (a college classmate and initial partner of Orson Fowler) promoted phrenology actively as a source of psychological insight and self-knowledge. Thousands of people consulted phrenologists for advice in various matters, such as hiring personnel or finding suitable marriage partners. As such, phrenology as a brain science waned but developed into the popular psychology of the 19th century.\n\nPhrenology was introduced at a time when the old theological and philosophical understanding of the mind was being questioned and no longer seemed adequate in a society that was experiencing rapid social and demographic changes. Phrenology became one of the most popular movements of the Victorian Era. In part phrenology's success was due to George Combe tailoring phrenology for the middle class. Combe's book \"On the Constitution of Man and its Relationship to External Objects\" was one of the most popular of the time, selling over two hundred thousand copies in a ten-year period. Phrenology's success was also due in part because it was introduced at a time when scientific lectures were becoming a form of middle-class entertainment, exposing a large demographic of people to phrenological ideas who would not have heard them otherwise. As a result of the changing of the times, along with new avenues for exposure and its multifaceted appeal, phrenology flourished in popular culture although it was discredited as scientific theory by 1840.\n\nWhile still not a fringe movement, there was not popular widespread support of phrenology in France. This was not only due to strong opposition of phrenology by French scholars but also once again accusations of promoting atheism, materialism and radical religious views. Politics in France also played a role in preventing rapid spread of phrenology. In Britain phrenology had provided another tool to be used for situating demographic changes, the difference was there was less fear of revolutionary upheaval in Britain compared with France. Given that most French supporters of phrenology were liberal, left-wing or socialist, it was an objective of the social elite of France who held a restrained vision of social change that phrenology remain on the fringes. Another objection was that phrenology seemed to provide a built in excuse for criminal behaviour, since in its original form it was essentially deterministic in nature.\n\nPhrenology arrived in Ireland in 1815, through Spurzheim. While Ireland largely mirrored British trends, with scientific lectures and demonstrations becoming a popular pastime of the age, by 1815 phrenology had already been ridiculed in some circles priming the audiences to its skeptical claims. Because of this the general public valued it more for its comic relief than anything else, however It did find an audience in the rational dissenters who found it an attractive alternative to explain human motivations without the attached superstitions of religion. The supporters of phrenology in Ireland were relegated to scientific subcultures because the Irish scholars neglected marginal movements like phrenology, denying it scientific support in Ireland. In 1830 George Combe came to Ireland, his self-promotion barely winning out against his lack of medical expertise, still only drew lukewarm crowds. This was due to not only the Vatican's decree that phrenology was subversive of religion and morality but also that based on phrenology the \"Irish Catholics were sui generis a flawed and degenerate breed\". Because of the lack of scientific support, along with religious and prejudicial reasons phrenology never found a wide audience in Ireland.\n\nThrough the teachings of Gall and Spurzheim, phrenological teachings spread, and by 1834 when Combe came to lecture in the United States, phrenology had become a widespread popular movement. Sensing commercial possibilities men like the Fowlers became phrenologists and sought additional ways to bring phrenology to the masses. Though a popular movement, the intellectual elite of the United States found phrenology attractive because it provided a biological explanation of mental processes based on observation, yet it was not accepted uncritically. Some intellectuals accepted organology while questioning cranioscopy. Gradually the popular success of phrenology undermined its scientific merits in the United States and elsewhere, along with its materialistic underpinnings, fostering radical religious views. There was increasing evidence to refute phrenological claims, and by the 1840s it had largely lost its credibility. In the United States, especially in the South, phrenology faced an additional obstacle in the antislavery movement. While phrenologists usually claimed the superiority of the European race, they were often sympathetic to liberal causes including the antislavery movement; this sowed skepticism about phrenology among those who were pro-slavery. The rise and surge in popularity in mesmerism, phrenomesmerism, also had a hand in the loss of interest in phrenology among intellectuals and the general public.\n\nFrom Combe:\nPropensities do not form ideas; they solely produce propensities common to animals and man.\n\nLower sentiments\n\nThese are common to man and animal.\n\nSuperior sentiments\n\nThese produce emotion or feeling lacking in animals.\n\nThese are to know the external world and physical qualities\n\nThese produce ideas of relation or reflect. They minister to the direction and gratification of all the other powers:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9045184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9045184", "title": "Poco Bueno", "text": "Poco Bueno\n\nPoco Bueno was a brown American Quarter Horse stallion foaled April 10, 1944. He was sired by King P-234 and out of the mare Miss Taylor who was by Old Poco Bueno. Poco Bueno was named for his maternal grandsire, and the name means \"pretty good\" in Spanish. Poco Bueno is the stallion that is linked to the genetic disease Hereditary Equine Regional Dermal Asthenia (HERDA) in stock horses.\n\nHe was a solid brown horse with no white markings. When mature, he stood about high and weighed about 1200 pounds.\n\nPoco Bueno earned his American Quarter Horse Association, or AQHA, Championship and dominated the Quarter Horse breed for decades. He was purchased by E. Paul Waggoner, of the Waggoner Ranch near Vernon, Texas in 1945 for $5,700. His show career started when he was named champion yearling stallion at the Texas Cowboy Reunion Quarter Horse Show in Stamford, Texas. He was grand champion stallion in the 1940s at Denver's National Western Stock Show, the Southwestern Exposition and Livestock Show in Fort Worth, State Fair of Texas in Dallas and the American Royal in Kansas City.\n\nAs a 4-year-old, in 1948, Poco Bueno started his performance career as a cutting horse, trained and shown by Pine Johnson, who worked for E. Paul Waggoner at his 3D Stock Farm in Arlington, TX. He was the first Quarter Horse to be insured for $100,000.00. Poco Bueno sired 405 registered AQHA foals, 222 were performers. His most successful crosses were on the daughters of Blackburn. Among his famous get were Poco Stampede, Poco Tivio, Poco Lena, Poco Mona, Poco Bob, Poco Dell, and Poco Pine.\n\nPoco Bueno died November 28, 1969. Mr. Waggoner left specific instructions in his will that Poco Bueno was to be buried in a standing position in a grave across from the ranch entrance on Texas Highway 283. The plot of ground was landscaped with trees and grass. A granite marker, weighing four tons, was engraved with his name, picture and the inscription Champion and Sire of Champions. In 1990, Poco Bueno was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166029", "title": "Police brutality", "text": "Police brutality\n\nPolice brutality is one of several forms of police misconduct which involves undue violence by police members.\nWidespread police brutality exists in many countries and territories, even those that prosecute it. Although illegal, it can be performed under the color of law.\n\nThe term \"police brutality\" was in use in the American press as early as 1872, when the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported on the beating of a civilian under arrest at the Harrison Street Police Station.\n\nThe origin of 'modern' policing based on the authority of the nation state is commonly traced back to developments in seventeenth and 18th century France, with modern police departments being established in most nations by the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Cases of police brutality appear to have been frequent then, with \"the routine of citizens by patrolmen armed with nightsticks or blackjacks\". Large-scale incidents of brutality were associated with labor strikes, such as the Great Railroad Strike of 1877, the Pullman Strike of 1894, the Lawrence textile strike of 1912, the Ludlow massacre of 1914, the Steel strike of 1919, and the Hanapepe massacre of 1924.\n\nPortions of the populations may perceive the police to be oppressors. In addition, there is a perception that victims of police brutality often belong to relatively powerless groups, such as minorities, the disabled, the young, and the poor.\n\nHubert Locke writes,\n\nWhen used in print or as the battle cry in a black power rally, police brutality can by implication cover a number of practices, from calling a citizen by his or her first name to a death by a policeman's bullet. What the average citizen thinks of when he hears the term, however, is something midway between these two occurrences, something more akin to what the police profession knows as \"alley court\"—the wanton vicious beating of a person in custody, usually while handcuffed, and usually taking place somewhere between the scene of the arrest and the station house.\nIn March 1991, members of the Los Angeles Police Department harshly beat an African American suspect, Rodney King, while a white civilian videotaped the incident, leading to extensive media coverage and criminal charges against several of the officers involved. In April 1992, hours after the four police officers involved were acquitted at trial, the Los Angeles riots of 1992 commenced, causing 53 deaths, 2,383 injuries, more than 7,000 fires, damage to 3,100 businesses, and nearly $1 billion in financial losses. After facing federal trial, two of the four officers were convicted and received 32-month prison sentences. The case was widely seen as a key factor in the reform of the Los Angeles Police Department.\n\nAccording to data released by the Bureau of Justice Statistics (2011), between 2003 and 2009 at least 4,813 people died in the process of being arrested by local police. Of the deaths classified as law enforcement homicides, 2,876 deaths occurred of which 1,643 or 57.1% of the people who died were \"people of color\".\n\nIn Vienna there tends to be an association made between Vienna's drug problem and the city's African migrants. This has led to the existence of negative cultural stereotypes which have then led to the racial profiling of African migrants, due to the negative associations with their ethnicity.\n\nThere have been a number of highly publicised incidents in Austria where police have either tortured, publicly humiliated, or violently beaten people - in some cases to the point of death. The most notorious of these incidents occurred in the late 1990s, however recent reports in 2015 show that police are still treating civilians in this way.\n\n\nThere has been a notable lack of commitment to addressing the violation of civilians' rights in Austria, with Amnesty International reporting that in 1998/1999 very few people who committed a violation of human rights were brought to justice. This was worsened by the fact that many people who made a complaint against police were brought up on counter-charges such as resisting arrest, defamation and assault. \nIn 2014–2015, there were 250 accusations of police misconduct made against officers in Vienna, and not a single person was charged - however 1,329 people were charged with 'civil disorder' in a similar time period. The Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture (CPT)'s 2014 report included a number of complaints of police using excessive force with detainees and psychiatric patients. The culture of excusing police officers for their misconduct has continued well into the present day, and any complaints of mistreatment are often met with inadequate investigations and judicial proceedings.\n\nAustria has legislation in place which makes hate speech against anyone's race, religion, nationality or ethnicity illegal. Laws like this, which discourage discrimination, are able to help with altering public perceptions of different ethnic and cultural groups and subsequently reducing the number of racially motivated incidents of police brutality. Along with these efforts, Austria has a number of NGOs who are trying to implement programs which encourage positive cross-cultural relations, and more targeted programs such as racial sensitivity training for police. The Austrian police are also trying to find their own ways to prevent police brutality and to make the prosecution of police misconduct a smoother process.\n\nStarting in January 2016, Austrian police forces will be trialling the use of body cameras, which will be used to film their interactions with civilians. The hope is that this will make the prosecution of any officers who are excessively violent or forceful a lot easier as there will be solid evidence, and also that it will deter officers from behaving violently in the first place, as they will know they are being monitored. It is unsure how long the trial will last, however as of July 2016 it is still ongoing.\n\nIncidents of police brutality seem to still be occurring at a consistent rate, however it is yet to be seen whether the trial of body cameras will make a difference to the number of incidents occurring or to the number of police who are prosecuted for misconduct. Additionally, there needs to be more work done by the government to break down negative social stereotypes that can lead to prejudice, racial profiling and the kind of aggressive hatred which is the driving force behind many instances of police brutality - the involvement of NGOs is valuable however the Austrian government needs to take a strong stance against abuse of power by police in order for real change to happen. One way to do this, as suggested by Amnesty International Austria, would be to disband the \"Bereitschaftspolizei\", Vienna's riot police, as these officers have frequently been involved with human rights violations and situations of police brutality. Amnesty also suggest that Austria should adopt a National Action Plan against Racism (as is required by the 2001 Durban Declaration and Programme of Action) - something which they have previously refused to do. On a whole, Austria is moving slowly towards eradicating police brutality, however there needs to be much more done in order to ensure the rights of citizens are sufficiently protected.\n\nMany have been viciously beaten by police in Bangladesh. Various protesters were beaten with bats and sticks while protesting .\n\nRecently, a young man named Shamim Reja was killed by police in Sonargaon police station. The victim’s father claimed that his son was brutally tortured in the police station as the police wanted 6 lakh taka (BDT 600,000). Police investigated this and found the officer in charge Arup Torofar and SI Paltu Ghush and ASP Uttam Prashad guilty as charged.\n\nIn Shahbag, Bangladesh on January 26th, 2017, hundreds of protestors of Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company were taken into custody under extreme force by police officers. The protestors were violently mistreated. They were also struck by police officers, and had a water cannon, tear gas, and baton charges used on them.\n\nPreviously a three tier system, Belgian law enforcement now consists of two police forces operating on a federal and local level. While the two services remain independent, they integrate for purposes of recruitment and common training. This structural reform occurred in 2001 following a national parliamentary report into a series of paedophile murders which proved police negligence and severely diminished public confidence. Currently, approximately 33,000 local police and 900 civilians work across 196 regional police forces.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials (1990) are replicated in Belgian law through The Criminal Code and the Police Functions Act. These principles dictate that use of force should be proportionate, appropriate, reported and delivered in a timely manner. However, the UN Human Rights Committee reported complaints of ill-treatment against both property and person by police escalated between 2005 and 2011, most commonly involving assault against persons no longer posing danger. Not only this, but Belgian judicial authorities failed to notify national police watchdog, Committee P, of resulting criminal convictions against police. This is a direct breach of Belgian judicial procedure, as well as a failure to comply with Article 40 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nAn extreme instance in January 2010 led to the death of Jonathan Jacob in Mortsel. The 26-year-old man was apprehended by local Mortsel police behaving strangely under the influence of amphetamines. Footage depicting how eight officers belonging to Antwerp police's Special Intervention Unit restrained and beat Jacob after he had been injected with a sedative has sparked public outrage. Jacob died from internal bleeding following the incident, but police claim they didn't make any mistakes and \"acted carefully, respecting the necessary precautions\".\n\nIn 2013, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) convicted Belgium of human rights violations in a reverse judgement on the treatment of two brothers in custody who had been slapped. The Grand Chamber voiced its concern that, \"A slap inflicted by a law-enforcement officer on an individual who is entirely under his control constitutes a serious attack on the individual's dignity\".\n\nWith cases such as these being downplayed by Belgian courts, the Belgian League of Human Rights (LDH) strive to fight police abuse through the Observatory of Police Violence (OBSPOL). Operating since 2013, OBSPOL collect testimonies on its website and create a safe space for victims of police brutality by informing them of their rights and strongly advocating to adapt public policy for victim protection.\n\nThe Police in Brazil has a history of violence against the lower classes, which dates back to the nineteenth century, when it served primarily as an instrument of control over the mass of slaves. Later with the abolition of slavery, in a largely rural country, the police forces came under strong influence of local large landowners known as 'colonels'.\n\nThroughout the second half of the twentieth century, the country experienced a strong urbanization, while over its last military dictatorship, its police forces came under the responsibility of state governments, experiencing a strong process of militarization.\n\nThe continuous militarist approach in dealing with social issues, gradually led the country to record violence levels and in 2015 Brazil have more violent deaths than Syrian Civil War, with most people fearing the police. In this context, amidst an environment entangled by corruption, Brazilian police have its routine selective brutality matching a traditional impunity.\n\nThere have been a number of high-profile cases of alleged police brutality, including 2010 G-20 Toronto summit protests, the 2012 Quebec student protests, the Robert Dziekański Taser incident, and the shooting of Sammy Yatim. The recent public incidents in which police judgments or actions have been called into question have raised fundamental concerns about police accountability and governance.\n\nOn March 16, 2014, 300 people were arrested in Montreal during a protest against police brutality.\n\nIn the recent years, Chile's police force Carabineros de Chile has been under investigation because of various cases of power abuse and police brutality, especially towards students that participate in riots for better education, and the indigenous people Mapuche, where there have been countless cases of violence to this group, guilting them for committing crimes. It was later discovered that some Carabineros officers were responsible for this crimes, to then blame Mapuches for the various incidents\n\nOne of the most recent cases involving Mapuche kill spree was Camilo Catrillanca's death. First reports of his death came from Carabineros itself, saying that Camilo was shooting at a police officer along other people after an investigation of 3 stolen cars, in which Camilo was a supposed suspect of involvement in this robbery. Carabinero's special forces Comando Jungla have been in the Araucanía Region on a mission of finding terrorists (as an excuse for killing Mapuches indiscriminately), and one of them was finding the robbers of the three cars. After finding Camilo \"attacking\" policemen with a gun in an attempt of escaping, was shot and killed by a headshot. It was later discovered that this wasn't what happened after one of the partners of the police officer that killed Camilo showed the video of the policeman killing him while he was driving a tractor. It was then asked to Carabineros why he didn't have a recording of him being shot at by Camilo. The institution responded, saying that he destroyed the SD card because it had private photos and videos with his wife. Most people were not satisfied with the answer and everyone knew it was a lie to cover what really happened. The policeman was later discharged and prosecuted. \n\nThe Constitution of Croatia prohibits torture, mistreatment and cruel and degrading punishment under Article 17, and accords arrested and convicted persons humane treatment under Article 25. Croatia has a centralised police force under the command of the Ministry of the Interior, with approximately 20,000 police officers.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1995, the Croatian police were a militarised force, charged with the role of defending the country during the secession from Yugoslavia, in addition to their regular police tasks. Military training taught police officers to use firearms before exhausting other procedures, which has affected the philosophy and behaviour of police officers in using excessive force. Significant developments have been made to achieve democratic policing in a modern, professional force that is also accountable to the public. However, citizen complaints of violent police behaviour suggest that the militarisation of the police force in the early 1990s continues to influence the level of force accepted as legitimate and reasonable by Croatian police officers.\n\nOn numerous occasions the European Court of Human Rights has found that Croatian police authorities have failed to fulfil their obligations under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by failing to carry out effective investigations to protect its citizens, and tourists, from violent attacks. In 2009, the European Court of Human Rights delivered a judgement condemning Croatian police authorities for failing to take any steps to bring perpetrators of a violent attack on a Croatian citizen to justice by ignoring requests to conduct an investigation.\n\nThe Croatian police have a history of discriminatory abuse and failing to recognise violence against the ethnic minority Romani population living in Croatia. The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance has noted that Croatian police abuse against minority groups including Roma people are continually reported. There is an ongoing reluctance by police authorities to take violence against Roma seriously. Police investigations into black market selling in Croatia have been excessively violent towards Romani vendors, with reports of physical violence and abusive racism being directed at Roma. Romani Women's Association, \"Better Future\", reported in 2002 that police had beaten a pregnant Romani woman who attempted to evade arrest for black market selling.\n\nCroatian police violence has been used to intimidate refugees travelling from Serbia into Croatia. This has included segregation of nationalities, with Syrian, Iraqi and Afghani nationals gaining entry to Croatia as refugees much more easily than other nationalities. An unaccompanied sixteen-year-old from Morocco recounted his experience in attempting to gain asylum in Croatia after lying about being a Syrian national: \"We had to get into a police car…They told us this is Slovenia, but then it was Serbia…One of my friends tried to run away, but the Croatian police caught [sic] him and beat him.\" Police beatings are illustrative of the systemic discriminatory violence that exists within the Croatian police force.\n\nDenmark currently has a police force consisting of approximately 11,000 officers. These officers serve with the Danish National Police, in the 12 police districts and in the two Danish overseas territories. The Danish Independent Police Complaints Authority (Den Uafhængige Politiklagemyndighed) (the Authority) handles the investigation of police misconduct allegations. Annual statistics released by the Authority reveal a reduction in the number of complaints against police during the period from 2012 until 2015. For example, in 2012, the Authority received a total of 726 conduct complaints from across Denmark. However, in 2015, this number had fallen to 509. This represents approximately 0.05 complaints per officer. A majority of complaints extend from general misconduct, such as traffic violations and unprofessional behaviour (e.g. swearing).\n\nHowever, the 2015 Annual Report does identify some instances where the Police of Denmark have used excessive force. For example, the Authority is currently investigating a complaint made about alleged violence against an arrested person in Christianshavn on 15 March 2016. Another open investigation relates to the alleged use of force against a 16-year-old boy on 28 June 2016. This has resulted in charges being laid against the two offending police officers from the Sydsjællands- and Lolland-Falster police department. Furthermore, although examples of police brutality are not common, highly publicised incidents have been reported.\n\nIn 2002, 21 year-old Jens Arne Orskov Mathiason died while in police custody and on the way to prison. The incident raised concerns over the behaviour of the officers involved, the thoroughness of the subsequent investigation and the willingness of the Director of Public Prosecutions' to hold the officers accountable for their alleged failings. As a result, Amnesty International has called for the establishment of new mechanisms to investigate human rights violations and to enforce compliance with obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn January 2016, another man died in police custody after being arrested by seven officers from the Copenhagen Police.\n\nIn August 2009, police in Copenhagen were heavily criticised for their response to an attempt to dislodge Iraqi refugees who were living in a city church. Amateur video allegedly showed the police using violence against the refugees and their supporters. Between 12,000 and 20,000 people subsequently protested against these actions.\n\nIn 2012, the Danish Court of Appeal held that the Danish Police had violated Article 3 (against abusive treatment and torture) and Articles 5, 10 and 11 (dealing with the right to liberty, the right to information about the accusation and the freedom of peaceful assembly) of the European Convention of Human Rights, when, in 2009, they had made mass arrests during protests at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen.\n\nIn April 2016, video emerged of officers hitting people with batons and violently detaining a man, despite onlookers saying he couldn't breathe.\n\nIn order to ensure that police are well trained and to mitigate the risk of police brutality, police recruits undergo approximately three years of training. Firstly, at the National Police College, recruits learn about police theory, the Road Traffic Act, criminal law, physical training, other legislation, first aid, radio communication, securing evidence, identifying drugs, preventing crime, management, human rights and cultural sociology to name a few. After this three-year probationary and training period, recruits are promoted to the position of police constable. By comparison, US police academies only provide an average of 19 weeks of classroom instruction. This lengthy training in Denmark increases the ability of police to effectively de-escalate conflicts and enact their duties professionally and responsibly.\n\nFurthermore, in order to keep police officers accountable and to ensure that they perform their duties in compliance with Danish, European and international laws, the Independent Police Complaints Authority has the power to handle investigations of criminal cases against police officers and decide complaints of police misconduct. This body is independent of both the police and prosecutors. By way of example, police:\nTherefore, police in Denmark are held to high standards and will face consequences if they breach their obligations. This encourages compliance. Victims of police misconduct are encouraged to lodge a report with the Authority.\n\nThe Estonian Police force ended in 1940 when they lost their independence to the Soviet Union. The Police Act which was passed in 1990, set out the dissolution of the Russian Military and re-established the formation of the Estonian Police. In 2010, the Public Order Police, Police Board, Central Criminal Police, Border Guard, Citizenship and Migration Board merged into one. Hence forming The Police and Border Guard Board. It is the currently the largest state agency in Estonia, with more than 5000 people in employment. The main objectives for this organisation is to maintain security and public order, crime prevention, detection and investigation, securing the European Union (EU) border, citizenship and identity documentation administration.\n\nAccording to the Estonian Ministry of Justice, crime figures have dropped by 10% since 2013 to 2015. Those who find themselves detained by the police should comply with their instructions. Those who experience a language barrier are allowed to \"request the presence of an interpreter and should not sign any documents or reports until they are confident that the documents contents are consistent with the details of the incident or the victim's statement\"\n\nIncidents of police abuse are very rare, however if it is witnessed, report it to the Office of Procurator General of Estonia. Although uncommon, powers are sometimes abused and hence this leads to brutality from police officers. An example of this, is the riots that took place in 2007.\nThe controversy and riots, more commonly referred to as the 'Bronze Night' that surrounded Estonia in April 2007 when the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn was relocated. The Government wanted to relocate the statue and rebury the associated remains near the Tallinn Military Cemetery; however, this led to massive uproar and protests. Historically in Estonia this Bronze Soldier served as a symbol of Soviet occupation and repression. Furthermore, to its current Russian citizens residing, it also represented Soviet's victory over Germany in World War II and their claim to equal rights in Estonia.\nDuring the riots, one Russian rioter was killed and many other protesters were arrested. Due to the overcrowded detention centres many of the detainees were taken to cargo terminals in Tallinn's seaport. Andrei Zarenkov who was the chairman of the Constitution Party stated \"people were forced to squat for hours or lie on the concrete floor with their hands tied behind their backs. The police used plastics handcuffs which caused great pain. The police selectively beat the detainees including women and teenagers. We have pictures of a toilet which is stained with blood of the injured\"\n\nThe police department denied all claims made against them. On the 22nd of May 2007, the Office of Procurator General of Estonia received more than fifty complaints on the police brutality that occurred during Bronze Night and hence opened seven criminal cases against them. In November 2007, the United Nations Committee Against Torture expressed concern over the excessive use of force and brutality by law enforcement personnel with regards to the Bronze night incident. The Council of Europe published in its report, that those detained were not granted all the fundamental safeguards. This includes the right to access a doctor, a lawyer and to inform a relative or a third party of their arrest. Furthermore, it was later discovered that accused were only allowed to contact someone and be assisted by a lawyer when brought before a judge and a number of detainees were denied access to a doctor whilst in police custody even though they displayed visible injuries.\n\nThe use of excessive force can be seen as \"legal boundaries/ duty\" in the eyes of policing agencies. Police misconduct is regarded as illegal in many countries; it can be hidden when performed under the 'colour of law'\n\nAlthough police brutality is fairly uncommon in Estonia, it is vital that the Police and Border Guard Board to keep the fundamental safeguards in check and not breach these rights, regardless of the situation.\n\nThe policing structure of nineteenth century France has been linked to the outcomes of France's reorganisation during 1789–1799 which were France's time of revolution. Throughout France's history, there has been a wide array of instances of violent enforcement stemming from issues around racial and geographic differences. Further, there have been reports conducted by the Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International concerning human rights violations by France including physical and psychological abuse as a result of excessive force towards Muslims when undertaking house raids.\n\nFrance's police ombudsman is currently dealing with 48 judicial inquiries into police brutality against its citizens, in which 1,000 individuals have been arrested, within a three-month period. Further, there have been a number of high profile cases of alleged police brutality which have gained significant media attention, including, the death of Lamine Dieng on 17 June 2007 who died after suffocating in a police van while he was constrained. The investigation of Lamine's death is ongoing, and grey areas around police accountability have come to light, including questions over how his body was covered in bruises and whether or not carotid restraint was used against him. Carotid restraint is a form of restriction, which compresses one or both carotid arteries, and is used by police enforcement to control dangerous individuals The European Court of Human Rights has condemned France in 1998 for their apparent use of carotid constriction. This same method of restraint was seen to be used against Hakim Sjimi who died of positional asphyxia as a result of overwhelming pressure being placed on his chest and neck by police.\n\nMoreover, recent protests over disputed labor laws have brought to light the extreme nature of police brutality in France, as many videos have surfaced in the media depicting police using disproportionate force on protesters. French officials have forced these aggressive videos to be destroyed, as they demonstrated the unnecessary forced nature of individuals in Frances police department.\n\nUltimately, as a result of the increased number of cases of police brutality in French communities, a group has formed called the Collective of Stolen Lives who represent families of those who have been affected by police brutality. This group strongly demand the government to act against police brutality and to reduce racism present across the police force in France.\n\nHistorically, anti-communist police brutality was commonplace during the 1920s and 1930s – in the wake of the Finnish Civil War. Some local sections of the secret police (Etsivä Keskuspoliisi) routinely beat up arrested communists.\n\nAs of 2006, there were 7700 police officers in Finland. That police force was shown to be more law-abiding than firemen. However, it was revealed there are a few dozen cases each year in which police officers are convicted of crimes committed while on duty, 5 to 10 percent of the hundreds of such crimes prosecuted annually – the number of such crimes being shown to increase yearly. Police officers are most often suspected of traffic related crimes (endangering road safety, vehicular collisions etc.) which constitute approximately 50% of all cases. These types of cases were also the most likely to be dismissed before proceeding to the prosecutor for consideration. Second most numerous category is the use of force, approximately 20%, which proceed to the prosecutor without a fail apart from few off-duty petty assaults. In Finland, a petty assault could mean a slap on the cheek.\n\nIn 2006, a 51-year-old police constable attracted a 16-year-old girl to his house by showing her his badge, where he got her drunk and raped her twice. The constable was fired and sentenced to a two-year suspended sentence. In 2007, an Iranian-born immigrant, Rasoul Pourak, was beaten in a cell at Pasila Police Station, Helsinki. The ill-treatment caused Pourak bruises all over his body, an open wound over his eyebrow, and a fractured skull. In addition, facial bones were broken and the victim was left permanently damaged. One guard participating in the assault was sentenced to an 80-day suspended prison sentence. In 2010, two police officers assaulted a man in a wheelchair in connection with an arrest. The police twisted the man's hands and pushed him backward causing him to break a femur. In 2013, two policemen were sentenced to 35 day fines for assault and breach of duty in connection with stamping on a man's head onto the asphalt thrice. According to the police, the man of Romani descent resisted, yet according to eyewitnesses, the man did not resist. The event was captured in surveillance video, which was stored but accidentally destroyed according to a third officer present. However the third officer, having seen the surveillance footage, testified that the video didn't show any resistance on the part of the Romani, but also that the assault happened out of view from the camera.\n\nWhilst Germany may be sensitive towards its history in implementing policing practices, this hasn't appeared to stop international bodies from identifying a clear pattern of police ill-treatment to foreigners and members of ethnic minorities. Every year, around 2,000 complaints of police brutality are reported, with the figure most likely being a less than accurate representation given that not every incident is reported. As high profile cases like the Cologne New Year's Eve incident become more prevalent, racist and xenophobic attitudes have been reflected in instances of police brutality. Whilst this incident occurred in 2014, high profile cases of police brutality have been reported to occur as far back as the 1990s.\n\nHistory of Police Brutality:\n\n28 May 1999: Sudanese national Aamir Ageeb died of asphyxia during his forced deportation from Frankfurt. Prior to departure, Ageeb was forcibly restrained by tape and rope. During take-off, police officers allegedly forced his head and upper body between his knees. \n8 December 2000: Josef Hoss was accused by his neighbour (a serving police officer) of harbouring firearms, which resulted in him being ambushed near his home, beaten and handcuffed. He woke up in the police station with a cloth bag over his head and had sustained multiple injuries that would prevent him from working and being able to financially support his family. No firearms were found upon investigation. \n\nMay 2002: Prior to his death, Stephen Neisius has spent 13 days in hospital on life support, after being repeatedly kicked and hit by a group of police officers as he lay handcuffed on the floor of a police station in the city. Although the Cologne District Court convicted all six police officers of bodily harm resulting in death, none of the accused served prison sentences. \n\n2012: After a fight with her boyfriend got out of hand, Teresa Z. called the police but was quickly arrested. Whilst in detention, she was punched by police officer Frank W. and left with a broken nose and eye socket. Frank W. spent ten months in jail and was forced to pay a fine of 3,000 euros.\n\nAs law enforcement is vested solely with the states of Germany, each state's police force (or 'Land' police) follows a different system of law. Accordingly, there is an absence of a federal comprehensive register, compiling and publishing regular, uniform and comprehensive figures on complaints about police ill-treatment. Even though Germany is bound to obligate its many international treaties and conventions, Amnesty International (2002) highlights the authorities failure to protect a range of human rights as guaranteed by international human rights law and standards.\n\nDespite this objective lack of accountability for policing practice, levels of trust in police remain amongst the highest in the EU, only behind Scandinavian countries and Switzerland. This allows Germany to maintain one of the lowest levels of public order and safety spending in the EU, at 1.5 percent of gross domestic profit, as compared to the EU average of 1.8 percent. As a result, Germany has a police force of only 300 officers per 100,000 of its population. These numbers are only less in Scandinavian countries and the UK, highlighting that despite these instances of police brutality, Germany is attempting to build the impression of having a more laissez-faire approach to policing. Additionally, German police officers rarely use their guns, as there have only been 8 fatalities in the past two years and only 109 deaths by service weapons since 1998.\n\nThe Greek Police, known officially as the Hellenic Police, assumed their current structure in 1984. This structure was the result of the merging of the Gendarmerie (Chorofylaki) and the Urban Police Forces (Astynomia Poleon). Composed of central and regional departments, the Hellenic Police have a relatively long history of police brutality. One of the first documented dates back to 1976, within which 16-year-old activist Sideris Isidoropoulos was killed by police while he put up campaign posters on a public building. Only a few years later and 1980 saw the death of 20-year-old protester Stamatina Kanelopoulou at the hands of the Greek police. Kanelopoulou was beaten to death by members of the police force during a demonstration to commemorate the 1973 uprising against the military junta. It is still common for protesters to commemorate the 1973 uprising, and protests are still rife with police brutality around the time of this event today, over three decades after Kanelopoulou's death.\n\nThe level and severity of police brutality in Greece over the last few years has been quite alarming and surprising. Due to recent financial crisis many austerity measures have been put in place, meaning that many individuals and families are struggling to survive. Greek citizens have opposed these austerity measures from the beginning, showing their disapproval with strikes and demonstrations. In response, police brutality has increased significantly, with consistent reports on the use of tear gas, severe injuries inflicted by police force, and unjustified detention of protesters.\n\nIn 2013 Greek police allegedly tortured four young men believed to be suspected of bank-robbery following their arrest. It was alleged that the men were hooked and severely beaten in detention. The media published photos of the men, all with severe bruising, yet in the police released digitally manipulated photos of the four to make it appear that they lacked any injuries. The Greek minister of citizen protection - Nikos Dendias - protected the police, claiming that the police needed to use photoshop to ensure the suspects were recognisable. In October 2012 15 anti-fascists protesters were arrested in Athens when they clashed with supporters of the fascist party 'Golden Dawn.' Victims claimed they were tortured during detention at the Attica General Police Directorate, stating that police officers slapped them, spat on them, burnt their arms with cigarette lighters and kept them awake with torches and lasers. Again, Nikos Dendias responded by accusing the British newspaper that published the details of these crimes of lying. It was proven by forensic examination that the torture had in fact taken place. The two Greek journalists who commented on the Guardian report the next day were fired.\n\nPolice brutality on Greece today predominantly manifests itself in the form of unjustified and extreme physical violence towards protesters and journalists. Amnesty International highlights that the continued targeting of journalists is very concerning as it infringes on the right to freedom of expression. According to a recent Amnesty International report there have been multiple instances in which police have used excessive brutal force, have misused less-lethal weapons against protesters, have attacked journalists, and have subjected bystanders to ill treatment, particularly over the course of the anniversary of the 1973 student uprising against the Military Junta, as mentioned previously, which took place on November 17, 2014. Allegations against police have emerged specifically in relation to their use of brutal force, completely unprovoked, towards journalists documenting the demonstration, and against many students who partook in a peaceful protest. Allegedly police sprayed protesters with chemical irritants from close range – in one instance a 17-year-old girl with asthma had been treated in hospital after this attack and when she informed police of her condition they merely laughed.\n\nVideo footage confirms that just days prior, on November 13, 2014, riot police began to strike students who attempted to run away from the grounds of the Athens Polytechnic. Media reports suggest that around 40 protesters had to seek subsequent medical attention to injuries sustained from brutal police beatings. Amnesty international also calls for action on prosecuting those who are behind these inhumane acts, stating that within the Greek police there is a culture of \"abuse and impunity\" which remains as authorities have taken very little action to address the crux of the problem.\n\nA German exchange student said he was beaten randomly by riot police in the Exarheia district, his only reason for being there that he had accompanied other students to eat. The student gives a horrifying description of the violence he endured, he cowered in a corner when he saw police because a few weeks before he had witnessed police beating a man they had arrested. He claims that upon spotting him, about six police officers started beating him with their batons, and when they left they were replaced by another group of police. The student was unarmed and posed no threat but the police were ruthlessly brutal in their actions. It has been indicated that riot police left beaten and gravely individuals without any medical assistance. Amnesty International urges Greece to effectively and promptly investigate these crimes against civilians, which clearly violate human rights, and hold perpetrators accountable.\n\nMay 2011, student Yannis Kafkas, suffered an almost fatal head injury after a police officer hit him with a fire extinguisher the riot police carry around. Kafkas spent 20 days in intensive care.\n\nJune 2011, Manolis Kipraios, journalist, was covering protests against austerity measures when a member of the riot police fired a stun grenade against him. He now suffers from permanent hearing loss.\n\nFebruary 2012, photojournalist Marios Lolos had to have surgery following being beaten in the head by police at a protest. The day before this attack another journalist Rena Maniou was reportedly severely beaten by security forces. Dimitris Trimis, the head of The Greek Journalist Association (ESEA) broke his arm after he was violently pushed and kicked by police.\n\nThere have been some instances where protesters have been used as human shields – a photo of a female protester in handcuffs ahead of policeman as people threw rocks at the police has gained considerable media attention.\n\nNone of the above cases of police brutality resulted in any prosecution of police force members, this severe lack of accountability and punishment for this type of crime is a major issue for human rights activists currently. One case which sparked nationwide riots was that of 15-year-old Alexis Grigoropoulos, who was shot dead by a police officer in December 2008 during demonstrations in Athens. In this case, unlike the majority of cases, the police officer responsible was convicted of murder.\n\nDuring the 2014 Hong Kong protests, there had been numerous instances of police brutality. Seven police officers had been caught on video kicking and beating a prominent political activist who was already handcuffed. There had also been more than hundreds of incidents of police beating passers-by with batons. Pictures on local TV and social media show demonstrators being dragged behind police lines, circled by police officers so that onlookers' views were blocked, and in some cases re-emerging with visible injuries. The officer involved, retired police officer Frankly Chu King-wai, was sentenced to three months in prison for causing serious body harm.\n\nIn 2008 when Hungary signed the Schengen Agreement, its two law enforcement bodies, the Police (Rendőrség) and the Border Guards merged. Border Guards became police officers. The police force in Hungary consists of the National Bureau of Investigation and the Operational police, these bodies dealing with investigating severe crimes and dealing with riots, respectively. In addition to these, Terrorelhárítási Központ, a police force with jurisdiction in all of Hungary deals mainly with counter-terrorism. 44,923 employees make up the Rendőrség force in Hungary. Brutality and corruption exist within Rendőrség.\n\nThe 1998 Human Rights Watch World Report revealed that the Roma minority in Hungary were continually discriminated against. This discrimination was also evident in the police force, with reports of police mistreatment and brutality on the minority group.\n\nThe 2006 protests in Hungary demonstrate the brutal and disproportionate measures police may use, especially evident in these protests was police brutality on non-violent civilians. The protests were in response to Prime minister Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech where he said that the Socialist Party lied their way into office. Furthermore, his speech revealed that in the four years he was in office, his party had not done anything of great importance.\n\nPolice threw gas grenades and used rubber bullets to shoot protesters. Picked and tackled by the police, protesters and non-violent civilians just passing by were injured by the police. Police broke the fingers of a handcuffed man, raided restaurants and bars to find radical demonstrators. Police brutality ranged from offensive language to physically attacking protesters. Reports show that brutality extended to bypassers, tourists, news reporters and paramedics.\n\nRather than acting reactively, Hungary should work to improve their police training programs and work to provide ongoing training and assessments to ensure that police officers in the Rendőrség, are competent and fair in their ethical judgements when it comes to proportionality of a crime or situation and the use of force. The requirements to become a police officer in Hungary are: high school education, pass matriculation exam, and two years of police academy. Compared to other countries around the world, the two-year program is shorter than Denmark (3-year program), and longer than Australia (33-week program) and the United States (18 weeks). The current two-year program is quite lengthy, however time isn't the issue. Most of what the Hungarian police academy teaches is academic theory; there is not much on practice. If practical work was given more attention in the Hungarian police academy, it is likely that the number of police brutality incidents will decrease.\n\nOn January 23, 2017, a pro-jallikattu silent protest in Tamil Nadu turned violent. The National Human Rights Commission took note of reports that police used violent methods, including beatings and the damaging of private property, without prior warnings, to disperse of the protesters in Chennai. There were widespread social media reports of police setting vehicles on fire. The \"Lathi Charge\" very well known in India which are an excessive use of force done by police during mass protests or riot are also considered as brutality done by law enforcement officials.\n\nIslamic extremists in Indonesia have been targeted by police as terrorists in the country. Police may either capture or kill dissidents. Cases of police corruption with hidden bank accounts and retaliation against journalists who attempt to uncover these cases have occurred such as in June 2012, when Indonesian magazine \"Tempo\" had journalist activists beaten by police. Separately, on August 31, 2013 police officers in Central Sulawesi province fired into a crowd of people protesting the death of a local man in police custody. Five people were killed and 34 injured. History of violence goes back to the military-backed Suharto regime (1967–1998), from which Suharto seized power during an anti-Communist purge.\n\nCriminal investigations into human rights violations by the police are rare, punishments light and Indonesia has no independent national body to deal effectively with public complaints. Amnesty International has called on Indonesia to review police tactics during arrests and public order policing, to ensure that they meet international standards.\n\nThe legacy of police brutality has long plagued Northern Ireland, due to unsavoury police procedures used during the Troubles to obtain admissions of guilt. The Troubles in Northern Ireland lasted from 1968 until 1998, and was essentially was a civil war between those who wanted Northern Ireland to remain in the United Kingdom (unionists/loyalists, who are mostly Protestants) and those who didn't (Irish nationalists/republicans, who are mostly Catholics). During this time as many as 50,000 people were physically maimed or injured, a portion of which was done by the Northern Ireland Police (Royal Ulster Constabulary). Instances of Northern Irish Police brutality were confirmed by the decision in 1978 of the European Court of Human Rights, which concluded that five interrogation techniques used by the Police which included wall standing, deprivation of food, drink or sleep, subjection to noise and forcing detainees to remain in the same position for hours were instances of cruel and degrading treatment. It was not until 2010 however that such brutality was recognized by domestic courts, where 113 people came forward to have their application heard, some of whom were minors.\n\nAt present Northern Ireland still faces policing issues, though not to the extent of the Troubles. There are concerns about harassment by police of children aged 14–18 in low socio-economic areas of Northern Ireland which has led to a deep level of mistrust between the youth and the police. Further, Catholics in Northern Ireland find that they are treated differently by police due to the police force being largely Protestant. 48% of Catholics that were surveyed in Northern Ireland reported harassment by the police. Instances of harassment include police officials spitting on individuals or enforcing laws in a discriminatory fashion, for example only to those who are Catholic. The Northern Ireland Police force has moved away from police brutality given the focus on accountability for the past and the significant decrease in the use of the baton amongst police members (guns are rarely used) however harassment continues to be a key issue for Northern Ireland.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland's police force is called the Garda Síochána (Garda) and employs around 14,500 staff. Ireland's criminal laws allow 'reasonable force' to be used by the police with regard to all the circumstances, which eludes to officers actions being proportionate in the circumstances. Excessive use of force is unlawful however s76(7) of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 allows the following considerations when deciding on what force is reasonable.\nA person acting for a legitimate purpose may not be able to weigh up the exact necessary action at the time or may act instinctively but honestly – in these instances the use of force may be considered reasonable.\n\nThis is acknowledged by the Garda, who state; 'Unfortunately, even in the most civilised democratic jurisdictions, tragedies resulting from police use of force will continue to devastate families and communities.'\n\nThe use of force by Irish Police officers has been of international concern, where the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture reported on this issue in the Republic three times in the space of a decade. Incidents that prompted this concern centred around the death of John Carty, a man suffering from mental illness who was shot by police, the prosecution of seven Garda police members due to assaults on protesters in 2002 and in 2005, a fifteen year old boy died after spending time in Garda custody. Given this state of events the Garda engaged independent Human Rights experts to conduct a review of the force, who found numerous deficiencies. The government responded by implementing new procedures based on this report. These include a new complaints procedure available against the Garda (Ombudsman Commission), disciplinary procedures and whistle-blowing protections.\n\nWhen addressing police brutality in Latvia, it is important to look at the history of the country and how this affects its police and brutality towards the population. Latvia became an independent Republic in 1918 and attempted to develop an effective and accepted police force, moving away from the untrusted Russian Tsarist Administration. Despite positive post-independence aims to reform the police system and to maintain public order and security, the Latvian police were underfunded and under-resourced. The National Militia was created in response, being a voluntary force for the protection of public order. Policing during this period was quite successful, being assimilated to what is today referred to as community policing.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1991, Latvia was occupied by Soviet Union, and all previous regulations and practices were over-ruled by the Communist Regime. Due to Soviet ideals on policing whereby criminals were the enemy, a high level of institutional secrecy existed and meant that there was no independent review of policing. More significantly, the approach of community policing was replaced with a militarised authority based on Marxist power ideologies. During this time, a clear imbalance existed between police actions and the rights of citizens. Despite lack of statistics, it is clear that police brutality was a major issue. This is illustrated by the case where former head of police Alfons Noviks was sentenced to life imprisonment for genocide against the Latvian people during this period.\n\nIn 1991, independence of the state of Latvia was again restored, which saw another change in the police system with the implementation of the Law on Police on June 5. This saw the restructuring of police forces into separate State, Security and Local Government levels. The Law on Police 1991 reiterated ethical requirements, whereby police officers were prohibited from performing or supporting acts relating to \"torture or other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment\". However, despite these reforms, issues regarding police brutality arose in light of the Russian population remaining in Latvia. In 1998, police forces were accused of dispersing a rally of predominately Russian pensioners through the use of excessive force and brutality. This hostility towards Russians remained in the proceeding years, and despite lack of official statistics, police brutality continued to be an issue after the independence of Latvia.\n\nIn 2005, the Latvian Center for Human Rights and Ethnic Studies (LCHRES) found a number of instances of brutality and \"severe abuse\" within police authorities, especially of persons in custody. Reports have shown high levels of corruption within Latvian law enforcement authorities, with 42 members convicted of corruption offences between 2003 and 2004. For the Latvian community, this means that should an incident of police brutality occur, they may not have an independent body to report to nor is it guaranteed to be handled impartially without corruption.\n\nLatvian prisons illustrate cases where police batons were used to inflict serious harm to inmates, including causing broken ribs, which often were not medically assessed for up to two days. To address levels of police brutality, LCHRES conducted a study whereby it set up an anonymous hotline. During this four-day study, LCHRES received almost 300 calls and written complaints regarding police brutality and misconduct. This identifies fundamental flaws in the Latvian police authorities.\n\nSince joining the European Union in 2004, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture (CPT) has assessed the Latvian criminal justice system a number of times. Whilst the CPT gives appropriate authorities recommendations for improvements such as a review board for ill-treatment, they found that in 2011, Latvian authorities had not enacted any of their 2007 recommendations. Furthermore, their 2011 report outlined a number of cases of police brutality within the prison system, with ill-treatment allegations such as punching, kicking and a few cases of misuse of police batons and excessively tight handcuffing. This was alleged to occur mostly at the time of apprehension or during their time at the police station (including during questioning).\n\nDespite the flaws within the Latvian Police system, CPT has found that the number of allegations for ill-treatment are decreasing over the years. The Latvian Police force operates under the Professional Ethics and Conduct Code of the State Police Personnel, which states \"A Police officer shall use force, special facilities or weapon only in the cases stipulated by due course of law and to attain a legal aim. The use of spontaneous or ill-intentioned force, special facilities or weapon shall not be justified.\" This identifies that the authorities are conscious of police brutality, and given more time, it is likely that the figures will continue to decrease.\n\nThe Luxembourg Police force has 1,603 officers and is known as the 'Grand Ducal Police'. The Grand Ducal Police is the primary law enforcement agency in Luxembourg and has been operating since January 1, 2000, when the Grand Ducal Gendarmerie (previous Luxembourg military) merged with the police force. Due to Luxembourg's relatively small population of approximately 500, 000 people the Grand Ducal Police are in charge of several duties that are often separated jurisdictions such as; Border Control and Internal Military operations.\n\nPolice brutality is not perceived to be a serious threat to society in Luxembourg. The European Union's 2014 Anti-Corruption report placed Luxembourg, along with Denmark and Finland, as having the lowest experiences of Police brutality within the European Union. Due to many positive characteristics of their society, such as freedom of media, the encouragement of public participation in the legal system and transparency mechanisms, the public also have great trust in the Grand Ducal police force.\n\nLaws in Luxembourg specifically distinguish between coercion and force in the 1973 Act on Regulating the Use of Force. This Act regulates the use of police weapons and specific technical means of physical force used by police. However, this act does not cover other forms of physical coercion by police officers such as the use of handcuffs as these are seen as basic police measures that do not require specific legislation. The officer must be legitimately executing his duty and his actions and must be compatible under the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity, reasonability and measure in order to use force. To ensure the Grand Ducal Police do not engage in police brutality numerous safeguards and prevention methods are implemented. The police inspector (which is the term for an everyday officer) must undergo legal and tactical training lasting an intensive 26 months followed by further training at an allocated police station. By way of comparison, the Victoria Police Academy only provides 33 weeks of tactical and legal training. The 2015 Human Right Report on Government practices by the United States indicated no cases of police brutality in Luxembourg. This report suggests the Grand Ducal Police have effective mechanisms in place to investigate and punish potential abuse and corruption.\n\nAlthough police brutality is almost nonexistent in Luxembourg, there are effective procedures in place for the investigation and punishment of any potential misconduct by the Grand Ducal Police.\n\nMalta's Police Force (MPF) is one of the oldest in Europe, with the Maltese government taking over the force in 1921, following the grant of self-governance. Currently, there are approximately 1,900 members in the Force.\n\nUnder the Police Act of 1961, Part V deals with the use of force, whereby \"police officers may use such moderate and proportionate force as may be necessary…\" (Article 96.), however, according to Article 100., \"It shall be considered as an offence against discipline if a police officer uses force for considerations extraneous to those permitted by law and the circumstances of the case\". As such, Malta does recognize the illegality of police brutality and can prosecute offending officials on these grounds.\n\nMalta is expected to abide by the 2001 European Code of Ethics being a member of the European Union, whereby \"The police may use force only when strictly necessary and only to the extent required to obtain a legitimate objective.\"\n\nSimilarly, the Council of Europe (of which Malta is a member) follows the five principles developed by the European Court of Human Rights, whereby definition 16 states that police officers \"may use reasonable force when lawfully exercising powers\".\n\nIn 2008, Lawrence Gonzi (The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs) called upon Mr Martin Scicluna, a former civil servant and currently expert on security issues at the Prime Minister's Office, to conduct an independent inquiry into the 24 March 2008 police brutality incident. the inquiry required the investigation of \"allegations of beatings carried out on detainees at Safi Detention Centre by members of the Detention Service on 24 March 2008 and to make any recommendations necessary in the light of [his] findings\". Following the results of the inquiry of Mr. Scicluna, made public by the Maltese Government, it was concluded that \"excessive force was used by Detention Service Personnel\".\n\nMr Scicluna made recommendations that \"appropriate [action] should be taken to reprimand the Detention Service officers involved in this operation and the relevant Senior NCOs for the acts of 25 excessive force used by some personnel in their charge\". Simultaneously, Home Affairs Minister Carm Mifsud Bonnici has said \"95 percent of the members of the police force were doing their duties, but the remainder needed to be addressed\", leading to the establishment of the Internal Affairs Unit (IAU) to \"maintain and safeguard the integrity of the Malta Police Force through an internal system of investigation that is objective, fair, equitable, impartial and just\", where complaints or allegations on the use of force can be monitored and responded to.\n\nAlthough Malta has attempted to tackle the police brutality through the implementation of independent systems such as the IAU, the US Department of State 2010 report on Malta's human rights found that \"authorities detained irregular immigrants under harsh conditions for up to 18 months during the review of their protected status.\" In addition, the 2013 US Department of State report found that although there were no government reports of the use of brutality in detention centers, on December 2, 2013, media reported the sentencing of two former prison guards to five years prison and another two guards to three months prison after finding them guilty of beating an escaped prisoner in 2008, illustrating the gradual development of the IAU in limiting the use of police brutality.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the IAU, The Human Rights Committee has raised questions on the use of force by state officials with respect to the countering of detention center riots, where police have been accused of punching and striking detainees. An enquiry was consequently conducted in 2011 and 2012 following riots, resulting in criminal action against the law enforcement officials responsible. In addition, Giacomo Santini and Tina Acketoft (The Chairs of the Migration and Equality Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe) expressed \"grave concern at an increasing number of incidents of state violence against migrants and refugees\". They have called upon Maltese authorities to conduct a rapid investigation emphasising the need to stamp out violence against migrants and refugees, whether by state actors or by individuals.\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in relation to the conditions of migrants in detention, recommended that the \"State party take appropriate measures to improve detention conditions and refrain from resorting to excessive use of force to counter riots by immigrants in detention centers, and also to avoid such riot\".\n\nPolice brutality was a major drive behind 2011 Egyptian revolution; the incident of Khaled Said's death and other stories, yet very little has changed since. One of the \"demands\" around which people decided to take it to the streets in Egypt is \"purging the Ministry of Interior\" for its brutality and torture practices.\n\nThe GCC states have seen many cases of brutality, some even involving senior figures. For example, Sheikh Issa bin Zayed al Nahyan a UAE sheikh, was involved in the torture of many business associates and he often recorded some of the abuse. Sheikh Issa was eventually arrested but a court found him not guilty and released him. Amnesty International has also reported that a UAE worker was subjected to a wide array of torture methods during his time in jail, including beatings and sleep deprivation. Authorities in Saudi Arabia have also been filmed lashing civilians for different reasons.\n\nThe Netherlands is signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights detailing the limits and responsibilities of police powers, and as such demonstrates a public commitment to the restricted legal use of police powers. These powers include the use of reasonable force to enable the effective discharge of duties, with the stipulation force be used proportionately and only as a last resort\n\nThe police force of the Netherlands is divided into 25 regional forces and one central force. A Regional Police Board, made up of local mayors and the chief public prosecutor, heads each regional force, with a chief officer placed in charge of police operations. Police accountability procedures include the mandatory reporting of any incident during the discharge of duty that requires the use of force. The Rijksrecherche is the national agency responsible for the investigation of serious breaches of police conduct resulting in death or injury. In 2007 the Rijksrecherche conducted 67 inquiries related to police officers, 21 of which were for shooting incidents.\n\nWhile Dutch society has a history of support for liberal values, it has not been immune to what can be regarded as a broader international trend toward the practice of racial profiling and increased levels of police violence towards racial minorities. Suspicion and mistrust of some racial groups is evident, and is perpetuated by police attitudes at all levels of command. This trend in police behaviour has drawn comment from Amnesty International, which in a 2015 report describes Dutch law enforcement officers as having a tendency to correlate suspicious criminal behaviour with specific ethnic characteristics, most notably those typical of persons of Moroccan heritage. Current political discourse in the Netherlands often supports the notion of inferiority of some cultures and is evidenced by the growth in support for far right political ideologies in recent decades.\n\nInstances highlighting the convergence of racial profiling and the use of police force came to the forefront of public attention in the Netherlands in June 2015 with the death of Aruban man Mitch Henriquez. Henriquez died of asphyxiation while in police custody after claiming to have a firearm and being arrested at a music festival in The Hague. The first anniversary of his death in June this year provided a catalyst for protest against police brutality in The Hague, an area with a significant proportion of residents of non-European back-ground. Eleven protesters were arrested for failing to comply with instructions from the Mayor to limit protest to certain areas of the city, leading to some protesters to claim authorities were attempting to criminalize the right to peaceful protest. The five officers alleged to be involved in Mitch Hendriquezs' death have been suspended but are yet to be charged.\n\n Pakistan's law enforcement is divided into multiple tiers including forces under provincial and federal government control. The law strictly prohibits any physical abuse of suspected or convicted criminals, however, due to certain training lacks, there have been reported instances of suspected police brutality. Reported cases are often investigated by police authorities as well as civil courts leading to mixed outcomes. \nRECENT CASES\n\nPolitically motivated riots and protests have occurred historically in China, notably with the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Within the past decade, groups such as Falun Gong have protested party measures and been broken up by riot police. Chinese dissidents have been able to arrange effective mobilization through use of social media and informal communication like Twitter and its Chinese counterparts Weibo or microblogs.\n\nForeign journalists from Switzerland have reported cases of police harassment. Media suppression has increased in the wake of the Jasmine Revolution in Tunisia. Plainclothes policemen are often deployed during demonstrations to suppress violence. Censorship is often maintained as a measure to maintain political stability in China. Web activists can be charged by the police for using false identities to surf the Internet. After arrests, homes of the arrested individual are often searched for incriminating evidence such as computers, hard drives, and flash drives.\n\nThe Polish police force aims to 'serve and protect the people, and to maintain public order and security'. Polish laws prohibit torture or degrading treatment and set out punishment for police officers including demotion and removal from the police force.\n\nA key factor influencing the levels of police brutality in Poland has been the move from a communist state to a democracy. It is argued that Poland's transition has resulted in a more transparent system, decreasing levels of police brutality. Although police brutality exists within Poland cases are much more likely to be handled by the criminal justice system with a greater chance for resolution through the courts.\n\nThis change can also been seen through the increased trust within the Polish police. While there are still instances of police brutality, trust in the police has steadily increased in Poland from 62% - 75% between 2002 and 2008. This statistic demonstrates the improvement in trust between the police and general public.\n\nAlthough there is a more open police force within Poland, many organizations still hold issues with police brutality within Poland. The 2013 United States Department of State report on Poland raised several issues of police brutality. The report cited a case of police officers using violence to gain a confession for armed robbery in 2012. However, it also noted that these police officers were eventually indicted for police brutality.\n\nIn recent years one of the main sources of controversy amongst Polish police brutality has been in the use of rubber bullets to disperse crowd trouble at sporting events.\n\nIn 1998, major riots occurred when a young basketball fan was killed by the police. In 2004, a man was killed and a woman injured in a riot when Polish police accidentally shot live ammunition instead of rubber bullets into the crowd after an association football game. Another set of riots occurred in 2015 in response to a pitch invasion during a football match. Although rubber bullets were used, one man was hit on the neck and later died at the hospital. A former Polish police officer justified this use of weapons as a means to combat football hooliganism. Protesters have characterized the detainment of sports fans protesting against the government as unfair and undemocratic.\n\nThe Polish police also have a history of police brutality within the Roma community. There are multiple cases of police beatings and other discriminatory acts against Roma from Polish police. The European Roma Rights Centre also argues that police investigations into police brutality cases are very rare with systematic police brutality against the Roma minority.\n\nOne particular case of police brutality against Roma occurred in 1998 when the police took four Roma men to a field and beat them. Whilst the men that were beaten were charged with vulgar words and behavior in public this police brutality resulted in broken bones and hospitalisation. This incident demonstrates the need for further procedures in order to stop police brutality against Roma and the continued need for police checks to stop police misconduct.\n\nPortugal is ranked the fourth most heavily policed country in the world. The police force is divided into five main organisations, with the Polícia de Segurança Pública (PSP) having the most prominent urban presence. The PSP has a diverse range of duties and responsibilities, which include protecting the rights of citizens and ensuring democratic legality.\n\nThe use of weapons by Portuguese police is permitted only when:\n\nThis is severely restrictive. By way of example, police will not be permitted to use their firearms when an offender is running away.\n\nPortugal has recently been criticised for the excessive use of force by police. High profile incidents at football matches, as well as reports of racially motivated force used against minority communities, have highlighted the issue of police brutality in Portugal.\n\nPortuguese police have adopted an aggressive position in combating football hooliganism. Despite appearing disproportionate, the police view the heavy-handed nature of their tactics as a necessary and successful approach towards community protection and maintaining social order.\n\nIn 2015, a viral video depicted a Benfica fan being heavily beaten in front of his two children outside a football stadium. The footage, filmed by a local television station, shows Jose Magalhaes leaving the football match early with his children and elderly father before being confronted by police officers. Although the family appeared calm, Magalhaes was tackled to the ground by police and repeatedly hit with a metal baton, whilst his father was punched in the face twice. More police rushed to the scene to shield the obviously distraught children, aged nine and thirteen.\n\nA statement released by the PSP acknowledged the controversial incident and announced that an investigation was launched against the officer responsible for initiating the attack. Subsequently, the officer was suspended for 90 days by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.\n\nThe statement also defended the policing of the large crowds in the aftermath of the football match. Riot police had clashed with supporters the following day in Lisbon as fans celebrated Benfica's title victory. The harsh approach was described as proportionate and necessary to prevent social disorder from escalating.\n\nIn a similar incident in 2016, another football club, Sporting Lisbon, complained about 'barbaric' police assaulting their fans.\n\nThere have also been suggestions of institutionalised racism within the Portuguese police force, with activists claiming that discrimination is the deep-rooted cause of police brutality in Portugal. In its 2015/2016 annual report on Portugal, Amnesty International condemned the excessive force used by police against migrant and minority communities.\n\nDespite a good record in migrant integration, historical parallels can be drawn with Portugal's colonial past and modern police racism. According to activists, police have killed 14 young black men since 2001, however, no police officer has been held responsible for the deaths.\n\nRacially influenced police actions are illustrated by the violence in Cova de Moura, a low socio-economic area housing a significant migrant population. Notably, during an incident in February 2015, a young man named Bruno was aggressively searched and physically abused. When bystanders protested the excessive force, police responded by firing shotguns loaded with rubber bullets at the witnesses.\n\nOn the same day, two human rights workers and five youth entered the Alfragide police station requesting information on Bruno's situation. Upon arrival, the group was allegedly attacked by police officers shouting racist slurs. The policemen dragged and kept the young men in the police station, where they detained them for two days, mistreated and mocked them.\n\nEventually 17 police officers from the Alfragide police station went to trial on a variety of charges, including physical aggression, torture, document forging and aggravated kidnapping. As of October 2018, the trial was ongoing, with victims being heard in court. \n\nThe European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) has expressed concerns about police mistreatment of minorities in Portugal in all of its reports on the country. In its fifth country report of 2018, ECRI mentions the Alfragide case in connection to the failure of IGAI (Inspeção-Geral da Administração Interna) or officers upper in the chain of command to stop the abuses. Currently, IGAI is the body responsible for scrutinizing police activities in the country, but it is part of the Ministry of the Interior, the same way Police forces are. In its 2018 report, ECRI recommends that such work be carried out by the country's Ombudsman, an equality body, or by a new and (entirely) independent body that can be created for that purpose. \n\nPortuguese people of Roma ethnicity have also been victims of police harassment and brutality in the country. There are several examples that have been publicized by the media. One such case is from 2007 and involved a Roma man and his son. The two walked to the Nelas police station, in Porto, to get some information, but the police allegedly ended up abusing them. Two officers were convicted in 2011 for physically assaulting the father. \n\nAn example of police brutality during raids of Roma camps or neighbourhoods, is the night raid of a Roma camp site by the GNR (Guarda Nacional Republicana), in Cabanelas, Vila Verde, in 2012. Some of the people living in the camp, including children and women, were reportedly attacked by GNR officers. The six Roma detained in the violent operation allege that they were later tortured and humiliated in the GNR station of Amares; the GNR denied the accusations, while SOS Racismo promised to file a complaint against this force. A last remnant of overt institutional racism, in Portugal, is article 81 of GNR's regulation law, which provides for an increased policing of nomadic people - who, in general, are known to be mostly Roma; the regulation's constitutionality was unsuccessfully challenged in the 80's.\n\nRussian protests have gained media attention with the reelection of Vladimir Putin in 2012. Attention has been given to incidence of violence via posting videos online. President Dmitry Medvedev has initiated reforms of the police force, in an attempt to minimize the violence by firing the Moscow police chief and centralizing police powers. Police divisions in Russia are often based on loyalty systems that favor bureaucratic power among political elites. Phone tapping and business raids are common practice in the country, and often fail to give due process to citizens. Proper investigations of police officials still remains lacking by western standards.\n\nIn 2012, Russia's top investigative agency investigated charges that four police officers had tortured detainees under custody. Human rights activists claim that Russian police use torture techniques to extract false confessions from detainees. Police regulations require quotas of officers for solved crimes, a practice that encourages false arrests to meet their numbers.\n\nPolice brutality in Slovakia is systematic and widely documented, but is almost exclusively brought about against the Romani minority. The nation state itself has particularly racist attitudes toward the Romani minority, dating back prior to the split of Czechoslovakia. In fact, it is widely known that the government undertook, and still undertakes forced sterilisation of Romani women, and continues to segregate the Romani into walled-off settlements. This discrimination has undoubtedly filtered down to the police force. Excessive use of force against the Romani minority by police has been publicly criticised by the United Nations. The police force has been repeatedly condemned by a number of organisations for lengthy pre-trial detention, and its treatment of suspects in custody.\n\nIn 2001, a 51-year-old Romani man died as a result of abuse in police custody at the hands of the Mayor of Magnezitovce and his police officer son. The victim, Mr Sendrei, was allegedly chained to a radiator and fatally beaten, after being forcefully removed from his home.\nWhilst the mayor's son was immediately removed from the police force, and the mayor suspended from his position, he was reinstated just 4 months later. In response to this incident the minister for internal affairs attempted to establish new measures to prevent police brutality including mandatory psychological testing for law enforcement and better training around affective use of coercion.\n\nHowever, police brutality toward the Roma minority remains a serious issue.\n\nGraphic video footage shot by law enforcement officers in 2009 shows 6 Romani boys aged between 6-16 being forced to strip naked, kiss, and slap each other. It is alleged that the boys were then set upon by police dogs, with at least two sustaining serious injury. Officers attempted to justify their behaviour on the grounds that the boys were suspected of theft against an elderly citizen. However, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment by police, regardless of whether a crime has been suspected or committed, is prohibited under international law.\n\nThe 10 law enforcement officers involved have since been acquitted after the judge ruled the video inadmissible in court as it was obtained illegally. As the footage was the main piece of evidentiary support for the crime, without it a conviction was not achieved.\n\nHuman rights watchdog's have raised concerns around police selectivity in making recordings of raids after a raid in the settlement of Vrbica in 2015 as they claim to have not thought the settlement would be problematic. This raid saw 15 men seriously injured.\n\nIt is often the experience of the Roma that on pressing charges in relation to police brutality, a counter- charge is often threatened by law enforcement, in an attempt to pressure the alleged victim into dropping the charges, which is particularly effective as the attitude toward the roma in Slovakia is so entrenched that lawyers are often reluctant to represent Romani victims.\n\nWhile Slovenia is a fairly peaceful country, it is not without its faults. Minority groups in Slovenia, particularly the Roma and any residents from former Yugoslav republics face discrimination and sometimes brutality by Slovenian police. The Roma, in particular, are targets because of how stereotyped they are as an inherently criminal population. The Roma often live in illegal settlements in very low socio-economic conditions, which contributes to their discrimination and their reputation as criminals. The Roma are one of the ethnic minorities from former Yugoslavic states known as 'the erased' who, after Slovenia's declaration of independence in 1991, lost all legal status, social, civil and political rights. This made them particularly vulnerable to police brutality. Their rights have still not been fully restored. Due to their lack of rights and legal status, it is difficult to hold police accountable for offences committed against them.\n\nThe police have been known to occasionally use excessive force against detainees in prisons, as well as foreigners and other minority groups, although no police officer has ever been arrested or charged. This made them particularly vulnerable to police brutality. Their rights have still not been fully restored. Due to their lack of rights and legal status, it is difficult to hold police accountable for offences committed against them. It is argued that authorities turn a blind eye to any allegations that arise because often the victims are from ethnic minorities, and there is a culture of racism amongst parts of the police force. When investigations are made, they are often ineffective. Several cases have been brought before the European Court concerning people who have died in police custody because Slovenian Police used excessive force and failed to properly investigate it. Most of these cases are still pending and there has yet to be an outcome.\n\nThe worst case of police brutality was the November 2012 protests. Political dissatisfaction spurred a series of protests in Maribor, Slovenia. For the most part, the protests were peaceful. The crowds were chanting and non-violently, and for about two hours on 26 November 2012 (also known as, \"the second Maribor uprising\") they remained that way. However, crowds moved towards an area with a heavy police presence and that's when the violence started. Police used excessive force to disperse the crowds, including tear gas, dragging and beating protesters, police dogs and even mounted police who indiscriminately charged into the crowd. Civilians, violent and non-violent protesters, and journalists alike were all targeted. Authorities attempted to justify the use of force by claiming protesters were violent and the use of force was necessary, not excessive. Slovenian media sources reported that the protest only turned violent after the police started using force. This level of violence was unprecedented and entirely unexpected in Slovenia.\n\nSince 2003, Slovenian authorities have attempted to rectify this discrimination by introducing a two-day training programme on policing in a multi-ethnic community. The programme involved teaching police about Roma culture and their language which served to break down some of the stereotypes that caused tension. The Roma were made aware of their rights, and the police were educated about national and international standards regarding treatment of minorities. The programme involved teaching police about Roma culture and their language which served to break down some of the stereotypes that caused tension. It also helped to build trust between the Roma community and police. Tensions still exist between the two groups, especially concerning police who have not participated in this programme, however they have been greatly reduced.\n\nReports of police brutality skyrocketed by over 300% in just a decade, with only one in 100 leading to a conviction. There were also 720 deaths in police custody due to police action in 2011/2012.\n\nIn 2015, due to the police committing crimes such as rape, torture and murder, the cost of civil liabilities claims were so great that there was concern the costs would strain the South African Police Service national budget.\n\nSpanish police have developed a global reputation for brutality after images of clashes between demonstrators and police were spread on social networks and international news 2011 and 2012. Two notable demonstrations are those that occurred in Barcelona on 27 May 2011, and in Madrid on 25 September 2012. Video footage made available online shows the use of force by police against peaceful demonstrators on both occasions. Images show officers using hand-held batons to repeatedly hit peaceful demonstrators, some of them in the face and neck, and the injuries caused. Police also used rubber bullets and pepper spray.\n\nHowever, in spite of public outrage the Spanish government has made no attempt to reform policing and police mistreatment of the public. On the contrary, in July 2016 new reforms to the law on Public Security and the Criminal Code came into force which limit the right to freedom of assembly and give police officers the broad discretion to fine people who show a 'lack of respect' towards them. The Law on Public Security also includes an offence of spreading images of police officers in certain cases. The UN Human Rights Commission has expressed concern at the impact this legislation could have on human rights and police accountability. Fines for insulting a police officer can be up to €600 euros, and as much as €30,000 for spreading damaging photos of police officers. Amnesty International identifies three main areas of concern about police action during demonstrations and assemblies: excessive use of force and inappropriate use of riot equipment, excessive use of force when arresting demonstrators, and ill-treatment of detainees in police custody.\n\nThe 2014 report of Torture in the Spanish State found at least 941 people were tortured by law enforcement in 2014- both in the context of demonstrations and other public situations and in police stations and prisons. 'The practice of torture is an everyday reality in Spain' claims Jorge del Cura, a spokesman for the Committee for the Prevention of Torture which collected 6621 complaints between 2004 and 2014. 'Day after day we receive information from people who have suffered all kinds of abuse and torture from stress positions, to push-ups, rape or physical assault.' There were only 752 convictions of police for mistreatment during this 10-year period. \nPau Perez, an advisor to the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture notes that of the torture allegations made against police 50% were from people belonging to social movements and 40% were from immigrants- indicating these are the two groups who suffer most from police brutality.\n\nAmnesty International and ACODI (Acción Contra la Discriminación) have both called out Spain for racial profiling and ethnic discrimination.\nACODI documented 612 cases of racial discrimination in a single year, emphasising that many of these did not lead to official complaints because victims fear police retaliation or believe their complaints will be ignored. This belief is not unfounded; in 2005 Beauty Solomon, an African American immigrant working as a prostitute, filed two criminal complaints against Spanish policemen for repeated harassment and physical assault. In spite of eyewitness testimony and medical reports confirming her injuries the Spanish Courts dismissed her claims on the grounds of insufficient evidence. Solomon then took her case to the European Court of Human Rights, who unanimously ruled in her favour that Spain had violated Article 3 (prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment) and Article 14 (prohibition of discrimination) of the European Convention of Human Rights. They also condemned Spain for failing to investigate both Solomon's assault and other racist and sexist acts of violence by police officers.\n\nSolomon's case is one of hundreds of similar cases in the ACODI report. Under Spanish law the police can check the identity of anyone in a public space when there is a security concern; however African and Latin American immigrant are most frequently targeted, and often without a legitimate security concern. \"People who do not 'look Spanish' can be stopped by police as often as four times a day,\" said Izza Leghtas, an Amnesty International researcher.\n\nSince the REVA (Legally Certain and Efficient Enforcement) project has been applied in Sweden in an attempt to deport illegal immigrants, it has exposed the brutal and illegal methods used by police. They harass and racially profile non-white Swedes who often live in segregated suburbs. The marginalised such as the poor, homeless, people of colour, users of illicit drugs and the mentally ill are facing Sweden as a Police State. This has resulted in social disobedience with ordinary people in Sweden updating others on Twitter and Facebook on the whereabouts of police.\n\nIn 2013 police shot a man in his own home in front of his wife in a town called Husby. The police said the man had been wielding and threatening them with a machete. The Stockholm riots, where more than 100 cars were torched, were set off after the Husby shooting. When the police showed up they had stones thrown at them. People said the police called them 'monkeys' and used batons against them in the clash.\n\nAlso in 2013 a Swede of African origin was refused entry into a local club in Malmo for wearing traditional African clothes. The police picked him up and in the process of his arrest his arm was broken and he was locked in a cell for nearly six hours with no medical aid. Socially excluded groups have been targeted and the result of police investigations often mean the police officers are not deemed at fault.\n\nThe common denominator for people on a special police list is being or married to a Romani person. A register of 4029 Romani people is kept by police. The police say the document is a register of criminal people and their associates used for fighting crime in Skane despite people being on it that have no connection with Skane or any association with criminal people.\n\nPolice target apparent ethnicity at Stockholm subways for ID checks to see if they are illegal migrants. The police say they are 'following orders', the 'rule of law' and 'democratic process'.\n\nIn February 2016, in Malmo, a nine-year-old was accused of not paying for a railway ticket. The police asked the security guards to stop the child. One guard tackled him to the ground and sat on him. He then pushed the child's face into the pavement hard and covered his mouth. The child can be heard screaming and gasping on the video that has gone viral on the internet. The police then put him in handcuffs.\n\nTurkey has a history of police brutality, including (particularly between 1977 and 2002) the use of torture. Police brutality featuring excessive use of tear gas (including targeting protesters with tear gas canisters), pepper spray and water cannon as well as physical violence against protesters has been seen, for example, in the suppression of Kurdish protests and May Day demonstrations. The 2013 protests in Turkey were in response to the brutal police suppression of an environmentalist sit-in protesting the removal of Taksim Gezi Park.\n\nIn 2012 a number of officials received prison sentences for their role in the death in custody of political activist Engin Çeber.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights has noted the failure of the Turkish investigating authorities to carry out effective investigations into allegations of ill-treatment by law enforcement personnel during demonstrations.\n\nIn 2015 the United Kingdom employed approximately 126,818 police officers in the 43 police forces of England, Wales and the British Transport Police, the lowest number since March 2002.\n\nThe Criminal Law Act 1967, Common Law and the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008, the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, and the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) set out the law and acceptable use of force in the UK. The use of unnecessary physical force is in principle an infringement of ECHR Article 3. The use of force should be 'reasonable' in the circumstances. Physical force is appropriate if:\n\n\nThis requires a consideration of the degree of force used. Any excessive use of force by a police officer is unlawful and an officer could thus be prosecuted under criminal law.\n\nSince 2004/05, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) have published complaint statistics reports for England and Wales. In the 2014/15 annual report, the IPCC reported that there were 17 deaths in or following police custody and only one fatal police shooting in the last 3 years. These figures were more than doubled when the IPCC was first erected. The annual report for 2015/16 is due to be published on the 26th of July 2016. A total of 37, 105 complaints were recorded in 2014/15, marking a 6% increase to the previous year, and a 62% overall increase since 2004/05. Allegations of 'neglect or failure in duty' accounted for 34% of all allegations recorded whilst 'other assault' and 'oppressive conduct' or harassment made up only 8% and 6% respectively.\n\nDespite an average reduction in deaths in custody since 2004, a 2014 Public Confidence Survey revealed that public satisfaction following contact with the police was falling and that there was a greater willingness to complain. The Metropolitan Police, who operate in some of the most ethnically diverse parts of the UK, received the greatest number of complaints in 2014/15 with 6,828. However, young people and people from black or minority ethic groups were much less likely to come forward with complaints.\n\nWhilst instances of police brutality in the UK is comparatively less than its US counterparts, there are nonetheless high profile incidents that have received wide media coverage. As of 2016, more than 140 people from black or other minority ethnic groups have died under police custody from 1990. The use of excessive force has been used on an array of demographics of British citizens, however police brutality against ethnic and minority groups often attract wide media coverage. Whilst some have argued that this is discriminatory or evidence of institutional racism, others have asserted that it is largely due to over policing in areas that are perceived as high-risk areas such as Northumberland or Bedfordshire.\n\nIn 2009, Ian Tomlinson was killed when he was hit in the head with a baton and shoved to the ground at the G20 protests in the City of London. PC Simon Harwood was an officer of the Territorial Support Group (TSG), a unit of the Metropolitan Police Service, until he was sacked for the altercation. The incident attracted criticism of both the \"militaristic approach\" of the TSG and the small number of complaints upheld by the Metropolitan Police despite referrals by the IPCC.\n\nIn May 2013, 21-year-old Julian Cole was arrested outside a nightclub in Bedford by six police officers. The altercation left Mr Cole in a vegetative state due to a severed spinal cord. Expert evidence indicated that Mr Cole was struck with considerable force on his neck whilst his head was pulled back. Despite calls by the IPCC to suspend the officers, Bedfordshire chief constable Colette Paul refused to place the six police officers on restricted duties despite being under criminal investigation. The Bedfordshire police deny allegations that the use of excessive force on the unarmed 5 ft 5in student was race-related.\n\nOn 20 February 2014, Bedfordshire Police Constables Christopher Thomas and Christopher Pitts, chased Faruk Ali before allegedly knocking him over and punching him in the face outside his family home. Mr Ali was described an autistic man who had the mental age of a five-year-old. The police officers who were accused of laughing throughout the ordeal, were cleared of misconduct in public office by the Aylesbury Crown Court. Following an investigation by the IPCC, the officers were sacked following breaches of standards of professional conduct including standards of honesty, integrity, authority, equality and diversity.\n\nOn 13 July 2016, 18-year-old Mzee Mohammed died in police custody after being detained by Merseyside police at a Liverpool shopping centre. Officers were called to the scene after Mzee was allegedly behaving aggressive and erratic whilst arming himself with a knife. After successfully detaining Mzee, the police called an ambulance after Mzee suffered a \"medical episode\" and was pronounced dead. Video evidence has surfaced showing Mohammed surrounded by officers and paramedics, seemingly fully unconscious whilst being placed face down with his hands handcuffed behind his back. Questions remain about how appropriate medical condition could have been administered given how the handcuffs would restrict breathing. Mzee Mohammed is the 21st black person to die in police custody in six years.\n\nIn the United States, major political and social movements have involved excessive force by police, including the civil rights movement of the 1960s, anti-war demonstrations, the War on Drugs, and the Global War on Terrorism. In 2014, the UN Committee against Torture condemned police brutality and excessive use of force by law enforcement in the US, and highlighted the \"frequent and recurrent police shootings or fatal pursuits of unarmed black individuals.\" According to a 2016 report by the United Nations' Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent, \"contemporary police killings and the trauma that they create are reminiscent of the past racial terror of lynching.\"\n\nSeven members of the United States Maryland military police were convicted for the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse incidents in Iraq. Detainees were abused within the prison by being forced to jump on their naked feet, being videotaped in sexually exploited positions, having chains around their neck for photos, and being kept naked for days.\n\nThe United States has developed a notorious reputation for cases of police brutality, having reported far more incidents of killings by police officers than the rest of the western world. According to an FBI homicide report from 2012, while blacks represent 13% of the US population, they amounted for 31% of those killed by police.\n\nPolice officers are legally permitted to use force, and their superiors — and the public — expect them to do so. According to Jerome Herbert Skolnick, in dealing largely with disorderly elements of the society, some people working in law enforcement may gradually develop an attitude or sense of authority over society, particularly under traditional reaction-based policing models; in some cases the police believe that they are above the law.\n\nThere are many reasons as to why police officers can sometimes be excessively aggressive. It is thought that psychopathy makes some officers more susceptible to the use of excessive force than others. In one study, police psychologists were surveyed on officers who had used excessive force. The information obtained allowed the researchers to develop five unique types of officers, only one of which was similar to the bad apple stereotype. These include personality disorders, previous traumatic job-related experience, young inexperienced or authoritarian officers; officers who learn inappropriate patrol styles, and officers with personal problems. Schrivers categorizes groups of officers, separating the group that most likely use excessive force. However, this \"bad apple paradigm\" is considered by some to be an \"easy way out\". A broad report commissioned by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police on the causes of misconduct in policing calls it \"a simplistic explanation that permits the organization and senior management to blame corruption on individuals and individual faults – behavioural, psychological, background factors, and so on, rather than addressing systemic factors.\" The report goes on to discuss the systemic factors, which include:\n\nPolice use of force is not kept in check in many jurisdictions by the issuance of a use of force continuum. A use of force continuum sets levels of force considered appropriate in direct response to a victims behavior. This power is granted by the government, with few if any limits set out in statutory law as well as common law.\n\nViolence used by police can be excessive despite being lawful, especially in the context of political repression. Indeed, \"police brutality\" is often used to refer to violence used by the police to achieve politically desirable ends (terrorism) and, therefore, when none should be used at all according to widely held values and cultural norms in the society (rather than to refer to excessive violence used where at least some may be considered justifiable).\n\nStudies show that there are officers who believe the legal system they serve is failing and that it is their duty to pick up the slack. This is known as \"vigilantism\", where the officer involved may think the suspect deserves more punishment than what they may have to serve under the court system.\n\nDuring high-speed pursuits of suspects, officers can become angry and filled with adrenaline, which can affect their judgment when they finally assault the victim. The resulting loss of judgment and heightened emotional state can result in inappropriate use of force. The effect is colloquially known as \"high-speed pursuit syndrome.\"\n\nPolice brutality is the misuse of power by police force to intentionally harm individuals. The excessive force imposed by police officers has grown dramatically over the past decade, causing social misinterpretations of the role that police officers play in the community.\n\n\"In 2015, the percentage of people who have confidence in the police hit its lowest since 1993 at 52 percent. Of this 52 percent democrats saw the biggest drop in confidence. Democrats' confidence in police dropped 13 percentage points over the last two years compared with 2012–2013, a larger change than for any other subgroup. Over the same period, Independents' and Republicans' confidence in police has not changed. As a result, Democrats (42%) now have less confidence in police than independents (51%) and remain much less confident than Republicans (69%). Most importantly however is the number of Black people that have lost trust in the police over the last two years: Black people's confidence in police has averaged 30 percent, well below the national average of 53% and much lower than for any other subgroup. Black people's confidence is down six points from 2012 to 2013, similar to the four-point drop among all Americans.\"\n\n\"The same study found that the number of White people who identify as democrat have lost the same amount of confidence in the police as Black people, as White Democrats' confidence declined 11 points over the last two years, similar to the 14-point decline among non-White Democrats the sample sizes are not large enough to break out Black Democrats separately, but the limited data suggest their confidence declined no more than that of White Democrats. This decreased confidence in police officers is harming relations and affecting how many people deal with and respond to police which in turn leads to more hostility from police in the United States. This has also lead to many cities making police wear body armor and cameras on them at all times.\" \n\nThe repercussions of police officers’ “excessive force“ of those who find themselves in confrontation with authorities are non-existent. Authorities have legal right over how the respond and treat suspects, police officers may justifiably escalate the use of force with mere commands… but commands from who? Therefore, police officers receive little to no punishment for willingly and forcefully hurting civilians.\n\nHands Up Don’t Shoot\n\nThe Constitution states that police officers are legally allowed to shoot in the instance that they feel the need to protect their lives or an innocent life or to prevent the suspect from escaping and posing a dangerous threat to the of bystanders in society. The Supreme Court Decision of Tennessee v. Garner made it possible to shoot a fleeing suspect ONLY if they may cause harm to innocent people so that authorities are not just shoot every suspect that tries to escape.\n\n\"In the United States there are one hundred sixty million more Caucasian people than there are Black people. However, being thirteen percent of the country's population, Black people are twenty four percent of the number of people killed by cops as of 2015. Due to the increased rate of the number of Black people killed by the police there has been an increased distrust of the police in the United States.\"  \n\nSociety would like to believe that police officers and protectors are not biased towards the victims of police brutality, we hope that everything law enforcement does is to better protect us. As history repeats and more and more Black Americans lose their lives, this gives reason to believe that different geographic locations carry different political and social views, therefore police officers are biased towards those they decide to abuse, instead of allowing the justice system to properly serve justice.\n\nStereotypes\n\nLorie Fridell, Associate Professor of criminology at University of South Florida states that \"racial profiling was the number one issue facing police [in the 1990's].” Which leads her to understand two things: “bias in policing was not just a few officers in a few departments and, overwhelmingly, the police in this country are well-intentioned.” The country as a whole sets stereotypes as well as biases against Black Americans which inevitably leads to social misinterpretation of the safety of Americans when a Black person is present.\n\nAn experiment done in Mekawi during 2014 conducted on White undergraduate female students suggests that there is a higher degree of fear of racial minorities which gives reason for authorities to believe racial minorities are dangerous, hence so many shootings of minorities. The  experiment exemplifies the dehumanization and lack of empathetic concern for minorities displayed by citizen of racial majority.\n\nIncidents resulting in high profile deaths of innocent Black men such like Eric Garner in New York City, Tamir Rice in Cleveland, and Freddie Gray in Baltimore shows the Black community that they can no longer trust the police force. As a result of this lack of trust in police officers, the Black society have formulated many social organizations; founded in 2013, the Black Lives Matter Movement made a social impact on the world in a response the violent and systematic racism that Black people still face by police officers.\n\nWhile the Justice Department reported that Cleveland police officers used “excessive deadly force, including shootings and head strikes with impact weapons; unnecessary, excessive, and retaliatory force, including Tasers, chemical sprays, and their fists” on the victim, there was no real repercussions from their actions.\n\nBlack Americans V. US Police Department\n\nAnother report released concerning the Michael Brown shooting in Ferguson, Missouri, the Justice Department admits to the pattern of racial bias of the Police Department in Ferguson. The department argues that it is typically an effort to ticket as many low-income Black residents as possible in an attempt to raise local budget revenue through fines and court fees. The Justice Department explains, police encounters could get downright abusive when the person being questioned by the police officers gets disrespectful or challenges their authority.\n\nIn addition, The Department of Justice released a statement that confronts police officers’ susceptibility to implicit bias: One of the things they looked at is what they called threat perception failure. The officer believed that the person was armed and it turned out not to be the case. And these failures were more likely to occur when the subject was Black.\n\nStatistics\n\n\"In the United States in the late 2010s there has been a increase in the number of police brutality cases. The number of deaths caused by a police officer have slightly increased from 397 to 426 deaths in the last reporting year which was 2013.\"\n\nIn addition, In a study done by Research Triangle Institute in 2015, Arrest Related Deaths were ranked higher than Supplementary Homicide Reports in US deaths by approximately 4%. Police officers are killing more citizens at a higher rate than citizens are killing each other.\n\nIn the year of 2017 there were 1,147 deaths accounted for by police, 13 of which police officers were charged with a crime. 640 of the deaths caused by police officers that year, were responses to non-violent offenses and no crime was reported. 149 people killed by the police were unarmed.\n\nAlso, studies have shown that \"Black people are three times more likely to be killed by police in the United States than White people. More unarmed Black people were killed by police than unarmed White people last year,” give. the fact that only 14% of the population are Black people.\n\n\nIn England and Wales, an independent organization known as the Independent Police Complaints Commission investigates reports of police misconduct. They automatically investigate any deaths caused by, or thought to be caused by, police action.\n\nA similar body operates in Scotland, known as the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner. In Northern Ireland the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland has a similar role to that of the IPCC and PIRC.\n\nIn Africa, there exists two such bodies, one in South Africa and another one in Kenya known as the Independent Policing Oversight Authority.\n\nIn the United States, police are increasingly using police body-worn cameras during this Age of Ferguson. Since Michael Brown's death in Ferguson, Missouri, the US Department of Justice has made a call to action for police departments across the nation to implement body-worn cameras into their departments so further investigation will be possible.\n\nPolice brutality is measured based on the accounts of people who have experienced or seen it, as well as the juries who are present for trials involving police brutality cases. This is because there is no way to quantify the use of excessive force for any particular situation. Back is 1985 only one out of five people thought that police brutality was a serious problem. Police brutality is relative to a situation, it depends on if the suspected person(s) is(are) resisting. Out of the people who were surveyed about their account with the police brutality in 2008, only about 12% felt as if they had been resisting. Although police force itself cannot be quantified, the opinion of brutality among various races, genders, and ages can. African Americans, women, and younger people are more likely to have negative opinions about police than Caucasians, men, and middle-aged to elderly individuals.\n\nVarious community groups have criticized police brutality. These groups often stress the need for oversight by independent civilian review boards and other methods of ensuring accountability for police action.\n\nUmbrella organizations and justice committees (often named after a deceased individual or those victimized by police violence) usually engage in a solidarity of those affected. Amnesty International is another organization active in the issue of police brutality. Amnesty International, also known as AI, is a non-governmental organization focused on human rights with over 3\nmillion members and supporters around the world. The stated objective of the organization is \"to conduct research and generate action to prevent and end grave abuses of human rights, and to demand justice for those whose rights have been violated.\"\n\nTools used by these groups include video recordings, which are sometimes broadcast using websites such as YouTube.\n\nCivilians have begun independent projects to monitor police activity in an effort to reduce violence and misconduct. These are often called \"Cop Watch\" programs.\n\nProper supervision by competent police supervisors and administration can reduce police misconduct.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26194", "title": "Restriction enzyme", "text": "Restriction enzyme\n\nA restriction enzyme or restriction endonuclease is an enzyme that cleaves DNA into fragments at or near specific recognition sites within the molecule known as restriction sites. Restrictions enzymes are one class of the broader endonuclease group of enzymes. Restriction enzymes are commonly classified into five types, which differ in their structure and whether they cut their DNA substrate at their recognition site, or if the recognition and cleavage sites are separate from one another. To cut DNA, all restriction enzymes make two incisions, once through each sugar-phosphate backbone (i.e. each strand) of the DNA double helix.\n\nThese enzymes are found in bacteria and archaea and provide a defence mechanism against invading viruses. Inside a prokaryote, the restriction enzymes selectively cut up \"foreign\" DNA in a process called \"restriction digestion\"; meanwhile, host DNA is protected by a modification enzyme (a methyltransferase) that modifies the prokaryotic DNA and blocks cleavage. Together, these two processes form the restriction modification system.\n\nOver 3000 restriction enzymes have been studied in detail, and more than 600 of these are available commercially. These enzymes are routinely used for DNA modification in laboratories, and they are a vital tool in molecular cloning.\n\nThe term restriction enzyme originated from the studies of phage λ, a virus that infects bacteria, and the phenomenon of host-controlled restriction and modification of such bacterial phage or bacteriophage. The phenomenon was first identified in work done in the laboratories of Salvador Luria, Weigle and Giuseppe Bertani in the early 1950s. It was found that, for a bacteriophage λ that can grow well in one strain of \"Escherichia coli\", for example \"E. coli\" C, when grown in another strain, for example \"E. coli\" K, its yields can drop significantly, by as much as 3-5 orders of magnitude. The host cell, in this example \"E. coli\" K, is known as the restricting host and appears to have the ability to reduce the biological activity of the phage λ. If a phage becomes established in one strain, the ability of that phage to grow also becomes restricted in other strains. In the 1960s, it was shown in work done in the laboratories of Werner Arber and Matthew Meselson that the restriction is caused by an enzymatic cleavage of the phage DNA, and the enzyme involved was therefore termed a restriction enzyme.\n\nThe restriction enzymes studied by Arber and Meselson were type I restriction enzymes, which cleave DNA randomly away from the recognition site. In 1970, Hamilton O. Smith, Thomas Kelly and Kent Wilcox isolated and characterized the first type II restriction enzyme, \"Hin\"dII, from the bacterium \"Haemophilus influenzae\". Restriction enzymes of this type are more useful for laboratory work as they cleave DNA at the site of their recognition sequence and are the most commonly used as a molecular biology tool. Later, Daniel Nathans and Kathleen Danna showed that cleavage of simian virus 40 (SV40) DNA by restriction enzymes yields specific fragments that can be separated using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, thus showing that restriction enzymes can also be used for mapping DNA. For their work in the discovery and characterization of restriction enzymes, the 1978 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Werner Arber, Daniel Nathans, and Hamilton O. Smith. The discovery of restriction enzymes allows DNA to be manipulated, leading to the development of recombinant DNA technology that has many applications, for example, allowing the large scale production of proteins such as human insulin used by diabetics.\n\nRestriction enzymes likely evolved from a common ancestor and became widespread via horizontal gene transfer. In addition, there is mounting evidence that restriction endonucleases evolved as a selfish genetic element.\n\nRestriction enzymes recognize a specific sequence of nucleotides and produce a double-stranded cut in the DNA. The recognition sequences can also be classified by the number of bases in its recognition site, usually between 4 and 8 bases, and the number of bases in the sequence will determine how often the site will appear by chance in any given genome, e.g., a 4-base pair sequence would theoretically occur once every 4^4 or 256bp, 6 bases, 4^6 or 4,096bp, and 8 bases would be 4^8 or 65,536bp.<ref name=\"http://bioweb.uwlax.edu/genweb/molecular/seq_anal/restriction_map/restriction_map.htm\">Restriction Map</ref> Many of them are palindromic, meaning the base sequence reads the same backwards and forwards. In theory, there are two types of palindromic sequences that can be possible in DNA. The \"mirror-like\" palindrome is similar to those found in ordinary text, in which a sequence reads the same forward and backward on a single strand of DNA, as in GTAATG. The \"inverted repeat\" palindrome is also a sequence that reads the same forward and backward, but the forward and backward sequences are found in complementary DNA strands (i.e., of double-stranded DNA), as in GTATAC (GTATAC being complementary to CATATG). Inverted repeat palindromes are more common and have greater biological importance than mirror-like palindromes.\n\nEcoRI digestion produces \"sticky\" ends,\n\nwhereas SmaI restriction enzyme cleavage produces \"blunt\" ends:\n\nRecognition sequences in DNA differ for each restriction enzyme, producing differences in the length, sequence and strand orientation (5' end or 3' end) of a sticky-end \"overhang\" of an enzyme restriction.\n\nDifferent restriction enzymes that recognize the same sequence are known as neoschizomers. These often cleave in different locales of the sequence. Different enzymes that recognize and cleave in the same location are known as isoschizomers.\n\nNaturally occurring restriction endonucleases are categorized into four groups (Types I, II III, and IV) based on their composition and enzyme cofactor requirements, the nature of their target sequence, and the position of their DNA cleavage site relative to the target sequence. DNA sequence analyses of restriction enzymes however show great variations, indicating that there are more than four types. All types of enzymes recognize specific short DNA sequences and carry out the endonucleolytic cleavage of DNA to give specific fragments with terminal 5'-phosphates. They differ in their recognition sequence, subunit composition, cleavage position, and cofactor requirements, as summarised below:\n\n\nType I restriction enzymes were the first to be identified and were first identified in two different strains (K-12 and B) of \"E. coli\". These enzymes cut at a site that differs, and is a random distance (at least 1000 bp) away, from their recognition site. Cleavage at these random sites follows a process of DNA translocation, which shows that these enzymes are also molecular motors. The recognition site is asymmetrical and is composed of two specific portions—one containing 3–4 nucleotides, and another containing 4–5 nucleotides—separated by a non-specific spacer of about 6–8 nucleotides. These enzymes are multifunctional and are capable of both restriction digestion and modification activities, depending upon the methylation status of the target DNA. The cofactors S-Adenosyl methionine (AdoMet), hydrolyzed adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and magnesium (Mg) ions, are required for their full activity. Type I restriction enzymes possess three subunits called HsdR, HsdM, and HsdS; HsdR is required for restriction digestion; HsdM is necessary for adding methyl groups to host DNA (methyltransferase activity), and HsdS is important for specificity of the recognition (DNA-binding) site in addition to both restriction digestion (DNA cleavage) and modification (DNA methyltransferase) activity.\n\nTypical type II restriction enzymes differ from type I restriction enzymes in several ways. They form homodimers, with recognition sites that are usually undivided and palindromic and 4–8 nucleotides in length. They recognize and cleave DNA at the same site, and they do not use ATP or AdoMet for their activity—they usually require only Mg as a cofactor. These enzymes cleave the phosphodiester bond of double helix DNA. It can either cleave at the center of both strands to yield a blunt end, or at a staggered position leaving overhangs called sticky ends. These are the most commonly available and used restriction enzymes. In the 1990s and early 2000s, new enzymes from this family were discovered that did not follow all the classical criteria of this enzyme class, and new subfamily nomenclature was developed to divide this large family into subcategories based on deviations from typical characteristics of type II enzymes. These subgroups are defined using a letter suffix.\n\nType IIB restriction enzymes (e.g., BcgI and BplI) are multimers, containing more than one subunit. They cleave DNA on both sides of their recognition to cut out the recognition site. They require both AdoMet and Mg cofactors. Type IIE restriction endonucleases (e.g., NaeI) cleave DNA following interaction with two copies of their recognition sequence. One recognition site acts as the target for cleavage, while the other acts as an allosteric effector that speeds up or improves the efficiency of enzyme cleavage. Similar to type IIE enzymes, type IIF restriction endonucleases (e.g. NgoMIV) interact with two copies of their recognition sequence but cleave both sequences at the same time. Type IIG restriction endonucleases (e.g., Eco57I) do have a single subunit, like classical Type II restriction enzymes, but require the cofactor AdoMet to be active. Type IIM restriction endonucleases, such as DpnI, are able to recognize and cut methylated DNA. Type IIS restriction endonucleases (e.g., \"Fok\"I) cleave DNA at a defined distance from their non-palindromic asymmetric recognition sites; this characteristic is widely used to perform in-vitro cloning techniques such as Golden Gate cloning. These enzymes may function as dimers. Similarly, Type IIT restriction enzymes (e.g., Bpu10I and BslI) are composed of two different subunits. Some recognize palindromic sequences while others have asymmetric recognition sites.\n\nType III restriction enzymes (e.g., EcoP15) recognize two separate non-palindromic sequences that are inversely oriented. They cut DNA about 20–30 base pairs after the recognition site. These enzymes contain more than one subunit and require AdoMet and ATP cofactors for their roles in DNA methylation and restriction digestion , respectively. They are components of prokaryotic DNA restriction-modification mechanisms that protect the organism against invading foreign DNA. Type III enzymes are hetero-oligomeric, multifunctional proteins composed of two subunits, Res and Mod. The Mod subunit recognises the DNA sequence specific for the system and is a modification methyltransferase; as such, it is functionally equivalent to the M and S subunits of type I restriction endonuclease. Res is required for restriction digestion , although it has no enzymatic activity on its own. Type III enzymes recognise short 5–6 bp-long asymmetric DNA sequences and cleave 25–27 bp downstream to leave short, single-stranded 5' protrusions. They require the presence of two inversely oriented unmethylated recognition sites for restriction digestion to occur. These enzymes methylate only one strand of the DNA, at the N-6 position of adenosyl residues, so newly replicated DNA will have only one strand methylated, which is sufficient to protect against restriction digestion. Type III enzymes belong to the beta-subfamily of N6 adenine methyltransferases, containing the nine motifs that characterise this family, including motif I, the AdoMet binding pocket (FXGXG), and motif IV, the catalytic region (S/D/N (PP) Y/F).\n\nType IV enzymes recognize modified, typically methylated DNA and are exemplified by the McrBC and Mrr systems of \"E. coli\".\n\nType V restriction enzymes (e.g., the cas9-gRNA complex from CRISPRs) utilize guide RNAs to target specific non-palindromic sequences found on invading organisms. They can cut DNA of variable length, provided that a suitable guide RNA is provided. The flexibility and ease of use of these enzymes make them promising for future genetic engineering applications.\n\nArtificial restriction enzymes can be generated by fusing a natural or engineered DNA binding domain to a nuclease domain (often the cleavage domain of the type IIS restriction enzyme \"Fok\"I). Such artificial restriction enzymes can target large DNA sites (up to 36 bp) and can be engineered to bind to desired DNA sequences. Zinc finger nucleases are the most commonly used artificial restriction enzymes and are generally used in genetic engineering applications, but can also be used for more standard gene cloning applications. Other artificial restriction enzymes are based on the DNA binding domain of TAL effectors.\n\nIn 2013, a new technology CRISPR-Cas9, based on a prokaryotic viral defense system, was engineered for editing the genome, and it was quickly adopted in laboratories. For more detail, read CRISPR (Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats).\n\nIn 2017 a group in Illinois announced using an Argonaute protein taken from Pyrococcus furiosus (PfAgo) along with guide DNA to edit DNA as artificial restriction enzymes.\n\nArtificial ribonucleases that act as restriction enzymes for RNA are also being developed. A PNA-based system, called PNAzymes, has a Cu(II)-2,9-dimethylphenanthroline group that mimics ribonucleases for specific RNA sequence and cleaves at a non-base-paired region (RNA bulge) of the targeted RNA formed when the enzyme binds the RNA. This enzyme shows selectivity by cleaving only at one site that either does not have a mismatch or is kinetically preferred out of two possible cleavage sites.\n\nSince their discovery in the 1970s, many restriction enzymes have been identified; for example, more than 3500 different Type II restriction enzymes have been characterized. Each enzyme is named after the bacterium from which it was isolated, using a naming system based on bacterial genus, species and strain. For example, the name of the EcoRI restriction enzyme was derived as shown in the box.\n\nIsolated restriction enzymes are used to manipulate DNA for different scientific applications.\n\nThey are used to assist insertion of genes into plasmid vectors during gene cloning and protein production experiments. For optimal use, plasmids that are commonly used for gene cloning are modified to include a short \"polylinker\" sequence (called the multiple cloning site, or MCS) rich in restriction enzyme recognition sequences. This allows flexibility when inserting gene fragments into the plasmid vector; restriction sites contained naturally within genes influence the choice of endonuclease for digesting the DNA, since it is necessary to avoid restriction of wanted DNA while intentionally cutting the ends of the DNA. To clone a gene fragment into a vector, both plasmid DNA and gene insert are typically cut with the same restriction enzymes, and then glued together with the assistance of an enzyme known as a DNA ligase.\n\nRestriction enzymes can also be used to distinguish gene alleles by specifically recognizing single base changes in DNA known as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). This is however only possible if a SNP alters the restriction site present in the allele. In this method, the restriction enzyme can be used to genotype a DNA sample without the need for expensive gene sequencing. The sample is first digested with the restriction enzyme to generate DNA fragments, and then the different sized fragments separated by gel electrophoresis. In general, alleles with correct restriction sites will generate two visible bands of DNA on the gel, and those with altered restriction sites will not be cut and will generate only a single band. A DNA map by restriction digest can also be generated that can give the relative positions of the genes. The different lengths of DNA generated by restriction digest also produce a specific pattern of bands after gel electrophoresis, and can be used for DNA fingerprinting.\n\nIn a similar manner, restriction enzymes are used to digest genomic DNA for gene analysis by Southern blot. This technique allows researchers to identify how many copies (or paralogues) of a gene are present in the genome of one individual, or how many gene mutations (polymorphisms) have occurred within a population. The latter example is called restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP).\n\nArtificial restriction enzymes created by linking the \"Fok\"I DNA cleavage domain with an array of DNA binding proteins or zinc finger arrays, denoted zinc finger nucleases (ZFN), are a powerful tool for host genome editing due to their enhanced sequence specificity. ZFN work in pairs, their dimerization being mediated in-situ through the \"Fok\"I domain. Each zinc finger array (ZFA) is capable of recognizing 9–12 base pairs, making for 18–24 for the pair. A 5–7 bp spacer between the cleavage sites further enhances the specificity of ZFN, making them a safe and more precise tool that can be applied in humans. A recent Phase I clinical trial of ZFN for the targeted abolition of the CCR5 co-receptor for HIV-1 has been undertaken.\n\nOthers have proposed using the bacteria R-M system as a model for devising human anti-viral gene or genomic vaccines and therapies since the RM system serves an innate defense-role in bacteria by restricting tropism by bacteriophages. There is research on REases and ZFN that can cleave the DNA of various human viruses, including HSV-2, high-risk HPVs and HIV-1, with the ultimate goal of inducing target mutagenesis and aberrations of human-infecting viruses. The human genome already contains remnants of retroviral genomes that have been inactivated and harnessed for self-gain. Indeed, the mechanisms for silencing active L1 genomic retroelements by the three prime repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1) and excision repair cross complementing 1(ERCC) appear to mimic the action of RM-systems in bacteria, and the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) that follows the use of ZFN without a repair template.\n\nExamples of restriction enzymes include:\nKey:\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> = blunt ends\nN = C or G or T or A\nW = A or T\n\n\n\"General Information:\"\n\"Databases:\"\n\"Software:\"\n"}
{"id": "57404719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57404719", "title": "Roberto Benedicto", "text": "Roberto Benedicto\n\nRoberto Salas Benedicto (April 17, 1917 - May 15, 2000) was a Filipino lawyer, ambassador, diplomat, and banker historically most remembered as a crony of President Ferdinand Marcos. Benedicto owned Philippine Exchange Company, the \"Philippines Daily Express\", Radio Philippines Network, Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation and Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation. Benedicto was the Philippines' Ambassador to Japan from 1972 to 1978.\n\nAt the prime of his career, Benedicto's empire consisted of 85 corporations, 106 sugar farms, 14 haciendas, other agricultural lands, 17 radio stations, 16 television stations, 2 telecommunications networks, 7 buildings, 10 vessels and 5 aircraft. He also owned 14 hectares of real estate in Bacolod City, 13.5 billion shares in Oriental Petroleum, and membership shares in golf and country clubs estimated at . Overseas, he owned a sugar mill in Venezuela, a trading company in Madrid, bank deposits, mansions, and limousines in California. Marcos's executive secretary estimated that in 1983, Benedicto's net worth was $800 million.\n\nBenedicto, born in La Carlota, Negros Occidental on April 17, 1917, was a contemporary of Ferdinand Marcos, becoming his classmate and fraternity brother while studying at the University of the Philippines College of Law.\n\nRoberto Benedicto was Marcos's former classmate at the UP Law School, and his Upsilon Sigma Phi fraternity brother.\n\nWhen Marcos became president, Benedicto became part of his small circle in Malacañan, one of the few with full access even to private quarters. Marcos would eventually give power-of-attorney to Benedicto, allowing him to deal with corporations on the Marcoses' behalf. \n\nIt was with Roberto Benedicto's help that Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos opened their first Swiss Bank accounts in 1968, funneling money which the Swiss Federal Court would later determine to be \"of criminal origin\". This was the infamous \"Saunders Account\" with Credit Suisse, which Ferdinand Marcos signed under the false name of \"William Saunders\" and which Imelda Marcos signed as \"Jane Ryan\".\n\nBenedicto's business interests grew significantly when Ferdinand Marcos became president. Marcos appointed him as the Philippines' Ambassador to Japan and put him in charge of the Philippine National Bank (PNB), the Philippines' largest state-owned bank. \n\nIn his role as PNB Chairman, Benedicto permitted huge loans for business of other cronies and associates. He used PNB to grant loans for his shipping company, Northern Lines, and his sugar business. His role as PNB Chair enabled him to gain control of additional banks, and overcome business competitors by dictating the terms of loans. \n\nBenedicto's appointment as Japanese ambassador allowed him to develop high-level contacts in Japan. He secured more than M in World War II reparations, which he allegedly used to promote his private interests.\n\nWorking with President Marcos, they ratified the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation between Japan and the Philippines, which gave Japan most-favored nation status. This agreement gave Japan an advantage in using the country's natural resources, which was the primary reason the Philippine Senate did not ratify the treaty for 13 years.\n\nHis ambassadorship also gave him insider knowledge regarding the business interests of the Japanese, which allowed him to arrange lucrative joint-venture operations between Japanese corporations and his own..\n\nWhen the Marcoses were exiled to the United States in February 1986, the American authorities confiscated papers that they brought with them. The confiscated documents revealed that since the 1970s, Marcos and his associates received commissions of 10 to 15 percent of Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund loans from about fifty Japanese contractors. These revelations became very controversial and became known in Japan as the (). The lessons from the Marcos scandal were among the reasons why Japan created its 1992 ODA Charter.\n\nThe most-notable expansion in Benedicto's business holdings during the Marcos dictatorship was in his establishment of a monopoly in the Philippines' sugar industry beginning in 1974, which earned him the monicker of \"Sugar King\".\n\nMarcos's proclamation of martial law allowed Benedicto to take control of the Philippine Exchange Company (Philex), which monopolized local hacienderos' (sugar barons) international trade. Benedicto used Philex to buy cheap sugar from local producers and sell it abroad for large profits. Aided by Marcos's presidential decrees under martial law, Benedicto later seized control of the Philippine Sugar Commission, which accounted for 27% of the Philippines' dollar earnings at the time. In turn, a big segment of the profits from this sugar monopoly was deposited in a \"special fund\" which was \"subject to the disposition of the president for public purposes.\"\n\nMartial law also gave Benedicto a media and telecommunications monopoly in the Philippines. Before martial law, he had transformed a small radio station that he owned into the Kanlaon Broadcasting System (KBS) (now Radio Philippines Network), a media empire that consisted of three television stations, 15 radio stations and a national newspaper called the \"Daily Express\". \n\nIn 1972, news and media outlets were forced to cease operations, and their facilities were taken over by the military. However, Benedicto was allowed to continue his broadcasts, to serve as the voice of the Marcos dictatorship. His newspaper, the \"Daily Express\", was the first to put out an edition after martial law was announced, three days later on September 25. This monopoly secured Benedicto's political ties with Marcos and generated income as the owner of the sole running television and radio stations. Benedicto assigned Enrique Romualdez, a relative of the first lady, as chief editor of the paper to ensure that it held the views of the regime. \n\nKBS was the only full-color TV channel in the country, and it was later taken over by Imee Marcos. Benedicto expanded his media business by acquiring Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation (IBC) which had five television stations, and nine radio stations. His growing media empire received government favors from the Marcos administration, with the president granting several Letters of Instruction (LOIs) for Benedicto's benefit. In 1977, Marcos issued LOI 640 to allow Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation, one of Benedicto's companies, to import $3 million worth of TV transmission equipment and facilities, without paying taxes or tariffs. The LOI also allowed tax-free importation of $15 million worth of 12-inch black-and-white television sets for the next five years, and allowed Banahaw to commission a local company to assemble the television sets, justifying that these sets would be distributed to \"critical areas\" at lower prices. The LOI then instructed government agencies to market the TV sets. The ministries of Public Information, National Defense, Education and Culture were instructed to use the sets for their public information and educational projects.\n\nIn 1982, Marcos issued LOI 640-A, to extend the scope and duration of the earlier order. The new instruction directed government ministries to distribute Benedicto's television sets in the countryside areas \"on matters pertaining to peace and order\". Due to the tax breaks, Benedicto was able to sell 12-inch black-and-white television sets cheaper than the competitors who had to pay taxes. The Consumer Electronic Products Manufacturers Association (CEPMA) complained that the television sets meant for rural areas were being sold in Manila, greatly affecting their market.\n\nBenedicto entered into a compromise agreement with the Presidential Commission on Good Government in 1990, surrendering about  million worth of Swiss bank deposits, shares in 32 corporations including \"100% of the California Overseas Bank shares\", cash dividends in his firms, and 51 percent of his agricultural land holdings.\n\nBenedicto died on May 15, 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "39315451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315451", "title": "Roman Jerala", "text": "Roman Jerala\n\nRoman Jerala (born 1962) is Slovenian biochemist and synthetic biologist, internationally best known as the leader of Slovenian teams that won the Grand prize at the International Genetically Engineered Machine competition several times.\n\nJerala was born in Jesenice, a town in then People's Republic of Slovenia, FPR Yugoslavia. He completed his undergraduate studies and received a PhD at the University of Ljubljana. He was a postdoc at University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA, in academic year 1994/1995.\n\nHe is now employed at the National Institute of Chemistry in Ljubljana, Slovenia, as the head of its \"Department of Synthetic Biology and Immunology\" and a full professor at the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical technology, University of Ljubljana. Since 2009, he is synthetic biology project director at the Centre of Excellence EN-FIST.\n\nIn 2013, Nature Chemical Biology published an article about Jerala's achievement that paves a path to designing and producing completely new protein shapes using reprogrammed bacteria by synthesizing protein that folds itself into a tetrahedron — a pyramid with a triangular base measuring just 5 nanometres along each edge - which can be used as container for delivering drugs on the nanoscale. Genetically modified \"Escherichia coli\" bacteria were drafted in to synthesize the protein.\n\nDek Woolfson, a biochemist from Centre for Nanoscience and Quantum Information, UK, described this kind of engineering with the following words:\n\nJerala's team is trying to double the size of the coiled coils in the tetrahedron, and thinking about making other shapes, such as prisms and bipyramids.\n\n\nIn 2011, Jerala was interviewed in Evening Guest talk show, aired by Slovenian National TV and hosted by Sandi Čolnik, one of the most recognizable Slovenian TV personalities.\n"}
{"id": "28688811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28688811", "title": "September 2010 Quetta bombing", "text": "September 2010 Quetta bombing\n\nThe September 2010 Quetta bombing occurred on 3 September 2010 in Quetta, Pakistan. At least 73 people were killed and 160 injured when a bomb exploded in a Quds Day procession which Shias were carrying out to express solidarity with Palestinians.\n\nPakistan, which has a mostly Sunni population, has seen sectarian attacks against minorities including Shias, who account for about 35–40% of Pakistan's population, and are the followers of the Prophet's progeny. Two days prior to these attacks dozens of Shias were killed in a similar attack in Lahore. Sunni militant groups like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan which operate freely in Pakistan have for years targeted minorities including Shias.\n\nOn the day prior to this attack Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik had asked the Shia community not to hold large gatherings due to security concerns.\n\nThe procession was to mark the Quds Day event staged every year by the Shia community to oppose Israel's occupation of Jerusalem. The rally drew an estimated 2,500 participants, mostly Shiias. The size of the blast caused a stampede. The explosion occurred in the Meezan chowk area of the town. The bomb exploded around 3:05 pm local time. It was estimated that the suicide bomber used about 15 kilograms of explosives.\n\nLashkar-e-Jhangvi claimed responsibility for the attack and said a 22-year-old suicide bomber, Rashid Moaawia, carried out the attack.\n\nFollowing the blast, widespread protests erupted in the city with gunfire being heard across the city. Several shops were burnt by the protesters. People were seen lying on the roads to avoid gunfire, while others set fire to vehicles and buildings to vent their anger.\n\nAfter the blast, police cordoned off the area and fired in the air to hold back people trying to search for their relatives.\n\nThousands have attended a funeral in the Pakistani city of Quetta for victims of a suicide attack on a Shia Muslim procession.\n\nThe death toll from Friday's attack rose from 43 to 65 overnight as critically wounded people died in hospitals, police said on Saturday.\n\nShops and schools remained closed the following day. Security was also stepped up at mosques across Pakistan.\n\nThousands attended a funeral mass in Quetta.\n\nPrime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani condemned the attack and ordered an investigation. Interior Minister Rehman Malik told the press that militants want to encourage sectarianism in an effort to destabilise the government following a series of military offensives against them. He also claimed that Punjabi, such as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, and al-Qaida and the Tehrik-e-Taliban are one and the same. \"Shiite Conference, Balochistan\" announced a 40-day mourning period in line with Shia custom.\n\nUN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's spokesman said \"These attacks, which deliberately targeted Shiite Muslims and killed or injured scores of civilians, are unacceptable.\"\n\nCondemning the attacks the White House stated \"To target innocent civilians during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at an already difficult time as the country is working hard to recover from terrible flooding caused by monsoons makes these acts even more reprehensible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "561681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561681", "title": "Simran", "text": "Simran\n\nSimran (, ) is a Punjabi word derived from the Sanskrit word (\"smaraṇa\", \"the act of remembrance, reminiscence, and recollection\") which leads to the realization of what may be the highest aspect and purpose in one's life. It is the continuous remembrance of the finest aspect of the self, and/or the continuous remembrance (or feeling) of God, thus used for introducing spirituality. This state is maintained continuously while carrying out the worldly works outside.\n\n\"Simran\" is a commonly used term as a verb in Gurmukhi, which refers to 'meditating' of the Nām, the ultimate feeling of Ultimate. Sikhism is a distinct contemporary faith, whereby the Realization of God can be realized purely through individual devotion, without subjection to rites and rituals that have recently become the business of avaricious priests and that would impede the pure search for truth in Sikhism.\n\nIt says in the Guru Granth Sahib that through Simran one is purified and attains salvation or 'mukti'. This is because 'si-mar' means 'to die over', thus indicating to death of ego, allowing truth ultimate truth or sat to appear.\n\nOn page 202 of the Guru Granth Sahib, Guruji writes:\n\nThis hymn teaches a person who wishes to gain from this human life, one must attain a higher spiritual state by become free of attachment by realizing that all that is, is empty. Thereby, merit is acquired by devoutly repeating, comprehending and living by the sacred word every day so as to progressively reveal the divine and ultimate truth to the person who earnestly seeks it:\n\nGuru Ram Das says in \"Sarang ki var\" (Guru Granth Sahib, 1242):\n\nIn Sant Mat the word Simran is used for the spiritual practice of repeating the mantra given by the Satguru during initiation. The mantra itself is also called Simran. Simran repetition is done during meditation and also outside it, however this mantra is later dropped in favor of real feeling of self or the God, which happens due to breaking out of monotony through Jap. Thus mantra is used only till the point, monotony and previously formed patterns are broken. After it pure Simran is carried by the sadhak.\n\n"}
{"id": "2100624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100624", "title": "Spermatheca", "text": "Spermatheca\n\nThe spermatheca (pronounced plural: spermathecae ), also called receptaculum seminis (plural: receptacula seminis), is an organ of the female reproductive tract in insects, e.g. bees, some molluscs, oligochaeta worms and certain other invertebrates and vertebrates. Its purpose is to receive and store sperm from the male or, in the case of hermaphrodites, the male component of the body. Spermathecae can sometimes be the site of fertilization when the oocytes are sufficiently developed.\n\nSome species of animal have multiple spermathecae. For example, certain species of earthworms have four pairs of spermathecae—one pair each in the 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th segments. The spermathecae receive and store the spermatozoa of another earthworm during copulation. They are lined with epithelium and are variable in shape: some are thin, heavily coiled tubes, while others are vague outpocketings from the main reproductive tract. It is one of the many variations in sexual reproduction.\n\nThe nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" has two spermathecae, one at the end of each gonad. The \"C. elegans\" spermatheca is made up of 24 smooth muscle-like cells that form a stretchable tubular structure. Actin filaments line the spermatheca in a circumferential manner. The \"C. elegans\" spermatheca is used as a model to study mechanotransduction.\n\nAn apiculturist may examine the spermatheca of a dead queen bee to find out whether it had received sperm from a male. In many species of stingless bees, especially Melipona bicolor, the queen lays her eggs during the provisioning and oviposition process and the spermatheca fertilizes the egg as it passes along the oviduct. The haplo-diploid system of sex determination makes it possible for the queen to choose the sex of the egg.\n\n"}
{"id": "56893797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56893797", "title": "Spirit Love Show", "text": "Spirit Love Show\n\nSpirit Love Show is an American reality television miniseries created by Shin Koyamada from \"The Last Samurai\", Nia Lyte and Claudia Hallowell in 2013. The show was distributed by the Spirit Show Network and directed by Jay Lee from Sony Pictures' \"Zombie Strippers\". The hosts of the show are Nia Lyte, a TED Talk speaker and host from a television show \"Best of Art Basel\", distributed on Comcast, Ovation TV and Xfinity TV, and Claudia Hallowell who also wrote.\n\nSpirit Love Show explores what love is to people of all ages: children, teenagers, adults and people who have been married for over half a century. The show features David Marciano, The Jeffrey Foundation, Reins of H.O.P.E. and others. Through interviews, the show will find what love means to individuals and couples in all walks of life as well as people of different cultures. In addition, the show will showcase what individuals, couples, groups and companies are doing to express love in the world to bring hope and inspiration.\n\nHosts\n\nFeaturing\n\n"}
{"id": "4118848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118848", "title": "Stroller (horse)", "text": "Stroller (horse)\n\nStroller (1950 - 1986) was a bay gelding who was the only pony to compete at the Olympics in show jumping. He stood about . \n\nHe was a member of the British team who competed in the 1968 Olympics in Mexico, ridden by Marion Coakes. Bill Steinkraus and Snowbound won the Gold Medal while Marion and Stroller won the Individual Silver Medal, only four faults behind Steinkraus. Stroller jumped one of the only two clear rounds in the Olympic individual championship. In 1967, Marion rode Stroller to victory in the Hickstead Derby, the only pony to have ever won this event. This partnership won the Wills Hickstead Gold Medal, for points gained in the major events during the year, for five years consecutively from 1965 to 1970. Stroller was the grand age of 20 when he won the 1970 Hamburg Derby. The pair won 61 international competitions.\n\nHe was a crossbred horse, by a Thoroughbred sire out of a Connemara pony mare. Stroller died of a heart attack at the high age 36 in 1986, after 15 years of happy retirement. He is buried at Barton-on-Sea Golf Club, New Milton, Hampshire, England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34028384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34028384", "title": "Suicide survivor", "text": "Suicide survivor\n\nA suicide survivor or survivor of suicide is one of the family and friends of someone who has committed suicide.\n\nGiven the social stigma associated with suicide, suicide survivors are often unable to cope with their loss and grief using normal support systems, and are \"forced into a privatized and individualistic mode of grieving,\" making the healing process even more difficult.\n\nEstimates are that for every suicide, \"there are seven to ten people intimately affected\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43751522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43751522", "title": "Sybil Brand", "text": "Sybil Brand\n\nSybil Brand (née Morris, – February 17, 2004) was an American philanthropist and activist, best known locally for her work in improving jail conditions for women in Los Angeles. She was the namesake of the Sybil Brand Institute (SBI), a women's jail in Los Angeles County. SBI was closed after the 1994 Northridge earthquake.\n\nSybil Morris was born in Chicago, Illinois to immigrant parents Abraham \"A.W.\" Morris (–1951) and Hattie Morris (–1969) sometime between 1899 and 1903. \n\nHer father, a stockbroker, relocated the family to Los Angeles when Sybil was two years old. At age twelve, she began what would become a lifelong pursuit of charity and volunteering when she organized a diaper hemming program with the other girls in her class. Brand would later recall being inspired by meeting a young triple amputee in a hospital at the insistence of her mother.\n\nAlready well-known in charity circles, Brand was first named to the Public Welfare Commission in 1945 by then-Supervisor Leonard Roach. In the 1950s, Brand was serving on a commission that inspected hospitals and jails in Los Angeles County. The only commissioner to volunteer to inspect the jails, Brand was appalled at the conditions in which women were jailed. At the time, some 1800 women were being held in facilities designed to hold 1300, on the thirteenth floor of the Los Angeles Hall of Justice. \n\nAfter this incident, Brand led a drive to build a new county jail for women. On January 29, 1963, Los Angeles County opened the Sybil Brand Institute, which was forced to close after the 1994 Northridge earthquake. Budget shortfalls delayed its remodeling and reopening. Women prisoners most recently have been housed in the Twin Towers Correctional Facility in downtown Los Angeles.\nIn 1926, she married her first husband, Gabriel \"Gabe\" Leavy in Los Angeles. They had one son, George. In 1933, she married her second husband, Harry Brand, who became head of publicity and advertising at 20th Century Fox. \n"}
{"id": "32000609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32000609", "title": "The Paradoxes of the Infinite", "text": "The Paradoxes of the Infinite\n\nThe Paradoxes of the Infinite (German title: \"Paradoxien des Unendlichen\") is a mathematical work by Bernard Bolzano on the theory of sets. It was published by a friend and student, František Přihonský, in 1851, three years after Bolzano's death. The work contained many interesting results in set theory. Bolzano expanded on the theme of Galileo's paradox, giving more examples of correspondences between the elements of an infinite set and proper subsets of infinite sets. In the work he also explained the term \"Menge\", rendered in English as \"set\", which he had coined and used in several works since the 1830s.\n\n"}
{"id": "57879887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57879887", "title": "Theodosia Bligh, 10th Baroness Clifton", "text": "Theodosia Bligh, 10th Baroness Clifton\n\nTheodosia Bligh, 10th Baroness Clifton (9 November 169530 July 1722), was an English peer, born Theodosia Hyde.\n\nBaroness Clifton was the third child and second daughter of Edward Hyde, 3rd Earl of Clarendon and Katherine Hyde, 8th Baroness Clifton. Her mother's title went first to her brother Edward Hyde, 9th Baron Clifton, but after his death from a 'surfeit of drinking', she succeeded as the 10th Baroness Clifton, of Leighton Bromswold on the 12th February 1713.\n\nBaroness Clifton married John Bligh, 1st Earl of Darnley soon afterwards, on the 24th August 1713 at Westminster Abbey. They had six children and Baroness Clifton died in childbirth in 1722. She was buried on the 15th August 1722 at Westminster Abbey. Baroness Clifton's title passed to her second son, Edward Bligh, 2nd Earl of Darnley.\n\nThe portrait called \"Lady Theodosia Bligh, Countess of Glandore\" painted in the manner of John Vanderbank the younger is now thought to be of her mother, Baroness Clifton. It is now in the collection of Castle Ward, County Down.\n\n"}
{"id": "936012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=936012", "title": "Union violence", "text": "Union violence\n\nUnion violence is violence committed by unions or union members during labor disputes. When union violence has occurred, it has frequently been in the context of industrial unrest. Violence has ranged from isolated acts by individuals to wider campaigns of organised violence aimed at furthering union goals within an industrial dispute.\n\nAnti-union violence has also occurred frequently in the context of industrial unrest, and has often involved the collusion of management and government authorities, private agencies, or citizens' groups in organising violence against unions and their members.\n\nProtests and verbal abuse are routinely aimed against union members or replacement workers who cross picket lines (\"blacklegs\" or \"scabs\") during industrial disputes. The inherent aim of a union is to create a labor monopoly so as to balance the monopsony a large employer enjoys as a purchaser of labor. Strikebreakers threaten that goal and undermine the union's bargaining position, and occasionally this erupts into violent confrontation, with violence committed either by, or against, strikers. Some who have sought to explain such violence observe, if labor disputes are accompanied by violence, it may be because labor has no legal redress. In 1894, some workers declared:\n...\"the right of employers to manage their own business to suit themselves,\" is fast coming to mean in effect nothing less than a right to manage the country to suit themselves.\n\nOccasionally, violent disputes occur between unions, when one union breaks another's strike.\n\nResearchers in industrial relations, criminology, and wider cultural studies have examined violence by workers or trade unions in the context of industrial disputes. US and Australian government reports have examined violence during industrial disputes.\n\n\n\n\n\nPeople\n\n"}
