{"id": "5582475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582475", "title": "Alice Copping", "text": "Alice Copping\n\nAlice Copping (14 May 1906 – 16 January 1996) was senior lecturer in nutrition, Queen Elizabeth College, University of London. She was born in Stratford, New Zealand.\n\nCopping attended Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, and graduated as Master of Science in 1926. She was awarded the Sarah Ann Rhodes scholarship the following year, and did two years of research work under J. C. Drummond at University College London. She then returned to New Zealand to lecture at the School of Home Science, University of Otago for a year, before returning to London to work in the Division of Nutrition at the Lister Institute.\n\nCopping was employed as the editorial assistant of the periodical Nutrition Abstracts and Reviews from its inception in 1931, and for a period of nearly 20 years worked solidly for the Institute on research on topics such as Vitamin B complex, bread and wheat products, and wartime diets.\n\nIn 1949 she was employed on the staff of Queen Elizabeth College, and became a senior lecturer during her time there. Copping was a consultant on nutrition education for the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health Organization symposium in 1959, and in 1961 acted as chairman of programme for the Third International Congress of Dietetics in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "58453726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58453726", "title": "American Board of Thoracic Surgery", "text": "American Board of Thoracic Surgery\n\nThe American Board of Thoracic Surgery is an American surgical organization devoted to surgery of the chest.\n\n"}
{"id": "5228758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5228758", "title": "Association of Salaried Medical Specialists", "text": "Association of Salaried Medical Specialists\n\nThe Association of Salaried Medical Specialists (ASMS) is a trade union in New Zealand and represents the professional and industrial interests of just over 4000 senior salaried doctors and dentists who are mostly employed in New Zealand District Health Boards.\n\nThe ASMS is a member of the New Zealand Council of Trade Unions.\n\nThe ASMS:\n• promotes the right of equal access for all New Zealanders to high quality health services\n• articulates members’ professional concerns and interests to the Government \n• contributes to public debate and discussion about the provision of health services in New Zealand\n• advises and represents members on matters related to their employment agreements\n• negotiates collective employment agreements \n• supports workplace empowerment and clinical leadership.\n\n"}
{"id": "49665988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49665988", "title": "Augustin Thiam", "text": "Augustin Thiam\n\nAugustin Abdoulaye Thiam Houphouët (born 14 August 1952) is an Ivorian politician. Since 2011, he has been the governor of the Yamoussoukro Autonomous District.\n\nWhen Thiam was young, his father was government minister and the ambassador to Morocco. Thiam is also the grandnephew of Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Ivory Coast's first president. Thiam was trained as a medical doctor at the Université de Cocody and worked in public hospitals until 1989. He moved to Paris where he worked as a journalist. He returned to Ivory Coast in 1993 after the death of Houphouët-Boigny.\n\nIn 1995, Thiam was appointed as the leader of the government's committee to combat illegal drug use.\n\nIn 2003, Thiam joined the Rally of the Republicans and began to oppose President Laurent Gbagbo. In 2010, he was the head of Alassane Ouattara's campaign for president in the Yamoussoukro area. In 2011, after Ouattara had won the election and succeeded Gbagbo, Thiam was appointed governor of the Yamoussoukro Autonomous District and was made member of the national cabinet. Thiam was appointed to a second term by Ouattara in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "29755276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29755276", "title": "Bimalleolar fracture", "text": "Bimalleolar fracture\n\nA bimalleolar fracture is a fracture of the ankle that involves the lateral malleolus and the medial malleolus. Studies have shown that bimalleolar fractures are more common in women, people over 60 years of age, and patients with existing comorbidities.\n\nSurgical treatment will often be required, usually an Open Reduction Internal Fixation. This involves the surgical reduction, or realignment, of the fracture followed by the implementation of surgical implants to aid in the healing of the fracture.\nAccording to some studies, patients with bimalleolar fractures had significantly worse function in the ankle one year after surgical treatment. After recovering fully from their fractures, the majority of patients experience little to mild pain and have few restrictions in functionality.\n\n"}
{"id": "795199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795199", "title": "Breast milk", "text": "Breast milk\n\nBreast milk is the milk produced by the breasts (or mammary glands) of a human female to feed a child. Milk is the primary source of nutrition for newborns before they are able to eat and digest other foods; older infants and toddlers may continue to be breastfed, in combination with other foods from six months of age when solid foods should be introduced.\n\nThe baby nursing from its own mother is the most common way of obtaining breast milk, but the milk can be pumped and then fed by baby bottle, cup and/or spoon, supplementation drip system, or nasogastric tube. In preterm children who do not have the ability to suck during their early days of life, avoiding bottles and tubes, and use of cups to feed expressed milk and other supplements is reported to result in better breastfeeding extent and duration subsequently. Breast milk can be supplied by a woman other than the baby's mother, either via donated pumped milk (generally from a milk bank or via informal milk donation), or when a woman nurses a child other than her own at her breast, a practice known as wetnursing.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life, with solids gradually being introduced around this age when signs of readiness are shown. Supplemented breastfeeding is recommended until at least age two and then for as long as the mother and child wish.\n\nBreastfeeding offers health benefits to mother and child even after infancy. These benefits include a 73% decreased risk of sudden infant death syndrome, increased intelligence, decreased likelihood of contracting middle ear infections, cold and flu resistance, a tiny decrease in the risk of childhood leukemia, lower risk of childhood onset diabetes, decreased risk of asthma and eczema, decreased dental problems, decreased risk of obesity later in life, and a decreased risk of developing psychological disorders, including in adopted children. In addition, feeding an infant breast milk is associated with lower insulin levels and higher leptin levels compared feeding an infant via powdered-formula.\n\nBreastfeeding also provides health benefits for the mother. It assists the uterus in returning to its pre-pregnancy size and reduces post-partum bleeding, as well as assisting the mother in returning to her pre-pregnancy weight. Breastfeeding also reduces the risk of breast cancer later in life. Lactation protects both mother and infant from both types of diabetes. Lactation may protect the infant from specifically developing Type 2 diabetes because studies have shown that bioactive ingredients in human breast milk could prevent excess weight gain during childhood via contributing to a feeling of energy and satiety. A lower risk of child-onset diabetes may more applicable to infants who were born from diabetic mothers. The reason is because while breastfeeding for at least the first 6 months of life minimizes the risk of Type 1 diabetes from occurring in the infant, inadequate breastfeeding in an infant prenatally exposed to diabetes was associated with a higher risk of the child developing diabetes later on. However, it can be argued that human breastfeeding may contribute to protective effects against the development of Type 1 diabetes due to the fact that the alternative of bottle-feeding may expose infants to unhygienic feeding conditions.\n\nThough it now is almost universally prescribed, in some countries in the 1950s the practice of breastfeeding went through a period where it was out of vogue and the use of infant formula was considered superior to breast milk. However, it is now universally recognized that there is no commercial formula that can equal breast milk. In addition to the appropriate amounts of carbohydrate, protein, and fat, breast milk provides vitamins, minerals, digestive enzymes, and hormones. Breast milk also contains antibodies and lymphocytes from the mother that help the baby resist infections. The immune function of breast milk is individualized, as the mother, through her touching and taking care of the baby, comes into contact with pathogens that colonize the baby, and, as a consequence, her body makes the appropriate antibodies and immune cells.\n\nAt around four months of age, the internal iron supplies of the infant, held in the hepatic cells of the liver, are exhausted. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that at this time that an iron supplement should be introduced, however, other health organisations such as the NHS in the UK have no such recommendation. Breast milk contains less iron than formula, because it is more bioavailable as lactoferrin, which carries more safety for mothers and children than ferrous sulphate.\n\nBoth the AAP and the NHS recommend vitamin D supplementation for breastfed infants. Vitamin D can be synthesised by the infant via exposure to sunlight, however, many infants are deficient due being kept indoors or living in areas with insufficient sunlight. Formula is supplemented with vitamin D for this reason.\n\nUnder the influence of the hormones prolactin and oxytocin, women produce milk after childbirth to feed the baby. The initial milk produced is referred to as colostrum, which is high in the immunoglobulin IgA, which coats the gastrointestinal tract. This helps to protect the newborn until its own immune system is functioning properly. It also creates a mild laxative effect, expelling meconium and helping to prevent the build-up of bilirubin (a contributory factor in jaundice).\n\nActual inability to produce enough milk is rare, with studies showing that mothers from developing countries experiencing nutritional hardship still produce amounts of milk of similar quality to that of mothers in developed countries. There are many reasons a mother may not produce enough breast milk. Some of the most common reasons are an improper latch (i.e., the baby does not connect efficiently with the nipple), not nursing or pumping enough to meet supply, certain medications (including estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives), illness, and dehydration. A rarer reason is Sheehan's syndrome, also known as postpartum hypopituitarism, which is associated with prolactin deficiency and may require hormone replacement.\n\nThe amount of milk produced depends on how often the mother is nursing and/or pumping: the more the mother nurses her baby or pumps, the more milk is produced. It is beneficial to nurse when the baby wants to nurse rather than on a schedule. A Cochrane review came to the conclusion that a greater volume of milk is expressed whilst listening to relaxing audio during breastfeeding, along with warming and massaging of the breast prior to and during feeding. A greater volume of milk expressed can also be attributed to instances where the mother starts pumping milk sooner, even if the infant is unable to breastfeed.\n\nSodium concentration is higher in hand-expressed milk, when compared with the use of manual and electric pumps, and fat content is higher when the breast has been massaged, in conjunction with listening to relaxing audio. This may be important for low birthweight infants. If pumping, it is helpful to have an electric, high-grade pump so that all of the milk ducts are stimulated. Galactagogues increase milk supply, although even herbal variants carry risks; therefore non-pharmaceutical methods should be tried first.\n\nBreast milk contains complex proteins, lipids, carbohydrates and other biologically active components. The composition changes over a single feed as well as over the period of lactation.\n\nDuring the first few days after delivery, the mother produces colostrum. This is a thin yellowish fluid that is the same fluid that sometimes leaks from the breasts during pregnancy. It is rich in protein and antibodies that provide passive immunity to the baby (the baby's immune system is not fully developed at birth). Colostrum also helps the newborn's digestive system to grow and function properly.\n\nColostrum will gradually change to become mature milk. In the first 3–4 days it will appear thin and watery and will taste very sweet; later, the milk will be thicker and creamier. Human milk quenches the baby's thirst and hunger and provides the proteins, sugar, minerals, and antibodies that the baby needs.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, lactation professionals (De Cleats) used to make a differentiation between foremilk and hindmilk. But this differentiation causes confusion as there are not two types of milk. Instead, as a baby breastfeeds, the fat content very gradually increases, with the milk becoming fattier and fattier over time.\n\nThe level of Immunoglobulin A (IgA) in breast milk remains high from day 10 until at least 7.5 months post-partum.\n\nHuman milk contains 0.8% to 0.9% protein, 4.5% fat, 7.1% carbohydrates, and 0.2% ash (minerals). Carbohydrates are mainly lactose; several lactose-based oligosaccharides have been identified as minor components. The fat fraction contains specific triglycerides of palmitic and oleic acid (O-P-O triglycerides), and also lipids with trans bonds (see: trans fat). The lipids are vaccenic acid, and Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) accounting for up to 6% of the human milk fat.\n\nThe principal proteins are alpha-lactalbumin, lactoferrin (apo-lactoferrin), IgA, lysozyme, and serum albumin. In an acidic environment such as the stomach, alpha-lactalbumin unfolds into a different form and binds oleic acid to form a complex called HAMLET that kills tumor cells. This is thought to contribute to the protection of breastfed babies against cancer.\n\nNon-protein nitrogen-containing compounds, making up 25% of the milk's nitrogen, include urea, uric acid, creatine, creatinine, amino acids, and nucleotides. Breast milk has circadian variations; some of the nucleotides are more commonly produced during the night, others during the day.\n\nMother's milk has been shown to supply endocannabinoids (the natural neurotransmitters that cannabis simulates) 2-Arachidonoyl glycerol, anandamide, oleoylethanolamide, palmitoylethanolamide, N-arachidonoyl glycine, eicosapentaenoyl ethanolamide, docosahexaenoyl ethanolamide, N-palmitoleoyl-ethanolamine, dihomo-γ-linolenoylethanolamine, N-stearoylethanolamine, prostaglandin F2alpha ethanolamides and prostaglandin F2 ethanolamides, Palmitic acid esters of hydroxy-stearic acids (PAHSAs). They may act as an appetite stimulant, but they also regulate appetite so infants don't eat too much. That may be why formula-fed babies have a higher caloric intake than breastfed babies.\n\nBreast milk isn't sterile, but contains as many as 600 different species of various bacteria, including beneficial Bifidobacterium breve, B. adolescentis, B. longum, B. bifidum, and B. dentium.\n\nBreast milk contains a unique type of sugars, human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), which are not present in infant formula. HMOs are not digested by the infant but help to make up the intestinal flora. They act as decoy receptors that block the attachment of disease causing pathogens, which may help to prevent infectious diseases. They also alter immune cell responses, which may benefit the infant. To date (2015) more than a hundred different HMOs have been identified; both the number and composition vary between women and each HMO may have a distinct functionality.\n\nThe breast milk of diabetic mothers has been shown to have a different composition from that of non-diabetic mothers. It may contain elevated levels of glucose and insulin and decreased polyunsaturated fatty acids. A dose-dependent effect of diabetic breast milk on increasing language delays in infants has also been noted, although doctors recommend that diabetic mothers breastfeed despite this potential risk.\n\nWomen breastfeeding should consult with their physician regarding substances that can be unwittingly passed to the infant via breast milk, such as alcohol, viruses (HIV or HTLV-1) or medications. Even though most infants infected with HIV contract the disease from breastfeeding, most infants that are breastfed by their HIV positive mothers never contract the disease. While this paradoxical phenomenon suggests that the risk of HIV transmission between an HIV positive mother and her child via breastfeeding is small, studies have also shown that feeding infants with breast milk of HIV-positive mothers can actually have a preventative effect against HIV transmission between the mother and child. This inhibitory effect against the infant contracting HIV is likely due to unspecified factors exclusively present in breast milk of HIV-positive mothers.\n\nMost women that do not breastfeed use infant formula, but breast milk donated by volunteers to human milk banks can be obtained by prescription in some countries. In addition, research has shown that women who rely on infant formula could minimize the gap between the level of immunity protection and cognitive abilities a breastfed child benefits from versus the degree to which a bottle-fed child benefits from them. This can be done by supplementing formula-fed infants with bovine milk fat globule membranes (MFGM) meant to mimic the positive effects of the MFGMs which are present in human breast milk.\n\nExpressed breast milk can be stored. Lipase may cause thawed milk to taste soapy or rancid due to milk fat breakdown. It is still safe to use, and most babies will drink it. Scalding it will prevent rancid taste at the expense of antibodies. It should be stored with airtight seals. Some plastic bags are designed for storage periods of less than 72 hours. Others can be used for up to 12 months if frozen. This table describes safe storage time limits.\n\nAll mammalian species produce milk, but the composition of milk for each species varies widely and other kinds of milk are often very different from human breast milk. As a rule, the milk of mammals that nurse frequently (including human babies) is less rich, or more watery, than the milk of mammals whose young nurse less often. Human milk is noticeably thinner and sweeter than cow's milk.\n\nWhole cow's milk contains too little iron, retinol, vitamin E, vitamin C, vitamin D, unsaturated fats or essential fatty acids for human babies. Whole cow's milk also contains too much protein, sodium, potassium, phosphorus and chloride which may put a strain on an infant's immature kidneys. In addition, the proteins, fats and calcium in whole cow's milk are more difficult for an infant to digest and absorb than the ones in breast milk. Evaporated milk may be easier to digest due to the processing of the protein but is still nutritionally inadequate. Some infants are allergic to cow's milk protein, this problem may be associated with infant formulas derived from cow's milk.\n\nIn addition to providing essential nourishment to infants, human milk; i.e., breast milk, has a number of valuable uses, especially medicinal uses, for both children and adults. It has been used medicinally for thousands of years. Breast milk contains strong antibodies and antitoxins that many people believe promote healing and better overall health. However, breast milk lacks sterile and antiseptic properties if a nursing mother is infected with certain communicable diseases, such as HIV and CMV, as breast milk can transmit such diseases to infants and other people.\n\nBreast milk has been used as a home remedy for minor ailments, such as conjunctivitis, insect bites and stings, contact dermatitis, and infected wounds, burns, and abrasions. Breast milk has also been used alternatively to boost the immune system of ill persons having viral gastroenteritis, influenza, the common cold, pneumonia, etc., because of its immunologic properties. However, breast milk should never be seen or construed as a \"cure-all\". Some medical experts are convinced that breast milk can induce apoptosis in some types of cancer cells. However, more research and evidence are needed in this area of cancer treatment.\n\nA minority of people, including restaurateurs Hans Lochen of Switzerland and Daniel Angerer of Austria, who operates a restaurant in New York City, have used human breast milk, or at least advocated its use, as a substitute for cow's milk in dairy products and food recipes. Tammy Frissell-Deppe, a family counsellor specialized in attachment parenting, published a book, titled \"A Breastfeeding Mother's Secret Recipes\", providing a lengthy compilation of detailed food and beverage recipes containing human breast milk. The animal rights organization known as PETA ignited a firestorm of criticism when it urged a dairy company to replace the cow's milk they use in their ice cream products with human breast milk as a way to stop cattle abuse. Human breast milk is not produced or distributed industrially or commercially, because the use of human breast milk as an adult food is considered unusual to the majority of cultures around the world, and most disapprove of such a practice.\n\nAttempts to formulate soap from breast milk have also been made, and those using it claim that its effectiveness as a cleanser is greater than, or equal to, that of traditional soaps.\n\nAlmost all medicines pass into breastmilk in small amounts. Some have no effect on the baby and can be used while breastfeeding. Women with hypothyroidism may be unable to produce milk. Alcohol use during pregnancy carries a significant risk of serious birth defects, but consuming alcohol after the birth of the infant is considered safe.\n\nPesticides and other toxic substances bioaccumulate; i.e., creatures higher up the food chain will store more of them in their body fat. This is an issue in particular for the Inuit, whose traditional diet is predominantly meat. Studies are looking at the effects of polychlorinated biphenyls and persistent organic pollutants in the body; the breast milk of Inuit mothers is extraordinarily high in toxic compounds.\n\nIn Costa Rica, there have been trials to produce cheese and custard from human milk as an alternative to weaning.\n\nA controversial Swiss restaurateur has created a menu based around foods cooked in human breast milk.\n\nAn Icecreamist in London's Covent Garden started selling an ice cream named Baby Gaga in February 2011. Each serving costs £14. All the milk was donated by a Mrs Hiley who earns £15 for every 10 ounces and calls it a \"great recession beater\". The ice cream sold out on its first day. Despite the success of the new flavour, the Westminster Council officers removed the product from the menu to make sure that it was, as they said, \"fit for human consumption.\"\n\nWhile there is no scientific evidence that shows that breast milk is more advantageous for adults than cow's milk, according to several 2015 news sources breast milk is being used by bodybuilders for its nutritional value. In a February 2015 ABC News article one former competitive body builder said, \"It isn’t common, but I’ve known people who have done this. It’s certainly talked about quite a bit on the bodybuilding forums on the Internet.\" Calling bodybuilders \"a strange breed of individuals,” he said, “Even if this type of thing is completely unsupported by research, they’re prone to gym lore and willing to give it a shot if there is any potential effect.” At the time the article was written, in the U.S. the price of breast milk procured from milk banks that pasteurize the milk, and have expensive quality and safety controls, was about $10 an ounce, and the price in the alternative market online, bought directly from mothers, ranges from $1 to $4 per US fluid ounce, compared to cow's milk at about $3.44 a gallon.\n\nThere is a market for human breast milk, both in the form of wet nurse service and milk product. As a product, breast milk is exchanged by human milk banks as well as directly between milk donors and customers mediated by websites on the Internet. Human milk banks generally have standardized measures for screening donors and storing the milk, while donors on websites vary in regard to these measures. A study in 2013 came to the conclusion that 74% of breast milk samples from providers found from websites were colonized with Gram-negative bacteria or had more than 10,000 colony-forming units/mL of aerobic bacteria. Growth happens during transit. According to the FDA, the bacteria in fresh milk doubles every 20 minutes. Breast milk is considered to be healthier than cow's milk and infant formula when it comes to feeding an infant in the first 6 months of life, but only under extreme situations do international health organizations support feeding an infant breast milk from a healthy wet nurse rather than that of its biological mother. One reason is because the unregulated breast milk market is fraught with risks such as drugs of abuse and prescription medications being present in donated breast milk. The transmission of these substances through breast milk can do more harm than good when it comes to the health outcomes of the infant recipient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31950461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31950461", "title": "Centre for Health and International Relations", "text": "Centre for Health and International Relations\n\nThe Centre for Health and International Relations (CHAIR) was founded (2003) in the belief that there are compelling reasons for linking international relations, foreign policy, security and health. CHAIR is based in the Department of International Politics, Aberystwyth University, Aberystwyth, Wales. The founder and director is Professor Colin McInnes.\n\nIn addition to research into the global politics of health broadly defined, CHAIR is also involved in research in the following areas:\n\n\nAssociated staff working on the ongoing 'The Transformation of Global Health Governance: Competing World Views and Crises' project from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine:\n\n"}
{"id": "3344533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3344533", "title": "Children's Tumor Foundation", "text": "Children's Tumor Foundation\n\nThe Children's Tumor Foundation (CTF) is a 501(c)(3) foundation dedicated to improving the health and well-being of individuals and families affected by neurofibromatosis (NF). Their four-part mission includes propelling drug research and development through a series of strategic investments, strengthening patient support, increasing public awareness of NF and establishing best practices in clinical care for affected individuals. The Foundation is incorporated in all 50 states with active chapters and affiliates in 37 states. CTF is the largest private funder of NF research.\n\nEstablished in 1978 as the National Neurofibromatosis Foundation by Lynne Ann Courtemanche, RN, neurologist Allen E. Rubenstein, MD and Joel S. Hirschtritt, Esq., the organization changed its name to Children’s Tumor Foundation in 2005. In the early years, the organization’s focus was on providing patient support and organizing the NF community. From the late 1980s through the mid-1990s, their aim incorporated discovering the genes that cause NF. CTF began concentrating on translational research in 2005; in 2008 CTF also began to fund clinical trials. Under the leadership of President and Chief Scientific Officer Annette Bakker, the organization has shifted from a more traditional funding model to a funder-partner model in order to accelerate the drug discovery process.\n\nThe Foundation awarded its first grants in 1988, launching the first neurofibromatosis research program in the world. In 1985, they organized the NF Conference, the first major gathering of NF scientists and clinicians. In 1990 and 1993, respectively, labs funded by grants from the Foundation identified the genes for NF1 and NF2. In 1997, CTF launched an international summer camp for youth affected by NF. In 2006, the Foundation began funding a drug discovery initiative and piloted a program for a network of NF clinics. They launched a patient registry in 2012 and a specimen biobank in 2013. In 2014, the Foundation established Synodos for NF2, a first-of-its kind collaboration of NF scientists working across institutions to find a cure for NF2. A similar project, Synodos for NF1, is planned to begin in 2015.\n\nIn recent years, CTF has shifted its funding model from that of a more traditional non-profit organization to one more aligned with the venture capital approach advocated by the Milken Institute’s FasterCures model. CTF now situates itself as a catalyst of NF research and has created active partnerships with patients, scientists, research institutions and both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries.\n\n\nThe Foundation publishes educational brochures for patients, their caregivers and other interested parties on a variety of subjects. Many of these brochures are available in both English and Spanish. Participation in the NF Registry offers additional support to patients and their families. In addition to providing up-to-date information about applicable clinical trials, the registry allows patients and their families the opportunity to receive information targeted to their specific NF-related symptoms. In addition to these efforts, The Foundation also sponsors an annual summer camp for youth living with NF.\n\nCTF advocates on a national level for funding of neurofibromatosis research. The Foundation is considered instrumental in securing both initial and ongoing funding through the Department of Defense Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program Neurofibromatosis Research Program (CDMRP-NFRP). As a part of their efforts, CTF organizes volunteers to petition their representatives in Congress and the Senate online, by letter and in person, to urge continued and increased funding through both the CDMPR-NFRP and the National Institutes of Health.\n\nThe Foundation sponsors a number of programs designed to raise money and bolster NF awareness, as well as provide a sense of community for those who live with NF. These programs include Racing4Research, NF Endurance, NF Walk and Cupid’s Undie Run.\n\n"}
{"id": "36029874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36029874", "title": "Congruence coefficient", "text": "Congruence coefficient\n\nIn multivariate statistics, the congruence coefficient is an index of the similarity between factors that have been derived in a factor analysis. It was introduced in 1948 by Cyril Burt who referred to it as \"unadjusted correlation\". It is also called \"Tucker's congruence coefficient\" after Ledyard Tucker who popularized the technique. Its values range between -1 and +1. It can be used to study the similarity of extracted factors across different samples of, for example, test takers who have taken the same test.\n\nLet \"X\" and \"Y\" be column vectors of factor loadings for two different samples. The formula for the congruence coefficient, or \"r\", is then\n\nGenerally, a congruence coefficient of 0.90 is interpreted as indicating a high degree of factor similarity, while a coefficient of 0.95 or higher indicates that the factors are virtually identical. Alternatively, a value in the range 0.85–0.94 has been seen as corresponding to a fair similarity, with values higher than 0.95 indicating that the factors can be considered to be equal.\n\nThe congruence coefficient can also be defined as the cosine of the angle between factor axes based on the same set of variables (e.g., tests) obtained for two samples (see Cosine similarity). For example, with perfect congruence the angle between the factor axes is 0 degrees, and the cosine of 0 is 1.\n\nThe congruence coefficient is preferred to Pearson's \"r\" as a measure of factor similarity, because the latter may produce misleading results. The computation of the congruence coefficient is based on the deviations of factor loadings from zero, whereas \"r\" is based on the deviations from the mean of the factor loadings.\n\n"}
{"id": "21808773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21808773", "title": "Dunnigan familial partial lipodystrophy", "text": "Dunnigan familial partial lipodystrophy\n\nDunnigan-type familial partial lipodystrophy, also known as FPLD Type II and abbreviated as (FPLD2), is a rare monogenic form of insulin resistance characterized by loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities, trunk, and gluteal region. FPLD recapitulates the main metabolic attributes of the insulin resistance syndrome, including central obesity, hyperinsulinemia, glucose intolerance and diabetes usually type 2, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and early endpoints of atherosclerosis. It can also result in hepatic steatosis. FPLD results from mutations in LMNA gene, which is the gene that encodes nuclear lamins A and C.\n\n"}
{"id": "25769334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25769334", "title": "Dzulkefly Ahmad", "text": "Dzulkefly Ahmad\n\nDatuk Seri Dr. Haji Dzulkefly bin Ahmad (Jawi: ذلكفلي بن احمد; born 1 January 1956) is a Malaysian politician and serves in the Cabinet of Malaysia as the Minister of Health since 21 May 2018. He is currently the Member of the Parliament of Malaysia for Kuala Selangor for the second time since 2018. He presently is a member of the Parti Amanah Negara (Amanah), a component party in Pakatan Harapan (PH) coalition.\n\nDzulkefly previously held the same parliamentary seat of Kuala Selangor for the first time from 2008 until 2013 but under Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS).\n\nDzulkefly holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Birmingham and a master's degree from the University of Surrey. He later completed his doctorate in toxicology from the Imperial College (St. Mary's Hospital Medical School) in 1993.\n\nDzulkefly made his debut in the 2004 election, contesting the Rembau parliamentary seat in Negeri Sembilan for PAS but lost. He was elected to Parliament in the 2008 election, winning the seat of Kuala Selangor, which had been held by the ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition. In January 2010, he publicly supported the controversial decision of the Malaysian High Court to allow a Catholic publication to use the term \"Allah\".\n\nDzulkefly was a prominent member of the moderate, or \"Erdogan\" (after the Turkish politician), faction of PAS. He lost his parliamentary seat in the 2013 election, tallying 460 votes fewer than the Barisan Nasional candidate Irmohizam Ibrahim. Despite the loss, he was re-elected to the party's central committee. He was re-elected again in the 2018 election as an AMANAH candidate.\n\n"}
{"id": "21857309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21857309", "title": "FACES syndrome", "text": "FACES syndrome\n\nFACES syndrome is a syndrome of unique facial features, anorexia, cachexia, eye and skin anomalies.\n\nIt is a rare disease and estimated to occur in less than 1 in 1 million people.\n"}
{"id": "19023398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023398", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Madagascar", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Madagascar\n\nMadagascar is among very few countries in Sub-Saharan Africa with an opportunity to slow the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic and avert the socioeconomic destruction that is evident in high-prevalence areas. With the internal and external migration of workforce to keep up with the labor needs of these economic zones, Madagascar will be faced with an increased problem containing HIV, which would have a negative effect on the economic and development efforts. If these problems are not proactively addressed, Madagascar could actually reverse the benefits brought to the country through the period of economic prosperity and increase its health and social burden.\n\nEven though low, the HIV prevalence in Madagascar is increasing, as seen among pregnant women attending antenatal clinics; prevalence in this population rose from 0.064% in 1995 to 1.1% in 2003. Madagascar's rapid increase in HIV prevalence is likely influenced by a variety of conditions, including low literacy, widespread poverty, limited access to health and social services, high rates of partner change, and an increasingly transient population. Madagascar also has some of the highest rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in the world. Services for prevention and treatment of HIV, such as counseling and testing and antiretroviral therapy, are being offered, but only a small portion of the Malagasy in need currently benefit from these interventions. At the end of 2003, Madagascar had only 13 sites offering counseling and testing services to 2,082 clients annually. Treatment for HIV is still limited in Madagascar, with only one site in the country currently offering antiretroviral therapy at the end of 2003. As of September 2004, only 30 of an estimated 17,000 adults in need of treatment for advanced HIV were receiving antiretroviral therapy.\n\nEfforts by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other donors to garner the commitment of the Government of Madagascar to HIV prevention and treatment have paid off. One of the primary supports to addressing Madagascar's emerging epidemic is the powerful political commitment at the highest levels of the new government. Just after his inauguration in 2002, President Marc Ravalomanana publicly established his leadership in HIV prevention. He chairs the nation's multisectoral HIV/AIDS program [Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS)]. President Ravalomanana is committed to aggressively fighting the spread of HIV, and the government has taken bold steps to control the spread of the infection. The National Strategic Framework was approved by the government in December 2001 and was adjusted following the first national seroprevalence survey in 2003. The country's overall strategy focuses on behavior change and prevention, treatment of HIV and STIs, and AIDS education.\n\nWith the guidance of USAID and other partners, the Government of Madagascar is actively responding to gaps in its HIV/AIDS program. The government will use $13.4 million from The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to expand current interventions by opening 40 new counseling and testing sites in 2005 and will reinforce existing HIV-prevention measures by ensuring use of universal precaution measures, reinforcing blood transfusion safety, and providing free condoms in public health care facilities. New interventions will include measures to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission in 11 districts and the provision of psychosocial and community medical care for about 500 to 750 persons living with HIV/AIDS. The program will also lay the groundwork for the care of the estimated 30,000 children orphaned by AIDS.\n"}
{"id": "33528482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33528482", "title": "HUNT Biobank", "text": "HUNT Biobank\n\nHUNT Biobank was established in conjunction with the HUNT 3-study and is a biorepository of about 21,500 square feet. Blood sampling follows a strict quality protocol, collecting serum, plasma, buffy coat, immortalized cells for cell line production, specialized tubes for trace metal/elements-analysis, RNA-tubes and urine. Comprehensive datasets covering health, disease, lifestyle and environmental factors are gathered using questionnaires and by clinical examination.\n"}
{"id": "239217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239217", "title": "Healing", "text": "Healing\n\nHealing is the process of the restoration of health from an unbalanced, diseased or damaged organism. The result of healing can be a cure to a health challenge, but one can heal without being cured.\n\nThe profession of nursing has been traditionally concerned with matters of healing, whereas historically the profession of medicine has been concerned with curing.\n\nWith physical damage or disease suffered by an organism, healing involves the repair of living tissue, organs and the biological system as a whole and resumption of normal functioning. It is the process by which the cells in the body regenerate and repair to reduce the size of a damaged or necrotic area and replace it with new living tissue. The replacement can happen in two ways: by \"regeneration\" in which the necrotic cells are replaced by new cells that form similar tissue as was originally there; or by \"repair\" in which injured tissue is replaced with scar tissue. Most organs will heal using a mixture of both mechanisms.\n\nIt is also referred to in the context of the grieving process.\n\nIn psychiatry and psychology, healing is the process by which neuroses and psychoses are resolved to the degree that the client is able to lead a normal or fulfilling existence without being overwhelmed by psychopathological phenomena. This process may involve psychotherapy, pharmaceutical treatment or alternative approaches such as traditional spiritual healing.\n\nIn order for an injury to be healed by regeneration, the cell type that was destroyed must be able to replicate. Cells also need a collagen framework along which to grow. Alongside most cells there is either a basement membrane or a collagenous network made by fibroblasts that will guide the cells' growth. Since ischaemia and most toxins do not destroy collagen, it will continue to exist even when the cells around it are dead.\n\nAcute tubular necrosis (ATN) in the kidney is a case in which cells heal completely by regeneration. ATN occurs when the epithelial cells that line the kidney are destroyed by either a lack of oxygen (such as in hypovolemic shock, when blood supply to the kidneys is dramatically reduced), or by toxins (such as some antibiotics, heavy metals or carbon tetrachloride).\n\nAlthough many of these epithelial cells are dead, there is typically patchy necrosis, meaning that there are patches of epithelial cells still alive. In addition, the collagen framework of the tubules remains completely intact.\n\nThe existing epithelial cells can replicate, and, using the basement membrane as a guide, eventually bring the kidney back to normal. After regeneration is complete, the damage is undetectable, even microscopically.\n\nHealing must happen by repair in the case of injury to cells that are unable to regenerate (e.g. neurons). Also, damage to the collagen network (e.g. by enzymes or physical destruction), or its total collapse (as can happen in an infarct) cause healing to take place by repair.\n\nMany genes play a role in healing. For instance, in wound healing, P21 has been found to allow mammals to heal spontaneously. It even allows some mammals (like mice) to heal wounds without scars. The LIN28 gene also plays a role in wound healing. It is dormant in most mammals. Also, the proteins MG53 and TGF beta 1 play important roles in wound healing.\n\nIn response to an incision or wound, a wound healing cascade is unleashed. This cascade takes place in four phases: clot formation, inflammation, proliferation, and maturation.\n\nHealing of a wound begins with clot formation to stop bleeding and to reduce infection by bacteria, viruses and fungi. Clotting is followed by neutrophil invasion three to 24 hours after the wound has been incurred, with mitoses beginning in epithelial cells after 24 to 48 hours .\n\nIn the inflammatory phase, macrophages and other phagocytic cells kill bacteria, debride damaged tissue and release chemical factors such as growth hormones that encourage fibroblasts, epithelial cells and endothelial cells which make new capillaries to migrate to the area and divide.\n\nIn the proliferative phase, immature granulation tissue containing plump, active fibroblasts forms. Fibroblasts quickly produce abundant type III collagen, which fills the defect left by an open wound. Granulation tissue moves, as a wave, from the border of the injury towards the center.\n\nAs granulation tissue matures, the fibroblasts produce less collagen and become more spindly in appearance. They begin to produce the much stronger type I collagen. Some of the fibroblasts mature into myofibroblasts which contain the same type of actin found in smooth muscle, which enables them to contract and reduce the size of the wound.\n\nDuring the maturation phase of wound healing, unnecessary vessels formed in granulation tissue are removed by apoptosis, and type III collagen is largely replaced by type I. Collagen which was originally disorganized is cross-linked and aligned along tension lines. This phase can last a year or longer. Ultimately a scar made of collagen, containing a small number of fibroblasts is left.\n\nAfter inflammation has damaged tissue (when combatting bacterial infection for example) and pro-inflammatory eicosanoids have completed their function, healing proceeds in 4 phases.\n\nIn the recall phase the adrenal glands increase production of cortisol which shuts down eicosanoid production and inflammation.\n\nIn the Resolution phase, pathogens and damaged tissue are removed by macrophages (white blood cells). Red blood cells are also removed from the damaged tissue by macrophages. Failure to remove all of the damaged cells and pathogens may retrigger inflammation. The two subsets of macrophage M1 & M2 plays a crucial role in this phase, M1 macrophage being a pro inflammatory while as M2 is a regenerative and the plasticity between the two subsets determine the tissue inflammation or repair.\n\nIn the Regeneration phase, blood vessels are repaired and new cells form in the damaged site similar to the cells that were damaged and removed. Some cells such as neurons and muscle cells (especially in the heart) are slow to recover.\n\nIn the Repair phase, new tissue is generated which requires a balance of anti-inflammatory and pro-inflammatory eicosanoids. Anti-inflammatory eicosanoids include lipoxins, epi-lipoxins, and resolvins, which cause release of growth hormones.\n\n"}
{"id": "22495955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22495955", "title": "HealthRight International", "text": "HealthRight International\n\nHealthRight International is a global health and human rights organization. HealthRight was founded in 1990 by physician and human rights advocate Dr. Jonathan Mann. \n\nHealthRight International was known as Doctors of the World-USA from its founding in 1990 until it adopted its new name in 2009, and from 1990 to 2009 was the U.S. delegation to the Medecins du Monde International Network. In 2011, a new Medecins du Monde organization was registered in the United States as Doctors of the World USA. This new Doctors of the World is not in any way related to HealthRight or the works and projects HealthRight performed as Doctors of the World-USA from 1990-2009.\nHeadquartered in New York, HealthRight has worked in over 30 countries, with current projects in Kenya, Mexico, Nepal, Russia, Ukraine, United States, and Vietnam.\n\nHealthRight projects combine direct service, systems strengthening, and advocacy. Its projects are sustained and grown under local conditions and then transferred to local ownership. Projects address health and social crises made worse by human rights violations, with a particular focus and expertise on:\n\n\n\nHealthRight International Homepage \n\nHealthRight International blog\n"}
{"id": "58457952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58457952", "title": "Health Insurance Organisation", "text": "Health Insurance Organisation\n\nThe Health Insurance Organisation is a state agency which runs the healthcare system in Cyprus. It administers the funds which pays for the Gesy system.\n\nIt negotiates with the Cyprus Medical Association.\n\nIt was criticised by the official audit in 2018 which said that “Execution of important projects that are necessary for the implementation of the Gesy like reorganization/autonomy of state hospitals, which should have been handled as a matter of priority have been greatly delayed.” No criteria were in place for selecting overseas centres to which patients would be sent for treatments not available on the island. Most patients were sent to UK, Germany, Greece, and Israel but the financial arrangements were unsatisfactory. In 2016 276 patients were sent to Germany at a cost of about €5.2 million, and 426 to Greece at a cost of about €3 million. \n"}
{"id": "16540742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540742", "title": "Health in Syria", "text": "Health in Syria\n\nHealth in Syria, although emphasized by the country's ruling Baath Party and improving significantly in recent years, has been declining due to the ongoing civil war which saw the destruction of many hospitals nationwide, and the deterioration in the functionality of some medical equipment due to the lack of spare parts and maintenance shortages of drugs and medical supplies due to sanctions. Whatsoever, healthcare has been improving in government-held areas with many public and private hospitals still functioning.\n\nHealth expenditures reportedly accounted for 3.3 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2014.\n\nIn July 2017, Syria's population was an estimated 18,028,549. In 2017, the average life expectancy for Syrians is 75 years, 72 for males and 77 for females, compared to the average life expectancy in 1960, which was 52 years. The total dependency ratio was 72.8 in 2015, while the median age was 24 in 2017.\n\nKey health indicators in Syria show that infectious diseases and illnesses related to environmental pollution remain serious problems. The rate of prevalence of HIV/AIDS in 2001 was 0.01 percent.\n\nIn 2017, the adult prevalence rate for obesity was 27.8, and in 2009 10% of children under 5 were obese. In 2016, Syria ranked 35 in the list of countries by body mass index, according to the World Health Organisation data on Prevalence of Obesity, published in 2017.\n\nIn 2015, 95.7% of the population had access to sanitation and 90.1% of the population had access to clean water. Although water pollution poses a threat to the availability of clean water and sanitation, as analyses of water samples for ammonia, suspended solids and BOD in Aleppo's Quweiq River and the lower part of the Orontes exceeded the allowable limits. In the coastal region, wells used for drinking purposes are contaminated with high concentrations of nitrates and ammonia because of sewage discharge and use of fertilizers, as well as seawater intrusion into the fresh groundwater aquifers.\n\nSmoking in Syria is steadily increasing in popularity amongst Syrians, mainly in the forms of cigarettes or Narghiles. Syrians collectively spend about $600 million per year on tobacco consumption. In 2010, 20% of women and 60% of men smoke and 98% of the overall population is affected by passive smoking. Despite the assumption that smoking, specifically the narghile, is embedded in Syrian culture, this phenomenon has only recently become widespread.\n\nDespite this, whatsoever, Smoking in Syria has been banned inside cafes (hookah bars), restaurants and other public spaces by a presidential decree which was issued on 12 October 2009 which went into effect on 21 April 2010. Syria was the first Arab country to introduce such a ban. The decree also outlaws smoking in schools, universities, health centres, sports halls, cinemas and theaters and on public transport. The restrictions include the narghile. According to the official Syrian Arab News Agency, fines for violating the ban range from 500 to 100,000 Syrian pounds (US$11 to $2,169).\n\nPeople under the age of 18 are not allowed to buy tobacco in Syria.\n\nSyria’s health system is relatively decentralized and focuses on offering primary healthcare at three levels: village, district, and provincial. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 1990 Syria had 41 general hospitals (33 public, 8 private), 152 specialized hospitals (16 public, 136 private), 391 rural health centers, 151 urban health centers, 79 rural health units, and 49 specialized health centers; hospital beds totaled 13,164 (77 percent public, 23 percent private), or 11 beds per 10,000 inhabitants. The number of state hospital beds reportedly fell between 1995 and 2001, while the population had an 18 percent increase, but the opening of new hospitals in 2002 caused the number of hospital beds to double.\n\nWHO reported that in 1989 Syria had a total of 10,114 physicians, 3,362 dentists, and 14,816 nurses and midwives; in 1995 the rate of health professionals per 10,000 inhabitants was 10.9 physicians, 5.6 dentists, and 21.2 nurses and midwives. Despite overall improvements, Syria’s health system exhibits significant regional disparities in the availability of healthcare, especially between urban and rural areas. The number of private hospitals and doctors increased by 41 percent between 1995 and 2001 as a result of growing demand and growing wealth in a small sector of society. Almost all private health facilities are located in large urban areas such as Damascus, Aleppo, Tartus, and Latakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "13371832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13371832", "title": "Hospital accreditation", "text": "Hospital accreditation\n\nHospital accreditation has been defined as “A self-assessment and external peer assessment process used by health care organizations to accurately assess their level of performance in relation to established standards and to implement ways to continuously improve”. Critically, accreditation is not just about standard-setting: there are analytical, counseling and self-improvement dimensions to the process. There are parallel issues in evidence-based medicine, quality assurance and medical ethics (see below), and the reduction of medical error is a key role of the accreditation process. Hospital accreditation is therefore one component in the maintenance of patient safety. However, there is limited and contested evidence supporting the effectiveness of accreditation programs.\n\nBroadly speaking, there exist two types of hospital accreditation:\n\nHospitals and healthcare services are vital components of any well-ordered and humane society, and will indisputably be the recipients of societal resources. That hospitals should be places of safety, not only for patients but also for the staff and for the general public, is of the greatest importance. Quality of hospitals and healthcare services is also of great interest to many other bodies, including governments, NGOs targeting healthcare and social welfare, professional organisations representing doctors, patient organisations, shareholders of companies providing healthcare services, etc. However, accreditation schemes are not the same thing as government-controlled initiatives set up to assess healthcare providers with only governmental objectives in mind - ideally, the functioning and finance of hospital accreditation schemes should be independent of governmental control.\n\nHow quality is maintained and improved in hospitals and healthcare services is the subject of much debate. Hospital surveying and accreditation is one recognised means by which this can be achieved.\n\nIt is not just an issue of hospital quality. There are financial factors as well. For example, in the USA, up until recently the Joint Commission exercised a \"de facto\" veto over whether or not US hospitals and other health providers were able to participate, and therefore earn from, the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This situation has changed in recent years.\n\nAccreditation schemes recognised as providers of national healthcare accreditation services include:\n\nThe different accreditation schemes vary in quality, size, intent and the skill of their marketing. They also vary considerably in terms of the cost incurred by hospitals and healthcare institutions. They have varying degrees of commitment to assessing medical ethical standards and clinical standards.\n\nSome accreditation schemes also undertake international healthcare accreditation work outside of their base country. One of the large number of accreditation schemes in the United States, the Joint Commission (TJC) currently being the best known, has created Joint Commission International, or JCI. In recent years, DNV have been challenging TJC in the USA. Accreditation Canada accredited its first organization internationally in 1967 in Bermuda . In 2010, Accreditation Canada International (ACI ) is created to provide accreditation to hospitals, clinics, primary care centers and health systems. Acreditas Global (formerly AAAHC International) is present in Peru since 2012 and Costa Rica.\n\nThe former Trent Accreditation Scheme (TAS) from the UK was the first to accredit a hospital in Asia, in Hong Kong in 2000 , and QHA Trent Accreditation from the UK have continue to work in the same field. Since TAS started the process, others, such as JCI and ACI, have entered the market.\n\nDNV Healthcare is a Norwegian-US health care accrediting organisation providing a quality management system constructed in accordance with ISO 9001 and approved by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).\n\nCHKS Ltd is a specialist international provider of healthcare accreditation programmes based in the UK and accredited to ISQua and ISO 17021:2011 standards www.chks.co.uk\n\nAACI is an international accreditation provider based in Hendersonville,NC,USA and accredited to ISQua, as well as ISO 17021:2015 standards www.aacihealthcare.com \n\nThe Council for Health Service Accreditation of Southern Africa (COHSASA) is the only internationally accredited quality improvement and accreditation body for healthcare facilities in Africa. In the past 23 years over 600 facilities throughout the continent have entered the COHSASA program to improve the quality and safety of healthcare provided to patients. COHSASA holds a fourth consecutive accreditation by the International Society for Quality in Health Care (ISQua), the global authority responsible for ensuring health accreditors themselves meet standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4171885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171885", "title": "Human placental lactogen", "text": "Human placental lactogen\n\nHuman placental lactogen (hPL), also called human chorionic somatomammotropin (HCS), is a polypeptide placental hormone, the human form of placental lactogen (chorionic somatomammotropin). Its structure and function are similar to those of human growth hormone. It modifies the metabolic state of the mother during pregnancy to facilitate the energy supply of the fetus. hPL has anti-insulin properties. hPL is a hormone secreted by the syncytiotrophoblast during pregnancy. Like human growth hormone, hPL is encoded by genes on chromosome 17q22-24. It was identified in 1963.\n\nhPL molecular mass is 22,125 and contains single chain consisting of 191 amino acid residues that are linked by two disulfide bonds and the structure contains 8 helices. A crystal structure of hPL was determined by X-ray diffraction to a resolution of 2.0 Å.\n\nhPL is present only during pregnancy, with maternal serum levels rising in relation to the growth of the fetus and placenta. Maximum levels are reached near term, typically to 5–7 mg/L (5-7 micrograms/ml). Higher levels are noted in patients with multiple gestation. Little hPL enters the fetal circulation. Its biological half-life is 15 minutes.\n\nhPL affects the metabolic system of the maternal organism in the following manners:\n\nThese functions help support fetal nutrition even in the case of maternal malnutrition.\n\nhPL is a potent agonist of the prolactin receptor and a weak agonist of the growth hormone receptor.\n\nhPL has been found to bind to the prolactin receptor with equal affinity to that of prolactin in rabbit milk fat gobule membrane, and hPL and prolactin have been found to possess very similar lactogenic activity \"in vitro\" in mouse and rat mammary gland explants. In addition, hPL has been found to stimulate DNA synthesis in human mammary fibroadenoma cells transplanted into mice, which suggests that hPL promotes the growth of the human mammary gland similarly to prolactin. As hPL circulates at concentrations that are 100-fold higher than those of prolactin during pregnancy, these findings suggest that hPL may play an important role in human mammogenesis during this time. However, the relative affinities of hPL and prolactin for the human prolactin receptor have yet to be published and the effects of hPL on normal human mammary epithelial tissue have not yet been investigated, and so a definitive role of hPL in human mammary gland development during pregnancy has not been established at present.\n\nhPL has weak actions similar to those of growth hormone, causing the formation of protein tissues in the same way that growth hormone, but 100 times more hPL than growth hormone is required to promote growth. However, hPL has a blood level of more than 50 times that of hGH, hence its effects must not be ignored. An enhancer for the human placental lactogen gene is found 2 kb downstream of the gene and participates in the cell-specific control gene expression.\n\nWhile hPL has been used as an indicator of fetal well-being and growth, other fetal testing methods have been found to be more reliable. Also, normal pregnancies have been reported with undetectable maternal levels of hPL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37654913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37654913", "title": "Jason H. Moore", "text": "Jason H. Moore\n\nJason H. Moore is a translational bioinformatics scientist, biomedical informatician, and human geneticist, the Edward Rose Professor of Informatics and Director of the Institute for Biomedical Informatics at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, where he is also Senior Associate Dean for Informatics and Director of the Division of Informatics in the Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics.\n\nHe was a founding Director of the Advanced Computing Center for Research and Education at Vanderbilt University from 2000 until 2004 and founding Director of the Institute for Quantitative Biomedical Sciences at Geisel School of Medicine of Dartmouth College from 2010 until 2015.\n\nHe's the editor-in-chief of the BioData Mining journal since 2008.\n\nMoore's research focuses on the development and application of artificial intelligence and machine learning methods for modeling complex patterns in biomedical big data. A central focus is using informatics methods for identifying combinations of DNA sequence variations and environmental factors that are predictive of human health and complex disease. For example, he developed the multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) machine learning method for detecting and characterizing combinations of attributes or independent variables that interact to influence a dependent or class variable. He then applied MDR for improved understanding of the interplay of multiple genetic polymorphisms of complex traits in genome-wide association studies. More recent work focuses on computational methods such as the tree-based pipeline optimization tool (TPOT) for automated machine learning and data science. Current work also focuses on methods and software for accessible artificial intelligence.\n\nHe is a former member of the National Library of Medicine grant review committee (BLIRC). He is the founding Editor-in-Chief of the journal \"BioData Mining.\" He has published more than 500 peer reviewed articles, book chapters and editorials. His translational bioinformatics research program has been continuously funded by multiple grants from the National Institutes of Health for nearly 20 years.\n\nIn 2011 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and was selected as a Kavli Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) in 2013. In 2015 he was elected a Fellow of the American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI). In 2017 he was elected a Fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA).\n\n"}
{"id": "53117932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53117932", "title": "Joseph G. Ponterotto", "text": "Joseph G. Ponterotto\n\nJoseph G. Ponterotto is an American psychologist, author and professor. He is currently a tenured professor of counseling psychology and the Coordinator of the Mental Health Counseling Program at Fordham University's Graduate School of Education. He is a licensed psychologist and mental health counselor, as well as a psychobiographer and multicultural consultant. His research interests are in acculturation, racism, immigration, multicultural counseling and education, qualitative/quantitative research methods including scale development, the history of psychology, and psychobiography.\n\nPonterotto is known for his teaching style at Fordham University, wherein he blends both traditional and experiential practices. As a practicing clinician he brings the richness and diversity of the therapeutic process into the curriculum. He has also contributed over 100 peer-reviewed journal articles, 13 academic books, and other notable works to the field of multicultural counseling, assessment, and research, including the Handbooks of Multicultural Counseling, the Handbooks of Multicultural Assessment, and Preventing Prejudice: A Guide for Counselors, Educators, and Parents. Ponterotto is perhaps best known for his first work of psychobiography titled \"A Psychobiography of Bobby Fischer: Understanding the Genius, Mystery, and Psychological Decline of a World Chess Champion\", which also led becoming a historical consultant on the 2015 Edward Zwick-directed film \"Pawn Sacrifice\", starring Tobey Maguire as Bobby Fischer and Liev Schreiber as Boris Spassky.\n\nPonterotto was born and raised in the Bronx, New York. He entered Iona College in New Rochelle, New York in 1976 and attained a bachelor's degree (B.A.) in Psychology. from the education institution In 1980. Soon after, he accepted an invitation into the Counseling Psychology Program at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He started in the Master's program there for the first year and then met his mentor, Dr. Jesus Manual Casas who recommended that he transition into the doctoral program. Ponterotto credits Casas for inspiring his interests in multicultural research and social advocacy. From September 1981 until his graduation in May 1985, he was part of a team with his mentor who conducted research in the Chicano Community. During this time, Ponterotto and Cases engaged in prolonged discussions on their life experiences and concepts such as unearned privilege, culture, oppression, and injustice. He learned how to reflect on his own heritage and bilingualism and how this ties into important elements of life like identity development and professionalism. Dr. Casas became the chair for Ponterretto's Doctoral dissertation, \"The Effects of Select Parental Variables, Cognitive Home Stimulation, and Teacher-Child Interactive Behavior on the Academic Performance of Low-Income Mexican American Children\".\n\nPonterotto credits minority scholars in multicultural research for sustaining his commitment and self-confidence as a graduate student and new professional in the field, including; Thomas Parham, Janet Helms, William Cross, Derald Wing Sue, and first and foremost Casas.\n\nPonterotto also acknowledges his faculty colleagues and students at Fordham University for their roles in the evolution of his professional career, particularly his interest in qualitative research and how it can inform multicultural counseling. Since his arrival in 1987, Dr. Ponterotto cites Fordham leaders such as Leo Goldman and Merle Keitel for creating an academic environment that emphasized qualitative research. He also thanks his students, especially those he mentored in his early career, for shedding light on how these methods can be administered to thoroughly learn about a specific multicultural population while also generating a sense of social justice that honors and benefits the research participants as well as advancing science.\n\nPonterotto is a tenured professor with over 30 years of teaching and administrative experience in the field of psychology. From 1985 until 1987 he held the position of Assistant Professor in Counseling Psychology within the Department of Educational Psychology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. In 1987, he joined Fordham University's Graduate School of Education as an Assistant Professor of Counseling Psychology in the Division of Psychological and Educational Services (PES). Over the years at Fordham he was promoted to Associate and then Full Professor and has held a number of administrative positions. Presently, he coordinates the master's degree program in Mental Health Counseling.\n\nPonterotto primarily teaches Master's and Doctoral students from a vast range of programs, such as; school psychology, clinical psychology, mental health counseling, school counseling, and counseling psychology. He regularly teaches courses in multicultural counseling, psychological measurement and assessment, career counseling, quantitative/qualitative research methods, and history of psychology.\n\nPonterotto's professional work as a clinician started in 1981 when he saw his first clients while a graduate student at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In 1984 he attained the position of Clinic Coordinator and Supervisor of the Counseling Psychology Training Clinic at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In 1985, he became a counselor and supervisor at the Educational Psychology Training Clinic for the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and was later promoted to Director from 1986 to 1987. In 2008, he opened his own small psychotherapy practice in New York City, where he specializes in examining the impact of different social-cultural contexts on the individual person, families, and career development. He also helps gifted clients (e.g., chess prodigies) pursue their talents while also managing healthy and balanced aspects of everyday life.\n\nPonterotto has received several awards and honors that are university-based, national, and international. In 1994, he was a co-winner of the \"Early Career Scientist/Practitioner Award,\" given by APA's Division 17. As a faculty member, he has received the Distinguished Contribution to Multicultural Education Award (1997-1998) and Scanlon Award (2003) from the Graduate School of Education. In 2007, he earned the Bene Merenti Award for 20 years of service at Fordham University. That same year he received the honor of \"Distinguished Alumnus-Research and Scholarship\" by the Graduate School of Education at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In addition, he was presented the \"Visionary Leadership Award\" at the APA National Multicultural Conference and Summit in Seattle, Washington. He also received the 17th Annual Janet E. Helms Award for Mentoring and Scholarship from Teachers College, Columbia University at the 24th Winter Roundtable on Cultural Psychology and Education.\n\nPonterotto contributes to research in psychology by essentially working \"behind the scenes\" of publishing academic literature and other resources, where he has served on editorial boards for various scholarly journals and book publishers. He is also a former Associate Editor of the Journal of Counseling Psychology. Ponterotto is an active researcher who has published over 100 peer-reviewed journal articles, which commenced while in his graduate studies. His research interests mirror the subjects he teaches, as he explores topics such as acculturation, racism, immigration, multicultural counseling and education, and qualitative/quantitative research methods. For example, Dr. Ponterotto emphasizes throughout his works that qualitative inquiry approaches such as interviews with participants and their families are highly imperative for research, practice, training, empowering, and honoring different ethnicities, races, cultures and their respective beliefs, values, and traditions. This view is evident within his most cited article named \"Qualitative Research in Counseling Psychology: A Primer on Research Paradigms and Philosophy of Science.\" Published in 2005, this article presented an overview of research paradigms that have been used by psychologists in theory and practice and specifically urges that qualitative methods and other research alternatives are taken into account in order to effectively train future students.\n\nPonterotto is well known in academia for developing and advocating for innovative measures or scales (e.g., survey instruments) that are sensitive to cultural and ethnic differences to ensure that any research conducted or treatment initiatives are valid, appropriate, and inclusive. He is co-developer of the Quick Discrimination Index, the Teacher Multicultural Attitude Survey, the Multicultural Counseling Knowledge and Awareness Scale, and most recently, the Multicultural Personality Inventory. These measures are used worldwide.\n\nPonterotto is the co-author and or co-editor of 13 educational books. Ponterotto is also the author of a psychobiography (his first) on Bobby Fischer, titled \"A Psychobiography of Bobby Fisher: Understanding the Genius, Mystery, and Psychological Decline of a World Chess Champion\". Being an avid chess player himself, Ponterotto decided to perform a detailed psychological evaluation on the trajectory of Bobby Fischer's life from his fame as a chess grandmaster at 15, which turned him into an international star and his being recognized as a prodigal genius, to his pitfalls and bizarre behaviors over time that ultimately led to his exile and death. His 2012 book is based on four years of research that included interviews with surviving family members, friends, chess masters, journalists, and biographers who knew Fischer as well as reviews of archives and available, FBI files related to the Fischer family. Based on the piecing together this agglomerated data, he was able to draw major conclusions that highlight Fischer's extraordinary intelligence and mental health challenges. Ponterotto's psychobiography notably grabbed the attention of the producers of the 2015 major motion picture \"Pawn Sacrifice\", for which he served as a historical consultant.\n"}
{"id": "48836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48836", "title": "Kava", "text": "Kava\n\nKava or kava kava or \"Piper methysticum\" (Latin \"pepper\" and Latinized Greek \"intoxicating\") is a crop of the Pacific Islands. The name \"kava(-kava)\" is from Tongan and Marquesan, meaning \"bitter\"; other names for kava include \"ʻawa\" (Hawaiʻi), \"ʻava\" (Samoa), \"yaqona\" (Fiji), \"sakau\" (Pohnpei), and \"malok\" or \"malogu\" (parts of Vanuatu). Kava is consumed throughout the Pacific Ocean cultures of Polynesia, including Hawaii and Vanuatu, and Melanesia and some parts of Micronesia for its sedating effects.\n\nThe root of the plant is used to produce an entheogenic drink with sedative, anesthetic, and euphoriant properties. Its active ingredients are called kavalactones. A Cochrane systematic review concluded it was likely to be more effective than placebo at treating short-term anxiety.\n\nModerate consumption of kava (in its traditional form, i.e. as a water-based suspension of kava roots) has been deemed as presenting an \"acceptably low level of health risk\" by the World Health Organization. However, consumption of kava extracts produced with organic solvents or excessive amounts of poor quality kava products may be linked to an increased risk of adverse health outcomes (including potential liver toxicity).\n\nKava was historically grown only in the Pacific islands of Hawaii, Federated States of Micronesia, Vanuatu, Fiji, the Samoas and Tonga. An inventory of \"P. methysticum\" distribution showed it was cultivated on numerous islands of Micronesia, Melanesia, Polynesia, and Hawaii, whereas specimens of \"P. wichmannii\" were all from Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu.\n\nThe kava shrub thrives in loose, well-drained soils where plenty of air reaches the roots. It grows naturally where rainfall is plentiful (over 2,000 mm/yr). Ideal growing conditions are and 70–100% relative humidity. Too much sunlight is harmful, especially in early growth, so kava is an understory crop.\n\nKava cannot reproduce sexually. Female flowers are especially rare and do not produce fruit even when hand-pollinated. Its cultivation is entirely by propagation from stem cuttings.\n\nTraditionally, plants are harvested around four years of age, as older plants have higher concentrations of kavalactones. After reaching about 2 m height, plants grow a wider stalk and additional stalks, but not much taller. The roots can reach a depth of 60 cm.\n\nKava consists of sterile cultivars cloned from its wild ancestor, \"Piper wichmanii\". Today it comprises hundreds of different cultivars grown across the Pacific. Each cultivar has not only different requirements for successful cultivation, but also displays unique characteristics both in terms of its appearance, and in terms of its psychoactive properties.\n\nScholars make a distinction between the so-called \"noble\" and non-noble kava. The latter category comprises the so-called \"tudei\" (or \"two-day\") kavas, medicinal kavas and wild kava (\"Piper wichmanii\", the ancestor of domesticated \"Piper methysticum\"). Traditionally, only noble kavas have been used for regular consumption due to their more favourable composition of kavalactones and other compounds that produce more pleasant effects and have lower potential for causing negative side-effects, such as nausea or \"kava hangover\".\n\nThe perceived benefits of noble cultivars explain why only these cultivars were spread around the Pacific by Polynesian and Melanesian migrants, with presence of non-noble cultivars limited to the islands of Vanuatu from which they originated. More recently, it has been suggested that the widespread use of tudei cultivars in the manufacturing of several kava products might have been the key factor contributing to the rare reports of adverse reactions to kava observed among the consumers of kava-based products in Europe.\n\nTudei varieties have traditionally not been grown in Hawaii and Fiji, but in recent years there have been reports of farmers attempting to grow \"isa\" or \"palisi\" non-noble cultivars in Hawaii and of imports of dried tudei kava into Fiji for further re-exporting. The tudei cultivars may be easier and cheaper to grow, while it takes up to 5 years for noble kava to mature, non-noble varieties can often be harvested just one year after being planted.\n\nThe concerns about the adverse effects of non-noble varieties produced by their undesirable composition of kavalactones and high concentrations of potentially harmful compounds (flavokavains), that are not present in any significant concentration in the noble varieties, have led to legislation prohibiting exports from such countries as Vanuatu. Likewise, efforts have been made to educate the non-traditional customers about the difference between noble and non-noble varieties and that non-noble varieties do not offer the same results as noble cultivars. In recent years, government regulatory bodies and non-profit NGOs have been set up with the declared aim of monitoring kava quality, producing regular reports, certifying vendors selling proper, noble kava and warning customers against products that may contain tudei varieties.\n\nIn Vanuatu, exportation of kava is strictly regulated. Only strains they deem as \"noble\" varieties that are not too weak or too potent are allowed to be exported. Only the most desirable strains for everyday drinking are selected to be noble varieties to maintain quality control. In addition, their laws mandate that exported kava must be at least five years old and farmed organically. Their most popular noble strains are \"Boroguu\" or \"Boronggoru\" from Pentecost Island, \"Melomelo\" from Aoba Island (called \"sese\" in north Pentecost Island), and \"Palarasul\" kava from Espiritu Santo. In Vanuatu, Tudei (\"two days\") kava is reserved for special ceremonial occasions and exporting it is not allowed. \"Palisi\" is a popular Tudei variety.\n\nIn Hawaii, there are many other strains of kava (). Some of the most popular strains are the \"Mahakea\", \"Moʻi\", \"Hiwa\" and \"Nene\" varieties. The \"Aliʻi\" (kings) of precolonial Hawaii coveted the \"Moʻi\" variety, which had a strong cerebral effect due to a predominant amount of the kavalactone kavain. This sacred variety was so important to them that no one but royalty could ever experience it, \"lest they suffer an untimely death\". The reverence for Hiwa in old Hawaiʻi is evident in this portion of a chant recorded by Nathaniel Bright Emerson and quoted by E. S. Craighill and Elizabeth Green Handy. \"This refers to the cup of sacramental ʻawa brewed from the strong, black ʻawa root (ʻawa hiwa) which was drunk sacramentally by the kumu hula\":\n\n<poem>\nThe day of revealing shall see what it sees:\nA seeing of facts, a sifting of rumors,\nAn insight won by the black sacred ʻawa,\nA vision like that of a sacred god!</poem>\n\nWinter describes a hula prayer for inspiration which contains the line, \"He ʻike pū ʻawa hiwa.\" Pukui and Elbert translated this as \"a knowledge from kava offerings\". Winter explains that ʻawa, especially of the Hiwa variety, was offered to hula deities in return for knowledge and inspiration.\n\nKawakawa (\"Piper excelsum\") plant, known also as \"Maori kava\", may be confused with kava. While the two plants look similar and have similar names, they are different but related species. Kawakawa is a small tree endemic to New Zealand, having importance to traditional medicine and Māori culture. As noted by the Kava Society of New Zealand, \"in all likelihood, the kava plant was known to the first settlers of Aotearoa [New Zealand]. It is also possible that (just like the Polynesian migrants that settled in Hawaii) the Maori explorers brought some kava with them. Unfortunately, most of New Zealand is simply too cold for growing kava and hence the Maori settlers lost their connection to the sacred plant.\" Further, \"in New Zealand, where the climate is too cold for kava, the Maori gave the name kawa-kawa to another \"Piperaceae M. excelsum\", in memory of the kava plants they undoubtedly brought with them and unsuccessfully attempted to cultivate. The Maori word kawa also means \"ceremonial protocol\", recalling the stylized consumption of the drug typical of Polynesian societies\". Kawakawa is commonly used in Maori traditional medicine for the treatment of skin infections, wounds and cuts, and (when prepared as a tea) for stomach upsets and other minor illnesses.\n\nFresh kava root contains on average 80% water. Dried root contains approximately 43% starch, 20% dietary fiber, 15% kavalactones, 12% water, 3.2% sugars, 3.6% protein, and 3.2% minerals.\n\nIn general, kavalactone content is greatest in the roots and decreases higher up the plant into the stems and leaves. Relative concentrations of 15%, 10% and 5% have been observed in the root, stump, and basal stems, respectively. The relative content of kavalactones depends not only on plant segment, but also on the kava plant varieties, plant maturity, geographic location, and time of harvest. The kavalactones present are kavain, demethoxyyangonin and yangonin, which are higher in the roots than in the stems and leaves, with dihydrokavain, methysticin, and dihydromethysticin also present.\n\nThe mature roots of the kava plant are harvested after a minimum of four years (at least five years ideally) for peak kavalactone content. Most kava plants produce around of root when they are harvested. Kava root is classified into two categories: crown root (or chips) and lateral root. Crown roots are the large-diameter pieces that look like ( diameter) wooden poker chips. Most kava plants consist of approximately 80% crown root upon harvesting. Lateral roots are smaller-diameter roots that look more like a typical root. A mature kava plant is about 20% lateral roots. Kava lateral roots have the highest content of kavalactones in the kava plant. \"Waka\" grade kava is made of lateral roots only.\n\nA total of 18 different kavalactones (or kavapyrones) have been identified to date, at least 15 of which are active. However, six of them, including kavain, dihydrokavain, methysticin, dihydromethysticin, yangonin, and desmethoxyyangonin, have been determined to be responsible for about 96% of the plant's pharmacological activity. Some minor constituents, including three chalcones, flavokavain A, flavokavain B, and flavokavain C, have also been identified, as well as a toxic alkaloid (not present in the consumable parts of the plant), pipermethystine. Alkaloids are present in the roots and leaves.\n\nThe following pharmacological actions have been reported for kava and/or its major active constituents:\n\nReceptor binding assays with botanical extracts have revealed direct interactions of leaf extracts of kava (which appear to be more active than root extracts) with the GABA (i.e., main) binding site of the GABA receptor, the D receptor, the μ- and δ-opioid receptors, and the H and H receptors. Weak interaction with the 5-HT and 5-HT receptors and the benzodiazepine site of the GABA receptor was also observed.\n\nPotentiation of GABA receptor activity may underlie the anxiolytic effects of kava, while elevation of dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens likely underlie the moderately psychotropic effects the plant can produce. Changes in the activity of 5-HT neurons could explain the sleep-inducing action However, failure of the GABA receptor inhibitor flumazenil to reverse the anxiolytic effects of kava in mice suggests that benzodiazepine-like effects are not contributing to the pharmacological profile of kava extracts.\n\nHeavy, long-term use of kava has been found to not reduce ability in saccade and cognitive tests, but has been associated with elevated liver enzymes.\n\nRecent usage of kava has been documented in forensic investigations by quantitation of kavain in blood specimens. The principal urinary metabolite, conjugated 4'-OH-kavain, is generally detectable for up to 48 hours.\n\nKava is consumed in various ways throughout the Pacific Ocean cultures of Polynesia, Vanuatu, Melanesia and some parts of Micronesia and Australia. Traditionally, it is prepared by either chewing, grinding or pounding the roots of the kava plant. Grinding is done by hand against a cone-shaped block of dead coral; the hand forms a mortar and the coral a pestle. The ground root/bark is combined with only a little water, as the fresh root releases moisture during grinding. Pounding is done in a large stone with a small log. The product is then added to cold water and consumed as quickly as possible.\n\nThe extract is an emulsion of kavalactone droplets in starch and buttermilk. The taste is slightly pungent, while the distinctive aroma depends on whether it was prepared from dry or fresh plant, and on the variety. The colour is grey to tan to opaque greenish.\n\nKava prepared as described above is much more potent than processed kava. Chewing produces the strongest effect because it produces the finest particles. Fresh, undried kava produces a stronger beverage than dry kava. The strength also depends on the species and techniques of cultivation. Many find mixing powdered kava with hot water makes the drink stronger.\n\nIn Vanuatu, a strong kava drink is normally followed by a hot meal or tea. The meal traditionally follows some time after the drink so the psychoactives are absorbed into the bloodstream quicker. Traditionally, no flavoring is added.\n\nIn Papua New Guinea, the locals in Madang province refer to their kava as \"waild koniak\" (\"wild cognac\" in English).\n\nFijians commonly share a drink called \"grog\" made by pounding sun-dried kava root into a fine powder, straining and mixing it with cold water. Traditionally, grog is drunk from the shorn half-shell of a coconut, called a \"bilo\". Grog is very popular in Fiji, especially among young men, and often brings people together for storytelling and socializing. Drinking grog for a few hours brings a numbing and relaxing effect to the drinker; grog also numbs the tongue and grog drinking typically is followed by a \"chaser\" or sweet or spicy snack to follow a \"bilo\".\n\nPharmaceutical and herbal supplement companies extract kavalactones from the kava plant using solvents such as supercritical carbon dioxide, acetone and ethanol to produce pills standardized with between 30% and 90% kavalactones.\n\nNumerous scholars and regulatory bodies have raised concerns over the safety profile of such products.\n\nOne group of scholars say that organic solvents introduce compounds that can affect the liver into the standardized product; these compounds are not extracted by water and consequently largely absent from kava prepared with water. For instance, when compared with water extraction, organic solvents extract vastly larger amounts of flavokavains, compounds associated with adverse reactions to kava that are present in very low concentrations in noble kava, but significant in non-noble.\n\nAlso \"chemical solvents used do not extract the same compounds as the natural water extracts in traditional use. The extraction process may exclude important modifying constituents soluble only in water\". In particular, it has been noted that, unlike traditional, water-based preparations, products obtained with the use of organic solvents do not contain glutathione, an important liver-protecting compound. Another group of researchers noted: \"The extraction process (aqueous vs. acetone in the two types of preparations) is responsible for the difference in toxicity as extraction of glutathione in addition to the kava lactones is important to provide protection against hepatotoxicity\".\n\nIt has also been argued that kavalactone extracts have often been made from low-quality plant material, including the toxic aerial parts of the plant, non-noble kava varieties, or plants affected by mold, which, in light of the chemical solvents' ability to extract far greater amounts of the potentially toxic compounds than water, makes them particularly problematic.\n\nIn the context of these concerns, the World Health Organization advises against the consumption of ethanolic and acetonic kavalactone extracts, and says that \"products should be developed from water-based suspensions of kava\". The governments of New Zealand and Australia prohibit the sales of such kavalactone extracts, and only permit the sale of kava products in their natural form or produced with cold water.\n\nKava is used for medicinal, religious, political, cultural and social purposes throughout the Pacific. These cultures have a great respect for the plant and place a high importance on it. In Fiji, for example, a formal \"yaqona\" (kava) ceremony will often accompany important social, political, or religious functions, usually involving a ritual presentation of the bundled roots as a \"sevusevu\" (gift), and drinking of the \"yaqona\" itself. Due to the importance of kava in religious rituals and the seemingly (from the Western point of view) unhygienic preparation method, its consumption was discouraged or even banned by Christian missionaries.\n\nWith kava's increasing popularity, bars serving the plant in its liquid state are beginning to open up outside of the South Pacific. While some bars have been committed to only serving the traditional forms and types of kava, other establishments have been accused of serving non-traditionally consumed non-noble kava varieties which are cheaper, but far more likely to cause unpleasant effects and adverse reactions, or of serving kava with other substances, including alcohol.\n\nThe nature of effects will largely depend on the strain of the kava plant and the form of its consumption. Traditionally, only noble kava cultivars have been consumed as they are accepted as safe and produce desired effects. The specific effects of various noble kavas depend on various factors, such as the cultivar used (and the related specific composition of kavalactones), age of the plant, and method of its consumption. However, it can be stated that in general noble kava produces a state of calmness, relaxation and well-being without diminishing cognitive performance. Kava may produce an initial talkative period, followed by muscle relaxation and eventual sleepiness.\n\nAs noted in one of the earliest Western publications on kava (1886): \"A well prepared Kava potion drunk in small quantities produces only pleasant changes in behavior. It is therefore a slightly stimulating drink which helps relieve great fatigue. It relaxes the body after strenuous efforts, clarifies the mind and sharpens the mental faculties\".\n\nAccording to contemporary descriptions:\n\nDespite its psychoactive effects, kava is not considered to be physically addictive and its use does not lead to dependency.\n\nA 2016 comprehensive review of kava safety conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) concluded that: \"On balance, the weight-of-evidence from both a long history of use of kava beverage and from the more recent research findings indicates that it is possible for kava beverage to be consumed with an acceptably low level of health risk\". The authors of the review noted that:\n\nAt the same time, it was observed that:\n\nA human health risk assessment conducted by the Australian and New Zealand governments concluded that:\n\nAccording to a 2010 discussion paper prepared for the Codex Alimentarius Commission: \"kava has had at least a 1500-year history of relatively safe use, with liver side effects never having arisen in the ethnopharmacological data. (...) Clinical trials of kava have not revealed hepatotoxicity as a problem. This has been confirmed by further studies evaluating the toxicology of kava drink. \"Based on available scientific information it can be inferred that kava as a traditional beverage is safe for human consumption\".\"\n\nIn 2001, concerns were raised about the safety of kava, which led to restrictions and regulations in several countries, as well as reports by the United States CDC and FDA. In response to the media reports from Europe, 2002 the US FDA issued a (now archived) Consumer Advisory stating that, \"Kava-Containing Dietary Supplements May be Associated With Severe Liver Injury.\" Likwise, LiverTox of the National Library of Medicine/National Institutes of Health noted that: \"The frequency of adverse reactions to kava, particularly liver injury, is not known...Between 50 and 100 cases of clinically apparent liver injury have been published or discussed in the literature. Advocates for the herb have strongly rejected these numbers, disputing both their accuracy and the causality assessment process. Still, there seem to be convincing evidence in some cases of severe hepatitis ending in fulminant hepatic failure, requiring liver transplantation, and even leading to death.\"\n\nMost of the concerns were related to a small number of reports indicating potential cases of hepatotoxicity caused by consumption of various commercial products derived from kava. A number of scientists and medical practitioners criticized the poor quality of the reports by pointing out that most of the reported rare cases of hepatotoxicity involved patients with a history of alcohol or prescription drugs abuse or concomitant use of medicines known as potentially hepatotoxic. Likewise, the Australian studies from the late 1990s suggesting an association between health problems and heavy kava use that contributed towards the rise of concerns about kava were found to be focused on populations with very heavy concomitant consumption of alcohol and overall poor health. More rigorous clinical research has found no evidence of any significant negative health issues (including any irreversible liver damage) that could be linked to kava. In light of this information and subsequent research on 10 June 2014, the German Administrative Court overturned the 2002 ban reinstating the regulatory requirements of 2001. The court stated that risk from kava exposure had not been clearly demonstrated, nor does it appear unusually high, an opinion presumably driven by the very small number of cases of reported toxicity (n ~ 3) with even a certain degree of causality linked to kava in a global kava-consuming community that may number in the millions of doses consumed daily.\n\nAccording to one comprehensive review: \"Despite the link to kava and liver toxicity demonstrated in vivo and in vitro, in the history of Western kava use, toxicity is still considered relatively rare. Only a fraction of the handful of cases reviewed for liver toxicity could be, with any certainty, linked to kava consumption and most of those involved the co-ingestion of other medications/supplements. That means that the incident rate of liver toxicity due to kava is one in 60-125 million patients.\" According to an in-depth human health risk assessment commissioned by the New Zealand and Australian governments, while consumption of kava may result in such minor and reversible side effects as kava dermopathy (see below), \"there is no evidence that occasional use of kava beverage is associated with any long-term adverse effects, including effects on the liver.\"\n\nRecent publications also confirm that noble kava roots appear to be safe and that the previously reported rare cases of hepatotoxicity were in most cases likely related to rare allergic reactions or the poor quality of the plant material, including unsuitable cultivars or parts of the plant and plants affected by mold. Consequently, aside from \"the small number of cases of kava hepatotoxicity [that might have been] due to an idiosyncratic reaction of the metabolic type\", \"liver injury by kava is basically a preventable disease\". In order to minimize or eliminate the risk of liver injury, only high-quality plant material should be used in the preparation of kava supplements or kava beverages. In particular, the use of the so-called \"two-day\" (known also as \"tudei\", \"isa\", \"palisi\") and wild (\"Piper wichmanii\") cultivars traditionally not consumed should be avoided. The use of these cultivars in the manufacturing of kava-based pharmaceutical products is undesirable due to their very different phytochemistry and relatively high concentrations of potentially harmful compounds (flavokavains). While other (\"noble\") cultivars also contain these compounds, toxicity seems to be triggered only at relatively high concentrations, too high to be of relevance with the use of noble kava or its corresponding extract preparations\". Such cultivars mainly grow in Vanuatu which outlawed their exports in 2004.\n\nAdverse reactions may result from the poor quality of kava raw material used in the manufacturing of various kava products. In addition to the potential for hepatotoxicity, adverse reactions from chronic use may include cognitive or visual impairment, rashes or dermatitis, seizures, weight loss, and malnutrition, but there is only limited high-quality research on these possible effects.\n\nOn the basis of research findings and long history of safe use across the South Pacific, experts recommend using water-based extractions of high-quality peeled rhizome and roots of the noble kava cultivars to minimize the potential of adverse reactions to chronic use.\n\nSeveral adverse interactions with drugs have been documented, both prescription and nonprescription – including, but not limited to, anticonvulsants, alcohol, anxiolytics (CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines), antipsychotics, levodopa, diuretics, and drugs metabolized by CYP450 in the liver.\n\nA few notable potential drug interactions are, but are not limited to:\n\nLong term and heavy kava consumption is associated with a fully reversible skin condition known as \"kava dermopathy\" or \"kani kani\" (in Fiji) characterised by dry and scaly skin covering the palms of the hands, soles of the feet, and back. The first symptom to appear is usually dry, peeling skin; some Pacific Islanders purposely consume large quantities of Kava for several weeks in order to get the peeling effect, resulting in a layer of new skin. These effects appeared at consumption levels between 31-440 grams a week of kava powder. Despite numerous studies, the mechanism that causes kava dermopathy is poorly understood \"but may relate to interference with cholesterol metabolism\". The condition is easily treatable with abstinence or lowering of kava intake as the skin appears to be returning to its normal state within a couple of weeks of reduced or no kava use. Kava dermopathy should not be confused with rare instances of allergic reactions to kava that are usually characterised by itchy rash or puffy face.\n\nKava is under preliminary research for its potential psychoactive – primarily anxiolytic – sleep-inducing, and sleep-enhancing properties. Preliminary randomized controlled trials in anxiety disorders indicate a higher rate of improvement in anxiety symptoms after kava treatment, relative to placebo.\n\nOver centuries, kava has been used in the traditional medicine of the South Pacific Islands for central nervous system and peripheral effects. As noted in one literature review: \"Peripherally, kava is indicated in traditional Pacific medicine for urogenital conditions (gonorrhea infections, chronic cystitis, difficulty urinating), reproductive and women's health (...), gastrointestinal upsets, respiratory ailments (asthma, coughs, and tuberculosis), skin diseases and topical wounds, and as an analgesic, with significant subtlety and nuance attending the precise strain, plant component (leaf, stem, root) and preparative method to be used\".\n\nKava remains legal in most countries. Regulations often treat it as a food or dietary supplement.\n\nIn Australia, the supply of kava is regulated through the National Code of Kava Management. Travellers to Australia are allowed to bring up to 2 kg of kava in their baggage, provided they are at least 18 years old, and the kava is in root or dried form. Commercial import of larger quantities is allowed, under licence for medical or scientific purposes. These restrictions were introduced in 2007 after concern about abuse of kava in indigenous communities.\n\nThe Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration has recommended no more than 250 mg of kavalactones be taken in a 24‑hour period.\n\nKava possession is limited to 2 kg per adult in the Northern Territory. While it was banned in Western Australia previously in the 2000s, the Western Australian Health Department announced lifting of its ban in February 2017, bringing Western Australia \"into line with other States\" where it has always remained legal, albeit closely regulated.\n\nFollowing the discussions on the safety of certain pharmaceutical products derived from kava and sold in Germany, in 2002 the EU imposed a temporary ban on imports of kava-based pharmaceutical products. The sale of kava plant became regulated in Switzerland, France, and the Netherlands. Some Pacific Island States who had been benefiting from the export of kava to the pharmaceutical companies have attempted to overturn the EU ban on kava-based pharmaceutical products by invoking international trade agreements at the WTO: Fiji, Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu argued that the ban was imposed with insufficient evidence. The pressure prompted Germany to reconsider the evidence base for banning kava-based pharmaceutical products. On 10 June 2014, the German Administrative Court overturned the 2002 ban making selling kava as a medicine legal (personal possession of kava has never been illegal), albeit strictly regulated. In Germany, kava-based pharmaceutical preparations are currently prescription drugs. Furthermore, patient and professional information brochures have been redesigned to warn about potential side effects. These strict measures have been opposed by some of the leading kava scientists. In early 2016 a court case has been filed against the Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte (BfArM/German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices) arguing that the new regulatory regime is too strict and not justified.\n\nIn the United Kingdom it is a criminal offence to sell, supply or import any medicinal product containing kava for human consumption. It is legal to possess kava for personal use, or to import it for purposes other than human consumption (e.g. for animals).\n\nUntil August 2018, Poland was the only EU country with an \"outright ban on kava\" and where the mere possession of kava was prohibited and may have resulted in a prison sentence. Under the new legislation, kava is no longer listed among prohibited substances and it is therefore legal to possess and consume the plant, but it remains illegal to sell or import commercially for the purpose of human consumption.\n\nWhen used traditionally kava is regulated as a food under the Food Standards Code. Kava can also be used as a herbal remedy. When used in this way kava is currently regulated by the Dietary Supplements Regulations. Only traditionally consumed forms and parts of the kava plant (i.e. pure roots of the kava plant and water extractions prepared from these roots) can legally be sold as food or dietary supplements in New Zealand. The sale of never traditionally consumed above-ground parts of the plant (unlike the roots of the plant, the aerial parts contain very small amounts of kavalactones and instead contain a mildly toxic alkaloid pipermethysticin) and non-water based extract (such as CO2, acetonic or ethanol extractions) is prohibited for the purpose of human consumption (but can be sold as an ingredient in cosmetics or other products not intended for human consumption).\n\nIn 2002, Health Canada issued an order prohibiting the sale of any product containing kava. While the restrictions on kava were lifted in 2012, Health Canada lists 5 kava ingredients as of 2017.\n\nIn 2002, the US Food and Drug Administration issued a Consumer Advisory: \"Kava-Containing Dietary Supplements May be Associated With Severe Liver Injury.\" No legal action was taken and this advisory has since been archived.\n\nThe Pacific island-state of Vanuatu has passed legislation to regulate the quality of its kava exports. Vanuatu prohibits the export or consumption of non-noble kava varieties or the parts of the plant that are unsuitable for consumption (such as leaves and stems).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294338", "title": "Lead poisoning", "text": "Lead poisoning\n\nLead poisoning is a type of metal poisoning caused by lead in the body. The brain is the most sensitive. Symptoms may include abdominal pain, constipation, headaches, irritability, memory problems, inability to have children, and tingling in the hands and feet. It causes almost 10% of intellectual disability of otherwise unknown cause and can result in behavioral problems. Some of the effects are permanent. In severe cases anemia, seizures, coma, or death may occur.\nExposure to lead can occur by contaminated air, water, dust, food, or consumer products. Children are at greater risk as they are more likely to put objects in their mouth such as those that contain lead paint and absorb a greater proportion of the lead that they eat. Exposure at work is a common cause of lead poisoning in adults with certain occupations at particular risk. Diagnosis is typically by measurement of the blood lead level. The Centers for Disease Control (US) has set the upper limit for blood lead for adults at 10 µg/dl (10 µg/100 g) and for children at 5 µg/dl. Elevated lead may also be detected by changes in red blood cells or dense lines in the bones of children as seen on X-ray.\nLead poisoning is preventable. This includes individual efforts such as removing lead-containing items from the home, workplace efforts such as improved ventilation and monitoring, and nationwide policies such as laws that ban lead in products such as paint and gasoline, reduce allowable levels in water or soil, and provide for cleanup of contaminated soil. The major treatments are removal of the source of lead and the use of medications that bind lead so it can be eliminated from the body, known as chelation therapy. Chelation therapy in children is recommended when blood levels are greater than 40–45 µg/dl. Medications used include dimercaprol, edetate calcium disodium, and succimer.\nIn 2016 lead is believed to have resulted in 540,000 deaths. It occurs most commonly in the developing world. Those who are poor are at greater risk. Lead is believed to result in 0.6% of the world's disease burden. People have been mining and using lead for thousands of years. Descriptions of lead poisoning date to at least 2000 BC, while efforts to limit lead's use date back to at least the 16th century. Concerns for low levels of exposure begin in the 1970s with there being no safe threshold for lead exposure.\n\nClassically, \"lead poisoning\" or \"lead intoxication\" has been defined as exposure to high levels of lead typically associated with severe health effects. Poisoning is a pattern of symptoms that occur with toxic effects from mid to high levels of exposure; toxicity is a wider spectrum of effects, including subclinical ones (those that do not cause symptoms). However, professionals often use \"lead poisoning\" and \"lead toxicity\" interchangeably, and official sources do not always restrict the use of \"lead poisoning\" to refer only to symptomatic effects of lead.\n\nThe amount of lead in the blood and tissues, as well as the time course of exposure, determine toxicity.\n\nLead poisoning may be acute (from intense exposure of short duration) or chronic (from repeat low-level exposure over a prolonged period), but the latter is much more common.\n\nDiagnosis and treatment of lead exposure are based on blood lead level (the amount of lead in the blood), measured in micrograms of lead per deciliter of blood (μg/dL). Urine lead levels may be used as well, though less commonly. In cases of chronic exposure lead often sequesters in the highest concentrations first in the bones, then in the kidneys. If a provider is performing a provocative excretion test, or \"chelation challenge\", a measurement obtained from urine rather than blood is likely to provide a more accurate representation of total lead burden to a skilled interpreter.\n\nThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization state that a blood lead level of 10 μg/dL or above is a cause for concern; however, lead may impair development and have harmful health effects even at lower levels, and there is no known safe exposure level. Authorities such as the American Academy of Pediatrics define lead poisoning as blood lead levels higher than 10 μg/dL.\nLead forms a variety of compounds and exists in the environment in various forms. Features of poisoning differ depending on whether the agent is an organic compound (one that contains carbon), or an inorganic one. Organic lead poisoning is now very rare, because countries across the world have phased out the use of organic lead compounds as gasoline additives, but such compounds are still used in industrial settings. Organic lead compounds, which cross the skin and respiratory tract easily, affect the central nervous system predominantly.\n\nLead poisoning can cause a variety of symptoms and signs which vary depending on the individual and the duration of lead exposure. Symptoms are nonspecific and may be subtle, and someone with elevated lead levels may have no symptoms. Symptoms usually develop over weeks to months as lead builds up in the body during a chronic exposure, but acute symptoms from brief, intense exposures also occur.\n\nSymptoms from exposure to organic lead, which is probably more toxic than inorganic lead due to its lipid solubility, occur rapidly. Poisoning by organic lead compounds has symptoms predominantly in the central nervous system, such as insomnia, delirium, cognitive deficits, tremor, hallucinations, and convulsions.\nSymptoms may be different in adults and children; the main symptoms in adults are headache, abdominal pain, memory loss, kidney failure, male reproductive problems, and weakness, pain, or tingling in the extremities.\n\nEarly symptoms of lead poisoning in adults are commonly nonspecific and include depression, loss of appetite, intermittent abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, and muscle pain. Other early signs in adults include malaise, fatigue, decreased libido, and problems with sleep. An unusual taste in the mouth and personality changes are also early signs.\n\nIn adults, symptoms can occur at levels above 40 μg/dL, but are more likely to occur only above 50–60 μg/dL. Symptoms begin to appear in children generally at around 60 μg/dL. However, the lead levels at which symptoms appear vary widely depending on unknown characteristics of each individual. At blood lead levels between 25 and 60 μg/dL, neuropsychiatric effects such as delayed reaction times, irritability, and difficulty concentrating, as well as slowed motor nerve conduction and headache can occur. Anemia may appear at blood lead levels higher than 50 μg/dL. In adults, abdominal colic, involving paroxysms of pain, may appear at blood lead levels greater than 80 μg/dL. Signs that occur in adults at blood lead levels exceeding 100 μg/dL include wrist drop and foot drop, and signs of encephalopathy (a condition characterized by brain swelling), such as those that accompany increased pressure within the skull, delirium, coma, seizures, and headache. In children, signs of encephalopathy such as bizarre behavior, discoordination, and apathy occur at lead levels exceeding 70 μg/dL. For both adults and children, it is rare to be asymptomatic if blood lead levels exceed 100 μg/dL.\n\nIn acute poisoning, typical neurological signs are pain, muscle weakness, numbness and tingling, and, rarely, symptoms associated with inflammation of the brain. Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation are other acute symptoms. Lead's effects on the mouth include astringency and a metallic taste. Gastrointestinal problems, such as constipation, diarrhea, poor appetite, or weight loss, are common in acute poisoning. Absorption of large amounts of lead over a short time can cause shock (insufficient fluid in the circulatory system) due to loss of water from the gastrointestinal tract. Hemolysis (the rupture of red blood cells) due to acute poisoning can cause anemia and hemoglobin in the urine. Damage to kidneys can cause changes in urination such as decreased urine output. People who survive acute poisoning often go on to display symptoms of chronic poisoning.\n\nChronic poisoning usually presents with symptoms affecting multiple systems, but is associated with three main types of symptoms: gastrointestinal, neuromuscular, and neurological. Central nervous system and neuromuscular symptoms usually result from intense exposure, while gastrointestinal symptoms usually result from exposure over longer periods. Signs of chronic exposure include loss of short-term memory or concentration, depression, nausea, abdominal pain, loss of coordination, and numbness and tingling in the extremities. Fatigue, problems with sleep, headaches, stupor, slurred speech, and anemia are also found in chronic lead poisoning. A \"lead hue\" of the skin with pallor and/or lividity is another feature. A blue line along the gum with bluish black edging to the teeth, known as a Burton line, is another indication of chronic lead poisoning. Children with chronic poisoning may refuse to play or may have hyperkinetic or aggressive behavior disorders. Visual disturbance may present with gradually progressing blurred vision as a result of central scotoma, caused by toxic optic neuritis.\n\nA woman who has elevated blood lead levels during pregnancy is at greater risk of a prematurely birth or with a low birth weight. Children are more at risk for lead poisoning because their smaller bodies are in a continuous state of growth and development. Lead is absorbed at a faster rate compared to adults, which causes more physical harm than to older people. Furthermore, children, especially as they are learning to crawl and walk, are constantly on the floor and therefore more prone to ingesting and inhaling dust that is contaminated with lead.\n\nThe classic signs and symptoms in children are loss of appetite, abdominal pain, vomiting, weight loss, constipation, anemia, kidney failure, irritability, lethargy, learning disabilities, and behavioral problems. Slow development of normal childhood behaviors, such as talking and use of words, and permanent intellectual disability are both commonly seen. Although less common, it is possible for fingernails to develop leukonychia striata if exposed to abnormally high lead concentrations.\n\nLead affects every one of the body's organ systems, especially the nervous system, but also the bones and teeth, the kidneys, and the cardiovascular, immune, and reproductive systems. Hearing loss and tooth decay have been linked to lead exposure, as have cataracts. Intrauterine and neonatal lead exposure promote tooth decay. Aside from the developmental effects unique to young children, the health effects experienced by adults are similar to those in children, although the thresholds are generally higher.\n\nKidney damage occurs with exposure to high levels of lead, and evidence suggests that lower levels can damage kidneys as well. The toxic effect of lead causes nephropathy and may cause Fanconi syndrome, in which the proximal tubular function of the kidney is impaired. Long-term exposure at levels lower than those that cause lead nephropathy have also been reported as nephrotoxic in patients from developed countries that had chronic kidney disease or were at risk because of hypertension or diabetes mellitus.\nLead poisoning inhibits excretion of the waste product urate and causes a predisposition for gout, in which urate builds up. This condition is known as \"saturnine gout\".\n\nEvidence suggests lead exposure is associated with high blood pressure, and studies have also found connections between lead exposure and coronary heart disease, heart rate variability, and death from stroke, but this evidence is more limited. People who have been exposed to higher concentrations of lead may be at a higher risk for cardiac autonomic dysfunction on days when ozone and fine particles are higher.\n\nLead affects both the male and female reproductive systems. In men, when blood lead levels exceed 40 μg/dL, sperm count is reduced and changes occur in volume of sperm, their motility, and their morphology.\nA pregnant woman's elevated blood lead level can lead to miscarriage, prematurity, low birth weight, and problems with development during childhood. Lead is able to pass through the placenta and into breast milk, and blood lead levels in mothers and infants are usually similar. A fetus may be poisoned \"in utero\" if lead from the mother's bones is subsequently mobilized by the changes in metabolism due to pregnancy; increased calcium intake in pregnancy may help mitigate this phenomenon.\n\nLead affects the peripheral nervous system (especially motor nerves) and the central nervous system. Peripheral nervous system effects are more prominent in adults and central nervous system effects are more prominent in children. Lead causes the axons of nerve cells to degenerate and lose their myelin coats.\n\nLead exposure in young children has been linked to learning disabilities, and children with blood lead concentrations greater than 10 μg/dL are in danger of developmental disabilities. Increased blood lead level in children has been correlated with decreases in intelligence, nonverbal reasoning, short-term memory, attention, reading and arithmetic ability, fine motor skills, emotional regulation, and social engagement.\nThe effect of lead on children's cognitive abilities takes place at very low levels. There is apparently no lower threshold to the dose-response relationship (unlike other heavy metals such as mercury). Reduced academic performance has been associated with lead exposure even at blood lead levels lower than 5 μg/dL. Blood lead levels below 10 μg/dL have been reported to be associated with lower IQ and behavior problems such as aggression, in proportion with blood lead levels. Between the blood lead levels of 5 and 35 μg/dL, an IQ decrease of 2–4 points for each μg/dL increase is reported in children. However, studies that show associations between low-level lead exposure and health effects in children may be affected by confounding and overestimate the effects of low-level lead exposure.\nHigh blood lead levels in adults are also associated with decreases in cognitive performance and with psychiatric symptoms such as depression and anxiety. It was found in a large group of current and former inorganic lead workers in Korea that blood lead levels in the range of 20–50 μg/dL were correlated with neuro-cognitive defects. Increases in blood lead levels from about 50 to about 100 μg/dL in adults have been found to be associated with persistent, and possibly permanent, impairment of central nervous system function.\nLead exposure in children is also correlated with neuropsychiatric disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and anti-social behaviour. Elevated lead levels in children are correlated with higher scores on aggression and delinquency measures. A correlation has also been found between prenatal and early childhood lead exposure and violent crime in adulthood. Countries with the highest air lead levels have also been found to have the highest murder rates, after adjusting for confounding factors. A May 2000 study by economic consultant Rick Nevin theorizes that lead exposure explains 65% to 90% of the variation in violent crime rates in the US. A 2007 paper by the same author claims to show a strong association between preschool blood lead and subsequent crime rate trends over several decades across nine countries. Lead exposure in childhood appears to increase school suspensions and juvenile detention among boys. It is believed that the U.S. ban on lead paint in buildings in the late 1970s, as well as the phaseout of leaded gasoline in the 1970s and 1980s, partially helped contribute to the decline of violent crime in the United States since the early 1990s.\n\nLead is a common environmental pollutant. Causes of environmental contamination include industrial use of lead, such as is found in facilities that process lead-acid batteries or produce lead wire or pipes, and metal recycling and foundries. Storage batteries and ammunition are made with the largest amounts of lead consumed in the economy each year, in the US as of 2013. Children living near facilities that process lead, such as lead smelters, have been found to have unusually high blood lead levels. In August 2009, parents rioted in China after lead poisoning was found in nearly 2000 children living near zinc and manganese smelters. Lead exposure can occur from contact with lead in air, household dust, soil, water, and commercial products. Leaded gasoline has also been linked to increases in lead pollution. Some research has suggested a link between leaded gasoline and crime rates. Man made lead pollution has been elevated in the air for the past 2000 years. Lead pollution in the air is entirely due to human activity (mining and smelting).\n\nIn adults, occupational exposure is the main cause of lead poisoning. People can be exposed when working in facilities that produce a variety of lead-containing products; these include radiation shields, ammunition, certain surgical equipment, developing dental x-ray films prior to digital x-rays (each film packet had a lead liner to prevent the radiation from going through), fetal monitors, plumbing, circuit boards, jet engines, and ceramic glazes. In addition, lead miners and smelters, plumbers and fitters, auto mechanics, glass manufacturers, construction workers, battery manufacturers and recyclers, firing range instructors, and plastic manufacturers are at risk for lead exposure. Other occupations that present lead exposure risks include welding, manufacture of rubber, printing, zinc and copper smelting, processing of ore, combustion of solid waste, and production of paints and pigments. Parents who are exposed to lead in the workplace can bring lead dust home on clothes or skin and expose their children. Occupational exposure to lead increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, in particular: stroke, and high blood pressure.\n\nLead may be found in food when food is grown in soil that is high in lead, airborne lead contaminates the crops, animals eat lead in their diet, or lead enters the food either from what it was stored or cooked in.\n\nSome lead compounds are colorful and are used widely in paints, and lead paint is a major route of lead exposure in children. A study conducted in 1998–2000 found that 38 million housing units in the US had lead-based paint, down from a 1990 estimate of 64 million. Deteriorating lead paint can produce dangerous lead levels in household dust and soil. Deteriorating lead paint and lead-containing household dust are the main causes of chronic lead poisoning. The lead breaks down into the dust and since children are more prone to crawling on the floor, it is easily ingested. Many young children display pica, eating things that are not food. Even a small amount of a lead-containing product such as a paint chip or a sip of glaze can contain tens or hundreds of milligrams of lead. Eating chips of lead paint presents a particular hazard to children, generally producing more severe poisoning than occurs from dust. Because removing lead paint from dwellings, e.g. by sanding or torching creates lead-containing dust and fumes, it is generally safer to seal the lead paint under new paint (excepting moveable windows and doors, which create paint dust when operated). Alternatively, special precautions must be taken if the lead paint is to be removed. In oil painting it was once common for colours such as yellow or white to be made with lead carbonate. Lead white oil colour was the main white of oil painters until superseded by compounds containing zinc or titanium in the mid-20th century. It is speculated that the painter Caravaggio and possibly Francisco Goya and Vincent Van Gogh had lead poisoning due to overexposure or carelessness when handling this colour.\n\nResidual lead in soil contributes to lead exposure in urban areas. It has been thought that the more polluted an area is with various contaminants, the more likely it is to contain lead. However, this is not always the case, as there are several other reasons for lead contamination in soil. Lead content in soil may be caused by broken-down lead paint, residues from lead-containing gasoline, used engine oil, tire weights, or pesticides used in the past, contaminated landfills, or from nearby industries such as foundries or smelters. Although leaded soil is less of a problem in countries that no longer have leaded gasoline, it remains prevalent, raising concerns about the safety of urban agriculture; eating food grown in contaminated soil can present a lead hazard.\n\nLead from the atmosphere or soil can end up in groundwater and surface water. It is also potentially in drinking water, e.g. from plumbing and fixtures that are either made of lead or have lead solder. Since acidic water breaks down lead in plumbing more readily, chemicals can be added to municipal water to increase the pH and thus reduce the corrosivity of the public water supply. Chloramines, which were adopted as a substitute for chlorine disinfectants due to fewer health concerns, increase corrositivity. In the US, 14–20% of total lead exposure is attributed to drinking water. In 2004, a team of seven reporters from \"The Washington Post\" discovered high levels of lead in the drinking water in Washington, D.C. and won an award for investigative reporting for a series of articles about this contamination. In the Flint water crisis, a switch to a more corrosive municipal water source elevated lead levels in drinking water in domestic tap water.\n\nLike Flint, Michigan and Washington, D.C., a similar fate had fallen on the State of Wisconsin, where they are estimated in having to replace up to 176,000 underground pipes due being made of lead. The city of Madison, Wisconsin addressed the issue and replaced all of their piping, but there are still others that have yet to follow suit. While there are chemical methods that could help reduce the amount of lead in the water distributed, the sure fix would be replacing the pipes completely. The problem with this solution is that while the state may replace the pipes below ground, it will be up to the homeowners to fix the pipes on their property which could end up being pretty pricey, about $3,000 on average pricey. Experts say that if the city were to replace their pipes and the citizens were to keep the old pipes located in their homes, there would be a potential for more lead to flow into their drinking water. The ultimate goal is for a total overhaul to take place, but this would require the citizens to buy into the pipe replacement. Such a move would allow the preservation of present health and secure greater health for the future.\nCollecting rainwater from roof runoff used as potable water may contain lead if there are lead contaminants on the roof or in the storage tank. The Australian Drinking Water Guidelines allow a maximum of .01 mg/L lead in water.\n\nLead can be found in products such as kohl, an ancient cosmetic from the Middle East, South Asia, and parts of Africa that has many names; and from some toys. In 2007, millions of toys made in China were recalled from multiple countries owing to safety hazards including lead paint. Vinyl mini-blinds, found especially in older housing, may contain lead.\nLead is commonly incorporated into herbal remedies such as Indian Ayurvedic preparations and remedies of Chinese origin. There are also risks of elevated blood lead levels caused by folk remedies like \"azarcon\" and \"greta\", which each contain about 95% lead.\nIngestion of metallic lead, such as small lead fishing lures, increases blood lead levels and can be fatal. Ingestion of lead-contaminated food is also a threat. Ceramic glaze often contains lead, and dishes that have been improperly fired can leach the metal into food, potentially causing severe poisoning. In some places, the solder in cans used for food contains lead. When manufacturing medical instruments and hardware, solder containing lead may be present. People who eat animals hunted with lead bullets may be at risk for lead exposure. Bullets lodged in the body rarely cause significant levels of lead, but bullets lodged in the joints are the exception, as they deteriorate and release lead into the body over time.\n\nIn May 2015, Indian food safety regulators in the state of Uttar Pradesh found that samples of Maggi 2 Minute Noodles contained lead up to 17 times beyond permissible limits. On 3 June 2015, New Delhi Government banned the sale of Maggi noodles in New Delhi stores for 15 days because it was found to contain lead beyond the permissible limit. The Gujarat FDA on June 4, 2015 banned the noodles for 30 days after 27 out of 39 samples were detected with objectionable levels of metallic lead, among other things. Some India's biggest retailers like Future Group, Big Bazaar, Easyday and Nilgiris have imposed a nationwide ban on Maggi noodles. Many other states too have banned Maggi noodles.\n\nContact with ammunition is a source of lead exposure. As of 2013, lead-based ammunition production is the second largest annual use of lead in the US, accounting for over 84,800 metric tons consumed in 2013. second only to the manufacture of storage batteries. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) cannot regulate cartridges and shells, as a matter of law. Lead birdshot is banned in some areas, but this is primarily for the benefit of the birds and their predators, rather than humans. Contamination from heavily used gun ranges are of concern to those who live near by. Non-lead alternatives include steel, tungsten-nickel-iron, bismuth-tin, and tungsten-polymer.\n\nBecause game animals can be shot using lead bullets, the potential for lead ingestion from game meat consumption has been studied clinically and epidemiologically. In a recent study conducted by the CDC, a cohort from North Dakota was enrolled and asked to self-report historical consumption of game meat, and participation in other activities that could cause lead exposure. The study found that participants' age, sex, housing age, current hobbies with potential for lead exposure, and game consumption were all associated with blood lead level (PbB).\n\nAccording to a study published in 2008, 1.1% of the 736 persons consuming wild game meat tested had PbB ≥5 μg/dl In November 2015 The US HHS/CDC/NIOSH designated 5 µg/dL (five micrograms per deciliter) of whole blood, in a venous blood sample, as the reference blood lead level for adults. An elevated BLL is defined as a BLL ≥5 µg/dL. This case definition is used by the ABLES program, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), and CDC’s National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS). Previously (i.e. from 2009 until November 2015), the case definition for an elevated BLL was a BLL ≥10 µg/dL.\n\nCopper-jacketed, lead-based bullets are more economical to produce and use than lead or any other material. Alternative materials are available such as steel, copper, and tungsten, but alternatives are universally less effective and/or more expensive. However, the biggest impediment to using the vast majority of alternatives relates to current laws in the United States pertaining to armor-piercing rounds. Laws and regulations relating to armor-piercing ammunition expressly prohibit the use of brass, bronze, steel, tungsten, and nearly every metallic alternative in any bullet that can be shot by a handgun, which at this time is nearly every caliber smaller than 50BMG (including the popular .223 Remington, .308 Winchester and .30-06 to name just a few). Some lead-based bullets are resistant to fragmentation, offering hunters the ability to clean game animals with negligible risk of including lead fragments in prepared meat. Other bullets are prone to fragmentation and exacerbate the risk of lead ingestion from prepared meat. In practice, use of a non-fragmenting bullet and proper cleaning of the game animal's wound can eliminate the risk of lead ingestion from eating game; however, isolating such practice to experimentally determine its association with blood lead levels in study is difficult. Bismuth is an element used as a lead-replacement for shotgun pellets used in waterfowl hunting although shotshells made from bismuth are nearly ten times the cost of lead.\n\nExposure occurs through inhalation, ingestion or occasionally skin contact. Lead may be taken in through direct contact with mouth, nose, and eyes (mucous membranes), and through breaks in the skin. Tetraethyllead, which was a gasoline additive and is still used in fuels such as aviation fuel, passes through the skin; however inorganic lead found in paint, food, and most lead-containing consumer products is only minimally absorbed through the skin. The main sources of absorption of inorganic lead are from ingestion and inhalation. In adults, about 35–40% of inhaled lead dust is deposited in the lungs, and about 95% of that goes into the bloodstream. Of ingested inorganic lead, about 15% is absorbed, but this percentage is higher in children, pregnant women, and people with deficiencies of calcium, zinc, or iron. Infants may absorb about 50% of ingested lead, but little is known about absorption rates in children.\nThe main body compartments that store lead are the blood, soft tissues, and bone; the half-life of lead in these tissues is measured in weeks for blood, months for soft tissues, and years for bone. Lead in the bones, teeth, hair, and nails is bound tightly and not available to other tissues, and is generally thought not to be harmful. In adults, 94% of absorbed lead is deposited in the bones and teeth, but children only store 70% in this manner, a fact which may partially account for the more serious health effects on children. The estimated half-life of lead in bone is 20 to 30 years, and bone can introduce lead into the bloodstream long after the initial exposure is gone. The half-life of lead in the blood in men is about 40 days, but it may be longer in children and pregnant women, whose bones are undergoing remodeling, which allows the lead to be continuously re-introduced into the bloodstream. Also, if lead exposure takes place over years, clearance is much slower, partly due to the re-release of lead from bone. Many other tissues store lead, but those with the highest concentrations (other than blood, bone, and teeth) are the brain, spleen, kidneys, liver, and lungs.\nLead is removed from the body very slowly, mainly through urine. Smaller amounts of lead are also eliminated through the feces, and very small amounts in hair, nails, and sweat.\nLead has no known physiologically relevant role in the body, and its harmful effects are myriad. Lead and other heavy metals create reactive radicals which damage cell structures including DNA and cell membranes. Lead also interferes with DNA transcription, enzymes that help in the synthesis of vitamin D, and enzymes that maintain the integrity of the cell membrane. Anemia may result when the cell membranes of red blood cells become more fragile as the result of damage to their membranes. Lead interferes with metabolism of bones and teeth and alters the permeability of blood vessels and collagen synthesis. Lead may also be harmful to the developing immune system, causing production of excessive inflammatory proteins; this mechanism may mean that lead exposure is a risk factor for asthma in children. Lead exposure has also been associated with a decrease in activity of immune cells such as polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Lead also interferes with the normal metabolism of calcium in cells and causes it to build up within them.\n\nThe primary cause of lead's toxicity is its interference with a variety of enzymes because it binds to sulfhydryl groups found on many enzymes. Part of lead's toxicity results from its ability to mimic other metals that take part in biological processes, which act as cofactors in many enzymatic reactions, displacing them at the enzymes on which they act. Lead is able to bind to and interact with many of the same enzymes as these metals but, due to its differing chemistry, does not properly function as a cofactor, thus interfering with the enzyme's ability to catalyze its normal reaction or reactions. Among the essential metals with which lead interacts are calcium, iron, and zinc.\n\nThe lead ion has a lone pair in its electronic structure, which can result in a distortion in the coordination of ligands, and in 2007 was hypothesized to be important in lead poisoning's effects on enzymes (see ).\nOne of the main causes for the pathology of lead is that it interferes with the activity of an essential enzyme called delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase, or ALAD (see image of the enzyme structure), which is important in the biosynthesis of heme, the cofactor found in hemoglobin. Lead also inhibits the enzyme ferrochelatase, another enzyme involved in the formation of heme. Ferrochelatase catalyzes the joining of protoporphyrin and Fe to form heme. Lead's interference with heme synthesis results in production of zinc protoporphyrin and the development of anemia. Another effect of lead's interference with heme synthesis is the buildup of heme precursors, such as aminolevulinic acid, which may be directly or indirectly harmful to neurons.\n\nThe brain is the organ most sensitive to lead exposure. Lead is able to pass through the endothelial cells at the blood brain barrier because it can substitute for calcium ions and be uptaken by calcium-ATPase pumps. Lead poisoning interferes with the normal development of a child's brain and nervous system; therefore children are at greater risk of lead neurotoxicity than adults are. In a child's developing brain, lead interferes with synapse formation in the cerebral cortex, neurochemical development (including that of neurotransmitters), and organization of ion channels. It causes loss of neurons' myelin sheaths, reduces numbers of neurons, interferes with neurotransmission, and decreases neuronal growth.\nLead-ions (Pb), like magnesium-ions (Mg), blocks NMDA receptors. Since the normal Pb concentration in the extracellular fluid is low (adult average of 120 mg), even a low increase in Pb concentration has a significant positive affect on the blockage of NMDA-receptors. Therefore, an increase in Pb concentration, will, effectively, inhibit ongoing long-term potentiations (LTPs), and lead to an abnormal increase long-term depression (LDPs) on neurons on the effected parts of the nervous system. These abnormalities lead to the indirect downregulation of NMDA-receptors, effectively initiating a positive feedback-loop for LDP. The targeting of NMDA receptors is thought to be one of the main causes for lead's toxicity to neurons.\n\nDiagnosis includes determining the clinical signs and the medical history, with inquiry into possible routes of exposure. Clinical toxicologists, medical specialists in the area of poisoning, may be involved in diagnosis and treatment.\n\nThe main tool in diagnosing and assessing the severity of lead poisoning is laboratory analysis of the blood lead level (BLL).\n\nBlood film examination may reveal basophilic stippling of red blood cells (dots in red blood cells visible through a microscope), as well as the changes normally associated with iron-deficiency anemia (microcytosis and hypochromasia). This may be known as sideroblastic anemia. However, basophilic stippling is also seen in unrelated conditions, such as megaloblastic anemia caused by vitamin B12 (colbalamin) and folate deficiencies.\nContrary to other sideroblastic anemia, there are nevertheless no ring sideroblasts in a bone marrow smear.\n\nExposure to lead also can be evaluated by measuring erythrocyte protoporphyrin (EP) in blood samples. EP is a part of red blood cells known to increase when the amount of lead in the blood is high, with a delay of a few weeks. Thus EP levels in conjunction with blood lead levels can suggest the time period of exposure; if blood lead levels are high but EP is still normal, this finding suggests exposure was recent. However, the EP level alone is not sensitive enough to identify elevated blood lead levels below about 35 μg/dL. Due to this higher threshold for detection and the fact that EP levels also increase in iron deficiency, use of this method for detecting lead exposure has decreased.\nBlood lead levels are an indicator mainly of recent or current lead exposure, not of total body burden. Lead in bones can be measured noninvasively by X-ray fluorescence; this may be the best measure of cumulative exposure and total body burden. However this method is not widely available and is mainly used for research rather than routine diagnosis. Another radiographic sign of elevated lead levels is the presence of radiodense lines called lead lines at the metaphysis in the long bones of growing children, especially around the knees. These lead lines, caused by increased calcification due to disrupted metabolism in the growing bones, become wider as the duration of lead exposure increases. X-rays may also reveal lead-containing foreign materials such as paint chips in the gastrointestinal tract.\nFecal lead content that is measured over the course of a few days may also be an accurate way to estimate the overall amount of childhood lead intake. This form of measurement may serve as a useful way to see the extent of oral lead exposure from all the diet and environmental sources of lead.\nLead poisoning shares symptoms with other conditions and may be easily missed. Conditions that present similarly and must be ruled out in diagnosing lead poisoning include carpal tunnel syndrome, Guillain–Barré syndrome, renal colic, appendicitis, encephalitis in adults, and viral gastroenteritis in children. Other differential diagnoses in children include constipation, abdominal colic, iron deficiency, subdural hematoma, neoplasms of the central nervous system, emotional and behavior disorders, and intellectual disability.\n\nThe current reference range for acceptable blood lead concentrations in healthy persons without excessive exposure to environmental sources of lead is less than 5 µg/dL for children. It was less than 25 µg/dL for adults. Previous to 2012 the value for children was 10 (µg/dl). The current biological exposure index (a level that should not be exceeded) for lead-exposed workers in the U.S. is 30 µg/dL in a random blood specimen.\n\nIn 2015, US HHS/CDC/NIOSH designated 5 µg/dL (five micrograms per deciliter) of whole blood, in a venous blood sample, as the reference blood lead level for adults. An elevated BLL is defined as a BLL ≥5 µg/dL. This case definition is used by the ABLES program, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), and CDC’s National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS). Previously (i.e. from 2009 until November 2015), the case definition for an elevated BLL was a BLL ≥10 µg/dL. The U.S. national BLL geometric mean among adults was 1.2 μg/dL in 2009–2010.\n\nBlood lead concentrations in poisoning victims have ranged from 30->80 µg/dL in children exposed to lead paint in older houses, 77–104 µg/dL in persons working with pottery glazes, 90–137 µg/dL in individuals consuming contaminated herbal medicines, 109–139 µg/dL in indoor shooting range instructors and as high as 330 µg/dL in those drinking fruit juices from glazed earthenware containers.\n\nIn most cases, lead poisoning is preventable by avoiding exposure to lead. Prevention strategies can be divided into individual (measures taken by a family), preventive medicine (identifying and intervening with high-risk individuals), and public health (reducing risk on a population level).\n\nRecommended steps by individuals to reduce the blood lead levels of children include increasing their frequency of hand washing and their intake of calcium and iron, discouraging them from putting their hands to their mouths, vacuuming frequently, and eliminating the presence of lead-containing objects such as blinds and jewellery in the house. In houses with lead pipes or plumbing solder, these can be replaced. Less permanent but cheaper methods include running water in the morning to flush out the most contaminated water, or adjusting the water's chemistry to prevent corrosion of pipes. Lead testing kits are commercially available for detecting the presence of lead in the household. As hot water is more likely than cold water to contain higher amounts of lead, use only cold water from the tap for drinking, cooking, and for making baby formula. Since most of the lead in household water usually comes from plumbing in the house and not from the local water supply, using cold water can avoid lead exposure. Measures such as dust control and household education do not appear to be effective in changing children's blood levels.\n\nScreening is an important method in preventive medicine strategies. Screening programs exist to test the blood of children at high risk for lead exposure, such as those who live near lead-related industries.\n\nPrevention measures also exist on national and municipal levels. Recommendations by health professionals for lowering childhood exposures include banning the use of lead where it is not essential and strengthening regulations that limit the amount of lead in soil, water, air, household dust, and products. Regulations exist to limit the amount of lead in paint; for example, a 1978 law in the US restricted the lead in paint for residences, furniture, and toys to 0.06% or less. In October 2008, the US Environmental Protection Agency reduced the allowable lead level by a factor of ten to 0.15 micrograms per cubic meter of air, giving states five years to comply with the standards. The European Union's Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive limits amounts of lead and other toxic substances in electronics and electrical equipment. In some places, remediation programs exist to reduce the presence of lead when it is found to be high, for example in drinking water. As a more radical solution, entire towns located near former lead mines have been \"closed\" by the government, and the population resettled elsewhere, as was the case with Picher, Oklahoma in 2009. Removing lead from airplane fuel would also be useful.\n\nThe mainstays of treatment are removal from the source of lead and, for people who have significantly high blood lead levels or who have symptoms of poisoning, chelation therapy. Treatment of iron, calcium, and zinc deficiencies, which are associated with increased lead absorption, is another part of treatment for lead poisoning. When lead-containing materials are present in the gastrointestinal tract (as evidenced by abdominal X-rays), whole bowel irrigation, cathartics, endoscopy, or even surgical removal may be used to eliminate it from the gut and prevent further exposure. Lead-containing bullets and shrapnel may also present a threat of further exposure and may need to be surgically removed if they are in or near fluid-filled or synovial spaces. If lead encephalopathy is present, anticonvulsants may be given to control seizures, and treatments to control swelling of the brain include corticosteroids and mannitol. Treatment of organic lead poisoning involves removing the lead compound from the skin, preventing further exposure, treating seizures, and possibly chelation therapy for people with high blood lead concentrations.\n\nA chelating agent is a molecule with at least two negatively charged groups that allow it to form complexes with metal ions with multiple positive charges, such as lead. The chelate that is thus formed is nontoxic and can be excreted in the urine, initially at up to 50 times the normal rate. The chelating agents used for treatment of lead poisoning are edetate disodium calcium (CaNaEDTA), dimercaprol (BAL), which are injected, and succimer and d-penicillamine, which are administered orally.\n\nChelation therapy is used in cases of acute lead poisoning, severe poisoning, and encephalopathy, and is considered for people with blood lead levels above 25 µg/dL. While the use of chelation for people with symptoms of lead poisoning is widely supported, use in asymptomatic people with high blood lead levels is more controversial. Chelation therapy is of limited value for cases of chronic exposure to low levels of lead. Chelation therapy is usually stopped when symptoms resolve or when blood lead levels return to premorbid levels. When lead exposure has taken place over a long period, blood lead levels may rise after chelation is stopped because lead is leached into blood from stores in the bone; thus repeated treatments are often necessary.\n\nPeople receiving dimercaprol need to be assessed for peanut allergies since the commercial formulation contains peanut oil. Calcium EDTA is also effective if administered four hours after the administration of dimercaprol. Administering dimercaprol, DMSA (Succimer), or DMPS prior to calcium EDTA is necessary to prevent the redistribution of lead into the central nervous system. Dimercaprol used alone may also redistribute lead to the brain and testes. An adverse side effect of calcium EDTA is renal toxicity. Succimer (DMSA) is the preferred agent in mild to moderate lead poisoning cases. This may be the case in instances where children have a blood lead level >25μg/dL. The most reported adverse side effect for succimer is gastrointestinal disturbances. It is also important to note that chelation therapy only lowers blood lead levels and may not prevent the lead-induced cognitive problems associated with lower lead levels in tissue. This may be because of the inability of these agents to remove sufficient amounts of lead from tissue or inability to reverse preexisting damage.\n\nChelating agents can have adverse effects; for example, chelation therapy can lower the body's levels of necessary nutrients like zinc. Chelating agents taken orally can increase the body's absorption of lead through the intestine.\nChelation challenge, also known as provocation testing, is used to indicate an elevated and mobilizable body burden of heavy metals including lead. This testing involves collecting urine before and after administering a one-off dose of chelating agent to mobilize heavy metals into the urine. Then urine is analyzed by a laboratory for levels of heavy metals; from this analysis overall body burden is inferred. Chelation challenge mainly measures the burden of lead in soft tissues, though whether it accurately reflects long-term exposure or the amount of lead stored in bone remains controversial. Although the technique has been used to determine whether chelation therapy is indicated and to diagnose heavy metal exposure, some evidence does not support these uses as blood levels after chelation are not comparable to the reference range typically used to diagnose heavy metal poisoning. The single chelation dose could also redistribute the heavy metals to more sensitive areas such as central nervous system tissue.\n\nSince lead has been used widely for centuries, the effects of exposure are worldwide. Environmental lead is ubiquitous, and everyone has some measurable blood lead level. Atmospheric lead pollution increased dramatically beginning in the 1950s as a result of the widespread use of leaded gasoline. Lead is one of the largest environmental medicine problems in terms of numbers of people exposed and the public health toll it takes. Lead exposure accounts for about 0.2% of all deaths and 0.6% of disability adjusted life years globally.\nAlthough regulation reducing lead in products has greatly reduced exposure in the developed world since the 1970s, lead is still allowed in products in many developing countries. In all countries that have banned leaded gasoline, average blood lead levels have fallen sharply. However, some developing countries still allow leaded gasoline, which is the primary source of lead exposure in most developing countries. Beyond exposure from gasoline, the frequent use of pesticides in developing countries adds a risk of lead exposure and subsequent poisoning. Poor children in developing countries are at especially high risk for lead poisoning. Of North American children, 7% have blood lead levels above 10 μg/dL, whereas among Central and South American children, the percentage is 33 to 34%. About one fifth of the world's disease burden from lead poisoning occurs in the Western Pacific, and another fifth is in Southeast Asia.\nIn developed countries, people with low levels of education living in poorer areas are most at risk for elevated lead. In the US, the groups most at risk for lead exposure are the impoverished, city-dwellers, and immigrants. African-American children and those living in old housing have also been found to be at elevated risk for high blood lead levels in the US. Low-income people often live in old housing with lead paint, which may begin to peel, exposing residents to high levels of lead-containing dust.\nRisk factors for elevated lead exposure include alcohol consumption and smoking (possibly because of contamination of tobacco leaves with lead-containing pesticides). Adults with certain risk factors might be more susceptible to toxicity; these include calcium and iron deficiencies, old age, disease of organs targeted by lead (e.g. the brain, the kidneys), and possibly genetic susceptibility. \nDifferences in vulnerability to lead-induced neurological damage between males and females have also been found, but some studies have found males to be at greater risk, while others have found females to be.\nIn adults, blood lead levels steadily increase with increasing age. In adults of all ages, men have higher blood lead levels than women do. Children are more sensitive to elevated blood lead levels than adults are. Children may also have a higher intake of lead than adults; they breathe faster and may be more likely to have contact with and ingest soil. Children of ages one to three tend to have the highest blood lead levels, possibly because at that age they begin to walk and explore their environment, and they use their mouths in their exploration. Blood levels usually peak at about 18–24 months old. In many countries including the US, household paint and dust are the major route of exposure in children.\n\nCases of mass lead poisoning can occur. 15,000 people are being relocated from Jiyuan in central Henan province to other locations after 1000 children living around China's largest smelter plant (owned and operated by Yuguang Gold and Lead) were found to have excess lead in their blood. The total cost of this project is estimated to around 1 billion yuan ($150 million). 70% of the cost will be paid by local government and the smelter company, while the rest will be paid by the residents themselves. The government has suspended production at 32 of 35 lead plants. The affected area includes people from 10 different villages.\n\nThe Zamfara State lead poisoning epidemic occurred in Nigeria in 2010. As of October 5, 2010 at least 400 children have died from the effects of lead poisoning.\n\nOutcome is related to the extent and duration of lead exposure. Effects of lead on the physiology of the kidneys and blood are generally reversible; its effects on the central nervous system are not. While peripheral effects in adults often go away when lead exposure ceases, evidence suggests that most of lead's effects on a child's central nervous system are irreversible. Children with lead poisoning may thus have adverse health, cognitive, and behavioral effects that follow them into adulthood.\n\nLead encephalopathy is a medical emergency and causes permanent brain damage in 70–80% of children affected by it, even those that receive the best treatment. The mortality rate for people who develop cerebral involvement is about 25%, and of those who survive who had lead encephalopathy symptoms by the time chelation therapy was begun, about 40% have permanent neurological problems such as cerebral palsy.\n\nExposure to lead may also decrease lifespan and have health effects in the long term. Death rates from a variety of causes have been found to be higher in people with elevated blood lead levels; these include cancer, stroke, and heart disease, and general death rates from all causes. Lead is considered a possible human carcinogen based on evidence from animal studies. Evidence also suggests that age-related mental decline and psychiatric symptoms are correlated with lead exposure. Cumulative exposure over a prolonged period may have a more important effect on some aspects of health than recent exposure. Some health effects, such as high blood pressure, are only significant risks when lead exposure is prolonged (over about one year).\n\nLead poisoning was among the first known and most widely studied work and environmental hazards. One of the first metals to be smelted and used, lead is thought to have been discovered and first mined in Anatolia around 6500 BC. Its density, workability, and corrosion resistance were among the metal's attractions.\nIn the 2nd century BC the Greek botanist Nicander described the colic and paralysis seen in lead-poisoned people. Dioscorides, a Greek physician who lived in the 1st century AD, wrote that lead makes the mind \"give way\".\nLead was used extensively in Roman aqueducts from about 500 BC to 300 AD Julius Caesar's engineer, Vitruvius, reported, \"water is much more wholesome from earthenware pipes than from lead pipes. For it seems to be made injurious by lead, because white lead is produced by it, and this is said to be harmful to the human body.\" Gout, prevalent in affluent Rome, is thought to be the result of lead, or leaded eating and drinking vessels. Sugar of lead (lead(II) acetate) was used to sweeten wine, and the gout that resulted from this was known as \"saturnine\" gout. It is even hypothesized that lead poisoning may have contributed to the decline of the Roman Empire, a hypothesis thoroughly disputed:\n\nHowever, recent research supports the idea that the lead found in the water came from the supply pipes, rather than another source of contamination. It was not unknown for locals to punch holes in the pipes to draw water off, increasing the number of people exposed to the lead.\nRomans also consumed lead through the consumption of defrutum, carenum, and sapa, musts made by boiling down fruit in lead cookware. Defrutum and its relatives were used in ancient Roman cuisine and cosmetics, including as a food preservative. The use of leaden cookware, though popular, was not the general standard and copper cookware was used far more generally. There is also no indication how often sapa was added or in what quantity.\n\nThe consumption of sapa as having a role in the fall of the Roman Empire was used in a theory proposed by geochemist Jerome Nriagu to state that \"lead poisoning contributed to the decline of the Roman Empire\". In 1984, John Scarborough, a pharmacologist and classicist, criticized the conclusions drawn by Nriagu's book as \"so full of false evidence, miscitations, typographical errors, and a blatant flippancy regarding primary sources that the reader cannot trust the basic arguments.\"\nAfter antiquity, mention of lead poisoning was absent from medical literature until the end of the Middle Ages. In 1656 the German physician Samuel Stockhausen recognized dust and fumes containing lead compounds as the cause of disease, called since ancient Roman times \"morbi metallici\", that were known to afflict miners, smelter workers, potters, and others whose work exposed them to the metal.\n\nThe painter Caravaggio might have died of lead poisoning. Bones with high lead levels were recently found in a grave thought likely to be his. Paints used at the time contained high amounts of lead salts. Caravaggio is known to have exhibited violent behavior, a symptom commonly associated with lead poisoning.\n\nIn 17th-century Germany, the physician Eberhard Gockel discovered lead-contaminated wine to be the cause of an epidemic of colic. He had noticed that monks who did not drink wine were healthy, while wine drinkers developed colic, and traced the cause to sugar of lead, made by simmering litharge with vinegar. As a result, Eberhard Ludwig, Duke of Württemberg issued an edict in 1696 banning the adulteration of wines with litharge.\n\nIn the 18th century lead poisoning was fairly frequent on account of the widespread drinking of rum, which was made in stills with a lead component (the \"worm\"). It was a significant cause of mortality amongst slaves and sailors in the colonial West Indies. Lead poisoning from rum was also noted in Boston. Benjamin Franklin suspected lead to be a risk in 1786. Also in the 18th century, \"Devonshire colic\" was the name given to the symptoms suffered by people of Devon who drank cider made in presses that were lined with lead. Lead was added to cheap wine illegally in the 18th and early 19th centuries as a sweetener. The composer Beethoven, a heavy wine drinker, suffered elevated lead levels (as later detected in his hair) possibly due to this; the cause of his death is controversial, but lead poisoning is a contender as a factor.\nWith the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century, lead poisoning became common in the work setting. The introduction of lead paint for residential use in the 19th century increased childhood exposure to lead; for millennia before this, most lead exposure had been occupational. An important step in the understanding of childhood lead poisoning occurred when toxicity in children from lead paint was recognized in Australia in 1897. France, Belgium, and Austria banned white lead interior paints in 1909; the League of Nations followed suit in 1922. However, in the United States, laws banning lead house paint were not passed until 1971, and it was phased out and not fully banned until 1978.\n\nThe 20th century saw an increase in worldwide lead exposure levels due to the increased widespread use of the metal. Beginning in the 1920s, lead was added to gasoline to improve its combustion; lead from this exhaust persists today in soil and dust in buildings. Blood lead levels worldwide have been declining sharply since the 1980s, when leaded gasoline began to be phased out. In those countries that have banned lead in solder for food and drink cans and have banned leaded gasoline additives, blood lead levels have fallen sharply since the mid-1980s.\n\nThe levels found today in most people are orders of magnitude greater than those of pre-industrial society. Due to reductions of lead in products and the workplace, acute lead poisoning is rare in most countries today, but low level lead exposure is still common. It was not until the second half of the 20th century that subclinical lead exposure became understood to be a problem. During the end of the 20th century, the blood lead levels deemed acceptable steadily declined. Blood lead levels once considered safe are now considered hazardous, with no known safe threshold.\n\nIn the late 1950s through the 1970s Herbert Needleman and Clair Cameron Patterson did research trying to prove lead's toxicity to humans. In the 1980s Needleman was falsely accused of scientific misconduct by the lead industry associates.\n\nIn 2002 Tommy Thompson, secretary of Health and Human Services appointed at least two persons with conflicts of interest to the CDC's Lead Advisory Committee.\n\nIn 2014 a case by the state of California against a number of companies decided against Sherwin-Williams, NL Industries and ConAgra and ordered them to pay $1.15 billion. The disposition of \"The People v. ConAgra Grocery Products Company et al.\" in the California 6th Appellate District Court on November 14, 2017 is that \n\nOn December 6, 2017, The petitions for rehearing from NL Industries, Inc., ConAgra Grocery Products Company and The Sherwin-Williams Company were denied.\n\nStudies have found a weak link between lead from leaded gasoline and crime rates.\n\nHumans are not alone in suffering from lead's effects; plants and animals are also affected by lead toxicity to varying degrees depending on species. Animals experience many of the same effects of lead exposure as humans do, such as abdominal pain, peripheral neuropathy, and behavioral changes such as increased aggression. Much of what is known about human lead toxicity and its effects is derived from animal studies. Animals are used to test the effects of treatments, such as chelating agents, and to provide information on the pathophysiology of lead, such as how it is absorbed and distributed in the body.\n\nFarm animals such as cows and horses as well as pet animals are also susceptible to the effects of lead toxicity. Sources of lead exposure in pets can be the same as those that present health threats to humans sharing the environment, such as paint and blinds, and there is sometimes lead in toys made for pets. Lead poisoning in a pet dog may indicate that children in the same household are at increased risk for elevated lead levels.\n\nLead, one of the leading causes of toxicity in waterfowl, has been known to cause die-offs of wild bird populations. When hunters use lead shot, waterfowl such as ducks can ingest the spent pellets later and be poisoned; predators that eat these birds are also at risk. Lead shot-related waterfowl poisonings were first documented in the US in the 1880s. By 1919, the spent lead pellets from waterfowl hunting was positively identified as the source of waterfowl deaths. Lead shot has been banned for hunting waterfowl in several countries, including the US in 1991 and Canada in 1997. Other threats to wildlife include lead paint, sediment from lead mines and smelters, and lead weights from fishing lines. Lead in some fishing gear has been banned in several countries.\n\nThe critically endangered California condor has also been affected by lead poisoning. As scavengers, condors eat carcasses of game that have been shot but not retrieved, and with them the fragments from lead bullets; this increases their lead levels. Among condors around the Grand Canyon, lead poisoning due to eating lead shot is the most frequently diagnosed cause of death. In an effort to protect this species, in areas designated as the California condor's range the use of projectiles containing lead has been banned to hunt deer, feral pigs, elk, pronghorn antelope, coyotes, ground squirrels, and other non-game wildlife. Also, conservation programs exist which routinely capture condors, check their blood lead levels, and treat cases of poisoning.\n\nReferences\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9024553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024553", "title": "List of UN numbers 1501 to 1600", "text": "List of UN numbers 1501 to 1600\n\nThe UN numbers from UN1501 to UN1600 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "31915292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31915292", "title": "List of rampage killers (Asia)", "text": "List of rampage killers (Asia)\n\nThis section of the list of rampage killers contains those cases that occurred in Asia.\n\nThis section does not include school massacres; workplace killings; religious, political, or racial crimes; or mass murders that took place primarily in a domestic environment, like familicides, which are covered in their own categories. Cases where the primary motive for the murders was to facilitate or cover up another felony, like robbery, are also excluded.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n\nAll abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\n\nW – A basic description of the weapons used in the murders\n"}
{"id": "6759188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6759188", "title": "Long Island Jewish Medical Center", "text": "Long Island Jewish Medical Center\n\nLong Island Jewish Medical Center (LIJMC or LIJ) is a clinical and academic hospital within the Northwell Health system. It is an 583-bed, non-profit tertiary care teaching hospital serving the greater New York metropolitan area. The campus is east of Manhattan, on the border of Queens and Nassau Counties, in Glen Oaks, Queens and Lake Success, New York, respectively. Its postal address is New Hyde Park (11040 and 11042) on both sides of the city limits.\n\nLIJMC has three components: Long Island Jewish Hospital, Steven & Alexandra Cohen Children’s Medical Center of New York and The Zucker Hillside Hospital. Long Island Jewish Hospital is a 452-bed tertiary adult care hospital with advanced diagnostic and treatment technology, and modern facilities for medical, surgical, dental and obstetrical care. As the primary teaching hospital for the Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell and the Long Island Campus for the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, LIJMC’s graduate medical education program is one of the largest in New York State, and programs are in divisions headed by full-time faculty.\n\nLIJ's full-time staff includes more than 500 physicians, who supervise care in all major specialties and participate in the medical center’s extensive teaching and research programs.\n\nThe medical center is located on the southeast side of North Shore Towers.\n\nThe Center was founded in 1954 by a group of nine philanthropists, including Jacob H. Horwitz.\n\nChildren born at Long Island Jewish Medical Center are typically born at Katz Women's Hospital, on the Queens side of the complex, thus those children are born within New York City, not Nassau County's Lake Success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55993637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55993637", "title": "Lottie Isbell Blake", "text": "Lottie Isbell Blake\n\nLottie Cornella Isbell Blake, M.D., (10 June 1876 - 16 November 1976) was an African-American physician, medical missionary, and educator. Blake was the first black Seventh Day Adventist to become a physician. She is remembered for her revolutionary success in hydrotherapy which at the time was not seen as a sophisticated medical treatment. Lottie Blake, along with her husband Dr. David Emanuel Blake, travelled and worked in Panama, Haiti, and Jamaica as a self-supporting medical missionary. During her life, Dr. Lottie Blake became licensed to practice medicine in Ohio, Tennessee, Alabama, Panama, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Blake found the cure for “Smokey City pneumonia” which was caused by smog in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. After 50 years of service, Lottie Blake was honored by the American Medical Association as eighty-one years old.\n\nLottie Isbell Blake was born in Appomattox, Virginia, the daughter of Fannie and Thomas Isbell. When Lottie was three, the Isbell family moved from Virginia to Columbus, Ohio. Thomas Isbell was a carpenter and Fanny Isbell helped to establish the Union Grove Baptist church while raising Lottie and her nine siblings. The Isbell children were raised as Baptists for much of their youth but when Lottie was twenty years old she, her mother, and her sister Mamie converted to become members of the Seventh-day Adventist church.\n\nFollowing high school, Blake went on to receive her teaching certification at age 20. Though she had studied to become a teacher, Blake went on to train and work as a nurse at the Battle Creek Sanitarium in Battle Creek Michigan which was founded by members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, director of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, with whom she lived and worked under became a mentor for Blake during her years as a nurse. Encouraged by Dr. Kellogg, Blake then attended medical school. She graduated from the American Medical Missionary College in 1902 at 26 years old, becoming the first black Seventh Day Adventist to become a physician.\n\nInitially, Blake’s missionary work remained within the southern United States. She worked as the director of the Rock City Sanitarium in Nashville, Tennessee and a practicing physician in Birmingham, Alabama. After an epidemic broke out in an orphanage in Huntsville, Alabama, Blake relocated to work there to help. She later went on to work at the Huntsville Oakwood Manual Training School, now Oakwood College, in Huntsville Alabama, where she was the first black faculty member and where she established a nurses training program. After marrying her husband Dr. David Emanuel Blake in 1907, the couple moved to Nashville to work in treatment rooms before moving back to Columbus, Ohio in 1912.\n\nBlake, her husband, and their five children left the United States in 1913 to do missionary work in Panama. The couple served as self-supporting medical missionaries while Lottie Blake cared for their five children. For the four years that the family lived in Panama, Blake engaged in less medical work instead focusing primarily on establishing a school for her children and the children of wealthy people who lived in the area. Yellow Fever and Malaria were the primary illnesses affecting the region of the Panama Canal where the family resided, which became the primary focuses of doctors during that time period. Working with minimal resources, the Blakes were able to successfully acquire the space and equipment to do medical work. It was during this time period in Panama that every member of the Blake family became infected with malaria at some point.\n\nAfter Panama, the family relocated to Port-au-Prince, Haiti in 1917. With little savings and with Haiti being occupied by U.S. Marines, the Blake family stayed in Haiti for only three months, finding the circumstances to be too challenging to live and work in. In this short period of time, the Blakes did manage to establish a church in Port-au-Prince.\n\nThe Blake family then went to Jamaica, where David Blake had been born and raised, they lived with relatives for eighteen months. \n\nDr. David Blake moved to Charleston, West Virginia with the intention of setting up a medical practice before sending for his family, only he died of pneumonia within a week of arriving in 1917. Lottie Blake sent her children to live with family in Columbus, Ohio while she went to practice in Charleston. In 1920, Blake moved to Columbus where she practiced medicine until 1935. At this point, Blake moved to Pittsburgh, Philadelphia where she focused on the treatment of women and children. It was here that she found the cure for “Smokey City pneumonia”, which was a type of pneumonia caused by the pollution and smog in Pittsburgh. She continued to work in Pittsburgh until her retirement in 1957 at eighty-one years old.\n\nDr. Lottie Blake died of natural causes November 16, 1976 at 100 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "57923590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57923590", "title": "Mabel Jones", "text": "Mabel Jones\n\nMabel Jones (c1865 -1923) was a British physician and a sympathizer to the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU).\n\nTrained in London and from 1898, she worked in a practice with her fellow student, Dr Helen Boyle in Brighton after moving from Hull and then moved on to Glasgow in 1908. Although Dr Jones initially handled the routine cases in Hove, Brighton, the clinic was focused in treating women and it was mostly female led. \n\nJones was also noted for helping others who were sympathetic to the cause.\"Dr. Mabel Jones did very well in helping the boys to get over their little colds and fevers. ... illustrate how genuine a feminist Paschal had become between two ardent suffragists, his wife and mother, he too called on Dr. Mabel Jones' services\"\n\nIt is reported that Jones either worked in Belgium or attended Belgian wounded in Scotland during World War I and was awarded the Queen Elisabeth Medal and this was sent on her sudden death to her medical colleague Dr Helen Boyle of Brighton\n\nJones evaluated the health state of suffragette Frances Gordon after she was released from Perth prison. A part of the report she produced was quoted in a letter to the \"Glasgow Evening Times\":\"I saw her (Miss Gordon) at Midnight in July 3. Her appearance was appalling, like a famine victim: the skin brown, her face bones standing out, her eyes half shut, her voice a whisper, her hands quite cold, her pulse a thread.\"This quote and the Press exposure of pictures of women on stretchers after release from prisons led to questions in the House of Commons, giving voice to the female suffrage cause.\n\nIn the book \"Martyrs in our Mydst\", Leah Leneman openly questions the level of accuracy of Dr Jones report on Frances Gordon and also challenges the official version:\"Comparing the [prison] medical officer's daily reports with Frances Gordon's story as related by Mabel Jones, it is clear that the later did indeed contained a good deal of distortion, but a far greater distortion was the version of the events provided by the medical officer and Chairman of the Prison Commission to the Scottish Office\"\n\nIt is uncertain if Jones went to London to meet the Pankhursts to protest that Janie Allan was removed from the West of Scotland branch of the WSPU. The Women's Library Archive has a printed leaflet of a visit by Dr Jones to Mrs Pankhurst in a cell at the Central Police Station. She did also co-examine the gynaecological damage done by the violent use of rectal feeding on Fanny Parker and reported in the WSPU newsletters about other cases.\n\nJones died in 1923 after falling from a train in Northampton\n\n"}
{"id": "2484738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2484738", "title": "Monitor (NHS)", "text": "Monitor (NHS)\n\nMonitor has been a part of NHS Improvement since 1 April 2016. Previously it was an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health. It is the sector regulator for health services in England. Its chief executive is Jim Mackey and its Chair is Ed Smith.\n\nThe body was established in 2004 under the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003, which made it responsible for authorising, monitoring and regulating NHS foundation trusts.\n\nThe Health and Social Care Act 2012 gave Monitor additional duties.\n\nIn addition to assessing NHS trusts for foundation trust status and ensuring that foundation trusts are well led, in terms of quality and finances, Monitor also has a duty to:\n\n\nMonitor's main tool for carrying out these functions is the NHS provider licence, which contains obligations for providers of NHS services.\n\nThe Health and Social Care Act 2012 requires everyone who provides an NHS health care service to hold a licence unless they are exempt under regulations made by the Department of Health.\n\nFoundation trusts are licensed from 1 April 2013. All other non-exempt providers will be required to apply for a licence from April 2014.\n\nIt was announced in June 2015 that the chief executive posts at Monitor and the NHS Trust Development Authority were to be merged, although there would not be a complete merger of the organisations. In April 2016 both organisations became part of NHS Improvement.\n\nIn July 2014, Monitor was criticised by the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons (PAC) for the lack of clinical expertise and frontline NHS experience amongst its staff. The PAC noted that: “Only 21 of Monitor's 337 staff have an NHS operational background and only 7 have a clinical background, which damages Monitor's credibility in dealing with trusts and its effectiveness in diagnosing problems and developing solutions”. The PAC also criticised the proportion of Monitor’s budget spent on external consultants (£9 million of Monitor's £48 million budget in 2013-14) and found that “some NHS foundation trusts had been allowed to struggle for far too long in breach of their regulatory conditions. It has taken Monitor too long to help trusts in difficulty to improve, with three trusts having been in breach of their regulatory conditions since 2009”. At the time of the PAC’s hearing, of 147 foundation trusts 39(26%) were expected to be in deficit by the end of 2013-14 and on 31 December 2013 25 (17%) were in breach of the conditions attached to their status.\nThe PAC also noted: “It is wholly inappropriate that the same person acted as both Chair and Chief Executive of Monitor between March 2011 and January 2014. This was contrary to corporate governance good practice and Monitor's own guidance to NHS foundation trusts”. The board of MONITOR has a majority representation from former or seconded employees of KPMG, PWC and Deloitte while still awarding contracts to these organisations worth millions of pounds http://www.reasonandreality.org/?p=2400.\n\nIn July 2013 six NHS Foundation Trusts were placed in special measures as a result of the Keogh Review of patient safety:\n\n\nSubsequent Trusts placed in special measures:\n\n\nEnforcement action has been taken on 21 occasions in the first 10 months of 2013/4, compared to just nine instances in the whole of 2012-13. Monitor's former chief executive David Bennett admitted the regulator’s “arm’s length” distance from foundation trusts had become “a little shorter” as it intervened more readily and that increased monitoring and intervention was explained by “a declined appetite for risk” among “Parliament, the government and the public”.\n\nDetails of the regulatory action Monitor has taken at NHS foundation trusts are available on its website: http://www.monitor.gov.uk/about-your-local-nhs-foundation-trust/regulatory-action/nhs-foundation-trusts-special-measures-or-un.\n\nIn August 2015 Monitor issued a letter to all Foundation Trusts telling them to fill vacancies “only where essential” and warning that current financial plans are “quite simply unaffordable” as NHS providers collectively forecast a deficit of £2bn in 2015-16.\n\nIn 2010 the Stafford Hospital scandal investigation recommended that Monitor de-authorise the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nIn line with the investigation report recommendation, Secretary of State for Health, Andy Burnham, agreed to a further Independent Inquiry of the commissioning, supervisory and regulatory bodies for Foundation Trusts.\n\nSpire Healthcare alleged in 2013 that a block contract agreed between Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the Clinical Commissioning Groups in Blackpool, and Fylde and Wyre offered a “clear incentive” for GPs to refer patients to the foundation trust and that this was anti-competitive behaviour. The contract provided the trust with a guaranteed income regardless of the number of patients that chose to use its services. Monitor conducted an investigation and decided In September 2014 that there was no evidence to support the claim though they did conclude that Blackpool CCG’s plans did not “go far enough” to ensure patients would be offered choice, or that the right to choice would be “publicised and promoted”. Blackpool CCG complained that not a single GP, practice manager or patient was spoken to by the investigating team, nor was a single practice visited.\n\nIn September 2014 former chief executive David Bennett admitted that the organisation had yet to identify a strategy to counter those opposed to competition because it clashed with their personal ideologies. He claimed organisations were using competition regulations as an “easy excuse” for avoiding making necessary changes.\n\nIn October 2014 after the publication of NHS England's ‘Five year forward view’ Bennett defended Choice and competition as \"one of the ways in which we can drive change and improvement for patients, and we don’t see that that will cease to be the case.” - though competition was not mentioned by NHS England. He also said that Monitor, the NHS Trust Development Authority and NHS England planned to develop “a whole system, geographically based intervention regime” which could, include a ‘special measures’ approach to areas facing serious problems with care.\n\n"}
{"id": "29379991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29379991", "title": "New Zealand AIDS Foundation", "text": "New Zealand AIDS Foundation\n\nThe New Zealand AIDS Foundation (NZAF) is Aotearoa New Zealand’s national HIV prevention and healthcare organisation. Its funding is derived from grants, donations and the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe NZAF has a vision of ‘a world without AIDS’ and aims to achieve this by preventing the transmission of HIV and supporting people affected by HIV and AIDS.\n\nThe NZAF provides health and support services to people with HIV to maximise their health and their ability to maintain safe sexual practice, and HIV prevention programmes targeted at the communities most at risk, including HIV and syphilis rapid testing and sexual health clinics. The NZAF also undertakes research, strategic analysis and policy advice.\n\nThe NZAF National Office is in Auckland, and there are regional centres in Christchurch and Wellington. The NZAF employs more than 40 staff and has well over 100 regular volunteers. There are also NZAF-trained professional contractors providing HIV and syphilis rapid testing and counselling in many other regions across Aotearoa New Zealand.\nOutside of Aotearoa New Zealand, the NZAF manages an international development programme working with partners in the Pacific committed to the rights and health of Pacific men who have sex with men and transgender people.\n\nFounded in 1985, the NZAF has grown from the response of Aotearoa New Zealand’s gay communities to the impending HIV epidemic. From its earliest days as a grassroots movement, the NZAF provides a New Zealand response to HIV, bringing history, passion, knowledge, and diversity to fight the emerging trends of the HIV epidemic.\n\nDuring 2009, the NZAF introduced the NZAF HIV Prevention Plan 2009-2014; a significant review and redesign of the population health programme. The plan includes a clear focus on building a condom culture in Aotearoa New Zealand. Get it On! is the new social marketing programme developed and supported by the NZAF that is committed to doing that. An important part of this programme is the largest gay community event in Aotearoa New Zealand, the Get it On! Big Gay Out.\n\n"}
{"id": "579570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579570", "title": "Nicola Sturgeon", "text": "Nicola Sturgeon\n\nNicola Ferguson Sturgeon (born 19 July 1970) is a Scottish politician serving as the fifth and current First Minister of Scotland and leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP) since November 2014. She is the first woman to hold either position. Sturgeon has been a member of the Scottish Parliament since 1999, first as an additional member for the Glasgow electoral region from 1999 to 2007 and as the member for Glasgow Southside since 2007 (known as Glasgow Govan from 2007 to 2011).\n\nA law graduate of the University of Glasgow, Sturgeon worked as a solicitor in Glasgow. After being elected to the Scottish Parliament, she served successively as the SNP's shadow minister for education, health, and justice. In 2004 she announced that she would stand as a candidate for the leadership of the SNP following the resignation of John Swinney. However, she later withdrew from the contest in favour of Alex Salmond, standing instead as depute (deputy) leader on a joint ticket with Salmond.\n\nBoth were subsequently elected, and as Salmond was still an MP in the House of Commons, Sturgeon led the SNP in the Scottish Parliament from 2004 to 2007. The SNP won the highest number of seats in the Scottish Parliament in the 2007 election and Salmond was subsequently appointed First Minister. He appointed Sturgeon as Deputy First Minister and Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing. She was appointed as Cabinet Secretary for Infrastructure, Investment and Cities in 2012.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the \"Yes\" campaign in the 2014 Scottish independence referendum, Salmond announced that he would be resigning as party leader at the SNP party conference that November, and would resign as First Minister after a new leader was chosen. No one else was nominated for the post by the time nominations closed, leaving Sturgeon to take the party leadership unopposed at the SNP's annual conference. She was formally elected to succeed Salmond as First Minister on 19 November.\n\n\"Forbes\" magazine ranked Sturgeon as the 50th most powerful woman in the world in 2016 and 2nd in the United Kingdom. In 2015, BBC Radio 4's \"Woman's Hour\" assessed Sturgeon to be the most powerful and influential woman in the United Kingdom.\n\nNicola Ferguson Sturgeon was born in Ayrshire Central Hospital in Irvine, on 19 July 1970. She is the eldest of three daughters born to Robin Sturgeon (born 1948), an electrician, and Joan Kerr Sturgeon (\"née\" Ferguson, born 1952), a dental nurse. Her family has some roots in North East England; her paternal grandmother was from Ryhope in what is now the City of Sunderland.\n\nSturgeon grew up in Prestwick and Dreghorn. She attended Dreghorn Primary School from 1975 to 1982 and Greenwood Academy from 1982 to 1988. She later studied at the University of Glasgow, where she read Law. Sturgeon graduated with a Bachelor of Laws (Hons) in 1992 and a Diploma in Legal Practice the following year. During her time at Glasgow University she was active as a member of the Glasgow University Scottish Nationalist Association and the students' representative council.\n\nFollowing her graduation, Sturgeon completed her legal traineeship at McClure Naismith, a Glasgow firm of solicitors, in 1995. After qualifying as a solicitor, she worked for Bell & Craig, a firm of solicitors in Stirling, and later at the Drumchapel Law Centre in Glasgow from 1997 until her election to the Scottish Parliament in 1999.\n\nSturgeon joined the Scottish National Party (SNP) in 1986, having already become a member of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, and quickly became their Youth Affairs Vice Convener and Publicity Vice Convener. She first stood for election in the 1992 general election as the SNP candidate in the Glasgow Shettleston constituency, and was the youngest parliamentary candidate in Scotland, failing to win the seat.\n\nSturgeon also stood unsuccessfully as the SNP candidate for the Irvine North ward on Cunninghame District Council in May 1992, for the Baillieston/Mount Vernon ward on Strathclyde Regional Council in 1994, and for the Bridgeton ward on Glasgow City Council in 1995.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Sturgeon and Charles Kennedy went together on a political study visit to Australia.\n\nThe 1997 general election saw Sturgeon selected to fight the Glasgow Govan seat for the SNP. Boundary changes meant that the notional Labour majority in the seat had increased substantially. However, infighting between the two rival candidates for the Labour nomination, Mohammed Sarwar and Mike Watson, along with an energetic local campaign, resulted in Glasgow Govan being the only Scottish seat to see a swing away from Labour in the midst of a Labour landslide nationwide. Sarwar did, however, win the seat with a majority of 2,914 votes. Shortly after this, Sturgeon was appointed as the SNP's spokesperson for energy and education matters.\n\nSturgeon stood for election to the Scottish Parliament in the first Scottish Parliament election in 1999 as the SNP candidate for Glasgow Govan. Although she failed to win the seat, she was placed first in the SNP's regional list for the Glasgow region, and was thus elected as a Member of the Scottish Parliament. During the first term of the Scottish Parliament, Sturgeon served as a member of the Shadow Cabinets of both Alex Salmond and John Swinney. She was Shadow Minister for Children and Education from 1999 to 2000, Shadow Minister for Health and Community Care from 2000 to 2003, and Shadow Minister for Justice from 2003 to 2004. She also served as a member of the Education, Culture and Sport Committee and the Health and Community Care Committee.\n\nOn 22 June 2004, John Swinney resigned as Leader of the SNP following poor results in the European Parliament election. His then-depute, Roseanna Cunningham, immediately announced her intention to stand for the leadership. The previous leader, Alex Salmond, announced at the time that he would not stand. On 24 June 2004, Sturgeon announced that she would also be a candidate in the forthcoming election for the leadership, with Kenny MacAskill as her running mate.\n\nHowever, Salmond later announced that he did intend to stand for the leadership; Sturgeon subsequently withdrew from the contest and declared her support for Salmond, standing instead as his running mate for the depute leadership. It was reported that Salmond had privately supported Sturgeon in her leadership bid, but decided to run for the position himself as it became apparent she was unlikely to beat Cunningham. The majority of the SNP hierarchy lent their support to the Salmond-Sturgeon bid for the leadership, although MSP Alex Neil backed Salmond as leader, but refused to endorse Sturgeon as depute.\n\nThe results of the leadership contest were announced on 3 September 2004, with Salmond and Sturgeon elected as Leader and Depute Leader respectively. As Salmond was still an MP in the House of Commons, Sturgeon led the SNP at the Scottish Parliament until the 2007 election, when Salmond was elected as an MSP.\n\nAs leader of the SNP in the Scottish Parliament, Sturgeon became a high-profile figure in Scottish politics and often clashed with First Minister Jack McConnell at First Minister's Questions. This included rows over the House of Commons' decision to replace the Trident nuclear weapon system, and the SNP's plans to replace council tax in Scotland with a local income tax. Sturgeon defeated Gordon Jackson with a 4.7% swing to the SNP in the 2007 election in Glasgow Govan. The election resulted in a hung parliament, with the SNP the largest party by a single seat; the SNP subsequently formed a minority government. Sturgeon was appointed as the Deputy First Minister and Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing by First Minister Salmond. In the position she saw through party pledges such as scrapping prescription charges and reversing accident and emergency closures, she also became more widely known internationally for her handling of the 2009 flu pandemic. She was supported in her role as Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing by Shona Robison MSP, the Minister for Public Health and Sport, and by Alex Neil MSP, the Minister for Housing and Communities.\n\nAt the 2011 election, the SNP won a landslide victory and achieved a large overall majority. Sturgeon was retained as Deputy First Minister and Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing until a reshuffle one year later, when she was appointed as Cabinet Secretary for Infrastructure, Investment and Cities and an additional role overseeing the referendum on Scottish independence, essentially putting her in charge of the SNP's referendum campaign. In December 2012, Sturgeon said that she believed that independence would allow Scotland to build a stronger and more competitive country, and would change spending priorities to address \"the scandal of soaring poverty in a country as rich as Scotland\".\n\nOn 19 September 2014, independence was rejected in the Scottish independence referendum, with 55.3% of the voters voting no and 44.7% voting yes. Following the defeat of the Yes Scotland campaign, Salmond announced his resignation as First Minister and Leader of the SNP. Sturgeon immediately announced that she would be a candidate in the election to replace him, and received huge support from the SNP hierarchy. Sturgeon said that there would be \"no greater privilege\" than to lead the SNP. On Salmond's resignation, Sturgeon said:\nThe personal debt of gratitude I owe Alex is immeasurable. He has been my friend, mentor and colleague for more than 20 years. Quite simply, I would not have been able to do what I have in politics without his constant advice, guidance and support through all these years. [...] I can think of no greater privilege than to seek to lead the party I joined when I was just 16. However, that decision is not for today.\nFollowing the referendum defeat, Sturgeon said that \"further devolution is the route to independence\". She also opined that Scottish independence was a matter of \"when, not if\".\n\nOn 24 September 2014, Sturgeon officially launched her campaign bid to succeed Salmond as Leader of the Scottish National Party at the November leadership election. It quickly became apparent that no other candidate would be able to receive enough required nominations to run a credible leadership campaign. During the speech launching her campaign, Sturgeon announced that she would resign as Depute Leader, triggering a concurrent depute leadership election; the MSPs Angela Constance and Keith Brown and the MP Stewart Hosie all nominated themselves to succeed Sturgeon as Depute Leader.\n\nNominations for the SNP leadership closed on 15 October, with Sturgeon confirmed as the only candidate. On this date, Sturgeon also came out on top in a trust rating opinion poll, conducted for the SNP, which indicated that 54% of the Scottish population trusted her to \"stand up for Scotland's interests\". After being confirmed as the only candidate, Sturgeon launched a tour of Scotland, visiting SNP members in different cities outlining her vision for Scotland.\n\nSturgeon was formally acclaimed as the first female Leader of the SNP on 14 November 2014 at the Autumn Conference in Perth, with Hosie as her depute. This also effectively made her First Minister in waiting, given the SNP's absolute majority in the Scottish Parliament. In her first speech as leader, Sturgeon said that it was \"the privilege of her life\" to lead the party she joined as a teenager.\n\nOn 19 November 2014, Salmond formally resigned as First Minister of Scotland and the election for the new First Minister took place the following day. Sturgeon and Ruth Davidson, the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, stood for election. Sturgeon received 66 votes, Davidson received 15 and there were 39 abstentions. As mentioned above, the SNP's absolute majority made Sturgeon's election all but certain. Sturgeon was formally sworn into office the following day. On 20 November 2014, she was appointed to the Privy Council of the United Kingdom and therefore granted the title, 'The Right Honourable'. On 21 November, she unveiled her Cabinet with a 50/50 gender balance, promoting Finance Secretary John Swinney to become her Deputy First Minister.\n\nBy most accounts, Sturgeon took a more conciliatory approach to governing than Salmond. For instance, during her first First Minister's Questions after being sworn in, she said that she came into her new post \"with an open mind and a willingness to hear proposals from all sides of the chamber.\"\n\nSturgeon took part in several Scottish and UK-wide TV election debates in the run up to the 2015 general election and according to opinion polls was regarded to have had a successful performance. The SNP went on to win a landslide victory in Scotland, winning 56 out of 59 seats.\n\nOn 4 April 2015, a leaked memo from the Scotland Office alleged that Sturgeon privately told the French ambassador Sylvie Bermann that she would \"rather see David Cameron remain as PM\". This was in contrast to her publicly stated opposition to a Conservative Government on the run up to the election. The memo was quickly denied by both Sturgeon and the French consulate. It was later noted that the memo had contained a disclaimer that parts of the conversation may have been \"lost in translation\" and its release had been ordered by then Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael. Sturgeon stated that Carmichael had \"engaged in dirty tricks\" and that he should consider his position as an MP.\n\nSturgeon contested her first election as SNP leader at the 2016 election. The SNP fell two seats short of securing another overall majority. Nonetheless, with 63 seats, the SNP was still by far the largest party in the chamber, with more than double the seats of the next-largest party, the Scottish Tories.\n\nSturgeon was formally nominated for a second term on 17 May, defeating Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie by a vote of 63 to 5, with 59 members abstaining.\n\nThe UK Government held a referendum to decide the future of the United Kingdom's European Union membership in which all 32 council areas in Scotland voted by a majority for the United Kingdom to remain a member of the EU. Across Scotland, 62% of voters backed the UK remaining a member of the EU, with 38% voting for the UK to leave. Overall 52% of voters in the United Kingdom voted to leave the EU, with 48% voting to remain.\n\nIn response to the result, on 24 June 2016, Sturgeon said that Scottish Government officials would begin planning for a second independence referendum. Sturgeon claimed that it was \"clear that the people of Scotland see their future as part of the European Union\" and that Scotland had \"spoken decisively\" with a \"strong, unequivocal\" vote to remain in the European Union. Sturgeon said it was \"democratically unacceptable\" that Scotland could be taken out of the EU \"against its will\".\n\nOn 24 June, Sturgeon said she would communicate to all EU member states that Scotland had voted to stay in the EU. An emergency Scottish cabinet meeting on 25 June agreed that the Scottish Government would seek to enter negotiations with the EU and its member states, to explore options to protect Scotland's place in the EU.\" Sturgeon later said that while she believed in Scottish independence, her starting point in these discussions was to protect Scotland's relationship with the EU. May's comments confirmed that the PM wanted the Scottish government to be \"fully engaged\" in the process.\n\nSturgeon was planning to meet with EU leaders in Brussels to discuss Scotland remaining in the EU. However, Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, said that such discussions would be \"not appropriate\" considering the \"situation in the UK\". Nonetheless, she was able to arrange for a meeting on 29 June with European Parliament President Martin Schulz and others. Afterwards, Sturgeon said the reception had been \"sympathetic\", but she conceded that she did not underestimate the challenges.\n\nSturgeon met with new UK Prime Minister Theresa May in Edinburgh on 15 July 2016 after the latter had made it clear that UK unity was a high priority. Afterwards, Sturgeon said that \"It would be inconceivable for any prime minister to seek to stand in the way of a referendum if that is what the Scottish Parliament voted for ... if there's a clear sense that that's what people in Scotland want, would be completely the wrong thing to do.\" She added a conciliatory note, however in her assessment of May: \"She's a woman who has a fairly businesslike way of doing things, which I have too. So I think we can find a way of working together, notwithstanding those disagreements.\"\n\nSturgeon confirmed in June 2016 that the Scottish government has formally agreed to draft legislation to allow a second independence referendum to take place. As the constitution is a 'reserved' matter under the Scotland Act 1998, for a future referendum on Scottish independence to be binding under UK law, it would need to receive the consent of the British Parliament to take place.\n\nOn 28 June 2016 Sturgeon made it clear that her motion to begin discussions with the EU (for Scotland to remain in the European Union) did not constitute a proposal for a second referendum on independence. However, her statements indicated that she had parliamentary authority to explore \"options\" for keeping Scotland in the EU, \"including independence\". By 13 October 2016, she announced the first formal step towards launching a new referendum, called the \"Independence Referendum Bill\".\n\nPrior to the day the Prime Minister triggered Article 50, formally allowing the process of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union, the Scottish Parliament voted 69 to 59 in favour of another independence referendum, formally giving Sturgeon the legal mandate to write to Theresa May to allow another referendum to take place. By the end of that week, on 30 March 2017, Sturgeon wrote to the Prime Minister requesting a Section 30 order, formally devolving the responsibility and power to the Scottish Government to plan for and hold another referendum on Scottish Independence. Previously, May and David Mundell, Secretary of State for Scotland, have both highlighted that as the negotiations begin with the European Union on the United Kingdom's withdraw, it is important for Scotland to work with the UK Government to get the best exit deal for both the United Kingdom and Scotland, stating that \"now is not the time for another referendum\".\n\nFollowing the 2016 UK referendum on the exiting the European Union, Sturgeon has called for Scotland's place in the European single market to be protected. In response to the UK-wide vote for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, the Scottish Government, headed by Sturgeon, launched the \"Scotland's Place in Europe\" document, a white paper setting out the Scottish Government's aims and wishes of Scotland's role in Europe post-Brexit. The paper was sent to the central British Government to be read by Prime Minister Theresa May. \"Scotland's Place in Europe\" was the first post-Brexit strategy by any government in the British isles, including the central UK Government who pushed ahead to hold the vote in June 2016.\n\nThe document, published in December 2016, seeks for Scotland to remain a member of the European Single Market to allow the Economy of Scotland to benefit from free trade deals across the remaining 27 European Union nations. Furthermore, it seeks that remaining within the European Single Market would be beneficial for trade across the entire United Kingdom, whereby it benefits the economies of both Scotland and the United Kingdom as well as benefiting the wider economy and trade of the European Union. Within \"Scotland's Place in Europe\", the Scottish Government highlights that there are several ways that Scotland could retain its membership of the European Single Market, but most notably by becoming an independent sovereign country within the EU which is the preferred option of Sturgeon and the wider SNP led-Scottish Government. Other than trade and single market membership, Sturgeon advocates the importance of the rights of EU nationals currently working and residing within Scotland and that there rights and liberties are protected post-Brexit. As immigration and border controls remain a reserved matter, Sturgeon has called on strong working with Prime Minister Theresa May and the UK Government to ensure this is achieved. Other issues set in the document include protection over laws and legislation which affects Scotland, protection of worker's rights and entitlements, a review of the devolution settlement in Scotland that will be affected by Brexit such as farming and fishery industries and additional powers granted to Scotland to protect and promote Scottish interests.\n\nRecently, Sturgeon has advocated for a second independence referendum to be held at the end of the Brexit process which is expected around 2019, claiming that there is \"too much at stake for Scotland for the Brexit process to be imposed\". A week prior to the Brexit negotiations beginning between the UK Government, 27 EU member state governments and the European Commission, Sturgeon called on Prime Minister Theresa May to \"pause\" Brexit negotiations to allow for the creation of a four way government approach to Brexit involving the Northern Ireland Executive, Welsh Government, UK Government and Scottish Government.\n\nIn June 2017, Sturgeon criticised the approaches taken by both Theresa May and the British Government towards the Brexit approach, claiming that May \"will struggle\" as she is a \"difficult person to build a rapport with\". In the same interview, Sturgeon committed to no independence referendum being held prior to the terms of a UK wide Brexit deal being agreed and presented.\n\nAlong with First Minister of Wales Carwyn Jones, Sturgeon criticised in a statement the Brexit repeal bill to convert EU law into British law as a \"power grab\", because the bill \"does not return powers from the EU to the devolved administrations, as promised\" but \"returns them solely to the UK government and parliament, and imposes new restrictions on the Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales\". These fears were reiterated in September, when the Scottsh devolved government recommened its Parliament to withhold its consent for the bill. Scotland and Wales are expected to propose amendments to the bill.\n\nWith a view towards Brexit, Sturgeon demanded greater powers for the Scottish Parliament, arguing that Brexit is threatening Scotland's devolution settlement. With London seeking to restrict immigration to the United Kingdom, she asserted that Scotland should be able to set its own immigration policy, as well as policies relating to employment and trade.\n\nSturgeon and the SNP went into the Scottish council elections that were held on 4 May 2017, as the largest political party in the 32 local council areas in Scotland, having 424 councillors elected to serve on the councils across Scotland. Opinion polling for the council elections conducted in early 2017 suggested that the SNP looked set to repeat this level of success, with 47% of the public claiming they will be voting for SNP candidates on election day. Publicly speaking about the 2017 Scottish council elections, Sturgeon has said that the elections were a clear choice between voting for herself and Ruth Davidson, the leader of the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party, citing the stark fall in support of the Scottish Labour Party and their leader Kezia Dugdale over the past several years.\n\nWhilst failing to win any outright overall control in any council area in Scotland, the SNP emerged as the largest political group in sixteen councils, including Glasgow City Council, knocking the Scottish Labour Party out of power in Glasgow for the first time since 1980. The SNP increased their number of councillors elected in 2017 than it did in 2012, with 431 being elected, compared to 425 in the 2012 local elections. The SNP became the largest political party in council areas such as Falkirk, Edinburgh and Aberdeen. Following the results, Sturgeon claimed that the election was a \"clear and emphatic victory for the SNP', despite the large number of seats gained by the Scottish Conservatives.\n\nWhilst foreign policy remains a reserved matter, the Scottish Government still has the power and ability to strengthen and develop Scotland, the economy and Scottish interests on the world stage and encourage foreign businesses, international devolved, regional and central governments to invest in Scotland. Sturgeon has undertaken a number of visits to Europe, North America and Asia to promote Scotland as a place of investment and Scottish businesses and partners to trade and do business with. Sturgeon has committed to strengthening links between Scotland and the African continent, stating that Scotland has a long-standing reputation on the world stage as being a key partner with African countries where it has funded and developed a number of projects.\n\nSince becoming First Minister in 2014, Sturgeon has visited the United States (and states including California and New York). During the 2017 visit to the United States, Sturgeon met with Jerry Brown, Governor of California where both Brown and Sturgeon signed an agreement which commits both the Government of California and Scottish Government to work together to tackle climate change. Other engagements included meeting CEO of Apple Inc. Tim Cook and signing a £6.3 million deal for Scottish investment from American businesses and firms which promotes aspects of Scotland such as trade, tourism and innovation.\n\nSturgeon has sought to continue the strong connections and bond between Scotland and the Republic of Ireland. During an official visit to the Republic of Ireland in 2016, speaking in Dublin, Sturgeon claimed that is it \"important for Ireland and Scotland and the whole of the British Isles that Ireland has a strong ally in Scotland\". During the same engagement, Sturgeon became the first head of government to address the Seanad Éireann, the Upper House of the Irish Parliament. Sturgeon used her speech to the house to highlights the troubles ahead for both the Irish and Scottish Governments posed by the Brexit vote, but vowed to \"bring benefits\" to the British Isles and to \"make new work\" for both Ireland and Scotland.\n\nIn August 2016, Sturgeon travelled to Germany to meet with the German Government to discuss the results of the European Union referendum in which the United Kingdom voted to leave as well as discussing the next steps open to the European Union, the United Kingdom and Scotland. Sturgeon met with Michael Roth, Germany's Minister of State for Europe during the visit, highlighting to the German Government that Scotland as a whole voted to remain within the European Union despite the nationwide UK vote being to leave\", with Roth highlighting that the talks were \"very productive\" and hoped that the \"UK would find a way\" that will benefit Europe and Scotland in the end. In response to the Brexit vote and with the intention to protect Scotland's interests and democratic vote to remain within the European Union, Sturgeon has travelled to Brussels to meet with both Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission as well as Martin Schulz, the President of the European Parliament. At the engagement in June 2016, Sturgeon highlighted the concerns raised in Scotland by the Brexit vote and claimed that Scotland's desire to remain within the European Union was met with \"sympathy\" from Europe.\n\nSturgeon spoke at the United Nations in New York City about gender equality and human rights, claiming that she is \"determined\" to use her powers as First Minister of Scotland to \"make things better\" and \"improve opportunities\" for women. Sturgeon also highlighted that Scotland is determined to \"play our part in co-operation with others, to help to achieve peace and security\".\n\nIn the run up to the Catalan independence referendum, 2017, Nicola Sturgeon offered her own personal backing and that of the Scottish Government to Catalonia in the holding of a democratic and fair independence referendum, stating that \"self determination was an important principle\". The Government of Spain has criticised Sturgeon for her comments and intervention to the independence movement in Catalonia, claiming that Sturgeon had \"totally misunderstood\" the situation in Spain and Catalonia. In response to the mass police attacks and violence against Catalans on polling day, Sturgeon expressed her personal concern over the situation in Catalonia and the response shown by the Spanish Government and the Spanish police, claiming that all should condemn the violence taking place \"regardless of their views on independence\" and that the central Spanish Government in Madrid should allow the polling to take place before \"someone gets hurt\" as a result of violence.\n\nIn the run up to the Scottish independence referendum in 2014, then President of the United States Barack Obama offered his support to the Better Together side, claiming that the United Kingdom was better united, with Scotland remaining within it. There was much speculation that Obama's last minute intervention in the referendum debate and offering his support to a \"strong, robust and united\" United Kingdom was due to concerns in Washington D.C. that one of the United States' closest allies could separate and weaken the relation between the United States and the United Kingdom. Sturgeon was highly critical of Obama's intervention in the debate, claiming that his intervention \"helped\" boost the number of votes Yes Scotland received. Sturgeon claimed she was not \"sore\" about the intervention shown by Barack Obama, but his claim about a strong United Kingdom had a \"strange\" impact on Scots.\n\nSturgeon was highly critical of Donald Trump during the United States presidential election, 2016 and had publicly backed his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. Sturgeon had been highly critical of Donald Trump and his policies, highlighting her disapproval of his language and views relating to sexism and misogyny, and stating upon Trump's victory that she hopes \"Trump turns out to be a president different to the one he was during his campaign and reaches out to those who felt vilified by his campaign\". Upon Trump's victory during the Presidential election, Sturgeon and Trump spoke on the phone to discuss the future relationship and diplomatic approaches between both the United States and Scotland with Sturgeon offering her well wishes to Trump following his success. Sturgeon highlighted that \"Scotland and the United States will continue to cooperate in those areas where we share common interests and goals, and when appropriate we will also look to have constructive dialogue on issues where our views differ\".\n\nSturgeon had also previously stripped Donald Trump of his ambassadorial role for Scottish businesses with the Scottish Government in the aftermath of Trump's views of an outright ban of Muslims from entering the United States. Sturgeon claimed following comments made by Trump in relation to Muslims entering the United States that he was \"not fit\" for the ambassadorial role with the Scottish Government.\n\nSpain and its former Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy had always been highly critical and against the idea of an independent Scotland, with Rajoy always claiming that Scotland would be \"outside\" of the European Union should it have voted for independence from the United Kingdom. Whilst the Scottish Government and Sturgeon had argued that due to being a current member of the European Union as part of the United Kingdom that Scotland would be granted automatic entry as it jointed the European Union as part of the United Kingdom in 1973. However, Spain had always doubted that theory and viewpoint of the Scottish Government, claiming that Scotland would be waiting a number of years to gain entry to the European Union.\n\nIn the aftermath of the United Kingdom's decision to withdraw its membership of the European Union, Prime Minister Rajoy once again was critical of the views taken by the Scottish Government when he rejected calls from Sturgeon for Scotland to remain within the European Single Market. The Spanish Secretary of State to the European Union, Jorge Toledo, claimed that \"if the United Kingdom leaves the single market then the whole United Kingdom leaves the single market\" going onto claim further that there is only \"one negotiator that is the UK Government\". Mariano Rajoy told the meeting of the European Council that he was block any independent and separate deal put forward by Sturgeon and the Scottish Government.\n\nSturgeon has been highly critical of the Spanish Governments actions and the way it has dealt with the affairs relating to the Catalan independence referendum held in October 2017, highlighting to Mariano Rajoy that instead he should follow \"the shining example\" that was created as part of the Edinburgh Agreement between the Scottish and British Governments that allowed Scotland to hold a legally binding referendum.\n\nIn 2016, it was announced by Sturgeon that she would be opening a Scottish embassy in Germany to strengthen international relations between both Germany and Scotland. In June 2018, Sturgeon travelled to Berlin with representatives from twelve Scottish based companies on a trade delegation to promote inwards investment in Scotland and to promote and strengthen trading connections with Germany. Sturgeon also met with Niels Annen, Minister of State of the Federal Foreign Office, marking the first meeting between the Scottish Government and the new German Government which was elected under the Fourth Merkel cabinet in March 2018. Furthermore, Sturgeon met with Michael Müller, the Governing Mayor of Berlin to discuss the future cooperation around the 2018 European Championships, being held in Glasgow and Berlin in August.\n\nAs First Minister, Sturgeon has endured a long-standing relationship with the Republic of Ireland and the Government of Ireland, meeting regularly with both Taoiseach Enda Kenny and his successor, Leo Varadkar. Sturgeon claims that the relationship between Scotland and the Republic of Ireland is \"more important than ever\", with Sturgeon completing numerous trips to the Republic of Ireland to continue to promote Scottish trade and business, cultural and economic ties between the Republic of Ireland and Scotland, as well as strengthening Irish-Scottish relations. As part of the British-Irish Council, members of both the Scottish Government and Government of Ireland meet regularly to discuss and agree on areas of mutual concern and interest relating to the British Isles.\n\nIn 2016, Sturgeon was invited to address the Seanad Éireann, the upper house of the Parliament of the Republic of Ireland, making her the first serving head of government in the world to address the Seanad Éireann. Sturgeon used her speech of the parliament to highlight the \"long tradition of co-operation\" between Scotland and the Republic of Ireland, stating that this was \"even more important\" since the British vote to withdraw from the European Union. During the same visit, Sturgeon met President of Ireland Michael D. Higgins along with Charles Flanagan, the minister for foreign affairs, during her visit to Dublin.\n\nSince the decision to leave the European Union, Sturgeon has endured a strong relationship with the Republic of Ireland to ensure a strong Scottish deal and to explore options relating to trade can continue once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. In June 2018, Sturgeon, Varadkar and First Minister of Wales Carwyn Jones held an emergency summit in the Channel Islands where Varadkar highlighted that the Republic of Ireland was preparing for a \"no deal Brexit\". In response, both Sturgeon and Jones issued a joint ministerial statement to put pressure on Prime Minister Theresa May to reconsider her stance on withdrawing the United Kingdom from the EU Customs Union.\n\nSturgeon has campaigned against replacing the Trident nuclear weapons system. She has been a critic of austerity, saying that the UK government's \"austerity economics\" is \"morally unjustifiable and economically unsustainable\".\n\nSturgeon is noted for campaigning for women's rights and gender equality, and is a self-described feminist; she has argued that Scotland's feminist movement is not simply symbolic, but \"sends a powerful signal about equality\". She has hailed Scottish feminist economist Ailsa McKay as one of her inspirations.\n\nSturgeon won the Scottish Politician of the Year Award in 2008, 2012 and 2014. In 2004, 2008 and 2011 she also won the \"Donald Dewar Debater of the Year Award\" at the same event, which is organized by \"The Herald\" newspaper.\n\nIn February 2013, BBC Radio 4's \"Woman's Hour\" assessed Sturgeon as being the 20th most powerful woman in the United Kingdom. She rose to be listed as the most powerful and influential in July 2015.\n\nSturgeon lives in Glasgow with her husband, Peter Murrell, who is the current chief executive of the SNP. The couple have been in a relationship since 2003. They announced their engagement on 29 January 2010, and were married on 16 July 2010 at Òran Mór in Glasgow. Her mother Joan was the SNP Provost of North Ayrshire council, where she was councillor for the Irvine East ward since 2007 until 2016. Sturgeon does not have children. In 2016 she disclosed that she had a miscarriage in 2011.\n\nIn an interview with BBC's Women's Hour, Sturgeon revealed that it was Margaret Thatcher that inspired her to enter politics, because, due to rising unemployment in Scotland at the time, she developed \"a strong feeling that it was wrong for Scotland to be governed by a Tory government that we hadn't elected\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58424663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58424663", "title": "Notifiable diseases in the United Kingdom", "text": "Notifiable diseases in the United Kingdom\n\nA notifiable disease is one which that has to be reported to the government authorities as required by law. In the United Kingdom, notification of infectious diseases is a statutory duty for registered medical practitioners and laboratories, under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 and the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010. The registered medical practitioners shall notify such diseases in a proper form within 3 days, or notify verbally via phone within 24 hours depending on the urgency of the situation.\n\nThe diseases notifiable to local authority under the Health Protection(Notification) Regulations 2010 are:\n\nThe causative organisms which the laboratories shall notify to the proper authority under the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9888853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9888853", "title": "Osteolathyrism", "text": "Osteolathyrism\n\nOsteolathyrism is a collagen cross-linking deficiency brought on by dietary over-reliance on the seeds of \"Lathyrus sativus\" or grass pea, a legume often grown as a famine crop in Asia and East Africa. Other members of the genus are also known to cause the disease, including \"L. sylvestris\", \"L. cicera\", and \"L. clymenum\". \"L. sativus\" grows well under famine conditions, often severe drought, where it is cultivated. The condition results in damage to bone and mesenchymal connective tissues. It is seen in people in combination with neurolathyrism and angiolathyrism in areas where famine demands reliance on a crop with known detrimental effects. It occurs in cattle and horses with diets overreliant upon the grass pea. Osteolathyrism is caused by a variety of osteolathyrogenic compounds, specifically excitatory amino-compounds. The most widely-studied of these compounds is beta-aminopropionitrile (BAPN), which exerts its deleterious effect by an unknown yet potently irreversible mechanism. Other instigators are ureides, semicarbazides and thiosemicarbazides, which are believed to chelate the prosthetic Cu(II)-bipyridine cofactor complex in the enzyme lysyl oxidase.\n\nLysyl oxidase is an important enzyme for the creation of crosslinks between collagen triple-helices in connective tissue. By oxidizing the terminal amino group of lysine, an aldehyde is created. This aldehyde can undergo several reactions with neighboring aldehydes or amines to create strong covalent cross-links between collagen tertiary structures in bone and cartilage. The main product of these reactions is the aldimine compound dehydrohydroxylysinonorleucine. This unique crosslink can be formed by the Schiff base mechanism in which the lone pair of electrons on a primary amine react with the carbonyl carbon of an aldehyde. Other crosslinks include the formation of an α,β-unsaturated ketone via aldol condensation and hydroxylysinonorleucine. \n\nIf these crosslinks are not formed, as in the case of osteolathyrism, the synthesis of strong mesenchymal and mesodermal tissue is inhibited. Symptoms of osteolathyrism include weakness and fragility of connective tissue (i.e., skin, bones, and blood vessels (angiolathyrism) and the paralysis of the lower extremities associated with neurolathyrism. For these reasons, compounds containing lathyrogens should be avoided during pregnancy and growth of a child. \n"}
{"id": "51229157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51229157", "title": "PROUD (clinical trial)", "text": "PROUD (clinical trial)\n\nPROUD (a backronym for \"Pre-exposure Option for reducing HIV in the UK: immediate or Deferred\") was an open-label randomised clinical trial of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the MRC Clinical Trials Unit at University College London. It sought to evaluate the effectiveness of PrEP at preventing the spread of HIV in sexually active gay men in a non-controlled real-world environment. The study recruited participants at several different locations: Brighton, Birmingham, York, Manchester, Sheffield, and eight locations in London.\n\nThe trial reported PrEP to have an 86% effectiveness in preventing HIV infection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410384", "title": "Penile plethysmograph", "text": "Penile plethysmograph\n\nPenile plethysmography (PPG) or phallometry is measurement of bloodflow to the penis, typically used as a proxy for measurement of sexual arousal. The most commonly reported methods of conducting penile plethysmography involve the measurement of the circumference of the penis with a mercury-in-rubber or electromechanical strain gauge, or the volume of the penis with an airtight cylinder and inflatable cuff at the base of the penis. Corpora cavernosa nerve penile plethysmographs measure changes in response to inter-operative electric stimulation during surgery. The volumetric procedure was invented by Kurt Freund and is considered to be particularly sensitive at low arousal levels. The easier to use circumferential measures are more widely used, however, and more common in studies using erotic film stimuli. A corresponding device in women is the vaginal photoplethysmograph.\n\nFor sexual offenders it is typically used to determine the level of sexual arousal as the subject is exposed to sexually suggestive content, such as pictures, movies or audio, although some have argued that phallometry is not always appropriate for the evaluation of sexual preferences or treatment effects. A 1998 large-scale meta-analytic review of the scientific reports demonstrated that phallometric response to stimuli depicting children, though only 32% accurate, had the highest accuracy among methods of identifying which sexual offenders will go on to commit new sexual crimes.\n\nFor prostatectomy nerve-sparing surgery, the surgeon applies a mild electrical stimulation near the cavernous nerves of penis to verify their locations and avoid operative trauma. Damage to these difficult-to-see nerves can cause erectile dysfunction outcomes. At the surgery's conclusion, the electrical stimulation penile plethysmograph result is a prognosis which helps to manage the erectile function outcomes earlier than the many months required for recovery.\n\nThere are two types of penile plethysmograph:\n\n\nThe circumferential type is more common, but the volumetric method is believed to be more accurate at low arousal levels.\n\nSignificant suppliers of PPG machines include Behavioral Technology Inc. and Medical Monitoring Systems. The device is known to be used in Brazil, Britain, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Norway, Slovak Republic, Spain, and the United States.\n\nThe surgical machine is supplied as CaverMap by Blue Torch Medical Technology, Inc.\n\nA roughly equivalent procedure for women, vaginal photoplethysmography, measures blood through the walls of the vagina, which researchers claim increases during sexual arousal.\n\nThe original volumetric was developed during the 1950s by Kurt Freund in then-Czechoslovakia. Freund later wrote, \"In the early fifties homosexual interaction was still an indictable offense in Czechoslovakia. I was of course opposed to this measure, but I still thought, as did my colleagues at the psychiatric university hospital in Prague where I was working, that homosexuality was an experientially acquired neurosis\". He then developed phallometry to replace psychoanalytic methods of assessment because \"[P]sychoanalysis had turned out to be a failure, virtually unusable as an instrument for individual diagnosis or research...When phallometry began to look promising as a test of erotic sex and age preferences, we started using it mainly as a test of pedophilia, that is determining who has an erotic preference for children over adults\".\n\nIn post–World War II Czechoslovakia, Freund was assigned by the communist government the task of identifying among military conscripts men who were falsely declaring themselves to be gay to avoid the draft. \"Freund (1957) developed the first device, which measured penile volume changes... to distinguish heterosexual and homosexual males for the Czechoslovakian army.\" When he escaped Europe for Canada, Freund was able to pursue his research using phallometry for the assessment of sexual offenders. At that time, attempts to develop methods of changing homosexual men into heterosexual men were being made by many sexologists, including John Bancroft, Albert Ellis, and William Masters of the Masters and Johnson Institute. Because phallometry showed that such methods were failures, Freund was among the first sexologists to declare that such attempts were unethical. Based primarily on Freund's studies, decriminalization of homosexuality took place in Czechoslovakia in 1961. (See also LGBT rights in the Czech Republic.)\n\nIn 1994, the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (Fourth Edition) of the American Psychiatric Association stated that penile plethysmography has been used in research settings to assess various paraphilias by measuring an individual's sexual arousal in response to visual and auditory stimuli. The reliability and validity of this procedure in clinical assessment have not been well established, and clinical experience suggests that subjects can simulate response by manipulating mental images.\" In contrast, a recent meta-analysis provides support for the validity of phallometric testing as a measure of sexual interests in children across 37 samples and 6,785 individuals.\n\nIn 1998, Hanson and Bussière published a comprehensive meta-analysis of 61 scientific reports on the prediction of sexual offenses spanning more than 40,000 individual cases. They ascertained that of all the methods attempted and reported, penile phethysmographic responses to imagery depicting children was the single most accurate predictor of sexual re-offense across 7 studies reporting data from phallometric testing. Another meta-analysis in 2005 of 13 studies and 2,180 individual cases repeated the finding that phallometric responses to children was a strong predictor of sexual re-offense.\n\nA more recent meta-analysis that included 16 samples and 2,709 sexual offenders replicated and extended the previous findings that phallometric responding to children is a predictor of sexual re-offence. This meta-analysis extended previous meta-analytic research by showing phallometric responding to both male and female pedophilic and hebephilic stimuli predict sexual re-offence. Further, this meta-analysis showed that phallometric testing predicts sexual re-offence in distinct subgroups of sexual offenders against children.\n\nThere are criticisms of the methodology used to determine the reliability and specificity of penile plethysmography. One such criticism is that while penile plethysmography is said to be important for being more objective than a test subject’s subjective reports on sexual arousal, the argument for penile plethysmography being a more reliable gauge of sexual arousal than vaginal plethysmography is still that there is a higher correspondence on average between what the test subjects report and what the instruments observe in male subjects than in female subjects. There is a criticism of this discrepancy for lacking consistency in the standards of whether or not subjective reports are useful. There is also criticism regarding the possibility of sampling bias being greater in male subjects of penile plethysmography than in female subjects of vaginal plethysmography, males being generally more aware of their physical sexual responses than females in most cultures may cause the male volunteers to be almost exclusively individuals who have category specific erections due to those with nonspecific erections fearing erection in taboo contexts and therefore not signing up for the studies. This effect may explain apparent male specificity as a result of methodological bias. The difference between tests of volunteers and tests of convicted or suspected sex offenders in penile plethysmography results may be caused by the sex offender group often effectively lacking the choice not to volunteer, without difference in erection patterns from the average population. One criticism of reoffending studies is that cultural attitudes that assume that men are sexually attracted to what they phallometrically respond to may cause men with no actual sexual interest in children to identify as pedophiles due to knowing that they phallometrically respond to them, making them more likely to be convicted again.\n\nThe penile plethysmograph has value in screening organic versus psychogenic erectile dysfunction in urological polysomnography centres. Lack of sexual response during REM sleep may indicate that further evaluation by a urologist is required.\n\nWhen applied during nerve-sparing surgery, electrical stimulation penile plethysmograph is an erectile dysfunction prognostic. The patient is provided with objective information on his specific outcome which aids in planning for further erectile function therapies.\n\nPhallometry may be able to distinguish gay men from heterosexual men. A phallometric study indicated that men who are more homophobic show greater penile arousal to stimuli depicting gay sex than do less homophobic men.\n\nStudies examining the efficiency of using penile plethysmograph to distinguish pedophilic men from non-pedophilic men, including hebephiles, show that a majority can be correctly assigned to the proper category. Sensitivity of a phallometric test is defined as the accuracy of the test to identify pedophilic (or hebephilic) individuals as having these sexual interests. Specificity of these tests is defined as the accuracy of the test to identify non-pedophilic (or non-hebephilic) individuals as such. Meta-analytic research has shown that sexual offenders against children show greater responding on phallomtric tests for pedophilia and hebephilia than controls.\n\nIn one study, 21% of the subjects were excluded for various reasons, including \"the subject's erotic age-preference was uncertain and his phallometrically diagnosed sex-preference was the same as his verbal claim\" and attempts to influence the outcome of the test. This study found the sensitivity for identifying pedohebephilia in sexual offenders against children admitting to this interest to be 100%. In addition, the sensitivity for this phallometric test in partially admitting sexual offenders against children was found to be 77% and for denying sexual offenders against children to be 58%. The specificity of this volumetric phallometric test for pedohebephilia was estimated to be 95%.\n\nFurther studies by Freund have estimated the sensitivity of a volumetric test for pedohebephilia to be 35% for sexual offenders against children with a single female victim, 70% for those with two or more female victims, 77% for those offenders with one male victim, and 84% for those with two or more male victims. In this study, the specificity of the test was estimated to be 81% in community males and 97% in sexual offenders against adults. In a similar study, the sensitivity of a volumetric test for pedophilia to be 62% for sexual offenders against children with a single female victim, 90% for those with two or more female victims, 76% for those offenders with one male victim, and 95% for those with two or more male victims.\n\nIn a separate study, sensitivity of the method to distinguish between pedohebephilic men from non-pedohebephilic men was estimated between 29% and 61% depending on subgroup. Specifically, sensitivity was estimated to be 61% for sexual offenders against children with 3 or more victims and 34% in incest offenders. The specificity of the test using a sample of sexual offenders against adults was 96% and the area under the curve for the test was estimated to be .86. Further research by this group found the specificity of this test to be 83% in a sample of non-offenders. More recent research has found volumetric phallometry to have a sensitivity of 72% for pedophilia, 70% for hebephilia, and 75% for pedohebephilia and a specificity of 95%, 91%, and 91% for these paraphilias, respectively.\n\nOther studies have examined the sensitivity and specificity of circumferential phallometry to identify different sexual interests in children. Sensitivity for a circumferential phallometric test for pedophilia has been estimated to be 63% in sexual offenders against children, 65% in extrafamilial offenders against children and 68.4% in incest offenders. Additional research has found different circumferential phallometric tests to have a sensitivity of 93%, 96%, 35%, 78%, and 50% in sexual offenders against children. In incest offenders, the sensitivity of circumferential phallometric tests has been estimated as 19% and 60% in extrafamilial offenders against children. In terms of specificity of these tests for pedophilia, research has estimated the specificity as 92%, 82%, 76%, and 92% in samples of community males and 80% and 92% in sexual offenders against adults.\n\nA single study has examined the accuracy of a circumferential phallometric test for hebephilia. This study found the sensitivity of the hebephilia test to be 70% in extrafamilial offenders against children and 52% in incest offenders. In addition, the specificity for this phallometric test was 68% in a sample of community males.\n\nOther studies have found different phallometric tests for pedohebephilia to have a sensitivity of 75% in incest offenders, 67% in extrafamilial offenders against children, and 64%, 64%, 44%, and 53%, in sexual offenders against children.\n\nIn addition, Abel and colleagues found ephebophilic stimuli to have a sensitivity of 50%.\n\nAnother study examined the possibility that juvenile sex offenders might be able to suppress arousal deemed deviant. Of the juveniles who exhibited sexual arousal, categorization was made into two age appropriate categories—Adult and Peer responders—and three age inappropriate categories—Child, Child/Adult, and Nondiscriminating responders—based on whether they had the greatest sexual arousal in response to adult female, peer female, or younger child female stimuli. Sexual arousal in response to older adult women or peers was deemed age appropriate; sexual arousal in response to significantly younger females was deemed inappropriate. Many of the juveniles who denied responsibility for their offenses showed no sexual arousal at all—however about one-third still showed age inappropriate arousal despite denying responsibility for their offenses.\n\nPhallometry might distinguish men with erotic interests in cross-dressing from non-cross-dressers.\n\nThere is some evidence that phallometry can distinguish groups of men with biastophilia (a paraphilia involving rape) from groups of men without it.\n\nIn general, phallometric test results are employed as part of the sentencing and rehabilitation phase of forensic systems, but \"not\" for determining whether a specific defendant is guilty of any specific offense against any specific person.\n\nIn the United States, a scientific technique could not be used as evidence in court unless the technique was \"generally accepted\" as reliable in the relevant scientific community. This was known as the Frye standard, adopted in 1923. In 1993, the doctrine was rejected by the Supreme Court of the United States in favor of a more comprehensive \"reliable foundation\" test in \"Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals\". In the Daubert standard, the \"generally accepted\" test was no longer determinative. Several other factors could now be considered, including whether the technique had been published and peer reviewed. Myers notes, \"Courts that have considered penile plethysmography generally rule that the technique is not sufficiently reliable for use in court.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. Powers\" the court excluded the penile plethysmograph test because it failed to qualify under Daubert's scientific validity prong for two reasons: the scientific literature does not regard the test as a valid diagnostic tool, and \"a vast majority of incest offenders who do not admit their guilt, such as Powers, show a normal reaction to the test. The Government argues that such false negatives render the test unreliable.\"\n\nAccording to Barker and Howell, penile plethysmography (PPG) does not meet the legal threshold for the guilt phase for the following reasons:\n\n\nThey concluded, \"Until a way can be devised to detect and/or control false negatives and false positives, the validity of the test data will be questionable.\" Responding to Barker and Howell, Simon and Schouten noted, \"Our own analysis suggests that the standardization and faking issues, as well as other problems not addressed in the Barker and Howell paper, warrant much more guarded conclusions about the use of the plethysmograph in legal and clinical settings.\" Prentky noted \"the increased likelihood in forensic settings that dissimulation may compromise the validity of the assessment.\" Hall and Crowther noted penile plethysmography \"may be even more problematic than other [methods] in assessing susceptibility of the test to faking.\"\n\nIn \"State of North Carolina v. Spencer\", the court reviewed the literature and case law and concluded that penile plethysmography was scientifically unreliable: \"Despite the sophistication of the current equipment technology, a question remains whether the information emitted is a valid and reliable means of assessing sexual preference.\"\n\nMore recently, a substantial amount of research data has been gathered and reviewed, and significant steps have been taken toward standardization. According to Launay (1999), \"[T]he validity of the technique for research and clinical assessment is now established;\" it is only the use in guilt-determination proceedings that is inappropriate. Fedoroff and Moran called it an \"experimental procedure\" and noted, \"Virtually every expert who has written about phallometry has cautioned that it is insufficiently sensitive or specific to be used to determine the guilt or innocence of a person accused of a sex crime.\"\n\nPhallometry is widely considered appropriate for treatment and supervision of convicted sex offenders: \"Courts have permitted plethysmographic testing for monitoring compliance by convicted sex offenders with the conditions of their community placement as part of crime-related treatment for sexual deviancy.\" Its use for the treatment and management of sexual offenders is recommended by the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. Becker notes it \"should never be used exclusively in forensic decision making.\" The sexual assault trial of basketball player Kobe Bryant in Colorado brought this device and its use to public attention before the case was dropped in 2004, because Colorado law would have required evaluation with this device following conviction. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit recently addressed the procedures required before a federal supervised release program could include penile plethysmograph testing. The device is routinely used at civil commitment facilities, but \"some clinicians and offenders say it is easy, particularly in a laboratory, to stifle arousal and thus cheat on a plethysmograph test.\" This has been reported to occur in 16% of cases.\n\nDuring the Catholic sex abuse cases, the reliability of the test was questioned by some officials in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia. Later, these officials chose to seek therapy at an institution where the plethysmograph was not used.\n\nCourts in Canada came to a similar conclusion as those in the United States. The Supreme Court of Canada adopted the Daubert doctrine in \"R. v . J.-L.J.\" [2000] 2 S.C.R. 600, which upheld a lower court's decision to exclude testimony by a psychiatrist who had administered several tests on the accused, including a penile plethysmograph:\n\nAs of 2010, all youth in sex offender treatment programs administered by the Youth Forensic Psychiatric Service of British Columbia were offered a voluntary penile plethysmograph test to predict whether they can properly control their deviant arousal, or whether they will require medication or other forms of treatment. According to sceptics, however, the test does not reliably predict recurrent violations.\n\nRobert Todd Carroll writes, \"More objectionable than the questionable scientific validity of the device, however, are the moral and legal questions its use raises.\" Carroll and others cite the legality of the depictions of minors, as well as the constitutionality of requiring PPG for admission to jobs or the military, or in custody cases. In \"Harrington v. Almy\" the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit found that a PPG ordered to be administered by William O'Donohue as a precondition of employment was a violation of plaintiff's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In a 2009 report led by Robert Clift on use of the device on adolescent offenders, the authors acknowledge in their conclusions that PPG tests \"are problematic ethically and should be used only after therapists have carefully weighed the benefits versus the negatives.\" The Minister of Children and Family Development closed the program examined in Clift's report in 2010 following complaints by civil rights groups. The principal manufacturer of the device stopped making them in the 1990s.\n\nThe EU's leading human rights agency, the Fundamental Rights Agency, has criticised the use of phallometric tests by the Czech Republic to determine whether asylum seekers presenting themselves as homosexual were in fact gay. According to the Agency, the Czech Republic was in 2010 the only EU country to employ a sexual arousal test, which the Agency said could violate the European Convention on Human Rights. In 2011 the EU commission issued a statement calling the Czech practice illegal, saying \"The practice of phallometric tests constitutes a strong interference with the person's private life and human dignity. This kind of degrading treatment should not be accepted in the European Union, nor elsewhere.\" The Czech Interior Ministry replied that the testing was conducted only after written consent has been obtained, and when it was not possible to use a different method of verification. According to the Ministry, all those who had passed the test had been granted asylum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "560876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560876", "title": "Pharmaceutical industry", "text": "Pharmaceutical industry\n\nThe pharmaceutical industry discovers, develops, produces, and markets drugs or pharmaceutical drugs for use as medications to be administered (or self-administered) to patients to cure them, vaccinate them, or alleviate a symptom. Pharmaceutical companies may deal in generic or brand medications and medical devices. They are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern the patenting, testing, safety, efficacy and marketing of drugs.\n\nThe modern pharmaceutical industry traces its roots to two sources. The first of these were local apothecaries that expanded from their traditional role distributing botanical drugs such as morphine and quinine to wholesale manufacture in the mid 1800s. Rational drug discovery from plants started particularly with the isolation of morphine, analgesic and sleep-inducing agent from opium, by the German apothecary assistant Friedrich Sertürner who named the compound after the Greek god of dreams, Morpheus. Multinational corporations including Merck, Hoffman-La Roche, Burroughs-Wellcome (now part of Glaxo Smith Kline), Abbott Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Upjohn (now part of Pfizer) began as local apothecary shops in the mid-1800s. By the late 1880s, German dye manufacturers had perfected the purification of individual organic compounds from tar and other mineral sources and had also established rudimentary methods in organic chemical synthesis. The development of synthetic chemical methods allowed scientists to systematically vary the structure of chemical substances, and growth in the emerging science of pharmacology expanded their ability to evaluate the biological effects of these structural changes.\n\nBy the 1890s, the profound effect of adrenal extracts on many different tissue types had been discovered, setting off a search both for the mechanism of chemical signalling and efforts to exploit these observations for the development of new drugs. The blood pressure raising and vasoconstrictive effects of adrenal extracts were of particular interest to surgeons as hemostatic agents and as treatment for shock, and a number of companies developed products based on adrenal extracts containing varying purities of the active substance. In 1897, John Abel of Johns Hopkins University identified the active principle as epinephrine, which he isolated in an impure state as the sulfate salt. Industrial chemist Jokichi Takamine later developed a method for obtaining epinephrine in a pure state, and licensed the technology to Parke-Davis. Parke-Davis marketed epinephrine under the trade name Adrenalin. Injected epinephrine proved to be especially efficacious for the acute treatment of asthma attacks, and an inhaled version was sold in the United States until 2011 (Primatene Mist). By 1929 epinephrine had been formulated into an inhaler for use in the treatment of nasal congestion.\n\nWhile highly effective, the requirement for injection limited the use of epinephrine and orally active derivatives were sought. A structurally similar compound, ephedrine, (actually more similar to norepinephrine,) was identified by Japanese chemists in the \"Ma Huang\" plant and marketed by Eli Lilly as an oral treatment for asthma. Following the work of Henry Dale and George Barger at Burroughs-Wellcome, academic chemist Gordon Alles synthesized amphetamine and tested it in asthma patients in 1929. The drug proved to have only modest anti-asthma effects, but produced sensations of exhilaration and palpitations. Amphetamine was developed by Smith, Kline and French as a nasal decongestant under the trade name Benzedrine Inhaler. Amphetamine was eventually developed for the treatment of narcolepsy, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and mood elevation in depression and other psychiatric indications. It received approval as a New and Nonofficial Remedy from the American Medical Association for these uses in 1937 and remained in common use for depression until the development of tricyclic antidepressants in the 1960s.\n\nIn 1903, Hermann Emil Fischer and Joseph von Mering disclosed their discovery that diethylbarbituric acid, formed from the reaction of diethylmalonic acid, phosphorus oxychloride and urea, induces sleep in dogs. The discovery was patented and licensed to Bayer pharmaceuticals, which marketed the compound under the trade name Veronal as a sleep aid beginning in 1904. Systematic investigations of the effect of structural changes on potency and duration of action led to the discovery of phenobarbital at Bayer in 1911 and the discovery of its potent anti-epileptic activity in 1912. Phenobarbital was among the most widely used drugs for the treatment of epilepsy through the 1970s, and as of 2014, remains on the World Health Organizations list of essential medications. The 1950s and 1960s saw increased awareness of the addictive properties and abuse potential of barbiturates and amphetamines and led to increasing restrictions on their use and growing government oversight of prescribers. Today, amphetamine is largely restricted to use in the treatment of attention deficit disorder and phenobarbital in the treatment of epilepsy.\n\nA series of experiments performed from the late 1800s to the early 1900s revealed that diabetes is caused by the absence of a substance normally produced by the pancreas. In 1869, Oskar Minkowski and Joseph von Mering found that diabetes could be induced in dogs by surgical removal of the pancreas. In 1921, Canadian professor Frederick Banting and his student Charles Best repeated this study, and found that injections of pancreatic extract reversed the symptoms produced by pancreas removal. Soon, the extract was demonstrated to work in people, but development of insulin therapy as a routine medical procedure was delayed by difficulties in producing the material in sufficient quantity and with reproducible purity. The researchers sought assistance from industrial collaborators at Eli Lilly and Co. based on the company's experience with large scale purification of biological materials. Chemist George B. Walden of Eli Lilly and Company found that careful adjustment of the pH of the extract allowed a relatively pure grade of insulin to be produced. Under pressure from Toronto University and a potential patent challenge by academic scientists who had independently developed a similar purification method, an agreement was reached for non-exclusive production of insulin by multiple companies. Prior to the discovery and widespread availability of insulin therapy the life expectancy of diabetics was only a few months.\n\nThe development of drugs for the treatment of infectious diseases was a major focus of early research and development efforts; in 1900 pneumonia, tuberculosis, and diarrhea were the three leading causes of death in the United States and mortality in the first year of life exceeded 10%.\n\nIn 1911 arsphenamine, the first synthetic anti-infective drug, was developed by Paul Ehrlich and chemist Alfred Bertheim of the Institute of Experimental Therapy in Berlin. The drug was given the commercial name Salvarsan. Ehrlich, noting both the general toxicity of arsenic and the selective absorption of certain dyes by bacteria, hypothesized that an arsenic-containing dye with similar selective absorption properties could be used to treat bacterial infections. Arsphenamine was prepared as part of a campaign to synthesize a series of such compounds, and found to exhibit partially selective toxicity. Arsphenamine proved to be the first effective treatment for syphilis, a disease which prior to that time was incurable and led inexorably to severe skin ulceration, neurological damage, and death.\n\nEhrlich's approach of systematically varying the chemical structure of synthetic compounds and measuring the effects of these changes on biological activity was pursued broadly by industrial scientists, including Bayer scientists Josef Klarer, Fritz Mietzsch, and Gerhard Domagk. This work, also based in the testing of compounds available from the German dye industry, led to the development of Prontosil, the first representative of the sulfonamide class of antibiotics. Compared to arsphenamine, the sulfonamides had a broader spectrum of activity and were far less toxic, rendering them useful for infections caused by pathogens such as streptococci. In 1939, Domagk received the Nobel Prize in Medicine for this discovery. Nonetheless, the dramatic decrease in deaths from infectious diseases that occurred prior to World War II was primarily the result of improved public health measures such as clean water and less crowded housing, and the impact of anti-infective drugs and vaccines was significant mainly after World War II.\n\nIn 1928, Alexander Fleming discovered the antibacterial effects of penicillin, but its exploitation for the treatment of human disease awaited the development of methods for its large scale production and purification. These were developed by a U.S. and British government-led consortium of pharmaceutical companies during the Second World War.\n\nEarly progress toward the development of vaccines occurred throughout this period, primarily in the form of academic and government-funded basic research directed toward the identification of the pathogens responsible for common communicable diseases. In 1885 Louis Pasteur and Pierre Paul Émile Roux created the first rabies vaccine. The first diphtheria vaccines were produced in 1914 from a mixture of diphtheria toxin and antitoxin (produced from the serum of an inoculated animal), but the safety of the inoculation was marginal and it was not widely used. The United States recorded 206,000 cases of diphtheria in 1921 resulting in 15,520 deaths. In 1923 parallel efforts by Gaston Ramon at the Pasteur Institute and Alexander Glenny at the Wellcome Research Laboratories (later part of GlaxoSmithKline) led to the discovery that a safer vaccine could be produced by treating diphtheria toxin with formaldehyde. In 1944, Maurice Hilleman of Squibb Pharmaceuticals developed the first vaccine against Japanese encephelitis. Hilleman would later move to Merck where he would play a key role in the development of vaccines against measles, mumps, chickenpox, rubella, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and meningitis.\n\nPrior to the 20th century drugs were generally produced by small scale manufacturers with little regulatory control over manufacturing or claims of safety and efficacy. To the extent that such laws did exist, enforcement was lax. In the United States, increased regulation of vaccines and other biological drugs was spurred by tetanus outbreaks and deaths caused by the distribution of contaminated smallpox vaccine and diphtheria antitoxin. The Biologics Control Act of 1902 required that federal government grant premarket approval for every biological drug and for the process and facility producing such drugs. This was followed in 1906 by the Pure Food and Drugs Act, which forbade the interstate distribution of adulterated or misbranded foods and drugs. A drug was considered misbranded if it contained alcohol, morphine, opium, cocaine, or any of several other potentially dangerous or addictive drugs, and if its label failed to indicate the quantity or proportion of such drugs. The government's attempts to use the law to prosecute manufacturers for making unsupported claims of efficacy were undercut by a Supreme Court ruling restricting the federal government's enforcement powers to cases of incorrect specification of the drug's ingredients.\n\nIn 1937 over 100 people died after ingesting \"Elixir Sulfanilamide\" manufactured by S.E. Massengill Company of Tennessee. The product was formulated in diethylene glycol, a highly toxic solvent that is now widely used as antifreeze. Under the laws extant at that time, prosecution of the manufacturer was possible only under the technicality that the product had been called an \"elixir\", which literally implied a solution in ethanol. In response to this episode, the U.S. Congress passed the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938, which for the first time required pre-market demonstration of safety before a drug could be sold, and explicitly prohibited false therapeutic claims.\n\nThe aftermath of World War II saw an explosion in the discovery of new classes of antibacterial drugs including the cephalosporins (developed by Eli Lilly based on the seminal work of Giuseppe Brotzu and Edward Abraham), streptomycin (discovered during a Merck-funded research program in Selman Waksman's laboratory), the tetracyclines (discovered at Lederle Laboratories, now a part of Pfizer), erythromycin (discovered at Eli Lilly and Co.) and their extension to an increasingly wide range of bacterial pathogens. Streptomycin, discovered during a Merck-funded research program in Selman Waksman's laboratory at Rutgers in 1943, became the first effective treatment for tuberculosis. At the time of its discovery, sanitoriums for the isolation of tuberculosis-infected people were an ubiquitous feature of cities in developed countries, with 50% dying within 5 years of admission.\n\nA Federal Trade Commission report issued in 1958 attempted to quantify the effect of antibiotic development on American public health. The report found that over the period 1946-1955, there was a 42% drop in the incidence of diseases for which antibiotics were effective and only a 20% drop in those for which antibiotics were not effective. The report concluded that \"it appears that the use of antibiotics, early diagnosis, and other factors have limited the epidemic spread and thus the number of these diseases which have occurred\". The study further examined mortality rates for eight common diseases for which antibiotics offered effective therapy (syphilis, tuberculosis, dysentery, scarlet fever, whooping cough, meningococcal infections, and pneumonia), and found a 56% decline over the same period. Notable among these was a 75% decline in deaths due to tuberculosis.\n\nDuring the years 1940-1955, the rate of decline in the U.S. death rate accelerated from 2% per year to 8% per year, then returned to the historical rate of 2% per year. The dramatic decline in the immediate post-war years has been attributed to the rapid development of new treatments and vaccines for infectious disease that occurred during these years.\nVaccine development continued to accelerate, with the most notable achievement of the period being Jonas Salk's 1954 development of the polio vaccine under the funding of the non-profit National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. The vaccine process was never patented, but was instead given to pharmaceutical companies to manufacture as a low-cost generic. In 1960 Maurice Hilleman of Merck Sharp & Dohme identified the SV40 virus, which was later shown to cause tumors in many mammalian species. It was later determined that SV40 was present as a contaminant in polio vaccine lots that had been administered to 90% of the children in the United States. The contamination appears to have originated both in the original cell stock and in monkey tissue used for production. In 2004 the United States Cancer Institute announced that it had concluded that SV40 is not associated with cancer in people.\n\nOther notable new vaccines of the period include those for measles (1962, John Franklin Enders of Children's Medical Center Boston, later refined by Maurice Hilleman at Merck), Rubella (1969, Hilleman, Merck) and mumps (1967, Hilleman, Merck) The United States incidences of rubella, congenital rubella syndrome, measles, and mumps all fell by >95% in the immediate aftermath of widespread vaccination. The first 20 years of licensed measles vaccination in the U.S. prevented an estimated 52 million cases of the disease, 17,400 cases of mental retardation, and 5,200 deaths.\n\nHypertension is a risk factor for atherosclerosis, heart failure, coronary artery disease, stroke, renal disease, and peripheral arterial disease, and is the most important risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, in industrialized countries. Prior to 1940 approximately 23% of all deaths among persons over age 50 were attributed to hypertension. Severe cases of hypertension were treated by surgery.\n\nEarly developments in the field of treating hypertension included quaternary ammonium ion sympathetic nervous system blocking agents, but these compounds were never widely used due to their severe side effects, because the long term health consequences of high blood pressure had not yet been established, and because they had to be administered by injection.\n\nIn 1952 researchers at Ciba discovered the first orally available vasodilator, hydralazine. A major shortcoming of hydralazine monotherapy was that it lost its effectiveness over time (tachyphylaxis). In the mid-1950s Karl H. Beyer, James M. Sprague, John E. Baer, and Frederick C. Novello of Merck and Co. discovered and developed chlorothiazide, which remains the most widely used antihypertensive drug today. This development was associated with a substantial decline in the mortality rate among people with hypertension. The inventors were recognized by a Public Health Lasker Award in 1975 for \"the saving of untold thousands of lives and the alleviation of the suffering of millions of victims of hypertension\".\n\nA 2009 Cochrane review concluded that thiazide antihypertensive drugs reduce the risk of death (RR 0.89), stroke (RR 0.63), coronary heart disease (RR 0.84), and cardiovascular events (RR 0.70) in people with high blood pressure. In the ensuring years other classes of antihypertensive drug were developed and found wide acceptance in combination therapy, including loop diuretics (Lasix/furosemide, Hoechst Pharmaceuticals, 1963), beta blockers (ICI Pharmaceuticals, 1964) ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. ACE inhibitors reduce the risk of new onset kidney disease [RR 0.71] and death [RR 0.84] in diabetic patients, irrespective of whether they have hypertension.\n\nPrior to the second world war, birth control was prohibited in many countries, and in the United States even the discussion of contraceptive methods sometimes led to prosecution under Comstock laws. The history of the development of oral contraceptives is thus closely tied to the birth control movement and the efforts of activists Margaret Sanger, Mary Dennett, and Emma Goldman. Based on fundamental research performed by Gregory Pincus and synthetic methods for progesterone developed by Carl Djerassi at Syntex and by Frank Colton at G.D. Searle & Co., the first oral contraceptive, Enovid, was developed by E.D. Searle and Co. and approved by the FDA in 1960. The original formulation incorporated vastly excessive doses of hormones, and caused severe side effects. Nonetheless, by 1962, 1.2 million American women were on the pill, and by 1965 the number had increased to 6.5 million. The availability of a convenient form of temporary contraceptive led to dramatic changes in social mores including expanding the range of lifestyle options available to women, reducing the reliance of women on men for contraceptive practice, encouraging the delay of marriage, and increasing pre-marital co-habitation.\n\nIn the U.S., a push for revisions of the FD&C Act emerged from Congressional hearings led by Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee in 1959. The hearings covered a wide range of policy issues, including advertising abuses, questionable efficacy of drugs, and the need for greater regulation of the industry. While momentum for new legislation temporarily flagged under extended debate, a new tragedy emerged that underscored the need for more comprehensive regulation and provided the driving force for the passage of new laws.\n\nOn 12 September 1960, an American licensee, the William S. Merrell Company of Cincinnati, submitted a new drug application for Kevadon (thalidomide), a sedative that had been marketed in Europe since 1956. The FDA medical officer in charge of reviewing the compound, Frances Kelsey, believed that the data supporting the safety of thalidomide was incomplete. The firm continued to pressure Kelsey and the FDA to approve the application until November 1961, when the drug was pulled off the German market because of its association with grave congenital abnormalities. Several thousand newborns in Europe and elsewhere suffered the teratogenic effects of thalidomide. Without approval from the FDA, the firm distributed Kevadon to over 1,000 physicians there under the guise of investigational use. Over 20,000 Americans received thalidomide in this \"study,\" including 624 pregnant patients, and about 17 known newborns suffered the effects of the drug.\n\nThe thalidomide tragedy resurrected Kefauver's bill to enhance drug regulation that had stalled in Congress, and the Kefauver-Harris Amendment became law on 10 October 1962. Manufacturers henceforth had to prove to FDA that their drugs were effective as well as safe before they could go on the US market. The FDA received authority to regulate advertising of prescription drugs and to establish good manufacturing practices. The law required that all drugs introduced between 1938 and 1962 had to be effective. An FDA - National Academy of Sciences collaborative study showed that nearly 40 percent of these products were not effective. A similarly comprehensive study of over-the-counter products began ten years later.\n\nIn 1971, Akira Endo, a Japanese biochemist working for the pharmaceutical company Sankyo, identified mevastatin (ML-236B), a molecule produced by the fungus Penicillium citrinum, as an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, a critical enzyme used by the body to produce cholesterol. Animal trials showed very good inhibitory effect as in clinical trials, however a long term study in dogs found toxic effects at higher doses and as a result mevastatin was believed to be too toxic for human use. Mevastatin was never marketed, because of its adverse effects of tumors, muscle deterioration, and sometimes death in laboratory dogs.\n\nP. Roy Vagelos, chief scientist and later CEO of Merck & Co, was interested, and made several trips to Japan starting in 1975. By 1978, Merck had isolated lovastatin (mevinolin, MK803) from the fungus \"Aspergillus terreus\", first marketed in 1987 as Mevacor.\n\nIn April 1994, the results of a Merck-sponsored study, the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study, were announced. Researchers tested simvastatin, later sold by Merck as Zocor, on 4,444 patients with high cholesterol and heart disease. After five years, the study concluded the patients saw a 35% reduction in their cholesterol, and their chances of dying of a heart attack were reduced by 42%. In 1995, Zocor and Mevacor both made Merck over US$1 billion. Endo was awarded the 2006 Japan Prize, and the Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award in 2008. For his \"pioneering research into a new class of molecules\" for \"lowering cholesterol,\"\n\nDrug discovery is the process by which potential drugs are discovered or designed. In the past most drugs have been discovered either by isolating the active ingredient from traditional remedies or by serendipitous discovery. Modern biotechnology often focuses on understanding the metabolic pathways related to a disease state or pathogen, and manipulating these pathways using molecular biology or biochemistry. A great deal of early-stage drug discovery has traditionally been carried out by universities and research institutions.\n\nDrug development refers to activities undertaken after a compound is identified as a potential drug in order to establish its suitability as a medication. Objectives of drug development are to determine appropriate formulation and dosing, as well as to establish safety. Research in these areas generally includes a combination of \"in vitro\" studies, \"in vivo\" studies, and clinical trials. The cost of late stage development has meant it is usually done by the larger pharmaceutical companies.\n\nOften, large multinational corporations exhibit vertical integration, participating in a broad range of drug discovery and development, manufacturing and quality control, marketing, sales, and distribution. Smaller organizations, on the other hand, often focus on a specific aspect such as discovering drug candidates or developing formulations. Often, collaborative agreements between research organizations and large pharmaceutical companies are formed to explore the potential of new drug substances. More recently, multi-nationals are increasingly relying on contract research organizations to manage drug development.\n\nDrug discovery and development is very expensive; of all compounds investigated for use in humans only a small fraction are eventually approved in most nations by government appointed medical institutions or boards, who have to approve new drugs before they can be marketed in those countries. In 2010 18 NMEs (New Molecular Entities) were approved and three biologics by the FDA, or 21 in total, which is down from 26 in 2009 and 24 in 2008. On the other hand, there were only 18 approvals in total in 2007 and 22 back in 2006. Since 2001, the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research has averaged 22.9 approvals a year.\nThis approval comes only after heavy investment in pre-clinical development and clinical trials, as well as a commitment to ongoing safety monitoring. Drugs which fail part-way through this process often incur large costs, while generating no revenue in return. If the cost of these failed drugs is taken into account, the cost of developing a successful new drug (new chemical entity, or NCE), has been estimated at about 1.3 billion USD(not including marketing expenses). Professors Light and Lexchin reported in 2012, however, that the rate of approval for new drugs has been a relatively stable average rate of 15 to 25 for decades.\n\nIndustry-wide research and investment reached a record $65.3 billion in 2009. While the cost of research in the U.S. was about 34.2 billion between 1995 and 2010, revenues rose faster (revenues rose by 200.4 billion in that time).\n\nA study by the consulting firm Bain & Company reported that the cost for discovering, developing and launching (which factored in marketing and other business expenses) a new drug (along with the prospective drugs that fail) rose over a five-year period to nearly $1.7 billion in 2003. According to Forbes, by 2010 development costs were between $4 billion to $11 billion per drug.\n\nSome of these estimates also take into account the opportunity cost of investing capital many years before revenues are realized (see Time-value of money). Because of the very long time needed for discovery, development, and approval of pharmaceuticals, these costs can accumulate to nearly half the total expense. A direct consequence within the pharmaceutical industry value chain is that major pharmaceutical multinationals tend to increasingly outsource risks related to fundamental research, which somewhat reshapes the industry ecosystem with biotechnology companies playing an increasingly important role, and overall strategies being redefined accordingly. Some approved drugs, such as those based on re-formulation of an existing active ingredient (also referred to as Line-extensions) are much less expensive to develop.\n\nDue to repeated accusations and findings that some clinical trials conducted or funded by pharmaceutical companies may report only positive results for the preferred medication, the industry has been looked at much more closely by independent groups and government agencies.\n\nIn response to specific cases in which unfavorable data from pharmaceutical company-sponsored research was not published, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America have published new guidelines urging companies to report all findings and limit the financial involvement in drug companies of researchers. US congress signed into law a bill which requires phase II and phase III clinical trials to be registered by the sponsor on the clinicaltrials.gov website run by the NIH.\n\nDrug researchers not directly employed by pharmaceutical companies often look to companies for grants, and companies often look to researchers for studies that will make their products look favorable. Sponsored researchers are rewarded by drug companies, for example with support for their conference/symposium costs. Lecture scripts and even journal articles presented by academic researchers may actually be \"ghost-written\" by pharmaceutical companies.\n\nAn investigation by ProPublica found that at least 21 doctors have been paid more than $500,000 for speeches and consulting by drugs manufacturers since 2009, with half of the top earners working in psychiatry, and about $2 billion in total paid to doctors for such services. AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and Eli Lilly have paid billions of dollars in federal settlements over allegations that they paid doctors to promote drugs for unapproved uses. Some prominent medical schools have since tightened rules on faculty acceptance of such payments by drug companies.\n\nIn contrast to this viewpoint, an article and associated editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine in May 2015 emphasized the importance of pharmaceutical industry-physician interactions for the development of novel treatments, and argued that moral outrage over industry malfeasance had unjustifiably led many to overemphasize the problems created by financial conflicts of interest. The article noted that major healthcare organizations such as National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences of the National Institutes of Health, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, the World Economic Forum, the Gates Foundation, the Wellcome Trust, and the Food and Drug Administration had encouraged greater interactions between physicians and industry in order to bring greater benefits to patients.\n\nIn the United States, new pharmaceutical products must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as being both safe and effective. This process generally involves submission of an Investigational New Drug filing with sufficient pre-clinical data to support proceeding with human trials. Following IND approval, three phases of progressively larger human clinical trials may be conducted. Phase I generally studies toxicity using healthy volunteers. Phase II can include pharmacokinetics and dosing in patients, and Phase III is a very large study of efficacy in the intended patient population. Following the successful completion of phase III testing, a New Drug Application is submitted to the FDA. The FDA review the data and if the product is seen as having a positive benefit-risk assessment, approval to market the product in the US is granted.\n\nA fourth phase of post-approval surveillance is also often required due to the fact that even the largest clinical trials cannot effectively predict the prevalence of rare side-effects. Postmarketing surveillance ensures that after marketing the safety of a drug is monitored closely. In certain instances, its indication may need to be limited to particular patient groups, and in others the substance is withdrawn from the market completely.\n\nThe FDA provides information about approved drugs at the Orange Book site.\n\nIn the UK, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency approves drugs for use, though the evaluation is done by the European Medicines Agency, an agency of the European Union based in London. Normally an approval in the UK and other European countries comes later than one in the USA. Then it is the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), for England and Wales, who decides if and how the National Health Service (NHS) will allow (in the sense of paying for) their use. The British National Formulary is the core guide for pharmacists and clinicians.\n\nIn many non-US western countries a 'fourth hurdle' of cost effectiveness analysis has developed before new technologies can be provided. This focuses on the efficiency (in terms of the cost per QALY) of the technologies in question rather than their efficacy. In England and Wales NICE decides whether and in what circumstances drugs and technologies will be made available by the NHS, whilst similar arrangements exist with the Scottish Medicines Consortium in Scotland, and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in Australia. A product must pass the threshold for cost-effectiveness if it is to be approved. Treatments must represent 'value for money' and a net benefit to society.\n\nThere are special rules for certain rare diseases (\"orphan diseases\") in several major drug regulatory territories. For example, diseases involving fewer than 200,000 patients in the United States, or larger populations in certain circumstances are subject to the Orphan Drug Act.\n\nIn 2011, global spending on prescription drugs topped $954 billion, even as growth slowed somewhat in Europe and North America. The United States accounts for more than a third of the global pharmaceutical market, with $340 billion in annual sales followed by the EU and Japan. Emerging markets such as China, Russia, South Korea and Mexico outpaced that market, growing a huge 81 percent.\n\nThe top ten best-selling drugs of 2013 totaled $75.6 billion in sales, with the anti-inflammatory drug Humira being the best-selling drug worldwide at $10.7 billion in sales. The second and third best selling were Enbrel and Remicade, respectively. The top three best-selling drugs in the United States in 2013 were Abilify ($6.3 billion,) Nexium ($6 billion) and Humira ($5.4 billion). The best-selling drug ever, Lipitor, averaged $13 billion annually and netted $141 billion total over its lifetime before Pfizer's patent expired in November 2011.\n\nIMS Health publishes an analysis of trends expected in the pharmaceutical industry in 2007, including increasing profits in most sectors despite loss of some patents, and new 'blockbuster' drugs on the horizon.\n\nDepending on a number of considerations, a company may apply for and be granted a patent for the drug, or the process of producing the drug, granting exclusivity rights typically for about 20 years. However, only after rigorous study and testing, which takes 10 to 15 years on average, will governmental authorities grant permission for the company to market and sell the drug. Patent protection enables the owner of the patent to recover the costs of research and development through high profit margins for the branded drug. When the patent protection for the drug expires, a generic drug is usually developed and sold by a competing company. The development and approval of generics is less expensive, allowing them to be sold at a lower price. Often the owner of the branded drug will introduce a generic version before the patent expires in order to get a head start in the generic market. Restructuring has therefore become routine, driven by the patent expiration of products launched during the industry's \"golden era\" in the 1990s and companies' failure to develop sufficient new blockbuster products to replace lost revenues.\n\nIn the U.S., the value of prescriptions increased over the period of 1995 to 2005 by 3.4 billion annually, a 61 percent increase. Retail sales of prescription drugs jumped 250 percent from $72 billion to $250 billion, while the average price of prescriptions more than doubled from $30 to $68.\n\nAdvertising is common in healthcare journals as well as through more mainstream media routes. In some countries, notably the US, they are allowed to advertise directly to the general public. Pharmaceutical companies generally employ sales people (often called 'drug reps' or, an older term, 'detail men') to market directly and personally to physicians and other healthcare providers. In some countries, notably the US, pharmaceutical companies also employ lobbyists to influence politicians. Marketing of prescription drugs in the US is regulated by the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987.\n\nThe book \"Bad Pharma\" also discusses the influence of drug representatives, how ghostwriters are employed by the drug companies to write papers for academics to publish, how independent the academic journals really are, how the drug companies finance doctors' continuing education, and how patients' groups are often funded by industry.\n\nSince the 1980s new methods of marketing for prescription drugs to consumers have become important. Direct-to-consumer media advertising was legalised in the FDA Guidance for Industry on Consumer-Directed Broadcast Advertisements.\n\nThere has been increasing controversy surrounding pharmaceutical marketing and influence. There have been accusations and findings of influence on doctors and other health professionals through drug reps including the constant provision of marketing 'gifts' and biased information to health professionals; highly prevalent advertising in journals and conferences; funding independent healthcare organizations and health promotion campaigns; lobbying physicians and politicians (more than any other industry in the US); sponsorship of medical schools or nurse training; sponsorship of continuing educational events, with influence on the curriculum; and hiring physicians as paid consultants on medical advisory boards.\n\nSome advocacy groups, such as No Free Lunch and AllTrials, have criticized the effect of drug marketing to physicians because they say it biases physicians to prescribe the marketed drugs even when others might be cheaper or better for the patient.\n\nThere have been related accusations of disease mongering(over-medicalising) to expand the market for medications. An inaugural conference on that subject took place in Australia in 2006. In 2009, the Government-funded National Prescribing Service launched the \"Finding Evidence – Recognising Hype\" program, aimed at educating GPs on methods for independent drug analysis.\n\nA 2005 review by a special committee of the UK government came to all the above conclusions in a European Union context whilst also highlighting the contributions and needs of the industry.\n\nMeta-analyses have shown that psychiatric studies sponsored by pharmaceutical companies are several times more likely to report positive results, and if a drug company employee is involved the effect is even larger. Influence has also extended to the training of doctors and nurses in medical schools, which is being fought.\n\nIt has been argued that the design of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and the expansion of the criteria represents an increasing medicalization of human nature, or \"disease mongering\", driven by drug company influence on psychiatry. The potential for direct conflict of interest has been raised, partly because roughly half the authors who selected and defined the DSM-IV psychiatric disorders had or previously had financial relationships with the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nIn the US, starting in 2013, under the Physician Financial Transparency Reports (part of the Sunshine Act), the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has to collect information from applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations in order to report information about their financial relationships with physicians and hospitals. Data are made public in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services website. The expectation is that relationship between doctors and Pharmaceutical industry will become fully transparent.\n\nIn a report conducted by the Center for Responsive Politics, there were more than 1,100 lobbyists working in some capacity for the pharmaceutical business in 2017. In the first quarter of 2017, the health products and pharmaceutical industry spent $78 million on lobbying member of the United States Congress.\n\nBen Goldacre has argued that regulators – such as the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK, or the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States – advance the interests of the drug companies rather than the interests of the public due to revolving door exchange of employees between the regulator and the companies and friendships develop between regulator and company employees. He argues that regulators do not require that new drugs offer an improvement over what is already available, or even that they be particularly effective.\n\nOthers have argued that excessive regulation suppresses therapeutic innovation, and that the current cost of regulator-required clinical trials prevents the full exploitation of new genetic and biological knowledge for the treatment of human disease. A 2012 report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology made several key recommendations to reduce regulatory burdens to new drug development, including 1) expanding the FDA's use of accelerated approval processes, 2) creating an expedited approval pathway for drugs intended for use in narrowly defined populations, and 3) undertaking pilot projects designed to evaluate the feasibility of a new, adaptive drug approval process.\n\nPharmaceutical fraud involves deceptions which bring financial gain to a pharmaceutical company. It affects individuals and public and private insurers. There are several different schemes used to defraud the health care system which are particular to the pharmaceutical industry. These include: Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Violations, Off Label Marketing, Best Price Fraud, CME Fraud, Medicaid Price Reporting, and Manufactured Compound Drugs. Of this amount $2.5 billion was recovered through \"False Claims Act\" cases in FY 2010. Examples of fraud cases include the GlaxoSmithKline $3 billion settlement, Pfizer $2.3 billion settlement and Merck & Co. $650 million settlement. Damages from fraud can be recovered by use of the False Claims Act, most commonly under the \"qui tam\" provisions which rewards an individual for being a \"whistleblower\", or relator (law).\n\nEvery major company selling the antipsychotics — Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson — has either settled recent government cases, under the False Claims Act, for hundreds of millions of dollars or is currently under investigation for possible health care fraud. Following charges of illegal marketing, two of the settlements set records last year for the largest criminal fines ever imposed on corporations. One involved Eli Lilly's antipsychotic Zyprexa, and the other involved Bextra. In the Bextra case, the government also charged Pfizer with illegally marketing another antipsychotic, Geodon; Pfizer settled that part of the claim for $301 million, without admitting any wrongdoing.\n\nOn 2 July 2012, GlaxoSmithKline pleaded guilty to criminal charges and agreed to a $3 billion settlement of the largest health-care fraud case in the U.S. and the largest payment by a drug company. The settlement is related to the company's illegal promotion of prescription drugs, its failure to report safety data, bribing doctors, and promoting medicines for uses for which they were not licensed. The drugs involved were Paxil, Wellbutrin, Advair, Lamictal, and Zofran for off-label, non-covered uses. Those and the drugs Imitrex, Lotronex, Flovent, and Valtrex were involved in the kickback scheme.\n\nThe following is a list of the four largest settlements reached with pharmaceutical companies from 1991 to 2012, rank ordered by the size of the total settlement. Legal claims against the pharmaceutical industry have varied widely over the past two decades, including Medicare and Medicaid fraud, off-label promotion, and inadequate manufacturing practices.\n\nPatents have been criticized in the developing world, as they are thought to reduce access to existing medicines. Reconciling patents and universal access to medicine would require an efficient international policy of price discrimination. Moreover, under the TRIPS agreement of the World Trade Organization, countries must allow pharmaceutical products to be patented. In 2001, the WTO adopted the Doha Declaration, which indicates that the TRIPS agreement should be read with the goals of public health in mind, and allows some methods for circumventing pharmaceutical monopolies: via compulsory licensing or parallel imports, even before patent expiration.\n\nIn March 2001, 40 multi-national pharmaceutical companies brought litigation against South Africa for its Medicines Act, which allowed the generic production of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) for treating HIV, despite the fact that these drugs were on-patent. HIV was and is an epidemic in South Africa, and ARVs at the time cost between 10,000 and 15,000 USD per patient per year. This was unaffordable for most South African citizens, and so the South African government committed to providing ARVs at prices closer to what people could afford. To do so, they would need to ignore the patents on drugs and produce generics within the country (using a compulsory license), or import them from abroad. After international protest in favour of public health rights (including the collection of 250,000 signatures by MSF), the governments of several developed countries (including The Netherlands, Germany, France, and later the US) backed the South African government, and the case was dropped in April of that year.\n\nIn 2016, GlaxoSmithKline (the worlds 6th largest Pharmaceutical) announced that it would be dropping its patents in poor countries so as to allow independent companies to make and sell versions of its drugs in those areas, thereby widening the public access to them. GlaxoSmithKline published a list of 50 countries they would no longer hold patents in, affecting 1 billion people worldwide.\n\nIn 2011 four of the top 20 corporate charitable donations and eight of the top 30 corporate charitable donations came from pharmaceutical manufacturers. The bulk of corporate charitable donations (69% as of 2012) comes by way of non-cash charitable donations, the majority of which again were donations contributed by pharmaceutical companies. Some of those large pharmaceutical companies are “patient assistance” foundations, providing financial support to individuals in purchasing prescription medicines, but pharmaceutical companies are also huge givers of in-kind products, i.e. presumably their own drugs. Non-cash donations of product can be \"profit maximizing…as part of an inventory control issue when they have excess inventories” for some corporations, says Patrick Rooney of Giving USA in an interview with Nonprofit Quarterly.\n\nCharitable programs and drug discovery & development efforts by pharmaceutical companies include:\n"}
{"id": "7876982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876982", "title": "Philip J. Cook", "text": "Philip J. Cook\n\nPhilip Jackson Cook (born October 15, 1946) is the ITT/Terry Sanford Professor of Public Policy at the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University in the United States. He also holds faculty appointments in Duke's departments of sociology, and economics. His research has focused on crime and criminal justice policy; weapons and violent crime; health and safety regulation including alcohol taxation and the societal costs of drinking; the economics of state lotteries; and income distribution.\n\nCook is the author of \"Gun Violence: The Real Costs\", a book published by Oxford University Press, that presents gun violence from an economic perspective. He has also edited \"Evaluating Gun Policy\", which was published in 2003 by the Brookings Institution. Cook's most recent book is \"The Gun Debate: What Everyone Needs to Know\", which was published by Oxford University Press in 2014.\n\nPhilip J. Cook has served on the National Research Council’s Committee on Law and Justice. He has also been on National Academy of Science panels, including the 1994 panel on \"Understanding and Control of Violent Behavior\", 1981 panel on \"Alternative Policies Affecting the Prevention of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism\", among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6685906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6685906", "title": "Poly-MVA", "text": "Poly-MVA\n\nPoly-MVA (or Lipoic Acid Mineral Complex) is a dietary supplement created by Merrill Garnett (1931–), a former dentist turned biochemist. Poly-MVA is an ineffective alternative cancer treatment.\n\nThe \"MVA\" in \"Poly-MVA\" means \"minerals vitamins and amino acids\". Poly-MVA contains lipoic acid, acetylcysteine, palladium, B vitamins, and other ingredients. The substance is red-brown liquid that is taken by mouth. Promoters of Poly-MVA refer to it as a \"metallo-vitamin\".\n\nIn 2004, a year's supply of Poly-MVA was reported as costing US$19,800.\n\nPoly-MVA is promoted with claims that it can treat a variety of human diseases including cancer and HIV/AIDS. The promotional effort is supported by customer testimonials, but there is no medical evidence that Poly-MVA confers any health benefit and some concern it may inhibit the effectiveness of mainstream cancer treatments if used at the same time.\n\nIn 2005, Poly-MVA was listed as one of the ineffective alternative cancer treatments being sold by the clinics clustered in and around Tijuana, Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "53873690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53873690", "title": "Premium Friday", "text": "Premium Friday\n\nPremium Friday is a campaign to promote consumer spending advocated by the Japanese government and Japanese business organizations. It had been expected to have a favorable effect to the movement to improve work style.\n\nIt is a campaign promoted by the Japanese business sector led by the Government of Japan and Japan Business Federation recommending to spend more enriched life every last Friday each month. Tied up with a movement to improve work style, it is recommending to end work at 15:00. Since last Friday of a month end tends to be when salary has just been paid, it is advocating to spend the afternoon shopping or travelling. This has been implemented on February 24, 2017.\n\nThe initiative is part of an attempt to address the punishingly long hours many Japanese are expected to work, prompted by the suicide of a 24-year-old employee at the advertising firm Dentsu who was doing more than 100 hours' overtime in the months before her death. While some major companies, such as Honda, the drinks maker Suntory and the confectioner Morinaga, have adopted the optional scheme, others are less enthusiastic about the prospect of a mid-afternoon staff exodus. A survey of 155 big companies by the Nikkei business newspaper showed that 45% had no immediate plans to implement the scheme, with 37% saying they had either decided to enter into the spirit of Premium Friday or had plans to do so.\n"}
{"id": "18333977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333977", "title": "Prenatal stress", "text": "Prenatal stress\n\nPrenatal stress (or prenatal maternal stress) is exposure of an expectant mother to stress, which can be caused by stressful life events or by environmental hardships. The resulting changes to the mother's hormonal and immune system may harm the fetus's (and after birth, the infant's) immune function and brain development.\n\nPrenatal stress is shown to have several affects in fetal brain development. In the hippocampus of adult male rats, prenatal stress has shown to decrease the rate of proliferation and cell death in the hypothalamus-pituitary axis. Prenatal stressed animals have prolonged corticosterone response. Removing the adrenal glands of the mother eliminates the effect of the pup's corticosterone response. Supplementing the adrenalectamized mother with corticosterone, rescued the hypothalamic-pituitary-axis response to maternal stress for prenatally stressed offspring. Prenatal stress caused high glucocorticoids, which in turn affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-axis negative feedback.\nA study by García-Cáceres et al. showed that prenatal stress decreases cell turnover and proliferation in the hypothalamus of adult rats, which reduces structural plasticity and reduces the response to stress in adulthood. This study also showed that when prenatally stressed rats were stressed in adulthood the females showed an increase in corticotropin-releasing hormone suggesting it to be an up-regulation in the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis. Males showed no elevation of corticosterone levels. Increase in adrenocorticotropic hormone with no effect of adult stress and a decrease in the corticotropin-releasing hormone mRNA in the hypothalamus showed a down-regulation. The author concludes that this makes prenatally stressed females less reactive to later life stressors than males.\n\nPups that underwent prenatal stress showed lower plasma testosterone when compared to the control pups. This is caused by the disruption of prenatal development which did not allow the complete masculinization of the prenatally stressed pups’ central nervous system. Particularly in the striatum of the prenatally stressed male pups showed an increase in vanilmandelic acid, dopamine, serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid which all can affect sexual behavior. The prenatally stressed male pups showed a significant latency in mounting behavior when compared to controls.\nWhen doing the radial arm maze task prenatally stressed male rats showed a greater increase in dopamine than the prenatally stressed females, which is suggested to facilitate the impairment for the males doing the maze task, but improved the female’s performance. There was also an effect on the corticosterone secretion for prenatally stressed females. Being prenatally stressed increased the anxiety response of the female rats. Yet, it had no effect on the males.\n\nPrenatal stress does have an effect on brain sexual differentiation after measuring the volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area of both female and males in the control and stressed groups. Prenatal stress inhibits the masculinzation of the male brain by inhibiting the growth of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area. Previous studies found that a decrease in testosterone is seen in pups of prenatally stressed mothers. Authors suggest this may cause the reduced in the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area and says it is similar to the effects of neonatal castration. Also, stressed males had larger sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area at birth, but then at 20 and 60 days are found to only have 50% of the volume of the control males. Whereas control males are two times larger than control females on days 20 and 60, but the stressed males show no statistical difference to control females on respective days. These findings show support that the male brain is not showing the expected sexual dimorphism when prenatally stressed.\nAnother study led by Kerchner et al. investigated the volume of the medial amygdala and the two compartments posterodorsal and the posteroventral in mice that also were prenatally stressed. Posterodorsal is thought to show organizational and activational effects from gonadal steroids. The medial amygdala for the control and stressed males was 85% larger than females with the males (stressed and control) resembling each other. To look for specific regions within the medial amygdala that may have been affected, data showed that both the posterodorsal and posteroventral, all male groups were larger in volume than the females, but male groups did not significantly differ from each other. This study confirmed that the medial amygdala is sexually dimorphic; the males are larger than the females. The posterodorsal and posteroventral were shown to be sexually dimorphic too. The writer suggested that these areas may act similarly to sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area in response to testosterone, but prenatal stress did not show an effect on the medial amygdala as it does on the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area. Also, the posteroventral was 40% larger in control males than females. These results were thought to be caused by the sensitive period of the medial amygdala which is in the first days after birth. The medial amygdala, posterodorsal and posteroventral all show to be resistant against demasculinization from prenatal stress.\n\nA longitudinal study done on prenatal stress and gender roles showed that prenatal stress only plays a small part in the gender roles the offspring takes on and mentions it has more to do with older siblings, maternal use of alcohol and/or tobacco, maternal education, and the observance or teaching of “traditional sex roles” from the parents.\n\nPrenatal stress and negative mood during pregnancy has been shown to increase the risk for poor childbirth outcomes and postnatal maternal mood problems. Additionally, prenatal distress can interfere with the mother-infant attachment and child development outcomes. Despite the clear association between prenatal stress and child outcomes, frequently women do not receive screening, prevention, or treatment for mood or stress concerns.\n\nGiven the relationship between prenatal stress and child outcomes, it is essential to examine interventions that aim to reduce anxiety, depression, and stress during pregnancy. Mindfulness based stress reduction has been demonstrated to reduce anxiety and depression for people with stress-related and chronic medical conditions.\n\nOne pilot study shows promise for the potential of a mindfulness-based intervention to reduce negative affect and anxiety of women during pregnancy. Based out of the California Pacific Medical Center Research Institute, investigators Dr. Cassandra Vieten and Dr. John Astin conducted a wait-list control pilot study that tested a group-based mindfulness intervention. There were 31 women enrolled in the study: 13 women were assigned to the intervention and 18 women were assigned to the control group. Measures of anxiety, negative affect, positive affect, depression, mindfulness, perceived stress, and affect regulation were taken before intervention or control was assigned and after the intervention or control was completed. Measures were repeated at a follow-up visit 3 months after the intervention or control was completed. The investigators found a significant decrease in anxiety (p<.05) and negative affect (p <.04) in women who completed the mindfulness based intervention, but not a significant decrease in depression, positive affect, mindfulness, affect regulation, and perceived stress. These results suggest that mindfulness intervention during pregnancy reduce anxiety and negative affect of mothers. This study is a promising start to the potential impact that mindfulness based interventions could have on reducing prenatal stress, and thereby improving child outcomes.\n\nA study by Sandman and Davis shows that the timing of prenatal stress is crucial to understanding how prenatal stress affects prenatal and postnatal development. Cortisol is often used to measure stress as it is a hormone that is released during stressful events. If an expectant mother is experiencing a stressful event such as income insecurity or being a teenage mother, cortisol is secreted as a result. However, as demonstrated by Sandman and Davis, the timing of cortisol release can sometimes have a harmful effect on development and sometimes not depending on when in pregnancy stress is experienced. Sandman and Davis studied \"125 full- term infants at 3, 6, and 12 months of age\" to determine the effects of maternal cortisol timing differences on development. They found that \"exposure to elevated concentrations of cortisol early in gestation was associated with a slower rate of development over the 1st year and lower mental development scores at 12 months\" and \"elevated levels of maternal cortisol late in gestation were associated with accelerated cognitive development and higher scores at 12 months\". Overall, cortisol's effects on infant cognitive development are dependent upon the timing of cortisol release.\n"}
{"id": "12211543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12211543", "title": "Recoleta Dam", "text": "Recoleta Dam\n\nRecoleta is a reservoir located 16 km northeast of the city of Ovalle, in the Coquimbo Region, Chile.\n"}
{"id": "21494751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21494751", "title": "Road Safety Authority", "text": "Road Safety Authority\n\nThe Road Safety Authority (), or RSA, is a state agency formed by the Irish Government to promote road safety within the Republic of Ireland. The agency has devolved control of much of the work of the Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport.\n\nIt was established in September 2006, charged with the task of improving safety on the Republic of Ireland's roads and established under the \"Road Safety Authority Act 2006\", in response to the high number of deaths on Irish roads.\n\nThe organisation's headquarters are located at Primrose Hill, Ballina, Co. Mayo. The current chairperson of the RSA is former TD Liz O'Donnell who succeeded veteran TV and radio celebrity, former host of the Late Late Show Gay Byrne. Mr. Byrne secured a second 5-year term in 2011. However, on 16 June 2014, he announced his intention to step down as Chairman on 5 August 2014.\n\nSome controversy was caused when Mr. Byrne was shown traveling in a car with Terry Wogan when Mr. Byrne appeared not to be wearing his seatbelt. Mr. Byrne has also admitted to drink driving in the past, \"but said it was part of the Irish culture at the time.\"\n\nThe RSA was mentioned in relation to public agencies continuing to operate outside of the remit of the Office of the Ombudsman and Information Commissioner, in a speech delivered by Emily O'Reilly in 2010.\n\nIn 2013, the CEO of the RSA, Noel Brett stepped down from his position as chief executive of the State-funded Road Safety Authority (RSA) to take up a position as chief lobbyist for the Irish Banking Federation :\n\n\"His appointment will come as a surprise given his lack of experience in the financial services sector, especially when the main banks in Ireland are striving to return to profitability and are under significant pressure to deal with the issue of mortgage arrears.\"\n\nAmongst the functions of the RSA are the promotion of road safety, research on accidents and road safety, driver testing and licensing, as well as establishing vehicle-related and other safe driving standards.\n\nThe RSA and An Garda Síochána enforce the licensing provisions of the Road Transport Acts: \"As well as a fine, if you are an unlicensed haulier you can expect the RSA to look closely at your compliance with other laws, such as those covering: Drivers’ hours rules, Road traffic requirements, Roadworthiness of your vehicles and trailers.\"\n\nThe RSA is also responsible for monitoring progress of The National Road Safety Strategy (2007-2012) which aims to reduce collisions, deaths and injuries on Irish roads by 30%. Achieving this would bring Ireland in line with countries that are considered to have the safest roads in the world – such as Holland, Sweden and the UK.\n\nUnder the banner of NDLS (National Driver Licence Service) the RSA is now responsible for the issuing of driving licences in Ireland.\n\nThe RSA's \"He drives, she dies\" campaign, which aimed to raise awareness among female drivers of the risks of getting into cars with men they feel may not drive safely, came in for some criticism in the Irish media. The country's Broadcasting Complaints Commission also received a number of complaints from members of the public relating to the campaign. RSA Chief Executive Noel Brett defended the campaign as justified by accident statistics, saying that \"women need to know that they are being killed through male-dominated driver errors such as speeding and drink driving,\" adding \"male drivers are four times more likely to be involved in a fatal collision than a female driver.\" \n\nThe authority subsequently announced it was considering a number of practical options to further its aim to cut death rates among the country's young male drivers, including the possibility of a late-night driving curfew for all male drivers under the age of 25.\n\nOther recent initiatives include the recommendation of a number of changes to Ireland's National Car Test, which is supervised by the RSA, requiring vehicles older than ten years to be tested every year as opposed to biennially, while stricter controls will be introduced on non-functioning fault warning lights, overly noisy exhausts, and tinted windows and windscreens.\n\nIn 2008 the Road Safety Authority received information from vehicle checking agency Cartell about the issue of written off cars from the UK being imported, repaired and registered for use in Ireland. The subsequent \"Irish Times\" article provoked an investigation by the Garda Siochána, Vehicle Registration Unit, Road Safety Authority and Revenue Commissioners. This resulted in a change to legislation so that from September 2010 all imported vehicles must be taken to a National Car Test Centre for inspection before being registered in Ireland.\n\nIn October 2009, it was announced that the RSA had struck an agreement under which the disqualification of drivers in Ireland and in the UK will be mutually recognised. The accord, which is the first such deal between two EU member states, will come into effect in February 2010.\n\nIn 2011 RTÉ revealed that individuals in some of the National Car Testing Service centres could issue an NCT car safety certificate on payment of €100 for cars with serious safety defects. The tests are subcontracted to and conducted by Applus.\n\nIn June 2011 Ireland's improvement in reducing road safety fatalities enabled it to be ranked in sixth place for road safety in the EU. The RSA stated: \"The number of Irish road deaths fell to 212 in 2010, the lowest level on record, down 26 from 2009. The Government’s road safety target of achieving no more than 252 deaths per annum by the end of 2012 was achieved three years ahead of schedule.\"\n\nOn 5 October 2011, the RSA announced a joint venture with the Irish Tyre Industry Association with the intention of promoting a \"tyre safety\" week. Two days later the RSA issued a fresh announcement distancing itself from the practical demonstration of vehicle stopping distances it had earlier endorsed after it was alleged that one of the test vehicles used in the tyre safety demonstration had had its ABS braking system disabled.\n\nIn 2012, the RSA, having been consulted to offer an opinion on a TV advertisement for Meteor (a mobile telephone service provider), concluded that \"they were of the view that the advertisement promoted highly dangerous road user behaviour.\"\n\nThe advertisement included a comedic segment showing a cyclist following a bus to receive free wifi.\nWhilst the cyclist depicted in the Meteor ad was wearing a helmet, he was using a mobile phone whilst riding a bicycle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26921896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26921896", "title": "Rofeh Cholim Cancer Society", "text": "Rofeh Cholim Cancer Society\n\nThe Rofeh Cholim Cancer Society (RCCS) is an American-based organization funding insurance policies for cancer patients. It was founded in Brooklyn, New York in 1997 by businessman Rabbi Hershel Koh.\n\nThe Society exists through a network of fund-raising activities. It also organizes assemblies where orthodox Jews gather to pray on behalf of the sick.\n\nChai Lifeline\n"}
{"id": "37485543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37485543", "title": "Smoking in Iran", "text": "Smoking in Iran\n\nSmoking in Iran has been banned in all public places since 2007. This includes all state bodies, hotels, restaurants. The law also bans the smoking of traditional waterpipes (\"ghalyun\") which were common in Iranian tea houses. A smoking ban for all car drivers nationwide was implemented in March 2006, and although offenders can face fines, the ban has been widely ignored. The sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 18 is prohibited and is punishable by the confiscation of the vendor's tobacco products and a fine.\n\nAbout 20% of the adult male and 4.5% of the adult female population smoke tobacco (12 million smokers according to some estimates). 60,000 Iranians die directly or indirectly due to smoking every year (2008). Smoking is responsible for 25% of deaths in the country. Approx. 54-60 billion cigarettes are believed to be consumed annually in Iran. \n\nAround 2.7 billion cigarettes are smuggled into Iran annually, according to officials from the state-owned Iranian Tobacco Company (ITC), on top of another 26.7 billion which are imported legally (2008). Imports of cigarettes, tobacco, cigars, cigarette paper, cigarette tips are subject to government monopoly. Iranians spend more than $1.8 billion a year on tobacco.\n\nAccording to a 2010 law, smokers will not be appointed to senior government jobs.\n\n"}
{"id": "14069120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14069120", "title": "Strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology", "text": "Strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology\n\nThe STROBE \"(STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology)\" Statement is a reporting guideline including a checklist of 22 items that are considered essential for good reporting of observational studies.\nIt has been published in several leading biomedical journals in October and November 2007 and is referred to in the Vancouver guidelines (Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals) established by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors.\n\n\"The STROBE Statement was developed by the STROBE Initiative, an international collaboration of epidemiologists, methodologists, statisticians, researchers and journal editors with the aim to assist authors when writing up analytical observational studies, to support editors and reviewers when considering such articles for publication, and to help readers when critically appraising published articles.\" \nExtensions to STROBE include RECORD, for \"The REporting of studies Conducted using Observational Routinely-collected Data\". RECORD is intended for observational studies using routinely collected health data, such as health administrative data, electronic health records, and registry data.\n\nA draft checklist for reporting observational studies in conference abstracts is also available.\n\nA STROBE extension for nutritional epidemiology \"STROBE-nut\" was developed and contains 24 items for manuscripts that report findings from dietary assessment and nutritional epidemiology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28743671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28743671", "title": "The Ayurvedic Institute", "text": "The Ayurvedic Institute\n\nThe Ayurvedic Institute is an Ayurvedic school and Ayurveda health spa in Albuquerque, New Mexico. It was established in 1984 by Vasant Lad as a non-profit 501(c)3 organization to teach the traditional Ayurvedic medicine of India and to provide these ancient therapies. The school offers training and services in Ayurvedic healing includes herbs, nutrition, panchakarma cleansing, acupressure massage, cooking, Yoga, Sanskrit, and Jyotish (Vedic astrology).\n\nThe Ayurvedic Institute is located in the North East part of Albuquerque, New Mexico The college has multiple classrooms that can accommodate up to 80 students, publishing department, retail store, yoga studio, herb department and a panchakarma department that treats up to 10 patients a week.\n\n"}
{"id": "57879043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57879043", "title": "Voluntary termination of pregnancy", "text": "Voluntary termination of pregnancy\n\nThe voluntary termination of pregnancy is a proposed abortion law bill in Argentina. \n\nThe text of the bill only uses the term \"abortion\" when it makes references to articles of the penal code, that would be modified. In all other cases, it uses the term \"voluntary termination of pregnancy\". It also makes reference to both women and people that may become pregnant, in reference to cases of transgender pregnancy.\n\nAn abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, with no requirements other than the woman's desire. After that point, an abortion may be performed in the case of rape, risk to the life or health of the woman, or risk of stillbirth. Those three cases may allow abortion at any point of the pregnancy, even in its last stages. In the case of rape, a woman only needs to sign an oath, without needing to make a criminal complaint. Minors do not require parental authorization to abort. There is no limit on the number of times a woman may perform abortions.\n\nOnce the woman informs her desire to abort, the healthcare facility has a maxium of five days to perform it. The pre-abortion interviews are restricted to information about abortion methods, and may not attempt to discourage the woman from aborting. The process must keep discretion about the identity of the woman. All healcare facilities, both public and private, must guarantee to perform abortions in the time required and for free. Judicial authorizations are not needed.\n\nMedics are allowed to claim themselves conscientious objectors, by signing a registry beforehand. This can only be done on a personal level, healthcare facilities are not allowed to do so, even those founded by religious organizations. \n\nThe bill also instructs the establishment of sex education in schools and policies to prevent unwanted pregnancies, although those had already been in place. It also instructs the creation of abortion-related statistics.\n\nThe sanctions in the penal code remain for the cases when a medic performs an abortion without the woman's authorization. A medic that performs an abortion after the 15th week of pregnancy without it being among the accepted cases may be sentenced to prison, from three months to a year. A medic who delays, obstructs or refuses to perform an abortion may be sentenced to prison, from six months to two years, and with a disqualification for the double of time. If this refusal led to the birth of the baby, the sentence raises from two to five years.\n\nPresident Mauricio Macri encouraged the discussion of an abortion law during the 2018 opening of regular sessions of the National Congress of Argentina. After some months of abortion debate in the media, the bill was approved by the internal commisions of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies for general legislation, health, penal legislation and family. It was approved by 64 to 57 votes, which allowed it to be discussed by the chamber itself. The bill was approved by the Argentine Chamber of Deputies by a narrow margin of 129 to 125 votes. The proposal divided both the legislators of Cambiemos and the Justicialist Party.\n\nElisa Carrió, one of the most influential figures of the official government coalition, is a strong pro-life advocate. She suspected that some legislators were instructed to vote in support of the bill, and threatened to leave the coalition.\n\nVíctor Fernández, archbishop of La Plata, asked the president to use a veto against the law, if he was truly against abortion. Marcos Peña, chief of the cabinet of ministers, confirmed that Macri would honor the result of the discussion, and would not veto the bill if approved.\n\nThe Peronist factions in Argentina (the Justicialist Party, the Renewal Front and the Front for Victory) are also divided over the project. During the preliminary discussions in the Senate, there were conflicting views over the chance of doctors refusing to perform abortions as conscientious objectors. Miguel Pichetto opposed it, claiming that everybody should obey the law. José Mayans considered instead that a state-enforced killing would be similar to a capital punishment, which is not allowed in the Argentine legislation.\n\nSenator Guillermo Snopek, who is against abortion, requested that the minister of health Adolfo Rubinstein was not allowed to make a speech during the preliminary discussions in the senate. He considered that such a speech could influence the legislators and be a breach to the separation of powers. He also accused him of having ties with the International Planned Parenthood Federation. The request was dismissed, and Rubinstein made his speech without problems. He clarified that he was not talking in the name of the government but just of the ministry of health, and that he only intended to provide relevant statistics, and not engage in the moral aspects of the abortion debate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5279818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5279818", "title": "Øljusjøen", "text": "Øljusjøen\n\nØljusjøen is a lake in the municipalities of Hemsedal (in Buskerud county) and Lærdal (in Sogn og Fjordane county), Norway. The lake is located at an elevation of above sea level. It sits about southeast of the village of Borgund and the European route E16 highway. The lake Eldrevatnet is to the north. The lake Juklevatnet and the mountain Høgeloft are both about to the northeast.\n\nØljusjøen has a hydroelectric dam at the north end which directs water to a power station nearby. The water eventually goes into the Mørkedøla river.\n\n"}
