{"id": "36946440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36946440", "title": "BETH – European Theological Libraries", "text": "BETH – European Theological Libraries\n\nEuropean Theological Libraries, or, in French, Bibliothèques Européennes de Théologie, hence the name BETH, is an ecumenical association established in 1961, with legal registration in Nijmegen, Netherlands. Its purpose is to contribute to the development of theological libraries in Europe and to encourage cooperation among its members.\n\nTo mark the tenth anniversary of the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft katholisch-Theologischer Bibliotheken\" (AKThB) several librarians met in Frankfurt in 1957 and founded an association that would become BETH. Father Luchesius Smits of VKSB (Vereniging voor Seminarie en Kloosterbibliothecarissen, The Netherlands), Father Francis Courtney of ABTAPL (Association of British Theological and Philosophical Libraries, United Kingdom), and Father Paul Mech (Association des bibliothèques de sciences religieuses, France), in the spirit of reconstruction and reconciliation that characterized the post-war period, were concerned about making a contribution to the development of the Christian faith by promoting exchanges between the theological libraries. It seemed essential to them to improve the professional qualifications, to work on some international bibliographies and to promote mutual assistance in order to fully accomplish their mission. Revisiting the words of Johan van Wyngaerden on the founders of the Netherlands VSKB \"they considered an apostolic mission not only to support the conservation of valuable collections of books in seminaries and convents , but also to make these available to a wider public. \"\n\nIt was in Frankfurt, however, on 18 October 1961 that the \"International Committee for the Coordination of Catholic Theological Library Associations (le Comité international de coordination des associations de bibliothèques de théologie catholique)\" was established when librarians from Germany, France and the Netherlands met at a meeting of German librarians. In 1970, the ‘Committee’ became the \"International Council of Theological Library Associations (le Conseil international des associations de bibliothèques de théologie)\" when it had grown to include a number of national associations and the \"Council\" became a member of IFLA (1971-1986). From 1961 to 1999 several collaborative publications testify to the enterprising activities of the Council: \"Scripta recenter edita,\" an updated bibliographies of philosophical and theological works, were published between 1950 and 1973, and \"Bibliographia ad usum seminariorum\", a selection of the necessary tools for theological studies (liturgical, missiological, ecumenical) from 1959 to 1965.\n\nIn 1999, in recognition of the distinct European composition of the association and its activities, the Council became \"BETH: Bibliothèques Européennes de Théologie / European Theological Libraries / Europäische Bibliotheken für Theologie,\" which has a website (www.beth.be) hosted by The Catholic University of Leuven (KULeuven).\n\nBy 2010, BETH had a membership of 12 national associations and 16 extraordinary members, among which are found, for example, the National Library of France (the department of Philosophy/Religion), the National and University Library of Strasbourg and the Library of the World Council of Churches in Geneva.\n\nBETH, supported by the national organisation and the exceptionally rich heritage of the libraries involved, organises a conference each year. The official languages of the association are English, French and German, but libraries from all areas of Europe (and their native languages) are welcome in the association, although communications among the membership are principally conducted in English. BETH assists its members in forming consortia for obtaining access to databases and distributes throughout the year any information concerning exhibitions, symposia other current digitalisation projects.\n\nIn Hebrew, Beth ב is the second letter of the alphabet and the first letter found when opening the Biblical text, the word Bereschit (in the beginning). The word BETH conveys the idea of a house, dwelling, building.\n\nIn 2008, an Hungarian artist designed the logo of the association, which expresses the tradition of study and of the lectio divina set on a lectern, as well as the contemporary librarian’s job with the keys of a keyboard on which we see the letters of the acronym of the association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17383079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17383079", "title": "Baghdad College for Economic Sciences University", "text": "Baghdad College for Economic Sciences University\n\nBaghdad College of Economic Sciences University is a private Iraqi university established in 1996 in Baghdad, Iraq.\n\n\nBaghdad College of Economic Sciences University\n"}
{"id": "409725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409725", "title": "Bob Filner", "text": "Bob Filner\n\nRobert Earl Filner (born September 4, 1942) is a former American politician who was the 35th Mayor of San Diego from December 2012 through August 2013, when he resigned amid multiple allegations of sexual harassment. He later pleaded guilty to state charges of false imprisonment and battery. He is a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nFilner was previously the U.S. Representative for , and the 50th, serving from 1993 to 2012. He was chair of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs from 2007 to 2011.\n\nFilner was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood. He is Jewish, the son of Sarah F. and Joseph H. Filner. His father was a labor union organizer, U.S. Army veteran and later international metal trader.\n\nHe attended Cornell University, where he worked on the \"Cornell Daily Sun\", a student newspaper, and took part in civil rights demonstrations. In June 1961, after pulling into the bus station in Jackson, Mississippi as a Freedom Rider, Filner was arrested for \"disturbing the peace and inciting a riot.\" He refused to post bond for his release and remained incarcerated for two months.\n\nHe graduated from Cornell in 1963 with a degree in chemistry, and earned his doctorate in history of science from Cornell six years later. While completing his PhD, he moved to San Diego, becoming a history professor at San Diego State University for more than 20 years.\n\nFilner was long interested in politics. He worked for U.S. Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota in 1975 and for Minnesota Congressman Don Fraser in 1976. He also worked for Congressman Jim Bates from the San Diego area in 1984.\n\nHis elective career began in 1979, when his opposition to the closing of a neighborhood school led him to run for the San Diego Unified School District Board of Education, defeating a longtime incumbent. His \"back to basics\" approach to education won him wide praise, and his colleagues elected him president of the board in 1982. He was replaced on the board by Susan Davis, who now represents most of the rest of San Diego in the House of Representatives. He was elected to the San Diego City Council in 1987 and was reelected in 1991; his colleagues elected him Deputy Mayor of San Diego.\n\nCalifornia gained seven seats after the 1990 census, and one of them was the 50th District in south San Diego (renumbered the 51st District after the 2000 census). The district is one of the most ethnically diverse in the nation, including much of San Diego's southern section, the cities of Chula Vista and National City and all of Imperial County. It includes most of California's border with Mexico, except for the city of Imperial Beach. In 1992, Filner ran in a five-way Democratic primary for the seat and won a narrow victory. One of his primary opponents was his former boss, Jim Bates, who had lost his seat in a sexual harassment scandal in 1990 and whose home had been drawn into the district.\n\nAnother opponent was veteran state Senator Wadie Deddeh, who was term-limited. Filner defeated Deddeh by a narrow margin, with Bates finishing third place in the primary. The district was almost 40% Hispanic (redistricting in 2000 made it 53% Hispanic) and heavily Democratic, and his victory in November (with 57 percent of the vote) was a foregone conclusion. He was reelected nine times with no substantive Republican opposition. He ran unopposed in 1998. He chose not to run for re-election to Congress in 2012, opting instead to run for Mayor of San Diego. He resigned from the House of Representatives on December 3, 2012, in order to take office as Mayor of San Diego.\n\nFilner had a bitter rivalry with Juan Vargas, another Democratic politician who ran against Filner in the Democratic primary three times. Filner and Vargas have accused each other of corruption. However, in the 2012 mayoral race, Vargas endorsed Filner for Mayor of San Diego and Vargas was elected to Filner's seat in Congress.\n\nFilner was a founding member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. He was also a member of the Congressional Motorcycle Safety Caucus and International Conservation Caucus. He was one of the 31 who voted in the House to not count the electoral votes from Ohio in the 2004 presidential election. In 2008, Filner sponsored a resolution, passed by the House of Representatives, in support of National Aviation Maintenance Technician Day. While in congress, Filner was known for his combative personality, and for personally dealing with constituent issues.\n\nFilner served on the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs and ascended to the chairmanship when the Democrats took over the House of representatives after the 2006 election. As chairman, Filner advocated for funding for veterans benefits, increased spending on veterans healthcare, and a new GI bill for veterans of Afghanistan and Iraq. Filner stayed on as ranking Democrat on the committee after the Republicans retook the House in the 2010 election.\n\nFilner's district in south San Diego had one of the largest populations of Filipino Americans in the country, leading Filner to focus on issues relevant to the Philippines while in congress, especially Filipino veterans. Filner's accomplishments included legislation allowing Filipino veterans to maintain a small stipend from the government if they moved back to the Philippines, burial benefits, and access to VA clinics. In 2009 Filner brokered a deal securing $198 million in pension benefits for Filipino veterans who had served for the United States in World War II in the form of a $15,000 lump sum payment as part of the 2009 stimulus bill. In February 2009, Rep. Antonio Diaz filed a bill in the Philippine House of Representatives seeking to confer honorary Filipino citizenship on Filner and U.S. Senators Daniel Inouye, Daniel Akaka, and Ted Stevens for their role in securing the passage of this legislation.\n\nOn August 20, 2007, Filner was involved in an altercation with a United Airlines employee at Dulles International Airport after he became upset that his baggage had not yet arrived on a baggage carousel. Filner entered the baggage claim office and became irritated when the employee was busy helping another customer and asked the congressman to wait his turn. It was at this point that it is alleged that Filner attempted to enter the employee-only area of the office. He was asked to leave the area several times by airline employees but refused to do so until airport police were called in.\n\nFilner was on his way to visit troops in Iraq at the time of the incident. He released a statement saying \"suffice it to say now, that the story that has appeared in the press is factually incorrect and the charges are ridiculous\". He was later charged with assault and battery. Filner pleaded guilty in an Alford plea to reduced charges of trespassing. The House Ethics Committee began a probe into the event, but it was later dropped.\n\nFilner, along with several senior United States officials, argued that the People's Mujahedin of Iran, also known as the MEK, should have its designation as a terrorist group removed. Filner considered the MEK, a major member of the National Council of Resistance of Iran, an ally against the current Iranian regime. Filner accepted free trips, most recently in June 2013 to Paris, and paid engagements to speak in favor of delisting them as a terrorist organization. The U.S. Department of State lifted the MEK's designation as a terrorist organization as of September 28, 2012.\n\n\nFilner announced on June 8, 2011, that he would be a candidate for Mayor of San Diego in the 2012 election and would not run for re-election to Congress. In the primary on June 5, 2012, he placed second with 30.7% of the vote. He faced city councilmember Carl DeMaio in the November 2012 runoff election. Filner defeated DeMaio, 52.5% to 47.5%. Filner, age 70, won as San Diego's first elected Democratic mayor since 1992 and only its second since 1971.\n\nIn his first speech as mayor, Filner promised to focus on rebuilding the neighborhoods of San Diego, improving city services, increasing staffing for public safety, bringing jobs to the city, and developing stronger regional ties with Tijuana.\n\nIn January 2013, following a meeting between Filner and the San Diego chapter of Americans for Safe Access, Filner instructed the San Diego Police Department and city code compliance officers to stop enforcing codes against marijuana dispensaries and stop forwarding cases to the San Diego City Attorney's Office. In April 2013, Filner proposed a new ordinance to restore permanent legal status to dispensaries, but the City Council rejected it and suggested that the City Attorney draft a new ordinance in its place. Meanwhile, federal agencies continued to raid and prosecute dispensaries within city limits.\n\nIn February 2013, Filner raised controversy by not authorizing funding of the Tourism Marketing District, a hotelier-run organization charged with promoting San Diego as a tourist destination that is funded by a 2 percent surcharge on hotel rooms. In 2012, the San Diego City Council agreed to renew the District for 39 1/2 years, but outgoing mayor Jerry Sanders did not sign the agreement before leaving office. Filner publicly withheld his signature on the agreement, wanting a series of concessions that would raise hotel worker salaries, protect the City from liability, and direct more of the funds collected to be used by the City of San Diego. The District subsequently filed suit against the Mayor to enforce the agreement, but Judge Timothy Taylor ruled that Filner had the discretion not to sign. After this ruling, Filner and the hoteliers agreed to a compromise and Filner signed the contract. However, in late May 2013 Filner temporarily withheld payments to the District until it agreed to provide upfront funding for a centennial celebration for Balboa Park.\n\nOn July 11, 2013, three of Filner's long-time supporters held a press conference to call for Filner's resignation as mayor, based on numerous unspecified but \"credible\" allegations that he had sexually harassed women. KPBS-FM said that it had been investigating reports of sexual harassment of female staff members for several months, and that the complaints included \"inappropriate comments, kissing and groping\". Later that day Filner issued a video statement apologizing and saying that he was seeking professional help to change his behavior. The next day Filner told reporters that he had treated women poorly and sometimes intimidated them, but insisted that a \"fair and independent investigation\" would clear him of sexual harassment charges.\n\nOn July 12 Filner's chief of staff, Vince Hall, announced his resignation, effective immediately. On July 24 Filner's new chief of staff Tony Buckles, his former congressional chief of staff, resigned after only 10 days on the job and was replaced by Lee Burdick, a woman who had been serving as deputy chief of staff.\n\nOn July 15 the same three former supporters held another press conference, describing in more detail charges by women who said they had been forcibly kissed, groped, and subjected to sexually suggestive comments by Filner; the alleged but unidentified victims include a mayoral staffer, a campaign volunteer and a constituent. Filner repeated that he had done nothing wrong and would not resign.\n\nOn July 22, 2013, attorney Gloria Allred announced at a press conference that her firm had filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against Filner on behalf of the mayor's former communications director. By August 26, 19 women had publicly claimed that Filner had sexually harassed them, including a retired admiral, a Marilyn Monroe impersonator who appeared at one of his fundraisers, a 67-year-old great-grandmother who worked for the city, a nurse who said Filner demanded a date in exchange for helping a Marine who had suffered a brain injury and PTSD during service in Iraq, and several female members of the U.S. armed forces who had been raped during their service. In the last two instances, Filner's contact with the women stemmed from his position at the time as ranking member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee.\n\nIn the ensuing weeks, calls for Filner's resignation came from Democratic U.S. senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, representatives Susan Davis and Scott Peters, DNC chairwoman and U.S Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, California State Assembly members Toni Atkins and Lorena Gonzalez, Nancy Pelosi, and all nine members of the City Council.\n\nOn July 26, 2013, Filner announced that he planned to take a leave of absence \"to undergo two weeks of intensive therapy” starting August 5. He started the treatment but ended it early on August 10, according to his attorney.\n\nOn July 29, 2013, Filner asked the city of San Diego to pay his legal fees for a sexual harassment lawsuit regarding his former communications director. The city council voted not to do so, and in fact to sue Filner for any costs incurred by the city due to claims filed against him and the city. The City Council later reversed itself as part of a negotiated agreement with Filner.\n\nFederal, state and local investigators looked into several other issues involving Filner. One matter involved a trip he took to Paris with his then-fiancée in June 2013; questions had been raised about the nonprofit group that paid his expenses and the use of city credit cards to pay for his accompanying security detail. On another issue, FBI agents looked into a pair of proposed housing developments which Filner blocked with an \"administrative hold\" until the developers contributed money to certain city projects.\n\nIn August 2013 two different groups started the process to mount a recall drive against Filner; the two groups later combined their efforts. In order to force a recall election, they would have had to gather more than 100,000 signatures of city voters (15% of the votes cast in the most recent election) within a 39-day window. On August 18, 1,200 volunteers began collecting signatures. Less than a week after the signature drive began, Filner agreed to resign. The recall organizers wound down the effort, called for all petitions to be turned in so they could be counted and destroyed, and worked on preparing a final financial accounting.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, city attorney Jan Goldsmith said that Filner had reached an agreement with the city after three days of mediation. The City Council considered the agreement in a closed session on August 23 and voted 7-0 to accept Filner's resignation. The resignation deal with the City Council limits Filner's \"legal and financial exposure\" by providing a joint legal defense for him and the city for claims filed against him by current or former city employees, as well as paying up to $98,000 of his outside legal fees. Filner signed a letter of resignation that became effective at 5 p.m PDT August 30, 2013. City Council president Todd Gloria served as interim mayor, with limited powers, pending election of a new mayor. A special election was held on November 19, 2013; since no candidate received a majority of the vote, a runoff election was held on February 11, 2014, wherein Kevin Faulconer was elected to be the next mayor.\n\nOn October 15, 2013, Filner pleaded guilty in San Diego Superior Court to three criminal counts filed against him by the California state attorney general, who took over the case after the San Diego County district attorney recused herself. The charges were one felony count of false imprisonment and two misdemeanor battery charges. The victims were identified as three Jane Does. He could have faced up to five years in prison, but a plea bargain was reportedly reached, under which he would be given three months of house arrest, three years probation, and partial loss of his mayoral pension. On December 9, 2013, the terms of the plea bargain were imposed at a sentencing hearing. The plea bargain would have prohibited him from ever seeking or holding public office again, but the judge reduced the prohibition so it applies only while he is on probation. He served a three-month term of house arrest which ended on April 6, 2014.\n\nIn a 2016 interview, Filner denied all allegations of sexual harassment.\n\nOn November 20, 2017, Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Colo.) alleged during an interview on MSNBC's \"Meet the Press Daily\" that Filner tried to force himself on her in an elevator.\n\nFilner is divorced from his first wife, Barbara (Christy) Filner, a retired mediation specialist; they have two adult children, a son and a daughter.\n\nFilner was later married to Jane Merrill, but they divorced in 2011.\n\nAt his first news conference after his election as mayor in 2012, Filner introduced his fiancee, Bronwyn Ingram, a disability analyst who works for the Social Security Administration. On July 8, 2013, Ingram announced by email to a group of her supporters that the engagement had been called off and the relationship was over. In a subsequent statement, Ingram cited Filner's verbal abuse and blatant sexting as reasons for the split. Since his resignation as mayor, Filner has kept a low public profile and moved to Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "42550070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42550070", "title": "British Academy of Management", "text": "British Academy of Management\n\nThe British Academy of Management (BAM), founded in 1986, is a learned society dedicated to advancing the academic discipline of management in the United Kingdom. It is a member of the Academy of Social Sciences. The academy runs two academic journals: the \"British Journal of Management\" and the \"International Journal of Management Reviews\". Once a year, it publishes an article which is presented at the annual conference. The headquartered of the British Academy of Management is in London, United Kingdom.\n\nThe British Academy of Management was founded in 1986, exactly 50 years after the AoM was formed in Chicago. Cary Cooper was its first President and Andrew Pettigrew was its first Chairman. During the AoM conference in San Diego in 1985 they realize the lack of a multidisciplinary association in the UK and decided to establish BAM.\n\nThe biggest challenges for this new organisation were to set up a constitution and to exercise good governance through a strong executive committee. The inaugural conference of BAM was at the University of Warwick in 1987. This was organised by Andrew Pettigrew. With over 200 delegates, the conference had an immediate success.\n\nFrom the mid 1980s to the early 1990s, the management of the Academy was still based on an amateur approach, because of the moving from one place to another. The nomadic life of the BAM office and the lack of a centralized system meant that outgoing chairpersons packaged the documents and sent them on to the institution of the new chair. Sometimes, this delivery arrived without all the key papers. BAM headquarters had to be moved from one city to another for a bit more than a decade, until they found a stable home in 2002 in London. Thus, the records eventually delivered to HQ were not very comprehensive.\n\nIn the 1990s, BAM struggled to find conference venues, and to attract persons due to the fact that the attendance was low. As the time passed there was a growth in both domestic and international attendance, especially from Europe. At this time, it was observed that the conferences were more about social interaction than about the discussion of serious research. Combining both consistently high academic quality and the fun factor became a priority by the late 1990s.\n\nThe first BAM Workshop took place on 5 January 1989 entitled \"‘Organisation and Strategic Decision Making’\" at Bradford Management Centre, University of Bradford. It had 69 participants who came from England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Brazil, US, China and France. It was organised by Richard Butler, Richard Pike and John Sharp.\n\nBAM’s founders wanted to start publishing a journal. Cary Cooper managed one of the AoM divisions that had its own journal and he suggested that BAM should do the same. Cooper coordinated a small group from Council who interviewed a number of publishing companies for a five-year contract, John Wiley won the first contract. The British Journal of Management (BJM) was launched in early 1990 and had 4 issues a year running into 64 pages. The General Editor was David Otley and the Associate Editors were John Burgoyne, John McGee, Roy Payne, Nigel Piercy and Roy Rothwell. BJM purpose was to receive articles from a full range of business and management disciplines and to have a multi and inter disciplinary orientation.\n\nOne of the significant changes to BAM’s structure happened in 1999 with the formation of Special Interest Groups (SIGs). The aim of the SIGs was to encourage greater member participation and to provide a more diverse range of activities for members. The first SIGs were \"Entrepreneurship and Innovation and Management Consultancy but Learning and Knowledge, Interorganisational Relations, Performance Management, Philosophy of Management, Research Methodology, Creativity and Creative Industries\" and \"E-Business\" soon joined them. The SIG structure proved a thriving way to organise BAM’s conferences,offering richer benefits for the membership. SIGs also provided new opportunities for less experienced academics to play active roles in the Academy.\n\nThe success of the British Journal of Management (BJM) was joined by BAM’s acquisition of the International Journal of Management Reviews (IJMR). Cary Cooper and Alan Pearson had been the first editors.\n\nBritish Academy of Management has an Executive Committee and a Council.\n\nAn Executive Committee, is elected to develop the strategy, work with Council and ensure an effective implementation of the chosen strategy. Since 2014 the leadership team was remodeled. This consist of a President, a Chair, four elected Vice-Chairs and an appointed Vice Chair of Resources/Treasurer.\n\nThe Council, which comprises approximately 30 people elected for a minimum of 3 years by the general membership, represents the interests of membership and contributes to the activities of the learned society through working with the vice-chairs. The role of Council is to elaborate strategy and policy, and to implement strategy in conjunction with the Executive and Academy office.\n\nSpecial Interest Groups are networks of researchers that are focused in a specific area of management research. They organize events throughout the year and provide the members with an academic forum for the discussion on relevant topics.\n\nSIGs are run by BAM members, with support from the BAM office. They organise workshop and events on topics relevant to their research area, and take the lead in managing the academic programme at the annual BAM Conference.\n\nHere are some SIGs networks:\n\nThe British Academy of Management (BAM) Conference is for business and management scholars.\n\n The British Journal of Management (BJM) is the official journal of the British Academy of Management. It is published four times a year (plus an annual supplement), welcoming papers that make inter-disciplinary or multi-disciplinary contributions, as well as research from within the traditional disciplines and managerial functions. The publication is indexed in the Social Sciences Citation Index, being one of the most important business and management journals.\n\nBJM has a 2014 impact factor of 1.584, ranked 48 out of 115 in the Business category and 70 out of 185 in the Management category.\n\nThe editors of The British Journal of Management are Geoffrey Wood (Warwick Business School) and Pawan Budhwar (Aston Business School).\n\n The International Journal of Management Reviews (IJMR) is the official journal of the British Academy of Management. It is published four times a year, is an essential reference tool for business academics and students. The journal includes all main subjects of management sub-discipline - from accounting and entrepreneurship to strategy and technology management. Each issue is composed of five or six review articles which examine all the relevant literature published on a specific aspect of the sub-discipline.\n\nIJMR has a 2014 impact factor of 3.857, ranked 6 out of 115 in the Business category and 11 out of 185 in the Management category.\n\nThe editors of International Journal of Management Reviews are Ossie Jones (Liverpool University Management School) and Caroline Gatrell (Lancaster University Management School).\n\n"}
{"id": "19906973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19906973", "title": "CADE ATP System Competition", "text": "CADE ATP System Competition\n\nThe CADE ATP System Competition (CASC) is a yearly competition of fully automated theorem provers for classical logic CASC is associated with the Conference on Automated Deduction and the International Joint Conference on Automated Reasoning organized by the Association for Automated Reasoning. It has inspired similar competition in related fields, in particular the successful SMT-COMP competition for Satisfiability Modulo Theories, the SAT Competition for propositional reasoners, and the modal logic reasoning competition.\n\nThe first CASC, CASC-13, was held as part of the 13th Conference on Automated Deduction at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, in 1996. Among the systems competing were Otter and SETHEO.\n\n"}
{"id": "20028070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028070", "title": "Collaborative leadership", "text": "Collaborative leadership\n\nCollaborative leadership is a management practice which is focused on leadership skills across functional and organizational boundaries.\n\nThe phrase collaborative leadership first appeared in the mid-1990s in response to the twin trends of growth in strategic alliances between private corporations, and the formation of long-term public private partnership contracts to rebuild public infrastructure.\n\nKurt Lewin was first to apply cooperative system in scientific method in 1947 about individual nutrition in the United States.\n\nIn her 1994 \"Harvard Business Review\" article \"Collaborative Advantage\", Rosabeth Moss Kanter addressed leaders who recognize that critical business relationships exist \"that cannot be controlled by formal systems but require (a) dense web of interpersonal connections\". In their book published that same year, Chrislip and Larson looked at the attributes of great civic leaders in communities across the US and found some similar attributes. \"Collaboration needs a different kind of leadership; it needs leaders who can safeguard the process, facilitate interaction and patiently deal with high levels of frustration\" \n\nIn 2013, \"Harvard Business Review\" authors Nick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas (co-founders of The InterSector Project), explore the complex relationship between the business, government and social sectors as it relates to said sectors role in addressing society's most pressing challenges; issues such as managing resource constraints, controlling health care costs, training the twenty-first-century workforce, developing and implementing smart-grid and intelligent-urbanization technologies, and stabilizing financial systems to foster sustainable economic growth. Their research suggests that the future of collaborative leadership depends on the ability of leaders to engage and collaborate with the business, government and social sectors (see below for the distinguishing characteristics of such leaders).\n\nHank Rubin author and founder of the Institute for Collaborative Leadership has written \"A collaboration is a purposeful relationship in which all parties strategically choose to cooperate in order to accomplish a shared outcome.\" In his book \"Collaborative Leadership: Developing Effective Partnerships for Communities and Schools,\" Rubin asks \"Who is a collaborative leader?\" and answers \"You are a collaborative leader once you have accepted responsibility for building - or helping to ensure the success of - a heterogeneous team to accomplish a shared purpose . Your tools are (1) the purposeful exercise of your behavior, communication, and organizational resources in order to affect the perspective, beliefs, and behaviors of another person (generally a collaborative partner) to influence that person's relationship with you and your collaborative enterprise and (2) the structure and climate of an environment that supports the collaborative relationship.\"\n\nRubin and Brock distinguish collaborative leadership from collective impact, defining the latter as \"...(beginning) when we, as a community, agree to a set of shared outcomes and then, individually, return to our home organizations and work with our staffs, boards, and volunteers to figure out what we - individually and organizationally - can best do to achieve those shared goals.\" Collaborative leadership is how we align and integrate across organizations.\n\nDavid Archer and Alex Cameron, in their 2008 book \"Collaborative Leadership: How to succeed in an interconnected world\", identify the basic objective of the collaborative leader as the delivery of results across boundaries between different organisations. They say \"Getting value from difference is at the heart of the collaborative leader's task... they have to learn to share control, and to trust a partner to deliver, even though that partner may operate very differently from themselves.\"\n\nProviding further exploration, in his 2015 book \"Enabling Collaboration – Achieving Success Through Strategic Alliances and Partnerships\" , Martin Echavarria argues that Collaborative Leadership is the result of individual collaborative leadership capability, as well as group leadership. In this respect, he argues that individuals can support and contribute to collaboration and do so from a leadership point of view; but at the group level, where collaboration can be behaviorally experienced. Echavarria cites the work of Enrique Pichon-Rivière, who developed the Operative Group method for working with groups, Wilfred Bion an influential British psychoanalyst, Kurt Lewin and others and describes the Operative Partnership Methodology for coaching teams to collaborate (an issue which is addressed vis-a-vis strategic alliances in said publication.\n\nThere have been a number of research projects and reviews of key lessons learned for collaborative leaders.\n\nNick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas, writing for the \"Harvard Business Review\", interviewed over 100 leaders who possess a demonstrated ability to engage and collaborate across the business, government and social sectors. The authors identified six major, distinguishing characteristics:\n\n\nMadeline Carter, writing for the Center for Effective Public Policy as part of a research project funded by the United States Department of Justice and State Justice Institute, defines five qualities of a collaborative leader:\n\n\nArcher and Cameron list ten key lessons for successful collaborative leaders:\n\n\nRod Newing writing in a \"Financial Times\" supplement special report says \"If a collaboration is to be effective, each party must recognise and respect the different culture of the other\". And traditional development paths don't prepare leaders well for this \"traditional management development, is based on giving potential managers a team of people and a set of resources to control – and success is rewarded with more people and more resources to control. By contrast, collaboration requires managers to achieve success through people and resources outside their control and for this they have had no preparation\".\n\nSteven Wilson mentions in “Collaborative leadership: it’s good to talk,” four major key leadership traits that all highly collaborative leaders share:\nChantale Mailhot, Stephanie Gagnon, Anne Langley and Louis-Felix Binitte did a research project to examine the qualities of distributing leadership and the effects diversity has on groups. They found that \"coupling of leaders and objects helped to maintain the worldview of the different groups involved at different levels in the research project, while directing them towards project objectives\". In retrospect, the differences of each individual increases innovation due to the variety of minds at work. With everyone having their own qualities and prior experiences, the integration between them in a leadership role contributes to the overall experience. In this study, the case was made that collaborative leadership has many benefits and is more practical than just one person solely having the role as the leader.\n\nThe best thing a collaborative leader can do is to lead by example. They have to ‘walk the talk’, and be seen to model the right behaviors. Leaders must show a willingness take risks, continually question their own ideas, and reward others for their clear communication and valuable insights.\n\nThe need for collaborative leadership is being recognised in more and more areas;\nAn Ipsos MORI research report published in 2007 found that relationship management and collaborative leadership were the top two qualities or capabilities that Directors of organisations involved in large business partnerships would have liked to have had more access to when setting up or running a partnership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1398768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398768", "title": "Educational film", "text": "Educational film\n\nAn educational film is a film or movie whose primary purpose is to educate. Educational films have been used in classrooms as an alternative to other teaching methods.\n\nMany educational films shown in schools are part of long series - for example, films demonstrating scientific principles and experiments tend to be episodic, with each episode devoted to a specific experiment or principle.\n\nMany schoolchildren in Britain in the late 1980s and early 1990s watched hundreds of episodes of British-made educational films (all very similar in style and production) over the course of their primary school careers. As a result, the delivery-style and distinctive colour-palette (\"scientific\" looking neutral-blue backgrounds etc.) of these films is instantly recognisable to any child of the appropriate generation. This was used to great effect by the British television series \"Look Around You\" which parodies these films.\n\nMany early psychological studies of learning from film and particularly TV found this medium to be inferior to text. Studies included comparisons between reading newspaper reports and watching TV news. In these early studies the memory retention was always stronger in those who read the reports. This was shown to be linked mainly to the ability of the individual to control the speed of the delivery of information. When you read you can pause at any time, which was not possible with classroom-based TV and film. This has changed with the advent of online video, which can be paused and rewound easily. More recent studies now see no difference in memory retention between the two media, video and text.\n\nResearch also examines the idea that cognitive overload may occur because the viewer has to process audio and visuals at the same time. Careful design of the film can alleviate this. For instance, signaling clearly where the focus of the audio is in terms of the video image will help the viewer merge the two. However, too much information, or information that is superfluous, can reduce learning. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13098915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13098915", "title": "Faulkes Telescope Project", "text": "Faulkes Telescope Project\n\nThe Faulkes Telescope Project (FTP) is supported by the Dill Faulkes Educational Trust. It provides access to 1,500 hours of observing time on two 2-metre class telescopes located in Hawaii (Faulkes Telescope North in Hawaii) and Australia (Faulkes Telescope South in Australia). This time is dedicated to education and public outreach, mainly in the UK, but also for smaller, selected projects in Europe and the US. \n\nFTP has operated a UK-wide educational programme since 2004, and currently works with science education projects across Europe and further afield (e.g. USA, Russia, Israel), including many EU-based science, maths and ICT programmes. FTP specialises in providing physics and maths education and outreach via astronomy and space science, utilising the unique access it can provide to research-grade facilities. The basic philosophy is to engage learners in “real science”, making them active participants in a range of astronomical research projects, ranging from observations of the solar system to distant galaxies. Teacher training (both face-to-face and online) is a core component of the FTP educational philosophy, and project staff have been involved in professional development work both in the UK and overseas, with teacher training days being held in Moscow, Santa Barbara, Munich, Lisbon, Paris and several other venues in Portugal and Spain.\n\nFTP operates a broad range of educational programmes, with a strong emphasis on teacher training and engaging students with “real science”. A variety of research projects are currently being run on the FTs, with schools often participating in the role of data gatherers, particularly in long-term monitoring or short-term intensive studies or Target of Opportunity requests for transient objects (e.g. GRBs, supernovae, NEOs or X-ray systems in outburst). \n\nThe project also provides extensive educational materials which can be accessed and downloaded free of charge from their educational resources website. These resources include astronomy video tutorials, online astronomy training, paper-based documents for use in the classroom, and pre-packaged data from the telescopes to use with the exercises detailed online.\n\nThe robotic telescopes used by the Faulkes Telescope Project are owned and operated by Las Cumbres Observatory Global Telescope Network (LCOGTN). Users must register for an account via FTP and, providing they meet the criteria for an account (as explained on the FTP website), the account details will be emailed out to the registered user. Students and teachers can then go online and book time on the telescope and run their own 29-minute-long real-time observational session on one of the telescopes, remotely controlling it over the internet. These telescopes are the largest robotic telescopes in the world available for UK schools to control in real time.\n\nThe project was the winner of the 2008 Sir Arthur Clarke Award in the category of Achievement in Education.\n\nThe Faulkes Telescope Projects in cooperation with Hands-On Universe runs many student observing projects such as supernovae observations, asteroid observations, the Lifecycle of Stars project and Hickson Compact Group of Galaxies project. Details of these, and many more projects can be found on the Faulkes educational website.\n\nItaly\n\nBrunico\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nBexley\n\nBroadstairs\n\nCanterbury\n\nCheltenham\n\nDartford\n\nGreater Manchester\n\nNew Cross\n\nNorth Yorkshire\n\nWales\n\nWest Midlands\n\nArmagh\n\nJersey\nPoland\n\nBełżyce\n\nDzierżoniów\n\nGrudziądz\n\nKraków\n\nŁódź\n\nNiepołomice\n\nOlsztyn\n\nSzczecin\n\nToruń\n\nWarszawa\n\nUganda\n\nLira\n\nUnited States\n\nMontauk, USA\n\nNew York, USA\nFreeport Public Schools\n\nManhasset, USA\n\nGreece\n\nAthens\nTychero, Evros\n\n"}
{"id": "33058579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33058579", "title": "Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences", "text": "Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences\n\nFellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) is an award for medical scientists who are recognised by the Academy of Medical Sciences for the \"excellence of their science, their contribution to medicine and society and the range of their achievements\".\n\nFellows are entitled to use the post-nominal letters FMedSci; see for examples of fellows.\n"}
{"id": "44194529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44194529", "title": "First Prize (music diploma)", "text": "First Prize (music diploma)\n\nA First Prize diploma in music (French: Premier Prix) is a high honor Diploma of Musical Studies, typically in performance or composition. It is awarded by European music conservatories and European-styled conservatories elsewhere. A First Prize diploma does not denote first in class, but rather, a very high level of artist proficiency. The typical period of study to earn a First Prize is one to two years. A First Prize diploma is sometimes wrongly described as being similar to a master's degree in music performance or composition. As of the mid-1990s, the degree in many European countries has been discontinued.\n\nAt the Paris Conservatory, and at all government sanctioned institutions of higher learning in France, a Diploma of Musical Studies — the degree that offers the First Prize — was accredited by the French Ministry of Culture, but not as a higher education academic degree. A First Prize from any European government accredited or sanctioned conservatory is a major distinction.\n\nBeginning around the late 1960s, First Prize degrees in all music disciplines, in a sense, became a victim of their own success. Holders of First Prizes, more and more, were gaining positions in comprehensive institutions of higher learning. In the mid-1990s, the Paris Conservatory, and all French government accredited conservatories, discontinued offering First Prizes with Diplomas of Musical Studies and replaced them with D.F.S. degrees — Diplomas of Superior Performance. The D.F.S. degree was instituted across Europe in part to incorporate comprehensive higher education in the fine arts with comprehensive universities and in part to unify standards in higher education of the Bologna Declaration that was adopted by 29 European countries in 1999.\n\nFirst Prize degrees in Quebec are awarded upon attained a high level of proficiency before a jury at the end of the fourth cycle of study at a conservatory — or two years. While two years of schooling equals the time required to earn a master's degree in Quebec, the scope of education does not offer the equivalence of a master's degree. Thus, a student who wishes to pursue doctoral studies might need compensatory education.\n\nMusic conservatories in Quebec fall under the purview of Quebec's Ministry of Culture and Communications. The Conservatory of Music and Drama in Quebec was founded in 1942 by Wilfrid Pelletier. Since then, Quebec has added a network of conservatories Gatineau, Rimouski, Saguenay, Trois-Rivières, and Val-d'Or.\n\nNotes\nInline citations\n"}
{"id": "55792746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792746", "title": "Free SHS", "text": "Free SHS\n\nThe Free SHS (Free Senior High School) policy is a Government of Ghana initiative introduced by the President Nana Akuffo-Addo administration in September 2017. The policy had been a major campaign policy prior to the election of President Akuffo-Addo in 2016. The policy makes secondary education in Ghana absolutely free.\n\nIn 2018, His Excellency Nana Akuffo Addo and his team of governance introduced another initiative as part of the Free SHS Education Policy which is the Double Track System. \n\nThe Double Track System was introduced by the government in other to enable various Senior High Schools in Ghana to take in more students and ensure that all Ghanaian students have access to a senior high school education. The Double Track System is in two sessions, thus The Green Track and The Gold Track. The Green Track represents the first batch of students who would go to school for a term and are later followed by the Gold Track students who would continue after students of the green track session have vacated on the academic calendar.\n"}
{"id": "27739862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27739862", "title": "Friedrich L. Sell", "text": "Friedrich L. Sell\n\nFriedrich Leopold Sell (born 26 May 1954) is a professor of Economics at Bundeswehr University Munich as well as chief of the scientific council of Halle Institute for Economic Research. Furthermore, he is vice chief of studies at the Academy for Business and Administration in Munich.\n\nSell studied from 1974 to 1979 Economics at the University of Freiburg and started to work there as a scientist 1979. He received his doctorate in 1981 and his Habilitation in 1988. After temporarily working as a visiting professor for economics and research on development countries Sell from 1991 to 1992 was full professor of economics at University of Gießen.\n\nIn 1992 he switched to the Dresden University of Technology, where he was offered a chair of economics, especially international economic relations. Since 1998 Sell is full professor of economics, especially macroeconomics and economic policy, at the Bundeswehr University of Munich. From 2008 to 2010 he was the university's vice president, responsible for research. Since 2010 he is chief of the scientific council of Halle Institute for Economic Research where he already had a position before.\n\nSell focuses his research on international economic relations and theoretical as well as political questions of the macroeconomic theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29089099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29089099", "title": "Gamification", "text": "Gamification\n\nGamification is the application of game-design elements and game principles in non-game contexts. Gamification commonly employs game design elements to improve user engagement, organizational productivity, flow, learning, crowdsourcing, employee recruitment and evaluation, ease of use, usefulness of systems, physical exercise, traffic violations, voter apathy, and more. A collection of research on gamification shows that a majority of studies on gamification find it has positive effects on individuals. However, individual and contextual differences exist.\n\nGamification techniques are intended to leverage people's natural desires for socializing, learning, mastery, competition, achievement, status, self-expression, altruism, or closure, or simply their response to the framing of a situation as game or play. Early gamification strategies use rewards for players who accomplish desired tasks or competition to engage players. Types of rewards include points, achievement badges or levels, the filling of a progress bar, or providing the user with virtual currency. Making the rewards for accomplishing tasks visible to other players or providing leader boards are ways of encouraging players to compete.\n\nAnother approach to gamification is to make existing tasks feel more like games. Some techniques used in this approach include adding meaningful choice, onboarding with a tutorial, increasing challenge, and adding narrative.\n\nGamification has been applied to almost every aspect of life. Examples of gamification in business context include the U.S. Army, which uses \"America's Army\" as a recruitment tool, and M&M's \"Eye Spy\" pretzel game, launched in 2013 to amplify the company's pretzel marketing campaign by creating a fun way to \"boost user engagement.\" Another example can be seen in the American education system. Students are ranked in their class based on their earned grade-point average (GPA), which is comparable to earning a high score in video games. Students may also receive incentives, such as an honorable mention on the dean's list, the honor roll, and scholarships, which are equivalent to leveling-up a video game character or earning virtual currency or tools that augment game success. \nJob application processes sometimes use gamification as a way to hire employees by assessing their suitability through questionnaires and mini games that simulate the actual work environment of that company. \nGamification has been widely applied in marketing. Over 70% of Forbes Global 2000 companies surveyed in 2013 said they planned to use gamification for the purposes of marketing and customer retention. For example, in November, 2011, Australian broadcast and online media partnership Yahoo!7 launched its Fango mobile app/SAP, which TV viewers use to interact with shows via techniques like check-ins and badges. As of February, 2012, the app had been downloaded more than 200,000 times. Gamification has also been used in customer loyalty programs. In 2010, Starbucks gave custom Foursquare badges to people who checked in at multiple locations, and offered discounts to people who checked in most frequently at an individual store. As a general rule Gamification Marketing or Game Marketing usually falls under four primary categories;\n\n1. In-Game Advertising; Messages, images or videos promoting company or products in the game play itself. According to NBCNews game creators Electronic Arts used \"Madden 09\" and \"Burnout Paradise\" to promote 'in-Game' billboards encouraging players to vote. \n\n2. Video-Game coLabs: Nintendo's \"007: Golden Eye\" is a classic example. A Video game created to advertise the movie Golden Eye. The Game itself actually ended up making more money than the movie. \n\n3. Through-the-line (TTL) & Below-the-line (BTL) marketing strategies. Text above, side or below main game screen (also known as an iFrame) advertising images or text. Example of this would be \"I love Bee\". \n\n4. Advergames. Usually games based off popular mobile games like 'Candy Crush' or 'Temple Run'. These games are re-created via Platforms like WIX or Gamify to promote Brands and Products. Usually to encourage engagement, loyalty and product education. These usually involve social leader points and rewards that are advertised via social media platforms like Facebook's Top 10 games. \n\nGamification also has been used as a tool for customer engagement, and for encouraging desirable website usage behavior. Additionally, gamification is applicable to increasing engagement on sites built on social network services. For example, in August, 2010, the website builder DevHub announced an increase in the number of users who completed their online tasks from 10% to 80% after adding gamification elements. On the programming question-and-answer site Stack Overflow users receive points and/or badges for performing a variety of actions, including spreading links to questions and answers via Facebook and Twitter. A large number of different badges are available, and when a user's reputation points exceed various thresholds, the user gains additional privileges, eventually including moderator privileges.\n\nGamification can be used for ideation (structured brainstorming to produce new ideas). A study at MIT Sloan found that ideation games helped participants generate more and better ideas, and compared it to gauging the influence of academic papers by the numbers of citations received in subsequent research.\n\nApplications like Fitocracy and QUENTIQ (Dacadoo) use gamification to encourage their users to exercise more effectively and improve their overall health. Users are awarded varying numbers of points for activities they perform in their workouts, and gain levels based on points collected. Users can also complete quests (sets of related activities) and gain achievement badges for fitness milestones. Health Month adds aspects of social gaming by allowing successful users to restore points to users who have failed to meet certain goals. Public health researchers have studied the use of gamification in self-management of chronic diseases and common mental disorders, STD prevention, and infection prevention and control.\n\nIn a review of health apps in the 2014 Apple App Store, more than 100 apps showed a positive correlation between gamification elements used and high user ratings. MyFitnessPal was named as the app that used the most gamification elements.\n\nReviewers of the popular location-based game \"Pokémon Go\" praised the game for promoting physical exercise. Terri Schwartz (\"IGN\") said it was \"secretly the best exercise app out there,\" and that it changed her daily walking routine. Patrick Allen (\"Lifehacker\") wrote an article with tips about how to work out using \"Pokémon Go\". Julia Belluz (\"Vox\") said it could be the \"greatest unintentional health fad ever,\" writing that one of the results of the game that the developers may not have imagined was that \"it seems to be getting people moving.\" One study showed users took an extra 194 steps per day once they started using the app, approximately 26% more than usual. \"Ingress\" is a similar game that also requires a player to be physically active. \"Zombies, Run!,\" a game in which the player is trying to survive a zombie apocalypse through a series of missions, requires the player to (physically) run, collect items to help the town survive, and listen to various audio narrations to uncover mysteries. Mobile, context-sensitive serious games for sports and health have been called \"exergames.\"\n\nGamification has been used in an attempt to improve employee productivity, healthcare, financial services, transportation, government, and others. In general, enterprise gamification refers to work situations where \"game thinking and game-based tools are used in a strategic manner to integrate with existing business processes or information systems. And these techniques are used to help drive positive employee and organizational outcomes.\" In 2015 Microsoft gamified performance management in its Customer Support Services call center to improve agents' engagement, satisfaction, and retention. The gamification approaches used included leveling (level advancement), badges, and scoring systems, as well as other game elements that vary by agent and region.\n\nCrowdsourcing has been gamified in games like Foldit, a game designed by the University of Washington, in which players compete to manipulate proteins into more efficient structures. A 2010 paper in science journal Nature credited Foldit's 57,000 players with providing useful results that matched or outperformed algorithmically computed solutions. The ESP Game is a game that is used to generate image metadata. Google Image Labeler is a version of the ESP Game that Google has licensed to generate its own image metadata. Research from the University of Bonn used gamification to increase wiki contributions by 62%.\n\nEducation and training are areas where there has been interest in gamification. Microsoft released the game Ribbon Hero 2 as an add-on to their Office productivity suite to help train people to use it effectively, this project was described by Microsoft as one of the most popular projects its Office Labs division ever released. The New York City Department of Education with funding from the MacArthur Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has set up a school called Quest to Learn centred around game-based learning, with the intent to make education more engaging and relevant to modern kids. SAP has used games to educate their employees on sustainability. The US military and Unilever have also used gamification in their training. The Khan Academy is an example of the use of gamification techniques in online education. In August 2009, Gbanga launched the educational location-based game Gbanga Zooh for Zurich Zoo that asked participants to actively save endangered animals and physically bring them back to a zoo. Players maintained virtual habitats across the Canton of Zurich to attract and collect endangered species of animals. There is some indication that gamification can be particularly motivational for students with dyslexia in educational situations.\n\nGamification is used in corporate training to motivate employees to apply what they learned in the training to their job, theoretically this should improve performance. According to a study conducted by Badgeville, 78% of workers are utilizing games-based motivation at work and nearly 91% say these systems improve their work experience by increasing engagement, awareness and productivity.\n\nAlix Levine, an American security consultant, reports that some techniques that a number of extremist websites such as Stormfront and various terrorism-related sites used to build loyalty and participation can be described as gamification. As an example, Levine mentioned reputation scores.\n\nThe Chinese government has announced that it will begin using gamification to rate its citizens in 2020, implementing a Social Credit System in which citizens will earn points representing trustworthiness. Details of this project are still vague, but it has been reported that citizens will receive points for good behavior, such as making payments on time and educational attainments.\n\nTraditionally, researchers thought of motivations to use computer systems to be primarily driven by extrinsic purposes; however, many modern systems have their use driven primarily by intrinsic motivations. Examples of such systems used primarily to fulfill users' intrinsic motivations, include online gaming, virtual worlds, online shopping, learning/education, online dating, digital music repositories, social networking, online pornography, and so on. Such systems are excellent candidates for further 'gamification' in their design. Moreover, even traditional management information systems (e.g., ERP, CRM) are being 'gamified' such that both extrinsic and intrinsic motivations must increasingly be considered.\n\nAs illustration, Microsoft has announced plans to use gamification techniques for its Windows Phone 7 operating system design. While businesses face the challenges of creating motivating gameplay strategies, what makes for effective gamification is a key question.\n\nOne important type of technological design in gamification is the player centered design. Based on the design methodology user-centered design, its main goal is to promote greater connectivity and positive behavior change between technological consumers. It has five steps that help computer users connect with other people online to help them accomplish goals and other tasks they need to complete. The 5 steps are: an individual or company has to know their player (their target audience), identify their mission (their goal), understand human motivation (the personality, desires, and triggers of the target audience), apply mechanics (points, badges, leaderboards, etc.), and to manage, monitor, and measure the way they are using their mechanics to ensure it is helping them achieve the desired outcome of their goal and that their goal is specific and realistic.\n\nGamification has also been applied to authentication. For example, the possibilities of using a game like Guitar Hero can help someone learn a password implicitly. Furthermore, games have been explored as a way to learn new and complicated passwords. It is suggested that these games could be used to \"level up\" a password, thereby improving its strength over time. Gamification has also been proposed as a way to select and manage archives. Recently, an Australian technology company called Wynbox has recorded success in the application of its gamification engine to the hotel booking process.\n\nThough the term \"gamification\" first appeared online in the context of computer software in 2008, it did not gain popularity until 2010. Even prior to the term coming into use, other fields borrowing elements from videogames was common; for example, some work in learning disabilities and scientific visualization adapted elements from videogames.\n\nThe term \"gamification\" first gained widespread usage in 2010, in a more specific sense referring to incorporation of social/reward aspects of games into software. The technique captured the attention of venture capitalists, one of whom said he considered gamification the most promising area in gaming. Another observed that half of all companies seeking funding for consumer software applications mentioned game design in their presentations.\n\nSeveral researchers consider gamification closely related to earlier work on adapting game-design elements and techniques to non-game contexts. Deterding \"et al.\" survey research in human–computer interaction that uses game-derived elements for motivation and interface design, and Nelson argues for a connection to both the Soviet concept of socialist competition, and the American management trend of \"fun at work\". Fuchs points out that gamification might be driven by new forms of ludic interfaces. Gamification conferences have also retroactively incorporated simulation; e.g. Will Wright, designer of the 1989 video game SimCity, was the keynote speaker at the gamification conference Gsummit 2013.\n\nIn addition to companies that use the technique, a number of businesses created gamification platforms. In October 2007, Bunchball, backed by Adobe Systems Incorporated, was the first company to provide game mechanics as a service, on Dunder Mifflin Infinity, the community site for the NBC TV show \"The Office\". Bunchball customers have included Playboy, Chiquita, Bravo, and The USA Network. Badgeville, which offers gamification services, launched in late 2010, and raised $15 million in venture-capital funding in its first year of operation.\n\nAmong established enterprise firms, SAP AG, Microsoft, IBM, SAP, LiveOps, Deloitte, and other companies have started using gamification in various applications and processes.\n\nGamification 2013, an event exploring the future of gamification, was held at the University of Waterloo Stratford Campus in October 2013.\n\nThrough gamification's growing adoption and its nature as a data aggregator, multiple legal restrictions may apply to gamification. Some refer to the use of virtual currencies and virtual assets, data privacy laws and data protection, or labour laws.\n\nThe use of virtual currencies, in contrast to traditional payment systems, is not regulated. The legal uncertainty surrounding the virtual currency schemes might constitute a challenge for public authorities, as these schemes can be used by criminals, fraudsters and money launderers to perform their illegal activities.\n\nUniversity of Hamburg researcher Sebastian Deterding has characterized the initial popular strategies for gamification as not being fun and creating an artificial sense of achievement. He also says that gamification can encourage unintended behaviours.\n\nIn a review of 132 of the top health and fitness apps in the Apple app store, in 2014, using gamification as a method to modify behavior, the authors concluded that \"Despite the inclusion of at least some components of gamification, the mean scores of integration of gamification components were still below 50 percent. This was also true for the inclusion of game elements and the use of health behavior theory constructs, thus showing a lack of following any clear industry standard of effective gaming, gamification, or behavioral theory in health and fitness apps.\"\n\nConcern was also expressed in a 2016 study analyzing outcome data from 1298 users who competed in gamified and incentivized exercise challenges while wearing wearable devices. In that study the authors conjectured that data may be highly skewed by cohorts of already healthy users, rather than the intended audiences of participants requiring behavioral intervention.\n\nGame designers like Jon Radoff and Margaret Robertson have also criticized gamification as excluding elements like storytelling and experiences and using simple reward systems in place of true game mechanics.\n\nGamification practitioners have pointed out that while the initial popular designs were in fact mostly relying on simplistic reward approach, even those led to significant improvements in short-term engagement. This was supported by the first comprehensive study in 2014, which concluded that an increase in gamification elements correlated with an increase in motivation score, but not with capacity or opportunity/trigger scores.\n\nThe same study called for standardization across the app industry on gamification principles to improve the effectiveness of health apps on the health outcomes of users.\n\nMIT Professor Kevin Slavin has described business research into gamification as flawed and misleading for those unfamiliar with gaming. Heather Chaplin, writing in \"Slate\", describes gamification as \"an allegedly populist idea that actually benefits corporate interests over those of ordinary people\". Jane McGonigal has distanced her work from the label \"gamification\", listing rewards outside of gameplay as the central idea of gamification and distinguishing game applications where the gameplay itself is the reward under the term \"gameful design\".\n\n\"Gamification\" as a term has also been criticized. Ian Bogost has referred to the term as a marketing fad and suggested \"exploitation-ware\" as a more suitable name for the games used in marketing. Other opinions on the terminology criticism have made the case why the term gamification makes sense.\n\n"}
{"id": "768386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=768386", "title": "Herbert Muschamp", "text": "Herbert Muschamp\n\nHerbert Mitchell Muschamp (November 28, 1947 – October 2, 2007) was an American architecture critic.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Muschamp described his childhood home life as follows: \"The living room was a secret. A forbidden zone. The new slipcovers were not, in fact, the reason why sitting down there was taboo. That was just the cover story. It was used to conceal the inability of family members to hold a conversation. Who knew what other secrets might come tumbling out if they actually sat down and talked? The cause of Mother's headaches might come up.\"\n\nThis motivated Muschamp to engage in boisterous conversations outside the home in later years, particularly in the company of such up-and-coming architects as Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofidio, Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas, Jean Nouvel, Bernard Tschumi and Tod Williams, which formed the basis for his perceptive and often vehement architectural commentary and criticism.\n\nMuschamp attended the University of Pennsylvania but dropped out after two years to move to New York City, where he was a regular at Andy Warhol's Factory. He later attended Parsons School of Design, where he studied architecture, and returned to teach after spending some time studying at the Architectural Association in London.\n\nDuring this period, he began writing architectural criticism for various magazines, including \"Vogue\", \"House & Garden\", and \"Art Forum\". He was appointed the architecture critic for \"The New Republic\" in 1987.\n\nMuschamp became the architecture critic for \"The New York Times\" in 1992, succeeding Paul Goldberger. During his controversial tenure at the \"Times\", Muschamp rose, according to Nicolai Ouroussoff, to preeminence as the nation's foremost judge of the architecture world. His writing championed now-famous architects such as Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas, Zaha Hadid and Jean Nouvel, as well as architects that he regarded as rising talents, including Greg Lynn, Lindy Roy, Jesse Reiser, Nanako Umemoto and Casagrande & Rintala.\n\nHis detractors, noted the \"New York Observer\", argued that his conflicts of interest, from socializing with his subjects frequently, and his \"iconoclasm and obscurantism, his unapologetic dilettantism\" were along with his \"very public break downs\" a source of a \"fall from grace.\"\n\nMuschamp was a lover of cities. One of his most often quoted lines came from a 2004 review: \"A city is never more fully human than when expertise – our own or someone else's – allows us access to ebullience, lightness and delight.\" He spent a number of columns criticizing the new master plan for the World Trade Center site, calling the plan produced by Daniel Libeskind an embodiment of the \"Orwellian condition America's detractors accuse us of embracing: perpetual war for perpetual peace.\" \n\nHe stepped down as the architecture critic of \"The New York Times\" in 2004 to write the \"Icons\" column for the \"Times\"' \"T Style Magazine\", among other features. He was replaced by his protégé, Nicolai Ouroussoff. Muschamp was openly gay, and the centrality of gay men in the cultural life of New York City was central to his writing. He continued to write until his death from lung cancer in Manhattan in 2007.\n\nA book collection of Muschamp's writings, \"Hearts of the City: The Selected Writings of Herbert Muschamp,\" was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "29949551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29949551", "title": "Hilda Dianda", "text": "Hilda Dianda\n\nHilda Fanny Dianda (born 13 April 1925) is an Argentine composer, musicologist, music educator, conductor and music writer.\n\nHilda Dianda was born in Córdoba, Argentina. She began her musical studies with Honorio Siccardi in Buenos Aires and continued with Gian Francesco Malipiero in Venice. She also studied with Hermann Scherchen in Europe, and in 1958 moved to France where she was influenced by the \"Musical Research Group\" (GRMC) of French radio, directed by Pierre Schaeffer. She took a phonology research position with Radio Audizioni Italiane (RAI) where she also worked in electronic music. From 1960 to 1962 she participated in the International Courses of New Music in Darmstadt, Germany.\n\nIn 1966 she worked in the Electronic Music Lab at the San Fernando Valley California State College, Northridge, in the United States. From 1967 to 1971 she taught at the School of Arts of the Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Argentina. As a musicologist, Dianda published professional articles on contemporary music in a number of journals and magazines.\n\n\nDianda composes for orchestra, chamber ensemble and electronic production. Selected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "10735769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10735769", "title": "Hot Soup Processor", "text": "Hot Soup Processor\n\nHot Soup Processor is a programming language from Japan that was originally developed in 1994. It was originally based on BASIC, but has diverged significantly from those roots over the years. It is freeware as of 1996, and now is open source (OpenHSP) under the BSD licenses. HSP is used to teach programming in Japanese schools, and because it is freeware, it was a popular programming language for doujin soft in the late 1990s.\n\nHot Soup Processor is a procedural language, and includes the following features:\n\n"}
{"id": "1977277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977277", "title": "Humanitas", "text": "Humanitas\n\nHumanitas is a Latin noun meaning human nature, civilization, and kindness.\n\nThe Latin word \"humanitas\" corresponded to the Greek concepts of \"philanthrôpía\" (loving what makes us human) and \"paideia\" (education) which were amalgamated with a series of qualities that made up the traditional unwritten Roman code of conduct (\"mos maiorum\"). Cicero (106–43 BC) used \"humanitas\" in describing the formation of an ideal speaker (orator) who he believed should be educated to possess a collection of virtues of character suitable both for an active life of public service and a decent and fulfilling private life; these would include a fund of learning acquired from the study of \"bonae litterae\" (\"good letters\", i.e., classical literature, especially poetry), which would also be a source of continuing cultivation and pleasure in leisure and retirement, youth and old age, and good and bad fortune.\n\nInsofar as \"humanitas\" corresponded to \"philanthrôpía\" and \"paideia\", it was particularly applicable to guiding the proper exercise of power over others. Hence Cicero's advice to his brother that \"if fate had given you authority over Africans or Spaniards or Gauls, wild and barbarous nations, you would still owe it to your \"humanitas\" to be concerned about their comforts, their needs, and their safety.\" Echoing Cicero over a century later, Pliny the Younger (61-112 A.D.) defined \"humanitas\" as the capacity to win the affections of lesser folk without impinging on greater (Ep. IX, 5).\n\nThe concept was of great importance during the re-discovery of Classical Antiquity during the age of the Renaissance by the Italian \"umanisti\", beginning with the illustrious Italian poet Petrarch, who revived Cicero's injunction to cultivate the humanities, understood during the Renaissance as grammar, rhetoric, poetry, history, and moral philosophy.\n\nIn 1333, in Liège, Belgium, Petrarch had found and copied out in his own hand a manuscript of Cicero's speech, \"Pro Archia\", which contained a famous passage in defense of poetry and \"litterae\" (letters): \"Haec studia adolescentiam alunt, senectutem oblectant, secundas res ornant, adversis perfugium ac solacium praebent, delectant domi, non impediunt foris, pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticantur.\" (Translation: \"These studies sustain youth and entertain old age, they enhance prosperity, and offer a refuge and solace in adversity; they delight us when we are at home without hindering us in the wider world, and are with us at night, when we travel and when we visit the countryside\").\nPetrarch liked this quotation and referred to it often, and where Cicero used the phrase \"litterarum lumen\", \"the light of literature\", Petrarch in the margin wrote \"lumen litterarum\" alongside and drew a sketch of a lamp or candle. The Liège manuscript is lost and so is Petrarch's copy, but Petrarch's copy \"can be shown to be behind all but one of the later manuscripts\" and preserve Petrarch's marginal annotations. Petrarch, in many respects a Medieval man, regretted that Cicero had not been a Christian and believed that he certainly would have been one had he not died before the birth of Jesus. To Petrarch and the Renaissance \"umanisti\" who immediately followed him, Cicero's \"humanitas\" was not seen as in conflict with Christianity or a Christian education. In this they followed the fifth century Church fathers such as Jerome and Augustine, who taught that Greek and Roman learning and literature were gifts of God and models of excellence, provided, of course, they were filtered and purified in order to serve Christianity.\n\nAccording to historian Peter Gay, the eighteenth-century French philosophes of the Enlightenment found Cicero's eclectic, Stoic-tinged paganism congenial:The ideal of \"humanitas\" was first brought to Rome by the philosophic circle around Scipio and further developed by Cicero. For Cicero, \"humanitas\" was a style of thought, not a formal doctrine. It asserted man’s importance as a cultivated being, in control of his moral universe. The man who practiced \"humanitas\" was confident of his worth, courteous to others, decent in his social conduct, and active in his political role. He was a man, moreover, who faced life with courageous skepticism: he knows that the consolations of popular religion are for more credulous beings than himself, that life is uncertain, and that sturdy pessimism is superior to self-deceptive optimism. Man becomes man as he refines himself; he even becomes godlike: “\"Deus est mortali iuvare mortalem\",” wrote Pliny, translating a Greek Stoic, “To help man is man’s true God.” Finally, the man who practiced \"humanitas\" cultivated his aesthetic sensibilities as he listened to his reason: \"\"Cum musis,\"” wrote Cicero, “\"id est, cum humanitate et doctrina habere commercium\"\". Virtue, Cicero insisted, is nothing but nature perfected and developed to its highest point, and there is therefore a resemblance between man and God: \"\"Est autem virtus nihil aliud quam in se perfecta et ad summum perducta natura; est igitur homini cum deo similitudio\".\n\nCicero’s \"humanitas\" . . . reappeared in the first century in Seneca’s claim – made in the midst of a lament over Roman bestiality – that man is a sacred thing to man: “\"homo res sacra homini\"”; and reappeared once more in the eighteenth century in Kant’s call for human autonomy and in Voltaire’s stern injunction: “Remember your dignity as a man.” In the beginning of his \"Meditations\", the Emperor Marcus Aurelius elaborated a veritable catalog of qualities which, all together, made up the virtues which Cicero had called \"humanitas\" and which the \"philosophes\" hoped they possessed in good measure: modesty, self-control, manliness, beneficence, practicality, generosity, rationality, tolerance, and obedience to the dictates of nature.\n\nDuring the Aufklärung (or German version of the eighteenth-century Enlightenment), the term \"Humanität\"\" was used to designate the intellectual, physical, and moral formation of \"a better human being\" (or Humanism). It was used, for example, by theologian Johann Gottfried Herder in his \"Briefe zur Beförderung der Humanität\" (\"Letters for the Advancement of Humanity\"), 1792, and by Friedrich Schiller, among others.Herder's \"Humanität\" is a broad concept he defines variously as the gradual fulfillment of best human potential, the achievement of reason and fairness in all classes and in all affairs of men, and the joint product of the creative actions of legislators, poets, artists, philosophers, inventors, and educators through the ages.\n\nAlthough Herder is considered the originator of ethnic nationalism, he was no chauvinist. He maintained that each person loves his own nation, family, language, and customs not because they are better than other peoples' but because they were his. Love for one's own individuality ought to lead to respect for that of others. For Herder, the image of God was imprinted in each human being, along with an internal impulse for self-improvement and growth. Historian William McNeil writes that Herder boldly proclaimed that:each age and every people embody ideals and capacities peculiar to themselves, thus allowing a fuller and more complete expression of the multiform potentialities of humankind than could otherwise occur. Herder expressly denied that one people or civilization was better than another. They were just different, in the same way that the German language was different from the French.\n\nIn Roman humanism, benevolence (\"benevolentia\") was considered a feature of \"Humanitas\". This notion is particularly underscored in the works of Cicero and Seneca. In this context, benevolence drives the idea of humaneness and is understood as a feeling either of love or tenderness so that it makes \"someone willing to participate, at the level of feeling, in whatever is human.\" Such participation entails a willingness to engage both in human suffering and joy. This was echoed in the Kantian position on love, where the thinker cited the so-called rational benevolence driven by natural sympathetic joy and pity. \n\nOther thinkers have also discussed benevolence in modern humanism. Max Scheler, for example, used it as an important element in his discourse of sympathy. In one of his works, he linked benevolence and the concept of \"fellow-feeling,\" which allows self-love, self-centred choice, solipsism and egoism\" to finally be wholly overcome. Scheler specifically equated benevolence with humanitarianism, explaining that these concepts - along with fellow-feeling - embrace all men, \"simply because they are men.\"\n\n\"Humanitas\" as benevolence, is also a cornerstone of the credo of Freemasonry and constituted one of the bases for its position that nationality and religion do not matter, only universal humanity. Some orders of Freemasonry are called \"Humanitas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7700417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7700417", "title": "Ikastola", "text": "Ikastola\n\nAn Ikastola (, plural \"ikastolak\") is a type of primary and secondary school in the Basque Autonomous Community, Navarre and (to a much lesser extent) the French Basque Country (see Basque Country) in which pupils are taught either entirely or predominantly in the Basque language. Ikastolak can be nowadays either private or public, divided into different networks.\n\nThe Basque language public network relies on state funding and management, allocated in Spain by the education institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre in their corresponding territories, while in France the association Ikas-Bi in the public network advocates for bilingual education. Seaska is the private network of Basque language schools in the French Basque Country, closely linked to the similar network in the Southern Basque Country. The private networks base their activity on the fees paid by parents, popular subscription (either directly or by means of annual massive festivals, e.g. \"Herri Urrats, Nafarroa Oinez, Araba Euskaraz\", etc.) and the allowance provided by public educational institutions.\n\nAlthough spoken more widely than in later times, there was very little schooling undertaken in Basque before the early 20th century revival in Basque nationalism. Spanish and French were mandatory in schooling at either side of the border. The first official ikastola was opened in 1914, and the movement to transfer the medium of education in the Southern Basque Country from Spanish to Basque became widespread in the late 20th century. \n\nDuring the early 1930s, the seeds of the \"Basque Schools\" (\"Escuelas Vascas\") were sown in Navarre by the Basque Nationalist Party, featuring an instruction where the teachings of the Christian doctrine were central. They were conceived as an attempt to counter increased laicization of state schools and the lack of focus (\"the neutrality\") on Basque matters in regular religious schooling. The first such educative institution was founded in November 1931 at Pamplona, followed by another one in Estella-Lizarra (1933) and Elizondo (1935). \n\nFollowing the Republican defeat in the Spanish Civil War, the public use of Basque was made illegal, and all educational institutions were forced to teach entirely through the medium of Castilian, to the complete neglect and persecution of Basque. There are, however, isolated examples of ikastolak which clandestinely continued to teach in Basque. \n\nSince thousands of children were studying out of the authorized schools and hence forbidden to progress to higher education, in 1969 the Roman Catholic Church arranged with the parent associations the lawful Diocesan Federation of Ikastolas, later becoming a secular federation. With the return of democracy following the death of Franco in 1975, large degrees of self-government were given to the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre, and ikastolak sprang up all over the Basque region in northern Spain.\n\nFor a time, the ikastolak operated along the public school system, the private schools publicly funded under a charter and the private schools. During his term as Basque minister for education, the Socialist Fernando Buesa proposed the 1993 Law of the Basque Public School, prompting ikastolak to choose between full integration in the public system or operating under the rules for chartered private schools.\n\nAt the present time, tens of thousands of schoolchildren in the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre attend ikastolak, but the status of ikastolak differs greatly depending on their location. They are firmly entrenched in the traditionally Basque-speaking areas of the Basque Autonomous Community (BAC), but less so in non-Basque speaking areas (i.e. the southern fringes). Basque language schools in the north of Navarre do not enjoy the same support from the regional government as they do in the BAC, but they are officially recognised and enjoy widespread local support (traditionally Basque speaking), unlike central and southern areas of Navarre, where they lack public recognition and funding, remaining in a legal limbo until 2007.\n\nIn the French Basque Country, the ikastolak developed later, but grew steadily, so much so that a network, Seaska, is now widespread throughout the whole territory covering education up to the A levels.\n\n\nOfficial site of the Federation of Ikastolak (Basque)\n"}
{"id": "1121030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121030", "title": "Institute of technology", "text": "Institute of technology\n\nAn institute of technology (also: university of technology, polytechnic university, technikon and technical university) is a type of university which specializes in engineering, technology, applied science and sometimes natural sciences. \n\nThe English term polytechnic appeared in the early 19th century, from the French \"École Polytechnique\", an engineering school founded in 1794 in Paris. The French term comes from the Greek \"πολύ\" (\"polú\" or \"polý\") meaning \"many\" and \"τεχνικός\" (\"tekhnikós\") meaning \"arts\".\n\nThe institutes of technology and polytechnics have been in existence since at least the 18th century, but became popular after World War II with the expansion of engineering and applied science education, associated with the new needs created by industrialization. The world's first institution of technology, the Berg-Schola (today its legal successor is the University of Miskolc), was founded by the Court Chamber of Vienna in Selmecbánya, Kingdom of Hungary (now Banská Štiavnica, Slovakia), in 1735 in order to train specialists of precious metal and copper mining according to the requirements of the industrial revolution in Hungary. The oldest German Institute of Technology is the Braunschweig University of Technology, founded in 1745 as \"Collegium Carolinum\". Another exception is the \"École Polytechnique\", which has educated French \"élites\" since its foundation in 1794. In some cases, polytechnics or institutes of technology are engineering schools or technical colleges.\n\nIn several countries, like Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Turkey, institutes of technology and polytechnics are institutions of higher education and have been accredited to award academic degrees and doctorates. Famous examples are the Istanbul Technical University, ETH Zurich, İYTE, Delft University of Technology and RWTH Aachen, all considered universities.\n\nIn countries like Iran, Finland, Malaysia, Portugal, Singapore or the United Kingdom, there is often a significant and confused distinction between polytechnics and universities. In the UK a binary system of higher education emerged consisting of universities (research orientation) and polytechnics (engineering and applied science and professional practice orientation). Polytechnics offered university equivalent degrees mainly in STEM subjects from bachelor's, master's and PhD that were validated and governed at the national level by the independent UK Council for National Academic Awards. In 1992 UK polytechnics were designated as universities which meant they could award their own degrees. The CNAA was disbanded. The UK's first polytechnic, the Royal Polytechnic Institution (now the University of Westminster), was founded in 1838 in Regent Street, London. In Ireland the term \"institute of technology\" is the more favored synonym of a \"regional technical college\" though the latter is the legally correct term; however, Dublin Institute of Technology is a university in all but name as it can confer degrees in accordance with law, Cork Institute of Technology and other Institutes of Technology have delegated authority from HETAC to make awards to and including master's degree level — Level 9 of the Republic of Ireland's National Framework for Qualifications (NFQ) — for all areas of study and Doctorate level in a number of others.\n\nIn a number of countries, although being today generally considered similar institutions of higher learning across many countries, polytechnics and institutes of technology used to have a quite different statute among each other, its teaching competences and organizational history. In many cases \"polytechnic\" were elite technological universities concentrating on applied science and engineering and may also be a former designation for a vocational institution, before it has been granted the exclusive right to award academic degrees and can be truly called an \"institute of technology\". A number of polytechnics providing higher education is simply a result of a formal upgrading from their original and historical role as intermediate technical education schools. In some situations, former polytechnics or other non-university institutions have emerged solely through an administrative change of statutes, which often included a name change with the introduction of new designations like \"institute of technology\", \"polytechnic university\", \"university of applied sciences\", or \"university of technology\" for marketing purposes. Such emergence of so many upgraded polytechnics, former vocational education and technical schools converted into more university-like institutions has caused concern where the lack of specialized intermediate technical professionals lead to industrial skill shortages in some fields, being also associated to an increase of the graduate unemployment rate. This is mostly the case in those countries, where the education system is not controlled by the state and any institution can grant degrees. Evidence have also shown a decline in the general quality of teaching and graduate's preparation for the workplace, due to the fast-paced conversion of that technical institutions to more advanced higher level institutions. Mentz, Kotze and Van der Merwe argue that all the tools are in place to promote the debate on the place of technology in higher education in general and in universities of technology specifically and they posit several questions for the debate.\n\nIn the so-called \"Latin American docta\" the main higher institution advocates to the study of technology is the National Technological University which has brand ramifications through all the country geographic space in the way of \"Regional Faculties\". The Buenos Aires Institute of Technology (ITBA) is other important recognized institute of technology with renowned and prestige in the country.\n\nDuring the 1970s to early 1990s, the term was used to describe state owned and funded technical schools that offered both vocational and higher education. They were part of the College of Advanced Education system. In the 1990s most of these merged with existing universities, or formed new ones of their own. These new universities often took the title University of Technology, for marketing rather than legal purposes. AVCC report The most prominent such university in each state founded the Australian Technology Network a few years later.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, the term has been applied to some technically minded technical and further education (TAFE) institutes. A recent example is the Melbourne Polytechnic rebranding and repositioning in 2014 from Northern Melbourne Institute of TAFE. These primarily offer vocational education, although some like Melbourne Polytechnic are expanding into higher education offering vocationally oriented applied bachelor degrees. This usage of the term is most prevalent historically in NSW and the ACT. The new terminology is apt given that this category of institution are becoming very much like the institutes of the 1970s–1990s period.\n\nIn Tasmania in 2009 the old college system and TAFE Tasmania have started a 3-year restructure to become the Tasmanian Polytechnic www.polytechnic.tas.edu.au, Tasmanian Skills Institute www.skillsinstitute.tas.edu.au and Tasmanian Academy www.academy.tas.edu.au\n\nIn the higher education sector, there are seven designated Universities of Technology in Australia (though, note, not all use the phrase \"university of technology\", such as the Universities of Canberra and South Australia, which used to be Colleges of Advanced Education before transitioning into fully-fledged universities with the ability - most important of all - to confer doctorates):\n\nThese institutions are entitled to confer habilitation and doctoral degrees and focus on research.\n\nThese institutions focus only on research.\nSeveral universities have faculties of technology that are entitled to confer habilitation and doctoral degrees and which focus on research.\nFachhochschule is a German type of tertiary education institution and adopted later in Austria and Switzerland. They do not focus exclusively on technology, but may also offer courses in social science, medicine, business and design. They grant bachelor's degrees and master's degrees and focus more on teaching than research and more on specific professions than on science.\n\nIn 2010, there were 20 Fachhochschulen in Austria\n\nThere are some public engineering universities in Bangladesh.\n\nThere are some general and technological universities in Bangladesh offer engineering programs.\n\nThere is only one private engineering specialized university in Bangladesh.\n\nThere is only one international engineering specialized university in Bangladesh.\n\nThere are numerous private and other universities as well as science and technology universities providing engineering education. Most prominent are:\n\n\n\"Hogeschool\" is used in Belgium and in the Netherlands. The hogeschool has many similarities to the \"Fachhochschule\" in the German language areas and to the \"ammattikorkeakoulu\" in Finland.\n\n\"Hogeschool\" institutions in the Flemish Community of Belgium (such as the Erasmus Hogeschool Brussel) are currently undergoing a process of academization. They form associations with a university and integrate research into the curriculum, which will allow them to deliver academic master's degrees. \n\nIn the Netherlands, four former institutes of technology have become universities over the past decades. These are the current three Technical Universities (at Delft, Eindhoven and Enschede), plus the former agricultural institute in Wageningen. A list of all \"hogescholen\" in the Netherlands, including some which might be called polytechnics, can be found here.\n\n\n\nIn Cambodia, there are institutes of technology/polytechnic institutes and Universities that offer instruction in a variety of programs that can lead to: certificates, diplomas and degrees. Institutes of technology/polytechnic institutes and universities tend to be independent institutions.\n\n\n\nIn Canada, there are affiliate schools, colleges, institutes of technology/polytechnic institutes and universities that offer instruction in a variety of programs that can lead to engineering and applied science degrees, apprenticeship and trade programs, certificates and diplomas. Affiliate schools are polytechnic divisions belonging to a national university and offer select technical and engineering programs. Colleges, institutes of technology/polytechnic institutes and universities tend to be independent institutions.\n\nCredentials are typically conferred at the undergraduate level; however, university-affiliated schools like the École de technologie supérieure and the École Polytechnique de Montréal (both of which are located in Quebec), also offer graduate and postgraduate programs, in accordance with provincial higher education guidelines. Canadian higher education institutions, at all levels, undertake directed and applied research with financing allocated through public funding, private equity, or industry sources.\n\nSome of Canada's most esteemed colleges and polytechnic institutions also partake in collaborative institute-industry projects, leading to technology commercialization, made possible through the scope of Polytechnics Canada, a national alliance of eleven leading research-intensive colleges and institutes of technology.\n\n\n\n\nChina's modern higher education began in 1895 with the Imperial Tientsin University which was a polytechnic plus a law department. Liberal arts were not offered until three years later at Capital University. To this day, about half of China's elite universities remain essentially polytechnical.\n\n\nIn Croatia there are many polytechnic institutes and colleges that offer a polytechnic education. The law about polytechnic education in Croatia was passed in 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEPN is known for research and education in the applied science, astronomy, atmospheric physics, engineering and physical sciences. The Geophysics Institute monitors the country's seismic, tectonic and volcanic activity in the continental territory and in the Galápagos Islands.\n\nOne of the oldest observatories in South America is the Quito Astronomical Observatory. It was founded in 1873 \nand located 12 minutes south of the Equator in Quito, Ecuador. The Quito Astronomical Observatory is the National Observatory of Ecuador and is located in the Historic Center of Quito and is managed by the National Polytechnic School.\n\nThe Nuclear Science Department at EPN is the only one in Ecuador and has the large infrastructure, related to irrradiation facilities like cobalt-60 source and electron beam processing.\n\n\nUniversities of technology are categorised as universities, are allowed to grant B.Sc. (Tech.), M.Sc. (Tech.), Lic.Sc. (Tech.), Ph.D. and D.Sc. (Tech.) degrees and roughly correspond to Instituts de technologie of French-speaking areas and Technische Universität of Germany in prestige. In addition to universities of technology, some universities, e.g. University of Oulu and Åbo Akademi University, are allowed to grant the B.Sc. (tech.), M.Sc. (tech.) and D.Sc. (Tech.) degrees.\n\nUniversities of technology are academically similar to other (non-polytechnic) universities. Prior to Bologna process, M.Sc. (Tech.) required 180 credits, whereas M.Sc. from a normal university required 160 credits. The credits between universities of technology and normal universities are comparable.\n\nSome Finnish universities of technology are:\n\nPolytechnic schools are distinct from academic universities in Finland. \"Ammattikorkeakoulu\" is the common term in Finland, as is the Swedish alternative \"yrkeshögskola\" – their focus is on studies leading to a degree (for instance \"insinööri\", engineer; in international use, Bachelor of Engineering) in kind different from but in level comparable to an academic bachelor's degree awarded by a university. Since 2006 the polytechnics have offered studies leading to master's degrees (Master of Engineering). After January 1, 2006, some Finnish ammattikorkeakoulus switched the English term \"polytechnic\" to the term \"university of applied sciences\" in the English translations of their legal names. The ammattikorkeakoulu has many similarities to the \"hogeschool\" in Belgium and in the Netherlands and to the \"Fachhochschule\" in the German language areas.\n\nSome recognized Finnish polytechnics are:\n\nA complete list may be found in List of polytechnics in Finland.\n\nCollegiate universities grouping several engineering schools or multi-site clusters of French grandes écoles provide sciences and technology curricula as autonomous higher education engineering institutes. They include:\nThey provide science and technology master's degrees and doctoral degrees.\n\nFrench education system also includes three universities of technology:\n\nIn addition, France's education system includes many institutes of technology, embedded within most French universities. They are referred-to as \"institut universitaire de technologie\" (IUT). Instituts universitaires de technologie provide undergraduate technology curricula. 'Polytech institutes', embedded as a part of eleven French universities provide both undergraduate and graduate engineering curricula.\n\nIn the French-speaking part of Switzerland exists also the term \"haute école specialisée\" for a type of institution called \"Fachhochschule\" in the German-speaking part of the country. (see below).\n\nHigher education systems, that are influenced by the French education system set at the end of the 18th century, use a terminology derived by reference to the French \"École polytechnique\". Such terms include \"Écoles Polytechniques\" (Algeria, Belgium, Canada, France, Switzerland, Tunisia), Escola Politécnica (Brasil, Spain), Polytechnicum (Eastern Europe).\n\nIn French language, higher education refers to \"écoles polytechniques\", providing science and engineering curricula:\n\n\n\"Fachhochschulen\" were first founded in the early 1970s. They do not focus exclusively on technology, but may also offer courses in social science, medicine, business and design. They grant bachelor's degrees and master's degrees and focus more on teaching than research and more on specific professions than on science.\n\nIn 2009/10, there existed about 200 \"Fachhochschulen\" in Germany. See the for a list.\n\n\"Technische Universität\" (abbreviation: \"TU\") is the common term for universities of technology or technical university. These institutions can grant habilitation and doctoral degrees and focus on research.\n\nThe nine largest and most renowned \"Technische Universitäten\" in Germany have formed TU9 German Institutes of Technology as community of interests. Technische Universitäten normally have faculties or departements of natural sciences and often of economics but can also have units of cultural and social sciences and arts. RWTH Aachen, TU Dresden and TU München also have a faculty of medicine associated with university hospitals (Klinikum Aachen, University Hospital Dresden, Rechts der Isar Hospital).\n\nThere are 17 universities of technology in Germany with about 290,000 students enrolled. The four states of Bremen, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony-Anhalt and Schleswig-Holstein are not operating a \"Technische Universität\". Saxony and Lower Saxony have the highest counts of \"TUs\", while in Saxony three out of four universities are universities of technology.\n\nIn Greece, they are part of the public higher education the Technological Educational Institute or Institute of Technology or Technological Universities confer a 4-year bachelor's degree and 1-year to 1-and-half-year master's degree, also the Polytechnics they confer a 5-year bachelor's degree and master's degree.\n\nThe first polytechnic in Hong Kong is The Hong Kong Polytechnic, established in 1972 through upgrading the Hong Kong Technical College (Government Trade School before 1947). The second polytechnic, the City Polytechnic of Hong Kong, was founded in 1984. These polytechnics awards diplomas, higher diplomas, as well as academic degrees. Like the United Kingdom, the two polytechnics were granted university status in 1994 and renamed The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and the City University of Hong Kong respectively. The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, a university with a focus in applied science, engineering and business, was founded in 1991.\n\nThe world's first Institute of Technology the Berg-Schola (Bergschule) established in Selmecbánya, Kingdom of Hungary by the Court Chamber of Vienna in 1735 providing Further education to train specialists of precious metal and copper mining. In 1762 the institute ranked up to be Academia providing Higher Education courses. After the Treaty of Trianon the institute had to be moved to Sopron.\n\nIn India, polytechnic institutes offer three years post Tenth class Diploma in Engineering. These institutes have affiliation from state boards of technical education and industrial training from respective state governments. After successfully completion of diploma at a polytechnic, students can get employment or take admission in direct second year of Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) or Bachelor of Engineering (BE) (Lateral Entry).\n\nThere are also Indian Institutes of Technology and National Institutes of Technology in India which are autonomous government institutions. These institutions are Institutes of National Importance. In addition to these, there are many other universities which offer higher technical courses. The authority controlling technical education in India is AICTE.\n\n\n\nThere are four public institutes of technology in Indonesia that owned by the government of Indonesia. Other than that, there are hundreds other institute that owned by private or other institutions.\n\nFour public institutes are:\n\nPoliteknik provides vocational education offers either three-year Diploma degrees, which is similar to an associate degree, or four-year bachelor's degree. The more advanced Master's and doctoral degrees are still in progress.\n\nThere are 18 technological universities in Iran.\n\n\nAn \"Institute of Technology\" was formerly referred to as Regional Technical College (RTCs) system. The abbreviation IT is now widely used to refer to an Institute of Technology. These institutions offer sub-degree, degree and post-graduate level studies. Unlike the Irish university system an Institute of Technology also offers sub-degree programmes such as 2-year Higher Certificate programme in various academic fields of study. Some institutions have \"delegated authority\" that allows them to make awards in their own name, after authorisation by the Higher Education & Training Awards Council.\n\nDublin Institute of Technology developed separately from the Regional Technical College system and after several decades of association with the University of Dublin, Trinity College it acquired the authority to confer its own degrees before becoming a member of the T.U. Dublin.\n\nThe IOTI, is the representative body for the various Institutes of Technology in Ireland.\n\nThe approval of Ireland's first Technological University, TU Dublin was announced in July 2018. It is the result of a merger of the three ITs in the County Dublin area. Planning is underway for the formation similar merged institutions across the country.\n\n\nIn Italy, the term \"technical institute\" generally refers to a secondary school which offers a five-year course granting the access to the university system.\n\nIn higher education, \"Politecnico\" refers to a technical university awarding degrees in engineering. Historically there were two \"Politecnici\", one in each of the two largest industrial cities of the north:\nA third \"Politecnico\" was added in the south in 1990:\nHowever, many other universities have a faculty of engineering.\n\nIn 2003, the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research and the Ministry of Economy and Finance jointly established the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (Italian Institute of Technology), headquartered in Genoa with 10 laboratories around Italy, which however focuses on research, not entirely in the fields of engineering and does not offer undergraduate degrees.\n\n\nIn Japan, an is a type of university that specializes in the sciences. See also the Imperial College of Engineering, which was the forerunner of the University of Tokyo's engineering faculty.\n\n\n\nPolytechnics in Malaysia has been operated for almost 44 years. The institutions provide courses for bachelor's degree & Bachelor of Science (BSc) (offer at Premier Polytechnics for September 2013 intake & 2014 intake), Advanced Diploma, Diploma and Special Skills Certificate. It was established by the Ministry of Education with the help of UNESCO in 1969. The amount of RM24.5 million is used to fund the pioneer of Politeknik Ungku Omar located in Ipoh, Perak from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).\n\nAt present, Malaysia have developed 32 polytechnic at all over states in engineering, agriculture, commerce, hospitality and design courses with 60,840 students in 2009 to 87,440 students in 2012.\n\nThe following is a list of the polytechnics in Malaysia in order of establishment:-\n\nThere are 4 technical universities in Malaysia and all are belongs to Malaysian Technical University Network: \n\nThe only technical university in Mauritius is the University of Technology, Mauritius with its main campus situated in La Tour Koenig, Pointe aux Sables. It has a specialized mission with a technology focus. It applies traditional and beyond traditional approaches to teaching, training, research and consultancy. The university has been founded with the aim to play a key role in the economic and social development of Mauritius through the development of programmes of direct relevance to the country’s needs, for example in areas like technology, sustainable development science and public sector policy and management.\n\n\nNew Zealand polytechnics are established under the Education Act 1989 as amended and are typically considered state-owned tertiary institutions along with universities, colleges of education and wānanga; there is today often much crossover in courses and qualifications offered between all these types of Tertiary Education Institutions. Some have officially taken the title 'institute of technology' which is a term recognized in government strategies equal to that of the term 'polytechnic'. One has opted for the name 'Universal College of Learning' (UCOL) and another 'Unitec New Zealand'. These are legal names but not recognized terms like 'polytechnic' or 'institute of technology'. Many if not all now grant at least bachelor-level degrees. Some colleges of education or institutes of technology are privately owned, however, the qualification levels vary widely.\n\nSince the 1990s, there has been consolidation in New Zealand's state-owned tertiary education system. In the polytechnic sector: Wellington Polytechnic amalgamated with Massey University. The Central Institute of Technology explored a merger with the Waikato Institute of Technology, which was abandoned, but later, after financial concerns, controversially amalgamated with Hutt Valley Polytechnic, which in turn became Wellington Institute of Technology. Some smaller polytechnics in the North Island, such as Waiarapa Polytechnic, amalgamated with UCOL. (The only other amalgamations have been in the colleges of education.)\n\nThe Auckland University of Technology is the only polytechnic to have been elevated to university status; while Unitec has had repeated attempts blocked by government policy and consequent decisions; Unitec has not been able to convince the courts to overturn these decisions.\n\nVirtually every state in Nigeria has a polytechnic university operated by either the federal or state government. In Rivers State for example, there are two state-owned polytechnic universities; Kenule Beeson Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori City and the Rivers State College of Arts and Science, Port Harcourt. The former was established on 13 May 1988 while the latter–though founded in 1984–was approved by the NBTE in 2006. The first private polytechnic university in the state is the Eastern Polytechnic, established in 2008.\n\nThe polytechnic institutes in Pakistan offer diploma spanning three years in different engineering branches. This diploma is known as Diploma of Associate Engineering (DAE). Students are admitted to the diploma program based on their results in the 10th grade standardized exams. The main purpose of the diploma offered in polytechnic institutes is to train people in various trades.\n\nThese institutes are located throughout Pakistan and have been in service since early 1950s.\n\nAfter successfully completion of diploma at a polytechnic, students can get employment or enroll either in Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) or Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree programs.\n\nList of Technical Colleges in Pakistan.\n\n\nUniversities of Engineering & Technology in Pakistan offer undergraduate (BE/BS/BSc Engineering) and postgraduate (ME/MS/MSc Engineering and PhD) degree programs in engineering. BE/BS/BSc Engineering is a professional degree in Pakistan. It is a 4 years full-time program after HSSC (higher secondary school certificate) also known as F.Sc (12 years of education).\n\n\nPolitechnika (translated as a \"technical university\" or \"university of technology\") is the designation of a technical university in Poland. Here are some of the larger Polytechnics in Poland:\nOther polytechnical universities:\n\nThe designation \"Institute of Technology\" is not applied at all, being meaningless in Portugal. However, there are a number of non-university higher educational institutions which are called polytechnic institutes since the 1970s. Some of these institutions existed since the 19th century with different designations (industrial and commercial institutes, agricultural managers, elementary teachers and nurses schools, etc.). In theory, the polytechnics higher education system is aimed to provide a more practical training and be profession-oriented, while the university higher education system is aimed to have a stronger theoretical basis and be highly research-oriented. The polytechnics are also oriented to provide shorter length studies aimed to respond to local needs. The Portuguese polytechnics can then be compared to the US community colleges.\n\nSince the implementation of Bologna Process in Portugal in 2007, the polytechnics offer the 1st cycle (licentiate degree) and 2nd cycle (master's degree) of higher studies. Until 1998, the polytechnics only awarded bachelor () degrees (three-year short-cycle degrees) and were not authorized to award higher degrees. They however granted post-bachelor diplomas in specialized higher studies (DESE, \"diploma de estudos superiores especializados\"), that could be obtained after the conclusion of a two-year second cycle of studies and were academical equivalent to the university's licentiate degrees (\"licenciatura\"). After 1998, they started to be allowed to confer their own licentiate degrees, which replaced the DESE diplomas.\n\n\n\nThe Polytechnics in Singapore do not offer bachelors, masters or PhD degrees. However, the Polytechnics in Singapore offers three-year diploma courses in fields such as information technology, engineering subjects and other vocational fields, like psychology and nursing. The Polytechnic diploma certification in Singapore is equivalent to a junior college in the UK or a community college in the United States. There are 5 polytechnics in Singapore. They are namely: Singapore Polytechnic, Ngee Ann Polytechnic, Temasek Polytechnic, Nanyang Polytechnic and Republic Polytechnic.\n\nA Polytechnic diploma in Singapore is known to be parallel and sometimes equivalent to the first years at a bachelor's degree-granting institution, thus, Polytechnic graduates in Singapore have the privilege of being granted transfer credits or module exemptions when they apply to local and overseas universities, depending on the university's policies on transfer credits.\n\nThe only university in Singapore with the term \"institute of technology\", most notably the Singapore Institute of Technology were developed in 2009 as an option for Polytechnic Diploma graduates who desire to pursue a bachelor's degree. Other technological university in Singapore includes the Nanyang Technological University (1981) and the Singapore University of Technology and Design (2009).\n\nThe world's first institution of technology or technical university with tertiary technical education is the Banská Akadémia in Banská Štiavnica, Slovakia, founded in 1735, Academy since December 13, 1762 established by queen Maria Theresa in order to train specialists of silver and gold mining and metallurgy in neighbourhood. Teaching started in 1764. Later the department of Mathematics, Mechanics and Hydraulics and department of Forestry were settled. University buildings are still at their place today and are used for teaching. University has launched the first book of electrotechnics in the world.\n\n\nSouth Africa\nhas completed a process of transforming its \"higher education landscape\". Historically a division has existed in South Africa between Universities and Technikons (polytechnics) as well between institutions servicing particular racial and language groupings. In 1993 Technikons were afforded the power to award certain technology degrees.\nBeginning in 2004 former Technikons have either been merged with traditional Universities to form Comprehensive Universities or have become Universities of Technology, however the Universities of Technology have not to date acquired all of the traditional rights and privileges of a University (such as the ability to confer a wide range of degrees).\n\n\n\n\nMost of Thailand's institutes of technology were developed from technical colleges, in the past could not grant bachelor's degrees; today, however, they are university level institutions, some of which can grant degrees to the doctoral level. Examples are Pathumwan Institute of Technology (developed from Pathumwan Technical School), King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang (Nondhaburi Telecommunications Training Centre) and King Mongkut's Institute of Technology North Bangkok (Thai-German Technical School).\n\nThere are two former institutes of technology, which already changed their name to \"University of Technology\": Rajamangala University of Technology (formerly Institute of Technology and Vocational Education) and King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi (Thonburi Technology Institute).\n\nInstitutes of technology with different origins are Asian Institute of Technology, which developed from SEATO Graduate School of Engineering and Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology, an engineering school of Thammasat University. Suranaree University of Technology is the only government-owned technological university in Thailand that was established (1989) as such; while Mahanakorn University of Technology is the most well known private technological institute. Technology/Technical colleges in Thailand is associated with bitter rivalries which erupts into frequent off-campus brawls and assassinations of students in public locations that has been going on for nearly a decade, with innocent bystanders also commonly among the injured and the military under martial law still unable to stop them from occurring.\n\nIn Turkey and the Ottoman Empire, the oldest technical university is Istanbul Technical University. Its graduates contributed to a wide variety of activities in scientific research and development. In 1950s, 2 technical universities were opened in Ankara and Trabzon. In recent years, Yildiz University is reorganized as Yildiz Technical University and 2 institutes of technology were founded in Kocaeli and Izmir. In 2010, another technical university named Bursa Technical University was founded in Bursa. Moreover, a sixth technical university is about to be opened in Konya named Konya Technical University.\n\n\nPolytechnics\n\nPolytechnics were tertiary education teaching institutions in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The comparable institutions in Scotland were collectively referred to as Central Institutions.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1992, UK polytechnics operated under the binary system of education along with universities. Polytechnics offered diplomas and degrees (bachelor's, master's, PhD) validated at the national level by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA). They particularly excelled in engineering and applied science degree courses and other STEM subjects similar to technological universities in the USA and continental Europe. Polytechnics were associated with innovations including women’s studies, the academic study of communications and media, sandwich degrees and the rise of management and business studies. \n\nBritain's first polytechnic, the Royal Polytechnic Institution later known as the Polytechnic of Central London (now the University of Westminster) was established in 1838 at Regent Street in London and its goal was to educate and popularize engineering and scientific knowledge and inventions in Victorian Britain \"at little expense.\" The London Polytechnic led a mass movement to create numerous polytechnic institutes across the UK in the late 19th century. Most polytechnic institutes were established at the centre of major metropolitan cities and their focus was on engineering, applied science and technology education.\n\nThe designation \"institute of technology\" was occasionally used by polytechnics (Bolton), Central Institutions (Dundee, Robert Gordon's) and postgraduate universities, (Cranfield and Wessex), most of which later adopted the designation university and there were two \"institutes of science and technology\": UMIST and UWIST, part of the University of Wales. Loughborough University was called Loughborough University of Technology from 1966 to 1996, the only institution in the UK to have had such a designation.\n\nPolytechnics were granted university status under the Further and Higher Education Act 1992. This meant that polytechnics could confer degrees without the oversight of the national CNAA organization. These institutions are sometimes referred to as post-1992 universities.\n\nTechnical colleges\n\nIn 1956, some colleges of technology received the designation college of advanced technology. They became universities in 1966 meaning they could award their own degrees. \n\nInstitutions called \"technical institutes\" or \"technical schools\" that were formed in the early 20th century provided further education between high school and university or polytechnic. Most technical institutes have been merged into regional colleges and some have been designated university colleges if they are associated with a local university.\n\nIn 2016 the UK government announced plans to establish new \"institutes of technology\" in England as part of its reforms to post-16 skills provision \"to provide technical education in STEM subjects at levels 3, 4 and 5. Each IoT is likely to build on infrastructure that already exists but will have its own independent identity, governance arrangements which directly involve employers and national branding\".\n\nPolytechnic institutes in the USA are technological universities, many dating back to the mid-19th century. A handful of American universities include the phrases \"Institute of Technology\", \"Polytechnic Institute\", \"Polytechnic University\", or similar phrasing in their names; these are generally research-intensive universities with a focus on engineering, science and technology. The earliest of these institutions include: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI, 1824), Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT, 1829), Brooklyn Collegiate and Polytechnic Institute (1854), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT, 1861), Worcester Polytechnic Institute (1865), Stevens Institute of Technology (1870), Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPI or VT, 1872), New Jersey Institute of Technology (1881), Georgia Institute of Technology (1885), California Institute of Technology (Caltech, 1891), Drexel Institute of Art, Science and Industry (1891) and Carnegie Institute of Technology (1900). Conversely, schools dubbed \"technical colleges\" or \"technical institutes\" generally provide post-secondary training in technical and mechanical fields, focusing on training vocational skills primarily at a community college level, parallel and sometimes equivalent to the first two years at a bachelor's degree-granting institution.\n\nInstitutes of technology in Venezuela were developed in the 1950s as an option for post-secondary education in technical and scientific courses, after the \"polytechnic\" French concepts. At that time, technical education was considered essential for the development of a sound middle class economy.\n\nNowadays, most of the \"Institutos de Tecnología\" are privately run businesses, with varying degrees of quality.\n\nMost of these institutes award diplomas after three or three and a half years of education. The institute of technology implementation (IUT, from \"Instituto universitario de tecnologia\" in Spanish) began with the creation of the first IUT at Caracas, the capital city of Venezuela, called IUT. Dr. Federico Rivero Palacio adopted the French \"Institut Universitaire de Technologie\"s system, using French personnel and study system based on three-year periods, with research and engineering facilities at the same level as the main national universities to obtain French equivalent degrees. This IUT is the first and only one in Venezuela having French equivalent degrees accepted, implementing this system and observing the high-level degrees some other IUTs were created in \nVenezuela, regardless of this the term IUT was not used appropriately resulting in some institutions with mediocre quality and no equivalent degree in France. Later, some private institutions sprang up using IUT in their names, but they are not regulated by the original French system and award lower quality degrees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53249224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53249224", "title": "International Academy of Philosophy of Science", "text": "International Academy of Philosophy of Science\n\nThe International Academy for Philosophy of Science (IAPS), also known as the (AIPS) is an international organization located in Brussels, which promotes fundamental issues of philosophy of science in an open interdisciplinary dialogue. Its members are philosophers of science or leading experts in sciences interested in philosophical questions.\n\nThe AIPS was created in 1947 by Stanislas Dockx. Among its first members were Bernays, Beth, Bochenski, Bohr, Borel, Brouwer, de Broglie, Destouches, Einstein, Gonseth, Milne, Paulus and Weyl. Since 1949, a long series of colloquia have been organized in Europe but even in North- and South America.\n\n\nThe AIPS promotes collaboration between philosophers of science and scientists by the means of annual sessions held in major scientific centers. The proceedings are published in French and/or English. The subjects of the meetings are decided by the General Assembly.\n\nMembers are co-opted on the basis of proposals by full members. The currently over one hundred members come from nearly 25 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "53930030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53930030", "title": "Internationaler Bund", "text": "Internationaler Bund\n\nThe Internationaler Bund (commonly referred to as: IB) (English: International Federation) is a German politically non-aligned and non-denominational educational organisation. The IB was founded in 1949 and it is one of the largest service providers in the areas of social and educational programs for youth development in Europe with its registered voluntary association (German: \"Eingetragener Verein\"), its non-profit organizations, commercial companies, further education programs as well as schools and technical colleges.\nToday, the IB has around 700 facilities in more than 300 locations across Germany and promotes numerous educational activities abroad with educational institutions in China, Georgia and Turkey and with the Stiftung Internationaler Bund Polska in Poland,\n\n"}
{"id": "16588246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16588246", "title": "Kampala University", "text": "Kampala University\n\nKampala University (KU) is a fully fledged, private, chartered, recognized and accredited university in Uganda.\n\n, KU maintained the following campuses:\n\n\nKU was founded in 1999. The founding vice chancellor, Badru Kateregga, together with other academics and entrepreneurs pooled resources to establish the university. It received its license from the Uganda National Council for Higher Education in 2000.\n\nDuring the university's graduation ceremony in March 2012, 2,048 graduates were awarded degrees, diplomas, and certificates in various disciplines. Of these, 57.9 percent were male and 42.1 percent were female. Seventy-four graduates received master's degrees and 24 received postgraduate diplomas.\n\nKU is affiliated with The East African University (TEAU) in Kitengela, Kenya. Badru Kateregga, the vice chancellor of KU, also serves as chairman of the board of trustees of TEAU.\n\nKU has seven constituent schools: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24669063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24669063", "title": "Kurt Löwenstein", "text": "Kurt Löwenstein\n\nKurt Löwenstein (18 May 1885 in Bleckede – 8 May 1939 in Paris) was a German USPD/SPD politician, Socialist reform pedagogue and one of the founders of Socialist Youth of Germany - Falcons.\n\nLöwenstein's father, Bernhard Löwenstein, had a clothing shop, which brought the family a modest income. His mother Jeanette, born Blumenthal, died of cancer in 1892. In 1895 Kurt Löwenstein went to Jewish private school in Hanover. In 1899 he went to high school where he earned tuition by delivering newspapers and holding after-classes where he helped school classmates with homework.\n\nBetween 1904 and 1907 Löwenstein studied Theology and Philosophy in Halberstadt and he was accepted into the orthodox Rabbi school in Berlin. At the same time he also attended Philosophical and Pedagogical courses at the Friedrich-Wilhelm University. In 1908 he was offered the position of the Rabbi in Hanover but refused it because of religious doubts.\n\nOn 29 April 1911 he married Mara Kerwel (1891-1969), a chemist. When they got married, they signed a following marriage contract which is a proof of their progressive thinking and acting concerning gender equality:\n\n§1 On 1 April 1911 both of the contracties, out of free choice and based on love, agree to found the marriage upon equal rights and responsibilities.\n\n§2 As long as the marriage will last, both contracties and their offspring will use the common name Kerlöw which derives from the marriage.\n\n§3 To legalise the use of this name, state permission should be pursued. If this permission is not given, the contracties promise to use the name in all non administrative areas of life.\n\n§4 To be lawfully wedded both of the contracties will also subject to the state marital contract. However, by a word of honour they declare that the responsibilities and rights, described in the state marital contract will not apply as they find them redundant.\n\nIn 1910 he finished his Ph.D thesis on Jean-Marie Guyau's pedagogic concepts.\n\nA pacifist, Löwenstein applied to join the Red Cross in 1914 in Grodno (Belarus) where he took care of injured soldiers until 1918. In the meantime he joined \"Soldatenraete\", German Socialist soldier councils, and identified himself as a Socialist. He joined the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (\"Unabhängigen Sozialdemokratischen Partei Deutschlands\" - USPD) and became active especially in forming the positions on education and educational politics of the party.\n\nIn June 1920 he was elected as a member of the National Parliament until 1923 as a member of the USPD and from 1923 to 1933 as a Member of the SPD. In September 1920 he was elected an Educational Counselor of Berlin by Election Committee of the City Council. The Brunderburger president denied him of this position in 1920.\n\nFrom 1921 Löwenstein was responsible for education in the City Council of Berlin – Neukölln. In this time he organised progressive school tuition fees, providing more school meals for children. He organised special preparation classes for graduation for working class children. Together with Fritz Karsen they founded the Karl-Marx School, the first non-religious school in Berlin.\n\nFrom 1922 to 1934 Löwenstein was Vice-president and one of the co-founders of the Socialist Educational International (now the IFM-SEI).\n\nFrom 1922 to 1934 he was the president of the International Falcon Movement-Socialist Educational International. From 1924 to 1933 he was the president of German Children's friend movement (ReichsArbeitsGemeinschaft der Kinderfreunde), now the Socialist Youth of Germany – Falcons. In 1933, when the organisation was forbidden, it united 130,000 children, 10,000 guides and 60,000 parents.\n\n"}
{"id": "572438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572438", "title": "Lee Strasberg", "text": "Lee Strasberg\n\nLee Strasberg (born Israel Strassberg; November 17, 1901February 17, 1982) was a Polish-born American actor, director, and theatre practitioner. He co-founded, with directors Harold Clurman and Cheryl Crawford, the Group Theatre in 1931, which was hailed as \"America's first true theatrical collective\". In 1951 he became director of the nonprofit Actors Studio in New York City, considered \"the nation's most prestigious acting school,\" and in 1966 he was involved in the creation of Actors Studio West in Los Angeles.\n\nAlthough other highly regarded teachers also developed \"the Method,\" Strasberg is often considered the \"father of method acting in America,\" according to author Mel Gussow, and from the 1920s until his death in 1982 \"he revolutionized the art of acting by having a profound influence on performance in American theater and movies.\" From his base in New York, he trained several generations of theatre and film notables, including Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, Montgomery Clift, James Dean, Marilyn Monroe, Jane Fonda, Julie Harris, Paul Newman, Ellen Burstyn, Al Pacino, Geraldine Page, Eli Wallach, and directors Frank Perry and Elia Kazan.\n\nBy 1970 Strasberg had become less involved with the Actors Studio and, with his third wife, Anna, opened the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute with branches in New York City and in Hollywood, to continue teaching the 'system' of Konstantin Stanislavski, which he had interpreted and developed, particularly in light of the ideas of Yevgeny Vakhtangov, for contemporary actors. The institute's primary stated goal was \"to reach a larger audience of eager and emerging talent\" than was served by the Actors Studio's notoriously selective admission process, and as teachers of the method began to deploy their own personal interpretations of the discipline, \"to dispel growing confusion and misrepresentation of the method, preserving what had by now become fundamental discoveries in actor training.\" The Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute has its own rigorous sets of entrance criteria required for admission into their program.\n\nFormer student Elia Kazan directed James Dean in \"East of Eden\" (1955), for which Kazan and Dean were nominated for Academy Awards. As a student, Dean wrote that Actors Studio was \"the greatest school of the theater [and] the best thing that can happen to an actor.\" Playwright Tennessee Williams, writer of \"A Streetcar Named Desire\", said of Strasberg's actors, \"They act from the inside out. They communicate emotions they really feel. They give you a sense of life.\" Directors such as Sidney Lumet, a former student, have intentionally used actors skilled in Strasberg's \"method.\"\n\nKazan, in his autobiography, wrote, \"He carried with him the aura of a prophet, a magician, a witch doctor, a psychoanalyst, and a feared father of a Jewish home. ... [He] was the force that held the thirty-odd members of the theatre together, and made them 'permanent.'\" Today, Ellen Burstyn, Al Pacino, and Harvey Keitel lead this nonprofit studio dedicated to the development of actors, playwrights, and directors.\n\nAs an actor, Strasberg is probably best known for his supporting role as gangster Hyman Roth alongside his former student Pacino in \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), a role he took at Pacino's suggestion after Kazan turned down the role, and which earned him a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. He also appeared in \"... And Justice for All\" (1979).\n\nStrasberg's personal papers, including photos, are archived at the Library of Congress.\n\nLee Strasberg was born Israel Strassberg in Budzanów in Austrian Poland (part of Austria-Hungary, now in Ukraine), to Jewish parents, Baruch Meyer Strassberg and his wife, Ida (born Chaia), née Diner, and was the youngest of three sons. His father emigrated to New York while his family remained in their home village with an uncle, a rabbinical teacher. His father, who worked as a presser in the garment industry, sent first for his eldest son and his daughter. Finally, enough money was saved to bring over his wife and his two remaining sons. In 1909 the family was reunited on Manhattan's Lower East Side, where they lived until the early '20s. Young Strasberg took refuge in voracious reading and the companionship of his older brother, Zalmon, whose death in the 1918 influenza epidemic was so traumatic for the young Strasberg that, despite being a straight-A student, he dropped out of high school.\n\nA relative introduced him to the theatre by giving him a small part in a Yiddish-language production being performed by the Progressive Drama Club. He later joined the Chrystie Street Settlement House's drama club. Philip Loeb, casting director of the Theater Guild, sensed that Strasberg could act, although he was not yet thinking of a full-time acting career, and was still working as a shipping clerk and bookkeeper for a wig company. When he was 23 years old, he enrolled in the Clare Tree Major School of the Theater. He became a naturalized United States citizen on January 16, 1939, in New York City at the New York Southern District Court.\n\nKazan biographer Richard Schickel described Strasberg's first experiences with the art of acting:\n\nHe dropped out of high school, worked in a shop that made hairpieces, drifted into the theater via a settlement house company and ... had his life-shaping revelation when Stanislavski brought his Moscow Art Theatre to the United States in 1923. He had seen good acting before, of course, but never an ensemble like this with actors completely surrendering their egos to the work. ... [H]e observed, first of all, that all the actors, whether they were playing leads or small parts, worked with the same commitment and intensity. No actors idled about posing and preening (or thinking about where they might dine after the performance). More important, every actor seemed to project some sort of unspoken, yet palpable, inner life for his or her character. This was acting of a sort that one rarely saw on the American stage ... where there was little stress on the psychology of the characters or their interactions. ... Strasberg was galvanized. He knew that his own future as an actor—he was a slight and unhandsome man—was limited. But he soon perceived that as a theoretician and teacher of this new 'system' it might become a major force in American theater.\n\nStrasberg eventually left the Clare Tree Major School to study with students of Stanislavski—Maria Ouspenskaya and Richard Boleslavsky—at the American Laboratory Theatre. In 1925 Strasberg had his first professional appearance in \"Processional\", a play produced by the Theater Guild.\n\nAccording to Schickel:\n\nWhat Strasberg ... took away from the Actors Lab was a belief that just as an actor could be prepared physically for his work with dance, movement, and fencing classes, he could be mentally prepared by resort to analogous mental exercises. They worked on relaxation as well as concentration. They worked with nonexistent objects that helped prepare them for the exploration of equally ephemeral emotions. They learned to use \"affective memory,\" as Strasberg called the most controversial aspect of his teaching—summoning emotions from their own lives to illuminate their stage roles. ... Strasberg believed he could codify this system, a necessary precursor to teaching it to anyone who wanted to learn it. ... [H]e became a director more preoccupied with getting his actors to work in the \"correct\" way than he was in shaping the overall presentation.\n\nHe gained a reputation with the Theater Guild of New York and helped form the Group Theater in New York in 1931. There, he created a technique that became known as \"the method\" or \"method acting.\" His teaching style owed much to the Russian practitioner, Konstantin Stanislavski, whose book, \"An Actor Prepares\" (published in English in 1936), dealt with the psychology of acting. He began by directing, but his time was gradually taken up by the training of actors. Called \"America's first true theatrical collective,\" the Lab immediately offered a few tuition-free scholarships for its three-year program to \"promising students.\"\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" wrote, \"The Group Theatre ... with its self-defined mission to reconnect theater to the world of ideas and actions, staged plays that confronted social and moral issues ... with members Harold Clurman, Lee Strasberg, Stella, and Luther Adler, Clifford Odets, Elia Kazan, and an ill-assorted band of idealistic actors living hand to mouth are seen welded in a collective of creativity that was also a tangle of jealousies, love affairs, and explosive feuds.\" Playwright Arthur Miller said \"the Group Theatre was unique and probably will never be repeated. For a while it was literally the voice of Depression America.\" Co-founder Harold Clurman, in describing what Strasberg brought to the Group Theater, wrote:\n\nLee Strasberg is one of the few artists among American theater directors. He is the director of introverted feeling, of strong emotion curbed by ascetic control, sentiment of great intensity muted by delicacy, pride, fear, shame. The effect he produces is a classic hush, tense and tragic, a constant conflict so held in check that a kind of beautiful spareness results. The roots are clearly in the intimate experience of a complex psychology, an acute awareness of human contradiction and suffering.\n\nStrasberg, Kazan, Clurman, and others with the Group Theater spent summers at Pine Brook Country Club located in the countryside of Nichols, Connecticut.\n\nIn 1947 Elia Kazan, Robert Lewis, and Cheryl Crawford, also members of the Group Theatre, started the Actors Studio as a nonprofit workshop for professional and aspiring actors to concentrate on their craft away from the pressures of the commercial theatre. Strasberg assumed leadership of the studio in 1951 as its artistic director. \"As a teacher and acting theorist, he revolutionized American actor training and engaged such remarkable performers as Kim Hunter, Marilyn Monroe, Julie Harris, Paul Newman, Geraldine Page, Ellen Burstyn, and Al Pacino.\" Since its inception, the studio has been a nonprofit educational corporation chartered by the state of New York, and has been supported entirely by contributions and benefits. ... We have here the possibility of creating a kind of theatre that would be a shining medal for our country,\" Strasberg said in 1959. UCLA acting teacher Robert Hethmon writes, \"The Actors Studio is a refuge. Its privacy is guarded ferociously against the casual intruder, the seeker of curiousities, and the exploiter. ... The Studio helps actors to meet the enemy within ... and contributes greatly to Strasberg's utterly pragmatic views on training the actor and solving his problems. ... [and] is kept deliberately modest in its circumstances, its essence being the private room where Lee Strasberg and some talented actors can work.\"\n\nStrasberg wrote: \"At the studio, we do not sit around and feed each other's egos. People are shocked how severe we are on each other.\" Admission to the Actors Studio was usually by audition with more than a thousand actors auditioning each year and the directors usually conferring membership on only five or six each year. \"The Studio was, and is \"sui generis\",\" said Elia Kazan, proudly. Beginning in a small, private way, with a strictly off-limits-to-outsiders policy, the Studio quickly earned a high reputation in theatre circles. \"It became the place to be, the forum where all the most promising and unconventional young actors were being cultivated by sharp young directors. ... \" Actors who have worked at the studio include Julie Harris, Paul Newman, Joanne Woodward, Geraldine Page, Maureen Stapleton, Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, Patricia Neal, Rod Steiger, Mildred Dunnock, Eva Marie Saint, Eli Wallach, Anne Jackson, Ben Gazzara, Sidney Poitier, Karl Malden, Gene Wilder, Shelley Winters, Dennis Hopper, and Sally Field.\n\nThe Emmy Award–winning author of \"Inside Inside\", James Lipton, writes that the Actors Studio became \"one of the most prestigious institutions in the world\" as a result of its desire to set a higher \"standard\" in acting. The founders, including Strasberg, demanded total commitment and extreme talent from aspiring students. Jack Nicholson auditioned five times before he was accepted; Dustin Hoffman, six times; and Harvey Keitel, 11 times. After each rejection, a candidate had to wait as long as a year to try again. Martin Landau and Steve McQueen were the only two students admitted one year, out of 2000 candidates who auditioned.\n\n\nIn Brando's autobiography, \"Songs My Mother Taught Me\", the actor claimed he learned nothing from Strasberg: \"After I had some success, Lee Strasberg tried to take credit for teaching me how to act. He never taught me anything. He would have claimed credit for the sun and the moon if he believed he could get away with it. He tried to project himself as an acting oracle and guru. Some people worshiped him, and I never knew why. I sometimes went to the Actors Studio on Saturday mornings because Elia Kazan was teaching, and there were usually a lot of good-looking girls there, but Strasberg never taught me acting. Stella did—and later Kazan.\"\n\n\nIn describing his teaching philosophy, Strasberg wrote, \"The two areas of discovery that were of primary importance in my work at the Actors Studio and in my private classes were improvisation and affective memory. It is finally by using these techniques that the actor can express the appropriate emotions demanded of the character.\" Strasberg demanded great discipline of his actors, as well as great depths of psychological truthfulness. He once explained his approach in this way:\n\nAccording to film critic/author Mel Gussow, Strasberg required that an actor, when preparing for a role, delve not only into the character's life in the play but also, \"Far more importantly, into the character's life before the curtain rises. In rehearsal, the character's prehistory, perhaps going back to childhood, is discussed and even acted out. The play became the climax of the character's existence.\"\n\nIn Elia Kazan's autobiography, the Academy Award–winning director wrote about his earliest memories of Strasberg as teacher:\n\nHe carried with him the aura of a prophet, a magician, a witch doctor, a psychoanalyst, and a feared father of a Jewish home. He was the center of the camp's activities that summer, the core of the vortex. Everything in camp revolved around him. Preparing to direct the play that was to open the coming season, as he had the three plays of the season before, he would also give the basic instruction in acting, laying down the principles of the art by which the Group worked, the guides to their artistic training. He was the force that held the thirty-odd members of the theatre together, made them 'permanent.' He did this not only by his superior knowledge but by the threat of his anger. ... He enjoyed his eminence just as the admiral would. Actors are as self-favoring as the rest of humanity, and perhaps the only way they could be held together to do their work properly was by the threat of an authority they respected. And feared. No one questioned his dominance—he spoke holy writ—his leading role in that summer's activities, and his right to all power. To win his favor became everyone's goal. His explosions of temper maintained the discipline of this camp of high-strung people. I came to believe that without their fear of this man, the Group would fly apart, everyone going in different directions instead of to where he was pointing. ... I was afraid of him too. Even as I admired him. Lee was making an artistic revolution and knew it. An organization such as the Group – then in its second year, which is to say still beginning, still being shaped—lives only by the will of a fanatic and the drive with which he propels his vision. He has to be unswerving, uncompromising, and unadjustable. Lee knew this. He'd studied other revolutions, political and artistic. He knew what was needed, and he was fired up by his mission and its importance.\n\nKazan described the classes taught by Strasberg:\n\nAt his classes in the technique of acting, Lee laid down the rules, supervised the first exercises. These were largely concerned with the actor's arousing his inner temperament. The essential and rather simple technique, which has since then been complicated by teachers of acting who seek to make the Method more recondite for their commercial advantage, consists of recalling the circumstances, physical and personal, surrounding an intensely emotional experience in the actor's past. It is the same as when we accidentally hear a tune we may have heard at a stormy or an ecstatic moment in our lives, and find, to our surprise, that we are reexperiencing the emotion we felt then, feeling ecstasy again or rage and the impulse to kill. The actor becomes aware that he has emotional resources; that he can awaken, by this self-stimulation, a great number of very intense feelings; and that these emotions are the materials of his art. ... Lee taught his actors to launch their work on every scene by taking a minute to remember the details surrounding the emotional experience in their lives that would correspond to the emotion of the scene they were about to play. 'Take a minute!' became the watchword of that summer, the phrase heard most often, just as this particular kind of inner concentration became the trademark of Lee's own work when he directed a production. His actors often appeared to be in a state of self-hypnosis.\n\nIn 1955 Strasberg student James Dean died in a car accident, at age 24. Strasberg, during a regular lecture shortly after this accident, discussed Dean. The following are excerpts from a transcription of his recorded lecture:\n\nIn 1962 Marilyn Monroe died at age 36. At the time of her death, she was at the height of her career. In 1999 she was ranked the sixth greatest female star of classic Hollywood cinema by the American Film Institute. Strasberg gave the eulogy at her funeral.\n\nFor us, Marilyn was a devoted and loyal friend—a colleague constantly reaching for perfection. We shared her pain and difficulties, and some of her joys. She was a member of our family. ... It is difficult to accept the fact that her zest for life has been ended by this dreadful accident. Despite the heights and brilliance she had attained on the screen, she was planning for the future. She was looking forward to participating in the many exciting things. In her eyes, and in mine, her career was just beginning. ... She had a luminous quality. A combination of wistfulness, radiance, and yearning that set her apart and made everyone wish to be part of it—to share in the childish naiveté which was at once so shy and yet so vibrant.\n\nHis first marriage was to Nora Krecaum on October 29, 1926, until her death three years later in 1929. In 1934 he married actress and drama coach Paula Miller (1909–66) until her death from cancer in 1966. They were the parents of actress Susan Strasberg (1938–99) and acting teacher John Strasberg (born 1941). His third wife was the former Anna Mizrahi (b. April 16, 1939) and the mother of his two youngest children, Adam Lee Strasberg (b. July 29, 1969) and David Lee Israel Strasberg (b. January 30, 1971).\n\nOn February 17, 1982, Lee Strasberg suffered a fatal heart attack in New York City, aged 80. With him at the time of his death at the hospital were his third wife, Anna, and their two sons. He was interred at Westchester Hills Cemetery in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York. A day before his unexpected death, he was officially notified that he had been elected to the American Theatre Hall of Fame. His last public appearance was on February 14, 1982, at \"Night of 100 Stars\" in the Radio City Music Hall, a benefit for the Actors Fund. Along with Al Pacino and Robert De Niro, he danced in the chorus line with the Rockettes.\n\nActress Ellen Burstyn recalled that evening:\n\nLate in the evening, I wandered into the greenroom and saw Lee sitting next to Anna, watching the taping on the monitor. I sat next to him and we chatted a little. Lee wasn't one for small talk, so I didn't stay long. But before I got up, I said, 'Lee, I've been asked to run for president of Actors Equity.' He reached over and patted me on the back, 'That's wonderful, dahling. Congratulations.' Those were the last words he ever said to me. ... Two days later, early in the morning, I was still asleep when the door to my bedroom opened. I woke up and saw my friend and assistant, Katherine Cortez, enter the room and walk toward me. ... 'We just got a call. Lee Strasberg died.' No, no, no, I wailed, over and over. 'I'm not ready,' and pulled the covers over my head. I had told myself that I must be prepared for this, but I was not prepared. What was I to do now? Who would I work for when I was preparing for a role? Who would I go to when I was in trouble?. ... His memorial service was held at the Shubert Theater where \"A Chorus Line\" was playing. Lee's coffin was brought down the aisle and placed center stage. Everybody in the theater world came—actors, writers, directors, producers, and most, if not all of, his students. He was a giant of the theater and was deeply mourned. Those of us who had the great good fortune to be fertilized and quickened by his genius would feel the loss of him for the rest of our lives.\n\nIn an 80th birthday interview, he said that he was looking forward to his next 20 years in the theater. According to friends, he was healthy until the day he died. \"It was so unexpected,\" Al Pacino said. \"What stood out was how youthful he was. He never seemed as old as his years. He was an inspiration.\" Actress Jane Fonda said after hearing of his death, \"I'm not sure I even would have become an actress were it not for him. He will be missed, but he leaves behind a great legacy.\"\n\n\"Whether directly influenced by Strasberg or not,\" wrote acting author Pamela Wojcik, \"the new male stars all to some degree or other adapted method techniques to support their identification as rebels. ... He recreates romance as a drama of male neuroticism and also invests his characterization 'with an unprecedented aura of verisimilitude.'\" Acting teacher and author Alison Hodge explains: \"Seemingly spontaneous, intuitive, brooding, 'private,' lit with potent vibrations from an inner life of conflict and contradiction, their work exemplified the style of heightened naturalism which (whether Brando agrees or not) Lee Strasberg devoted his life to exploring and promoting.\"\n\nPamela Wojcik adds:\n\nBecause of their tendency to substitute their personal feelings for those of the characters they were playing, Actors Studio performers were well suited to become Hollywood stars. ... In short, Lee Strasberg transformed a socialistic, egalitarian theory of acting into a celebrity-making machine. ... It does not matter who 'invented' Marlon Brando or how regularly or faithfully he, Dean, or Clift attended the Studio or studied the method at the feet of Lee Strasberg. In their signature roles—the most influential performances in the history of American films—these three performers revealed new kinds of body language and new ways of delivering dialogue. In the pauses between words, in the language 'spoken' by their eyes and faces, they gave psychological realism an unprecedented charge. Verbally inarticulate, they were eloquent 'speakers' of emotion. Far less protective of their masculinity than earlier film actors, they enacted emotionally wounded and vulnerable outsiders struggling for self-understanding, and their work shimmered with a mercurial neuroticism. . ... [T]he method-trained performers in films of the '50s added an enhanced verbal and gesture naturalism and a more vivid inner life.\n\nIn 2012 Strasberg's family donated his library of personal papers to the Library of Congress. The papers include 240 boxes containing correspondence, rehearsal notes, photographs, theatrical drawings and posters, sketches of stage designs, and more.\n\nStrasberg, his wife Paula, his daughter Susan, and his son John, all appear as characters in Robert Brustein's 1998 play \"Nobody Dies on Friday\", which one critic called a \"scathing portrait of Strasberg,\" but one that \"can by no means be dismissed as a simple act of character assassination.\" Brustein, a critic, director, and producer, had previously made public his dislike of the method as a philosophy of acting. The play was produced by Brustein's American Repertory Theatre in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was later presented in Singapore.\n\nNote: All works are plays and the original productions unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17262930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262930", "title": "Liberian National Museum", "text": "Liberian National Museum\n\nThe National Museum of Liberia is a national museum in Monrovia, Liberia. Initially housed in the First Executive Mansion on Ashmun Street of the city which is now used as a library, it was established by an Act of the National Legislature in 1958 under the administration of Liberia's 18th President, Dr William V.S. Tubman. Partly funded by UNESCO, in coordination with the Department of Public instructions (what is now the Liberian Ministry of Education), its primary goal was to obtain, preserve and display cultural artefacts and other historical items which depict the country's heritage.\n\nThe museum remained under the Department of Public Instructions until 1965 when it became the responsibility of the Department of Information, Cultural Affairs and Tourism. In 1981 this detached to form the National Bureau of Culture & Tourism of which the museum operated under through much of the 1980s until June 1987 when it was dissolved and returned to the control of the Department of Information.\nIn 1972, the museum was relocated to a new building on Providence Island but four years later this building was removed to facilitate the construction of the People's Bridge over the Mesurado River.\n\nIt was later moved to the Old Supreme Court building and formally reopened on July 25, 1987 with a ceremony given by the Vice President of Liberia, Harry F. Moniba.\n\nThe museum is classified in three tiers, where on the ground floor there is a histographical gallery containing presidential papers, private documents and memoirs of past important executives of the Liberian government and photographs and cartographical resources related to its culture. On display is the nation's first flag dating back to August 1847. There are also other items ranging from postage stamps to an editorial page of Liberia's daily newspaper, the \"Liberia Herald\". Other items include traditional Liberian household furniture and utensils, and there is a craft shop run by the African Arts & Crafts Inc.\n\nOn the next floor is the Ethnographical Gallery and on the top floor the contemporary arts gallery which illustrates Liberian artistic works many of which are product of a contract between the museum and art institutions and art colleges throughout the country where artists are commissioned to produce for the museum purposes.\n\nOther museum facilities include a portable video system, editing and archival materials, cassette recordings and slides of visual and oral arts many of which offer an insight into Liberian cultures such as dance and the use of masks in the country.\n\nThe national museum was deeply affected by the 14 years of war during the First and Second Liberian Civil Wars. According to the director of the museum Caesar Harris approximately 5,000 artifacts were looted during this period and now less than 100 larger artifacts remain. Still intact though is a 250-year-old dining table given as gift from Queen Victoria to Liberia's first President, Joseph Jenkins Roberts. During the war, valuable museum items were often sold to fleeing expatriates and the museum itself came under fire during rebel attacks in 2003. However, although the war severely affected the content of the museum today it also has items which offer an insight into the war itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "340261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340261", "title": "List of professional institutions in management", "text": "List of professional institutions in management\n\nProfessional institutions are the societies and associations, they help develop and promote a career and the people who practice in it. There are many chartered professional institutes in the UK, over 80, that cover many different areas of work. The different areas of work that are covered includes constructions, health, journalism, personnel, finance, engineering, law and of course, management. The professional institutes can help you both before and after you graduate.\n\nThere are institutes that have websites that you're able to sign up to, where they help you with your development and challenges within the professional institutes. One of the websites that provides this service is http://www.managers.org.uk/ the Chartered Management Institute. You are able to attend events and take courses based on many different types of institutes in management and learn about development, these would include: Leadership event, Building a business event, Visionary leaders event, Introduction to Management course and Essential management skills course. They say that they are the only Awarding Body that are able to award Chartered Manager status, which is the ultimate management accolade.\nDifferent institutes have different ways of helping you further in your career, such as learning styles. The institutes would assess you, and how they assess you would be individual to the institute; it would most likely be based on your education, knowledge, skills and experience. They might also have different ways of grading and awarding points, as well as different types of membership that you're able to have; some institutes have one day programs, monthly programs and even group programs.\n\nManagement is a major factor in all careers, it consists of organising, controlling, planning and also, directing. Management is at the top of hierarchy as it is what controls everything else within a company/business. If there is no management, then there would be no order or organisation within a company, this would result in the company not being successful. This is why institutes for management would be important and very useful.\n\nThere are many different areas of work that go into management; it expands into many different sectors due to how broad management is. Some of the different types of management includes, Accounting management, Business management and Marketing management.\n\nAn institute is an organisation that has a particular purpose, in this case, the purpose is for further and higher education; some higher education institutions hold university statues'.\n\nThe higher education institutions need to have a distinct image that they should maintain and also to develop, this would be so that they can create a competitive advantage as the market is increasingly competitive. There is a tertiary education system that is undergoing fundamental metamorphosis, this is both in the UK and South Africa; they are both facing changes in government funding. There are at least 71 different institutes that are represented in the UK and at least 20 different institutions from South Africa.\n\nThere is also a company website called 'IMD World Competitiveness Centre', they have a partnership with institutes and have a worldwide network. They have partner institutes in 55 countries; the IMD World Competitiveness Centre helps with business, academics highlight competitive advantage, governments and undercover opportunities by offering a range of products and services which includes workshops and economy assessments. They have partner institutes in Africa/Middle East and they include in Israel, Jordan, Qatar, South Africa and United Arab Emirates. Partner Institutes in America includes, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela. In Asia/Pacific they include Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. Lastly, in Europe they include, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Ireland, Romania, Russia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey and Ukraine.\n\nAlthough there are institutes that are profitable, there are also institutes that are not profitable. In the UK, there is an institute called 'Project Management Institute' and it is the world's leading non profitable professional membership association. It was founded in 1969 and it delivers value for more than 2.9 million professionals that work in nearly every country, they advance careers and improve organisational success.\n\nThe UK government policies dictate that education in higher education institutes look to profit-making organisations for models that would help with performance improvement (Galloway, 1998). This would mean that there is a need for strengthening of the partnership between educational institutes and business.\n\n\nSome of them include:\n\n www.managerialskillstraining.com \nwww.corporatetrainingbangkok.com \n\n\nwww.isinepal.com \nwww.managerialskillstraining.com \nwww.corporatetrainingbangkok.com\n"}
{"id": "2036242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036242", "title": "List of universities in Argentina", "text": "List of universities in Argentina\n\nThis is a list of public and private Argentine universities, grouped by region and type. Public universities are mostly state funded, while private universities require some form of tuition payment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17407692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17407692", "title": "Living Museum of Bujumbura", "text": "Living Museum of Bujumbura\n\nThe Living Museum of Bujumbura () is a zoo and museum in Burundi. The museum is located in the capital Bujumbura and is one of the country's public museums. It is dedicated to the wildlife and art of Burundi.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1977 and occupies a park on the rue du 13 Octobre in downtown Bujumbura. In December 2016, the zoo's collection included six crocodiles, one monkey, one leopard, two chimpanzees, three guinea fowls, a tortoise, an antelope, and a number of snakes and fish. A number of Burundian craftsmen also have workshops on the museum's premises. Several different types of trees stand in the park, alongside a reconstruction of a traditional Burundian house (\"rugo\").\n\nThe number of visitors to the museum fell sharply in the aftermath of the 2015 Burundian unrest, following a wider decline in the number of tourists to the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "30528558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30528558", "title": "Maria Chefaliady-Taban", "text": "Maria Chefaliady-Taban\n\nMaria Chefaliady-Taban (4 November 186311 June 1932) was a Romanian pianist, music educator and composer. She was born in Iaşi and studied at the Iaşi Conservatory with Anetta Boscoff. She continued her studies from 1883-85 in Vienna with Joseph Dachs and Joseph Hellmesberger at the Akademie fur Musik und Darstellende Kunst.\n\nAfter completing her studies, Chefaliady-Taban performed as a concert pianist and later became a singing teacher in Iasi and Bucharest. She died in Bucharest.\n\nChefaliady-Taban incorporated folk-lore into her compositions. Selected works include:\n"}
{"id": "5853494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5853494", "title": "Mark Vos", "text": "Mark Vos\n\nMark Vos (born 20 October 1983), also known as 'pokerbok', is a professional poker player from Australia. Vos was born in Cape Town, South Africa, and attended Waldorf High School in Constantia. He excelled at mathematics olympiads while in high school, and represented his province in the interprovincial olympiad. Vos permanently deferred his actuarial studies at Macquarie University, to play poker full-time. Starting out online with limit hold'em in mid-2004, Vos soon turned his attention to no-limit games, and in short time, earned a reputation as being one of the world's top online poker players, such that he can often be found playing in the most expensive cash games and tournaments online. When not travelling the world playing poker, Vos plans to divide his time between Australia and South Africa. In January 2006, Vos finished 8th in the main event of the Crown Australian Poker Championship, winning A$83,600. As of May 2006, Vos represents the Full Tilt Poker online poker cardroom as a friend of Full Tilt Poker. His name is reflected in red on Full Tilt tables.\n\nIn July 2006, Vos won Event 6 at the 2006 World Series of Poker (WSOP), the . Outlasting a field of 1,919 players, Vos entered heads up action with Nam Le an almost 3:1 chip underdog. On the final hand, Vos raised to $90,000 preflop and Le made the call. The flop came and Le check-called a $150,000 bet by Vos. The turn was the and Le check-called for $250,000. The river brought the to which Le checked and Vos moved all in. Le, suspecting a bluff, made the call with , but Vos turned over for trips and the win, collecting $803,274 and the gold bracelet, becoming one of the youngest WSOP bracelet winners in history. After his victory, Vos said, \"[Winning] does not really change things. I mean, it helps. But I still plan to play poker, then [in five years] I'll relax, settle down and decide what I want to do with the rest of my life.\" Vos cashed four times at the 2008 World Series of Poker including finishing in 80th place out of 6,844 entries in the $10,000 buy-in Main Event, earning $77,200.\n\nAs of 2009, his total live tournament winnings exceed $1,200,000. His 9 cashes at the WSOP account for $977,728 of those winnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1368885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368885", "title": "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity", "text": "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\n\nThe Proclamation of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity was made by the Director-General of UNESCO starting in 2001 to raise awareness of intangible cultural heritage and encourage local communities to protect them and the local people who sustain these forms of cultural expressions. Several manifestations of intangible heritage around the world were awarded the title of \"Masterpieces\" to recognize the value of the non-material component of culture, as well as entail the commitment of states to promote and safeguard the Masterpieces. Further proclamations occurred biennially.\n\nThe list totaled 429 elements .\n\nUNESCO defines oral and intangible heritage as \"the totality of tradition-based creations of a cultural community expressed by a group or individuals and recognized as reflecting the expectations of a community in so far as they reflect its cultural and social identity.\" Language, literature, music and dance, games and sports, culinary traditions, rituals and mythologies, knowledge and practices concerning the universe, know-how linked to handicrafts, and cultural spaces are among the many forms of intangible heritage. Intangible heritage is seen as a repository of cultural diversity, and creative expression, as well as a driving force for living cultures. Since it can be vulnerable to forces of globalization, social transformation, and intolerance, UNESCO encourages communities to identify, document, protect, promote and revitalize such heritage.\nUpon the adoption of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity on November 2001, UNESCO encouraged recognition and protection of intangible heritage in the same way as natural and cultural treasures of tangible heritage are protected.\n\nAlthough UNESCO has had a program (active since 1972) to protect the world's cultural and natural heritage, known as the World Heritage List, it thought that the List was directed mostly to the protection and representation of tangible, monumental elements of past cultures or natural environment. The Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, is UNESCO's response to the call for humanity to widen its concept of cultural heritage by bringing in the intangible aspects. \n\nThe idea for the project came from people concerned about Morocco's Jeema' el Fna Square in Marrakesh. The square is known for traditional activities by storytellers, musicians and other performers, but it was threatened by economic development pressures. In fighting for the protection of traditions, the residents called for action on an international level to recognize the need for the protection of such places—termed as cultural spaces—and other popular and traditional forms of cultural expression. The UNESCO label of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity aims to raise awareness about the importance of oral and intangible heritage as an essential component of cultural diversity.\n\nBeginning in 2001, the new program has started identifying various forms of intangible heritage around the world for safeguarding through a Proclamation. Under this act, national governments acceding to the UNESCO Convention, known as member states, are each allowed to submit a single candidature file, in addition to multi-national nominations, of intangible cultural heritage occurring within their territories. The nominated intangible heritage may fall into two categories as set by the program:\n\nThe nominations are evaluated by a panel of experts in intangible heritage, including specialized non-government organizations (NGOs), and are further scrutinized by a jury, whose 18 members have previously been selected by the UNESCO Director-General. A set of criteria has been created to aid in the assessing of the nominations. The cultural expressions and spaces proposed for proclamation had to:\n\nFurthermore, the nominees should be in conformity with UNESCO ideals, in particular, with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The nomination proposals also had to provide proof of the full involvement and agreement of the local communities and to include an action plan for the safeguarding or promotion of the concerned cultural spaces or expressions, which should have been elaborated in close collaboration with the tradition bearers.\n\nThrough the nomination process, the member states are encouraged to compile an inventory of their intangible heritage, raising awareness and protection of these treasures. In turn, the proclaimed Masterpieces receive commitment from UNESCO in financing plans for their conservation.\n\nProclamations in 2001, 2003 and 2005, designated a total of 90 forms of intangible heritage around the world as Masterpieces:\n\nThe increasing number of candidature files received and number of Masterpieces proclaimed every two years meant that UNESCO's goal of raising awareness on the importance of the protection of intangible heritage has been achieved. The rise in the number of participating member states led to the 2003 adoption of the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, which took effect in 2008. The standard-setting instrument was meant to complement the 1972 World Heritage Convention in its protection of intangible culture. Following the successful example of the World Heritage Convention's World Heritage List program, UNESCO established the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. This superseded the Proclamation program when the Convention took effect in 2008. All the 90 previously proclaimed Masterpieces, which would be called elements, were featured as the first entries on the new List.\n\nThe process for designating an element for the list follows similar steps as the Proclamation. The former role of the jury was supplanted by a new body known as the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage.\n\nIn addition, UNESCO established a separate program, identifying elements for the List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding, to highlight elements at risk despite the efforts of the local community to preserve and protect it, as a result of which it cannot be expected to survive without immediate safeguarding. It also established a fund to provide emergency assistance for the preservation of such elements.\n\nIn 2003, UNESCO drafted the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, which provides an international framework, source of funding, and strategic overview for the further identification and protection of these masterpieces and other intangible cultural heritages. The Convention went into force on 2006, and has since been approved by over 130 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "1601990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601990", "title": "Méret Oppenheim", "text": "Méret Oppenheim\n\nMeret Elisabeth Oppenheim (6 October 1913 – 15 November 1985) was a German-born Swiss Surrealist artist and photographer. Oppenheim was a member of the Surrealist movement along with André Breton, Luis Buñuel, Max Ernst, and other writers and visual artists. Besides creating art objects, Oppenheim also famously appeared as a model for photographs by Man Ray, most notably a series of nude shots of her interacting with a printing press.\n\nMeret Oppenheim was born on 6 October 1913 in Berlin. Oppenheim is named after Meretlein, a wild child who lives in the woods, from the novel \"Green Henry\" by Gottfried Keller. Oppenheim had two siblings, a sister named Kristin (born 1915) and a brother named Burkhard (born 1919). Her father, a German-Jewish doctor, was conscripted into the army at the outbreak of war in 1914. Consequently, Oppenheim and her mother, who was Swiss, moved to live with Oppenheim's maternal grandparents in Delémont, Switzerland. In Switzerland, Oppenheim was exposed to a plethora of art and artists from a young age. Oppenheim was also inspired by her aunt, Ruth Wenger, especially by Wenger's devotion to art and her modern lifestyle. During the late 1920s, Oppenheim was further exposed to different artworks connected to Modernism, Expressionism, Fauvism, and Cubism.\n\nBy 1928, Oppenheim was introduced to the writings of Carl Jung through her father and was inspired to record her dreams. Her dreams would serve as important sources for much of her art throughout her life. The work of Paul Klee, the focus of a retrospective at the Kunshalle Basel in 1929, provided another strong influence on Oppenheim, arousing her to the possibilities of abstraction.\n\nIn May 1932, at the age of 18, Oppenheim moved to Paris and sporadically attended the Académie de la Grande Chaumière. In 1933, Oppenheim met Hans Arp and Alberto Giacometti. After visiting her studio and seeing her work, Arp and Giacometti invited her to participate in the Surrealist exhibition in the “Salon des Surindépendants,” held in Paris between 27 October and 26 November. Oppenheim later met André Breton and began to participate in meetings at the Café de la Place Blanche with the Surrealist circle. Shortly after she began to attend meetings regularly with Breton and other acquaintances, Oppenheim’s circle was joined by other Surrealist artists such as Marcel Duchamp, Max Ernst, and Man Ray. The conceptual approach favored by Marcel Duchamp, Max Ernst, and Francis Picabia became important to her work.\n\nIn 1936, Oppenheim had her first solo exhibition in Basel, Switzerland, at the Galerie Schulthess. She continued to contribute to Surrealist exhibitions until 1960. Many of her pieces consisted of everyday objects arranged to allude to female sexuality and feminine exploitation by the opposite sex. Oppenheim’s paintings focused on the same themes. Her abundant strength of character and her self-assurance informed each work she created, conveying a certain comfortable confrontation with life and death. Her originality and audacity established her as a leading figure in the Surrealist movement.\n\nMéret Oppenheim's first one-woman exhibition in the Galerie Schulthess, Basel (1936) featured surrealist objects. In 1937, Oppenheim returned to Basel and this marked the start of her artistic block. She struggled after she met success and worried about her development as an artist. Méret Oppenheim usually worked in spontaneous bursts and at times destroyed her work. Oppenheim took a hiatus from her artistic career in 1939 after an exhibition at the Galerie René Drouin started by Rene Drouin in Paris. In the exhibition she was featured alongside many artists, including Leonor Fini and Max Ernst. She did not share any art with the public again until the 1950s. Oppenheim then reverted to her \"original style\" and based her new artworks on old sketches and earlier works and creations.\n\nMéret Oppenheim's best known artwork is \"Object (Le Déjeuner en fourrure) [Object (Breakfast in Fur)]\" (1936). Oppenheim's \"Object\" consists of a teacup, saucer and spoon that she covered with fur from a Chinese gazelle. The fur represents an affluent woman; the cup, hollow yet round, can evoke female genitalia; the spoon, with its phallic shape, further eroticizes the hairy object. Originally spurred by a conversation Oppenheim had with Pablo Picasso and his lover Dora Maar in café Deux Magots about a fur bracelet she was wearing, Oppenheim created \"Object\" to liberate the saucer, spoon, and teacup from their original functions as consumer objects. Viewers are thus able to feel emotions of joy and wonder when observing \"Object\" while also questioning the functionality of each of its components. The artwork’s title, developed by Breton, was inspired by both Leopold Sacher-Masoch’s novel \"Venus in Fur\" and Edouard Manet’s \"Dejeuner sur l’herbe.\" During the same year of its creation, \"Object\" was purchased by Alfred Barr for the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and was included in the museum's first Surrealist exhibition titled \"Fantastic Art: Dada and Surrealism\". Oppenheim was willing to sell her artwork for one thousand francs, but Barr only offered her $50 and she accepted. This was the first Surrealist artwork that the museum acquired, and Oppenheim became known as the First Lady of MoMA.\n\nOppenheim’s \"Object\" would be one of the main forces that led to her lengthy artistic crisis due to its spiking increase in popularity after being displayed by Barr in New York. Although it brought Oppenheim a large amount of fame, \"Object\" reinforced the public’s belief that Oppenheim only practiced Surrealism which she found hindered her freedom of artistic expression and exploration of other artistic styles. In fact, \"Object\" became so widely known that many misconceptions about Oppenheim and her art were created because of it. For example, many incorrectly believed that Oppenheim mainly created objects in fur. Being known as the artist of \"Object\", Oppenheim was bounded to Surrealism from public expectation, a connection she was trying to avoid. Decades later, in 1972, she artistically commented on its dominance of her career by producing a number of \"souvenirs\" of \"Le Déjeuner en fourrure\".\n\nThroughout her life, Oppenheim has been willing to pose for photographers. Her most popular photo-shoot with Man Ray deeply depicts her personal stance on femininity. Contrary to the discretion about the gender of \"Le Déjeuner '\"s creator, the photographs provided an unmistakable monument to her femininity and a testimony to her unwillingness to expose it.\n\nIn 1937, Oppenheim returned to Basel, training as an art conservator in order to ensure her financial stability. This marked the beginning of a creative crisis that lasted until 1954. Although she maintained some contact with her friends in Paris, she created very little and destroyed or failed to finish much of what she created.\n\nIn 1956, Oppenheim designed the costumes and masks for Daniel Spoerri’s production of Picasso’s play \"Le Désir attrapé par la queue\" in Berne. She and artist Lilly Keller were cast as the curtains. Three years later, in 1959, she organized a \"Spring Banquet (Le Festin)\" in Bern for a few friends at which food was served on the body of a naked woman. With Oppenheim's permission, Andre Breton restaged the performance later that year at the opening of the \"Exposition inteRnatiOnale du Surrealisme (EROS),\" at the Galerie Cordier in Paris. Outside its original intimate setting, the performance was overly provocative and Oppenheim felt her original intention for the work was lost.\n\nIn the 1960s, Oppenheim's home base of Bern became much more important as an art center. She continued to live and work there, as well as at a second home in Carona, Switzerland (1968), and maintained a studio in Paris starting in 1972. She was an important figure in feminist debates in the early 1970s, although she refused to identify as a feminist.\n\nIn 1983 Oppenheim designed \"The Spiral Column (Spiralsaule),\" unofficially known as \"Meret Oppenheim Fountain,\" on the Waisenhausplatz in Bern. A tall concrete column wrapped with a garland of grass over a small watercourse, the fountain provoked a petition for its removal. In 1985 City of Paris commissioned \"Spiral (Nature's Way) [Spirale (Gang de Natur)\" from Oppenheim for the Jardins de l'ancienne Ecole polytechnique on the Montagne Ste. Genevieve near the Pantheon. The work was based on a 1971 model and finished posthumously a few months after Oppenheim's death in 1986.\n\n\nIn 1936, at the beginning of her career, Oppenheim was included in two important Surrealist exhibitions outside of Paris: \"The International Surrealist Exhibition\", New Burlington Galleries, London and \"Fantastic Art Dada Surrealism\", The Museum of Modern Art, New York.\n\nIn 1943, Oppenheim's work was included in Peggy Guggenheim's show \"Exhibition by 31 Women\" at the Art of This Century gallery in New York.\n\nOppenheim's first retrospective was hosted by Moderna Museet Stockholm in 1967. In Switzerland, her first retrospective was held at Museum der Stadt, Solothurn (1974) and traveled to Kunstmuseum Winterthur and Wilhelm-Lehmbruck Museum, Duisberg, Germany in 1975.\n\nIn 1996, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum mounted Oppenheim's first major museum show in the United States at a time when renewed interest in her work, particularly among young artists, had already begun in Europe. In 2013, a comprehensive retrospective of Oppenheim's work opened at the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin, gathering the artist’s paintings, sketches, sculptures, masks, clothing, furniture, and jewelry. Lenders included singer David Bowie, the Swiss retail tycoon and art dealer Ursula Hauser, and the Dutch diamond magnate Sylvio Perlstein.\n\nOppenheim received the on January 16, 1975. In her acceptance speech, Oppenheim coined the phrase \"Freedom is not given to you — you have to take it.\" In 1982, three years before her death, she received the 1982 Berliner Kunstpreis.\n\nOppenheim, who died in 1985, at 72, kept careful notes about which patrons and colleagues she liked and where her works ended up. She dictated which of her writings should be published and when, and there are puzzling gaps, since she destroyed some material. The archive and much artwork have been entrusted to institutions in Bern, including the Museum of Fine Arts and the National Library.\n\nLevy Galerie, founded in 1970 by Hamburg resident Thomas Levy, represents the estate of Meret Oppenheim, in close collaboration with the artist's family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3215119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3215119", "title": "National Children's Museum", "text": "National Children's Museum\n\nThe National Children’s Museum (NCM) is an interactive children's museum serving the Washington, D.C. metro area. In 2003, the United States Congress designated NCM as the only national museum dedicated entirely to children and their families.\n\nBuilt on a foundation of inspiring curiosity and lifelong learning, the National Children's Museum will encourage visitors to imagine, investigate, create, and play. Each exhibit features hands-on applications of science, technology, engineering, art, and math (STEAM) to foster wonder and inspire creative problem solving for children from birth to twelve. NCM's mission is to inspire children to care about and improve the world.\n\nThe National Children's Museum is slated to reopen in 2019 in the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, just steps from the National Mall.\n\nNCM was founded as the Capital Children’s Museum in 1974. In 1979, it moved into a building at 220 H Street, NE in Washington, D.C., a former Little Sisters of the Poor home. In 2003, Congress identified a need for a nationally recognized cultural and educational institution specifically for children. The H Street location closed in August 2004.\n\nAfter the closure of the H Street location, the National Children’s Museum operated as a “museum without walls,” forging partnerships with other organizations and participating in community events, educational outreach programs and traveling exhibits.\n\nDuring this period, NCM participated in a wide variety of events include the White House Easter Egg Roll, the National Cherry Blossom Festival, the Marine Corps Marathon, Kids Euro Festival, Nickelodeon's Worldwide Day of Play, and NCM's own JumpOFF! and CycleFest, reaching hundreds of thousands of children and families each year.\n\nNCM staff has conducted educational outreach activities in 14 states, presenting the Museum’s \"Family Literacy Projects on a Budget\" teacher training programs.\n\nThe Launch Zone opened at National Harbor, Maryland, in 2009. The 2,700-square-foot space offered exhibits and programming to young children and their families. There was no charge for admission, and it was open to the public seven days a week.\n\nThe Launch Zone closed on September 3, 2012, in preparation for NCM's December 14, 2012, opening in a larger space at National Harbor.\n\nNCM had two major exhibit areas: \"3 & Under\" and \"Our World\". Columbus, Ohio-based Roto Studio designed the 2,700-square-foot \"3 & Under\" exhibit space, and Boston-based Amaze Design was appointed to fabricate the 9,000-square-foot \"Our World\" exhibit, way-finding signage, and donor wall. Both firms specialize in museum exhibit design.\n\nOn November 14, 2014, NCM announced that it would relocate back to Washington, D.C.\n\nNCM closed at National Harbor in early January 2015 after having announced that it will relocate back to Washington, D.C. It is slated to re open in 2019, adjacent to the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center. The new space is Metro accessible, sitting right on Woodrow Wilson plaza adjacent the Federal Triangle stop, and will also feature a public cafe and espresso bar. \n\n\n\nSutton, Benjamin, \"National Children’s Museum Eyes November Opening, Will Boast on Big Wheel Racetrack\", \"ArtInfo\", June 6, 2012\n\nParker, Lonnae O'Neal, \"National Children’s Museum (finally!) reopening at National Harbor\", \"The Washington Post\", June 12, 2012\n\nHager, Nathan, \"National Children’s Museum one step closer to opening in Pr. George’s County\", \"WTOP.com\", June 12, 2012\n\nEatough, Allison, \"Eight Great Museum Exhibits That Engage Children of All Ages\", \"Maryland Family Magazine\", July 22, 2012\n\nCooper, Rachel, \"National Children’s Museum Fall Programming\", \"About.com\", Aug. 29, 2012\n\nSowah, Jillian S. \"Prince George’s County community calendar, Aug. 16-23, 2012\", \"The Washington Post\", Aug. 17, 2012\n\nCooper, Rachel, \"Washington DC Events – Top Things to Do this Weekend\", \"About.com\", Aug. 3, 2012\n\n\"Editor’s Pick: Go for the Gold\", \"In the Loop: Washington Parent E-News\", Aug. 2, 2012\n\n\"Meet a former Olympian at National Children’s Museum\", \"Chesapeake Family Magazine\", July 30, 2012\n\n\"Editor’s Pick: Go for the Gold\", \"In the Loop: Washington Parent E-News\", July 25, 2012\n\nSowah, Jillian S. \"Things to do July 19-Aug. 2: Nicki Minaj, 2 Chainz, Ledisi and Eric Benet perform at DAR\", \"The Washington Post\", July 20, 2012\n\nSowah, Jillian S. \"Prince George’s County wellness calendar, July 12-19\", \"The Washington Post\", July 12, 2012\n\n\"Editor’s Pick: SunWise\", \"In the Loop: Washington Parent E-News\", July 11, 2012\n\n\"National Children’s Museum to Open This Year at National Harbor\", \"FestivalDC.com\", June 14, 2012\n"}
{"id": "2282525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282525", "title": "National Heritage Fellowship", "text": "National Heritage Fellowship\n\nThe National Heritage Fellowship is a lifetime honor presented to master folk and traditional artists by the National Endowment for the Arts. Similar to Japan's Living National Treasure award, the Fellowship is the United States' highest honor in the folk and traditional arts. It is a one-time only award and fellows must be living citizens or permanent residents of the United States. Each year, fellowships are presented to between nine and fifteen artists or groups at a ceremony in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Fellows are nominated by individual citizens, with an average of over 200 nominations per year. From that pool of candidates, recommendations are made by a rotating panel of specialists, including one layperson, as well as folklorists and others with a variety of forms of cultural expertise. The recommendations are then reviewed by the National Council on the Arts, with the final decisions made by the chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts. As of 2017, 422 artists in a wide variety of fields have received Fellowships.\n\nThe program was officially founded in 1982 by Bess Lomax Hawes, the first director of the Folk and Traditional Arts Program at the NEA, following a five-year period of development. In 1982, the monetary award associated with the Fellowship was $5,000; in 1993, it was increased to $10,000 and since 2009, the award amount is $25,000, which is considered \"enough to make a difference, but not enough to go to anyone's head\". Each recipient receives a certificate of honor, the monetary award, and a congratulatory letter from the President of the United States.\n\nThe annual recognition events are held in the Fall and consist of an awards ceremony, a banquet, and a concert that is open to the public. Over the years, the awards ceremony has been held at different locations in the US capitol city, including the NEA headquarters, Ford's Theatre, George Washington University, the Library of Congress, and for the first time at the White House in 1995. Since 2000, the banquet has been held in the Great Hall of the Library of Congress. The concert features musical performances, craft demonstrations, and interviews with the honorees. Masters of ceremonies at the concerts have included folksinger Pete Seeger, actress Ruby Dee, author Studs Terkel, journalist Charles Kuralt, and since 1997 Nick Spitzer, the host of public radio program \"American Routes\". Beginning in 2010, the Fellowship concerts have been streamed live on the NEA website and archived on YouTube.\n\nIn 2000, the NEA instituted the Bess Lomax Hawes Award in conjunction with the Fellowships, \"given to an individual for achievements in fostering excellence, ensuring vitality, and promoting public appreciation of the folk and traditional arts\". The Hawes Award has been given annually since 2000 to recognize \"artists whose contributions, primarily through teaching, advocacy, and organizing and preserving important repertoires, have greatly benefited their artistic tradition. It also recognizes individuals, such as producers and activists, who have comprehensively increased opportunities for and public visibility of traditional artists.\"\n\n\nAwardees have included Native American basket weavers, African American blues musicians, traditional fiddlers, Mexican American accordionists, and all manner of traditional artisans and performers of numerous ethnic backgrounds.\n\nNational Heritage Fellowship winners are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19242092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19242092", "title": "National Training Institute of Education, Science and Technology", "text": "National Training Institute of Education, Science and Technology\n\nNational Training Institute of Education, Science and Technology (NEST) is a training institute set up by the Korean Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST). It is located in Bangbae 3-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, South Korea. \n\n"}
{"id": "39134907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39134907", "title": "Neuromechanics of orthoses", "text": "Neuromechanics of orthoses\n\nNeuromechanics of orthoses refers to how the human body interacts with orthoses. Millions of people in the U.S. suffer from stroke, multiple sclerosis, postpolio, spinal cord injuries, or various other ailments that benefit from the use of orthoses. Insofar as active orthoses and powered exoskeletons are concerned, the technology to build these devices is improving rapidly, but little research has been done on the human side of these human-machine interfaces.\n\nActive, or powered, orthoses differ from exoskeletons in that orthoses generally refer to assistive devices to help people with disabilities walk. Exoskeletons typically refer to devices intended to augment an otherwise healthy individual's movements. However, the terms \"active orthosis\" and \"exoskeleton\" are often used interchangeably.\n\nThey can be made to either assist or resist the wearer's movement. Assisting movement is beneficial for rehabilitation, for providing soldiers and nurses with increased strength to improve job performance, and for aiding people who have repetitive jobs, such as factory workers, to prevent injury. Lastly, this technology is also used to enable people who ordinarily cannot walk by their own means to walk (eLEGS demonstration)\nPowered orthoses have also been made to resist or alter movement. The purpose of such orthoses is to study how the human body adapts to various difficulties. For example, if one muscle is restricted from movement, can our bodies figure out what other muscles to use instead?\n\nWhile most articles on exoskeletons focus on how to power the device, it is also important to know how to power the human who is using it. When designing an exoskeleton, the power requirements of each joint must be understood. Through gait analysis, we know that power varies across the hip, knee, and ankle joints. How the power is dispersed across these joints changes greatly depending on how fast the person is walking, if they are walking on a hill or if they are climbing stairs\n\nA challenge with powering the user is knowing how much power that particular person requires, and at what precise moment does he/she need that power activated. Too much or too little power will make the technology useless, but making it just right for the wearer means customizing each device.\n\nThe primary method in determining whether a device is assisting the person's task or hindering it is to measure the metabolic cost required to do the task. The metabolic cost is how much a person consumes oxygen and produces carbon dioxide while performing a task. To test whether the exoskeleton or active orthosis actually benefits the wearer, studies are done in which subjects first do the task without the device, then they do the same task while wearing the device, and the metabolic costs from the two tasks are compared.\n\nAs of 2008, only one exoskeleton (as opposed to active orthosis) had been found to actually reduce the metabolic cost of walking while carrying a load. Very little research on exoskeleton metabolic cost is done, but one study done by the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Center found that the exoskeleton they used actually increased the metabolic cost by 40%.\n\nIn 2012, S. Galle et al. studied the metabolic cost of a powered ankle-foot extensor that assisted users with push-off while walking. After about 20 minutes to adapt to the device, the users metabolic cost of walking was reduced by 9%.\n\nFerris discusses the influence of controller types in his paper, A Physiologist's Perspective on Robotic Exoskeletons for Human Locomotion.\n\nVarious methods for controlling lower limb active orthoses or exoskeletons:\n\nSome active orthoses have been created for the sole purpose of research. According to neurophysiologist Dr. Keith Gordon, \"locomotor adaptation in humans is not well understood. To provide insight into the neural reorganization that occurs following a significant disruption to one's learned neuromuscular map relating a given motor command to its resulting muscular action, we tied the mechanical action of a robotic exoskeleton to the EMG profile of the soleus muscle during walking\". Daniel Ferris concurs in another paper, saying, \"many key issues in locomotor physiology are either not well understood or under heated debate\"\nHis research team custom-made active orthoses for his research subjects to wear while walking on a treadmill. When the subject flexed his/her soleus muscle in order to plantar flex (which allows a person to push off the ground while walking), the device would restrict the subject's movement, forcing his/her foot towards dorsiflexion. After an hour of walking with the device (a break was included), the subjects used their soleus and gastrocnemius muscles less, so they wouldn't be forced to dorsiflex as much, but they were not able to fully adapt to the requirements of the device.\n\nAnother study by Gordon's team showed that when the device works with our muscles, we adapt more easily. For example, he had subjects wear an active orthosis on one leg which performed a very strong plantar flexion every time they flexed the soleus, which is expected to plantar flex. However, the plantar flexion performed by the device was too strong and the subjects had to only use a minimal amount of muscle strength on that one leg in order to walk normally. People were able to adapt to this difficulty in under 30 minutes. Another study by S. Galle, et al., found similar results in the paper, \"Adaptation to walking with an exoskeleton that assists ankle extension\"\nGregory Sawiki, Keith Gordon, and Daniel Ferris together did a study on an active lower limb orthosis to understand how the device can be used to improve motor rehabilitation. After experimenting with different types of control (finding that some subjects thought that having a push button to activate the device required too much concentration, while others liked having the control over activation of the device), the team concluded that the ankle-foot orthosis they used needs a lot of improvements for rehabilitation, but could be \"valuable in probing the relationship between gait mechanics and metabolic cost.\"\n\nAccording to Hugh Herr, the performance of an orthosis should be based upon measurements of \"metabolic cost of transport, walking speed, smoothness and repeatability of motions, muscle fatigue, and stability\" as well as \"the reduction of forces borne by the musculoskeletal system\".\n\nPower source, portability and weight are the biggest challenges facing active orthoses. A sufficient power source with today's technology adds too much weight to the device, making it difficult to do much more than lift itself. For that reason, most active orthoses are tethered to a power source - which works well enough for research and patient rehabilitation, since that also means a computer is always nearby\nOther challenges when making an active orthosis is the close interface with the human. This presents difficulties with aligning the joints of the operator with the joints of the device, constraining the human's movements by attaching the device to his/her body, other forces from the device that resist movement, controlling the machine while wearing it, determining how the device is changing the human's biomechanics, and ensuring the safety of the wearer.\nPatients in need of powered orthoses may have pathological conditions such as muscle weakness or spasticity, brain injury, or sensory loss, or they may have suffered an athletic injury or a number of different maladies. Each patient requires a specific alteration to his or her gait. The orthosis must be able to generate power at the precise moment the patient is having trouble with his or her stride\n\n\nThousands of people suffer from knee injuries, and because the knee supports the body weight during the stance phase while walking, more active orthoses are being made to relieve weight off the knee while in the stance phase.\n\nAfter suffering a neurological injury, patients typically must go through locomotor training that can involve several therapists. The task is quite hard on the therapist(s), so several devices have been made to assist with this problem. The Lokomat, AutoAmbulator, and the Mechanized Gait Trainer were all made to function with a treadmill. Wearable gait trainers would be useful to travel over ground. This adds the complications involved with starting and stopping a stride, changing direction, going up and down hills, and creating more challenging balancing exercises.\n\nAn extensive study was done to determine how thick the sole of a soldier's boot could be before it interfered with his/her actions. It was found that a 2-inch thick sole affected certain squatting positions and was less comfortable than a thinner sole, but can ultimately be implemented in exoskeleton designs. The purpose of the study was to determine how much space could be made available for sensors in a soldier's exoskeleton boot.\n\nPassive orthoses do not require external power and are less likely to have moving parts. However, many passive orthoses have been developed to aid movement through use of springs and other such moving parts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25627242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627242", "title": "Online patient education", "text": "Online patient education\n\nOnline patient education, also known as online patient engagement, is a method of providing medical information and education to patients using learning management systems delivered through the Internet. It is a type of computer-based instruction and includes web seminars, downloadable materials, interactive learning courses, and audio/visual presentations. Generally, online patient education is supplemented with in-person consultations tailored to each individual.\n\nHealth professionals use online patient education to prepare patients for medical procedures, administer intake and informed consent paperwork, educate patients about health conditions, provide information about preventive care, encourage healthy behavior and lifestyle changes, etc. Health insurance companies use online patient education to inform patients about coverage policies. \n\nOnline patient education is gaining popularity as home Internet access becomes more common and medical practices increasingly utilize digital technologies. Patients either view online patient education programs and materials in a medical office or from their homes or other remote locations with Internet access. Content may include interactive features such as quizzes, live question and answer sessions (in moderated web seminars), and the ability to complete and submit forms.\n\nAny education delivered verbally by a healthcare provider to a single patient or group of patients can be considered as On Location patient education. Although this is still the most commonly used patient education method it is time consuming, can have consistency problems, and relies heavily on the individual patient ability to absorb, understand, and retain the verbal information.\n\nThe second most common method. Any information brochure at a healthcare provider office falls under this category. The benefits of printed materials is that patients can refer back to the information\n\nPatient education that is made available by a healthcare provider via his/her website, specific portal, or EHR. Web based education can be provided in an Asynchronous and Synchronous styles.\n\nEducating patients with online technology can be advantageous for both medical practices and patients because it gives health care providers the opportunity to create comprehensive educational materials that are consistently presented, rather than relying on face-to-face meetings in which information is presented by a staff member. Patients need not possess advanced computer/web skills to use this method of learning. A survey of 3200 patients revealed that even patients who are not computer literate are satisfied with online patient education as means of learning about medical care.\n\n"}
{"id": "39925767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39925767", "title": "Oral History Metadata Synchronizer", "text": "Oral History Metadata Synchronizer\n\nThe Oral History Metadata Synchronizer (OHMS) is a web application designed to enhance online access to oral history interviews. OHMS was originally designed and created by the Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History, University of Kentucky Libraries in 2008 for deployment through the Kentucky Digital Library. In 2011, the Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History received a grant from the Institute for Museum and Library Services to make the system open source and free to use with interoperability and sustainability as the primary goals. According to the Nunn Center, \"The primary purpose for OHMS is to empower users to more effectively and efficiently discover information in an oral history interview online by connecting the user from a search result to the corresponding moment in an interview.\"\n\nOHMS is a two-part system which includes the web app (the back-end) and the viewer (user interface). The web application is used to prepare the oral history interview by embedding timecode into a transcript or creating a time-coded index of the interview, which is then viewable online in the OHMS Viewer, accessible from the archive's chosen content management system.\n\nThe original version of OHMS synchronized transcribed text with time code in the audio/video, as well as providing a user map/viewer that connected search results of a transcript to the corresponding moments in the audio or video. OHMS designer Doug Boyd writes, \"OHMS inexpensively and efficiently encodes transcripts of interviews and then connects the transcripts to the corresponding moments in the audio or video interview.\"\n\nIn 2011, the Nunn Center introduced the Interview Indexing Module which allows indexing or annotation of an interview that corresponds to time-code. In his article in the Chronicle of Higher Education, Brad Wolverton writes about Doug Boyd's work on OHMS: \"Through his work as director of the Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History he’s developed a method for indexing audio and video recordings, making it easy for researchers to call up precise words without having to listen to endless hours of tape.\" In the Fall of 2011, the Institute for Museum and Library Services awarded the Nunn Center a National Leadership Grant of$195,853 to further develop OHMS for open source distribution. OHMS is currently being developed and the grant initiative is working with project partners to implement the system beyond the University of Kentucky.\n\nOHMS Viewer: synchronized transcript\n\nOHMS Viewer: interview index\n\nOHMS Viewer: synchronized transcript + interview index OHMS Viewer: synchronized transcript + interview index\n\nOHMS Viewer: bilingual (synchronized transcript + translation)\n\nOHMS Viewer: bilingual (index)\n\nAccording to the Nunn Center's OHMS Website:\n\n2005: Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History and UK Libraries' Digital Program begin digitization and online access to oral histories. Team: Eric Weig, Kathryn Lybarger, Kopana Terry \n\n2008: Only 50 interviews uploaded using the manual system. UK Libraries Hires Dr. Doug Boyd as Director of the Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History. Boyd and Weig design system, work with contract programmer Dr. Jack Schmidt to implement initial version of OHMS. Team: Doug Boyd, Eric Weig, Jack Schmidt.\n\n2009: UK Libraries' programmer Dr. Michael Slone works with Boyd and Weig to further develop OHMS and prepare initial functional specification. Team: Doug Boyd, Eric Weig, Michael Slone.\n\n2011: Nunn Center outsources development of OHMS to Artifex Technology Consulting. Rewrites code completely, adds Indexing Module, adds support for video. Team: Doug Boyd, Eric Weig, Michael Slone, Artifex Technology Consulting.\n\n2011: Receives Grant from Institute for Museum and Library Services\n\n2012: Programmer James Howard hired to develop OHMS and prepare for distribution. Team: Doug Boyd, Eric Weig, James Howard.\n\n2013: OHMS application made accessible to grant partners. Team: Doug Boyd, Eric Weig, James Howard.\n\n2014: OHMS Application and viewer updates include YouTube compatibility, major upgrades to the Interview Manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "22786561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22786561", "title": "Raphaël Enthoven", "text": "Raphaël Enthoven\n\nRaphaël Enthoven (born 9 November 1975) is a French philosophy teacher, radio host and television host. An \"agrégé\" who taught at Jean Moulin University Lyon 3 and Paris Diderot University, Enthoven is known to the French public for hosting various philosophy-related shows on radio and television. Although he has been described as a philosopher, Enthoven himself rejects being labeled as such.\n\nAfter obtaining the qualification in philosophy from École Normale Supérieure, he taught for two years at the Jean Moulin University Lyon 3, then at the University of Paris VII-Jussieu, and during the first two years (2002 and 2003) at the Université populaire de Caen, founded by Michel Onfray, where he runs the general philosophy seminar. After distancing himself from the latter, he became co-producer of the radio show \"Les vendredis de la philosophie\" on France Culture. Having previously lectured political philosophy at the Sciences Po, (2000 - 2003, 2005 - 2007) and at the École Polytechnique (2007 - 2010), he also taught on Spinoza, Bergson and Clément Rosset on \"Les mardis de la philo\" and the Bibliothèque nationale de France on the meaning of life. Since 2013, he also teaches philosophy to first and second year high-school students at the École Jeannine Manuel, a private bilingual high-school.\n\nHe is the adviser to the editor of Philosophie Magazine, where he holds the \"Meaning and life\", it is still in production at France Culture. Having dealt with the Appointment Policy, in partnership with the magazine \"L'Express\", he has become an everyday icon in the new program schedule for France Culture in 2008-2009 by bringing to life the show \"The new paths of knowledge\" Monday to Friday at 17h.\n\nSince October 2008, he has produced the show \"Philosophy\" broadcast on Sunday at 1pm on Arte.\nHe read Marcel Proust in \"Les Intermittences du cœur\" and \"Albertine endormie\", with Karol Beffa as pianist.\n\nEnthoven was born in Paris, the son of journalist Catherine David and publisher Jean-Paul Enthoven. In 1996, he married writer Justine Lévy, daughter of philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy, himself a friend of Enthoven's father. In 2000, Enthoven began an affair with singer Carla Bruni, which eventually prompted divorce from Lévy in 2001. Justine Lévy wrote a fictionalized version of the story in her book \"Nothing Serious\".\n\nIn July 2001, Enthoven had a son named Aurélien with Carla Bruni. In 2007, he separated from Bruni and began a relationship with actress Chloé Lambert, who gave birth to their son in 2008. They are said to have separated around 2012. In October 2014, he had a son with sailor and politician Maud Fontenoy. As of 2016, he has four children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14181925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14181925", "title": "Rudolf Steiner School of Ann Arbor", "text": "Rudolf Steiner School of Ann Arbor\n\nThe Rudolf Steiner School of Ann Arbor is a private school located in Ann Arbor, Michigan. It provides a Waldorf based education for students in Grades PreK - 12, and is one of two Waldorf Schools in the State of Michigan.\n\nThe school was opened on September 4, 1980 in a small building in Ann Arbor, Michigan. It initially had 10 students. Current enrollment exceeds 350. After moving to a leased facility in York Township, MI to meet the needs of the expanding student body, the school relocated back to Ann Arbor in 1986 when the purchase of the current Lower School campus was made. The High School was opened in fall 1997 in a leased facility, the Genesis Building on Packard Road. In 2001, a six-acre property located on Pontiac Trail was purchased for the growing High School. After extensive renovations to the building and site, the new campus opened for classes in the Fall of 2002.\n\nThe Board of Trustees is responsible for the legal and financial operation of the school. The board includes faculty, parents and community members. In order to facilitate the work of the board, committees have been established which implement policy, make policy recommendations and report directly to the Board of Trustees. All board committees have at least one faculty representative.\n\nAt the Rudolf Steiner School of Ann Arbor, ultimate responsibility for all matters of pedagogy rests with the College of Teachers, a core group of full-time faculty dedicated to the philosophical integrity and the long-term interests of the school. Any issue regarding curriculum, a teacher's conduct in the classroom, student learning concerns, etc., falls into the initial decision-making realm of the College of Teachers. The full faculty assists the work of the College during business meetings and by faculty committees, which take their mandate from and report to the College.\n\nThe school's administrative team is responsible for operational matters that support both the daily educational programs and the long-term viability of the school. It is also responsible for implementing the policies established by the Board of Trustees and the College of Teachers. The Rudolf Steiner School of Ann Arbor maintains a Lower School Administrative Staff (Grades PreK-8), a High School Administrative Staff (Grades 9-12) and an All School Administrative Staff. \n\nAIMS, AWSNA, ISACS\n\nAWSNA, ISACS\n\nThe Lower School is located at 2775 Newport Rd, Ann Arbor, Michigan. It offers programs for parent-tot through Grade 8. \n\nEarly Childhood Program (PreK and Kindergarten) <br>\nThe Pre-Kindergarten program is create specifically for the younger child. The Program's unique daily rhythm is filled with reverence for the magic of early childhood. Students under the age of six or seven learn primarily through imitation and activity. In the Kindergarten the students engage in creative play with home activities and simple, natural materials that encourage imagination. Rhythms of the seasons and festivals are woven into the daily activities. Kindergartners start each day with a walk through the woods surrounding the campus. Through each season they experience the natural wonders surrounding them.\n\nGrades 1-8 <br>\nAll Rudolf Steiner School teachers recognize that each student has unique academic, artistic and physical gifts. The task of the teacher is to provide the inspiration and environment in which these gifts can be cultivated. Each subject is initially presented artistically through a story, poem, drama, drawing or song. This artistic doorway is one through with the students with widely varying intellectual capacities and learning styles can readily enter. The class teacher ideally remains with his/her students from first through eighth grades. Not only is the teacher's intimate knowledge of the students a tremendous advantage, but he/she can also draw out connections with the material across the years. The teacher's commitment to the class enables students to develop trust. They can then focus joyfully on their academic work.\n\nThe Rudolf Steiner High School is located at 2230 Pontiac Trail, Ann Arbor, Michigan. It is for students in Grades 9 through 12.\n\nThe high School has numerous faculty and full-time staff, all specialists.\n\nGraduation requirements are as follows:\n\nEnglish – 4 credits\nScience – 3 credits\nMathematics – 3 credits\nHistory – 2 credits\nMusic/Art – 2 credits\nForeign Language – 2 credits\nMovement – 1 credit\nComputer – 0.5 credit\nHealth – 0.3 credit\nOther – 7.2 credits\nTotal = 25 credits\nStudents and alumni have been admitted to the University of Chicago, Curtis Institute of Music, MIT, University of Michigan, Boston University and Oberlin College, among many others.\n\nRSSAA is a member of the Ann Arbor Independent Athletic Association (AAIAA). The Lower School sports teams are known as the Steiner Stars. Starting in grade 6, Co-ed Soccer and Volleyball are offered in the Fall, Boys' and Girls' Basketball are offered in the Winter and Co-ed Track is offered in the Spring.\n\nThe High School Team is known as \"The Rudolf Steiner Storm\" and competes in the following Varsity Sports:\n\nFall: Volleyball, Boys' Soccer, Co-Ed Tennis, Boys' & Girls' Cross Country\nWinter: Boys' Basketball, Girls' Basketball, Boys' Hockey (Co-Op)\nSpring: Girls' Soccer, Co-Ed Golf (Club Level), Boys' Lacrosse (Co-Op), Track (Club Level), Girls' Softball (Co-Op), Boys' Baseball (Co-Op)\n\nAll of the sports teams compete in the Class D level of the MHSAA. Rudolf Steiner is a member of the Mid-South Conference, and has achieved a high level of success in recent years. In just the last 5 years, the Storm has won 15 Conference Championships, 5 District Championships, and 2 Regional Championships among their varsity programs.\n\nScience Club\nIn 2010, a science club was founded under the tutorship of biochemist Dr. Judith Erb.\n\nHiking Club\nThe Hiking Club was founded in the 2001-02 school year by then juniors Logan Willoughby and Adam Nemon with the help of a faculty mentor. Its trips have included day hikes through wilderness areas in Michigan, weekend trips in the midwest and week-long trips in the Appalachians.\n\nYearbook Committee\nThe yearbook committee is responsible for designing and budgeting for the High School's annual yearbook.\n\nDrama Club\nThe Drama club puts on an annual performance with the help of a faculty mentor, who usually also acts as director and producer of the play. The Drama Club is one of the school's largest organizations, and attracts large crowds to their productions. In November 2014, the high school put on a full-scale musical production, Les Misérables which sold out all performances. The current schedule calls for alternating between a musical and original dramatic (usually comedic) production every other year. Additionally, each year the senior class puts on a production — a Shakespeare play — during the final week before graduation.\n\nCommunity Service Club\nThe Community Service Club is a student initiated group dedicated to researching and performing community service in Ann Arbor and surrounding areas.\n\nModel UN\nThe Model UN is a student group which participates in the Mid-American Model United Nation. In the 2014-15 school year eighteen students attended the conference in Kalamazoo.\n\nGarden Club\nThe Garden Club is a student group which works to tend the school vegetable gardens, fruit bushes and ornamental borders around the school grounds. Students work with a faculty mentor to learn sustainable methods for gardening and raising food crops.\n\nRobotics Team\nThe Robotics Team was started in the 2013-14 school year and is a student group which participates in the FIRST Robotics competitions. The Steiner Steel Storm Robotics Team was a District Event winner in 2018 \nLower School Robotics Club\nThe Robotics Club is for Grades 6-8. The team designs and prototypes mechanisms and creates code to run a robot. The team participates in FIRST Tech competitions.\n\nNotable alumni of the school include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41224058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41224058", "title": "Science of Education: Its General Principles Deduced from its Aim and the Aesthetic Revelation of the World", "text": "Science of Education: Its General Principles Deduced from its Aim and the Aesthetic Revelation of the World\n\nScience of Education (full title: Science of Education: Its General Principles Deduced from its Aim and the Aesthetic Revelation of the World) is a book written by the German empiricist Johann Friedrich Herbart. It was first published in German in 1806 and the first English printing was in 1902. Herbart emphasized education as the way for an individual to fulfill his potential and created a scientific method to help him do so. The Science of Education advocated a five-step methodology that appeals to learner’s interests and applies content back to morals and daily life. Teachers can be found in Germany, England, and the United States who are still implementing this pedagogy today.\n\nHerbart's theory of education was called Herbartanism. He held that the psychological process of learning should be taken into account when devising curricula and goals for education. He emphasized the importance of using social and physical environments to promote learning in the classroom. Herbart held that there were five formal steps to teaching:\nBecause Herbart believed that a science of education was possible, he supported the idea that education should be an acceptable area of study in higher education. \n\nIn the first book Herbart discusses the general aim of education. The teacher is a guide to moral development of students and must create a relationship with the students that enables them to construct an inner censor for good and evil. Herbart also discusses the role of the authority in the education of children. He concluded that there are two kinds of children, those who will fear punishment and want to avoid it and those whose desires will overcome their fear of authority. Learners should be taught to fear authority but also take risks so that boys can become men. The first book also includes Herbart's discussion on the individuality of students and the many different elements that play into a child's morality.\n\nThe second book examines the many sides of learners—the multitude of influences and characteristics that each learner brings to the table. Educators need to understand that the only influence they have over learners is the freedom of choice. Educators can influence their students by giving options to potentially more profitable inquiry. Learners come with many different backgrounds, desires, and talents, and the educator needs to facilitate learner's growth in many respects as opposed to just their interests. Herbart argues that interests are similar to desires and therefore can be used to help children obey authority. Knowledge and sympathy must be taken into account when choosing which choices to give learners especially when it comes to instruction. The purpose of instruction is to marry nature and humanity. Instruction weaves together the gaps in our experiences and our feelings, but instruction must be systematic as to not confuse the learner.\n\nBook three addresses Herbart's deep relationship with morality. He believed that the moral man commands himself. The book discusses the positive and negative sides of morality as well as moral judgement. The categorical imperative expresses a judgment of oneself in light of one’s recognition of the other. Herbart defines how moral character reveals itself when presented with different situations and how our character forms as a result of these natural experiences. Finally, Herbart addresses discipline and how it can affect the formation of one's character as well as the proper ways to employ it.\n"}
{"id": "2677623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677623", "title": "SkillsUSA", "text": "SkillsUSA\n\nSkillsUSA is a United States career and technical student organization serving more than 395,000 high school, college and middle school students and professional members enrolled in training programs in trade, technical and skilled service occupations, including health occupations.\n\nSkillsUSA was originally known as the Vocational Industrial Clubs of America (VICA). Prior to 1965, attempts at creation of national skill organizations failed. There was still a demand for skill and trade organizations, however. In 1960, the American Vocational Association (AVA) held a meeting, where a committee was formed to facilitate a solution. Representatives from the U.S. Office of Education and the National Association of State Supervisors of Trade and Industrial Education (NASSTIE – now known as the Association for Skilled and Technical Sciences – ASTS – http://www.astsonline.org) formed the committee. By 1962, the AVA encouraged the Office of Education to hire an employee to form the national organization. At the 1964 AVA convention, powerful leaders of industry and organizational leaders to include U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Secondary School Principals spoke in favor of the proposed organization.\n\nThe constitution establishing the Vocational Industrial Clubs of America was adopted at the Trade and Industrial Youth Conference May 6–8, 1965 at the Hotel Andrew Jackson in Nashville, Tennessee. Representatives for 14 states, consisting of approximately 200 students, advisors, and business and labor representatives, gathered to choose the club's name, colors, motto, purposes and goals. The official red blazer, part of the organization's uniform, was patterned after the blazer from Illinois's organization. These representatives were from existing vocational education groups which agreed to finance the effort, from the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Oklahoma, North Carolina, Missouri, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. Illinois actually provided the salary for Philip Baird to be the first executive secretary of the newly founded VICA. The National FFA Organization is credited with making the first financial contribution. The American Vocational Association offered office space at no cost in its Washington headquarters. Additionally, the AVA's Trade and Industrial Division provided a grant.\n\nTommy Snider from Griffin, Georgia was elected as VICA's first student president and Larry W. Johnson, the assistant supervisor of T&I education and state advisor for the Vocation Industrial Clubs of North Carolina, became the first executive secretary of VICA on July 1, 1965. He continued in the position until 1987.\n\nBy 1966, membership was up to 29,534, spanning 1,074 clubs across 26 states and territories. Additionally, the first issue of the club's magazine was produced. At the national conference, held in Little Rock, Arkansas, the VICA emblem was unveiled, and the first official state charters were presented.\n\nIn 1969, the Postsecondary Division of VICA was approved during a Constitutional Convention held in Memphis, Tennessee, bringing total membership to 82,000. The following year, the first edition of the VICA Leadership Handbook was published.\n\nOn VICA's 10-year anniversary (1975), the organization inducted its one millionth member. Three years later, VICA saw the start of the construction of its National Leadership Center in Leesburg, Virginia.\n\nVICA hosted the International Youth Skill Olympics—held a competition following the National Leadership and Skills Conference (NLSC)—for the first time in 1979, in Atlanta.\n\nIn 1995, the national competition, then known as the United States Skill Olympics, was renamed to the SkillsUSA Championships during the NLSC. In, 1999, during the NLSC, VICA was renamed to SkillsUSA-VICA. The name was shortened to SkillsUSA in 2002.\n\nSkillsUSA has over 690,420 members, organized into at least 2 classrooms and 69 states and territorial associations (including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands) as well as alumni members.\n\nApproximately 19,500 teachers and school administrators serve as professional SkillsUSA members and instructors.\n\nMore than 600 corporations, trade associations and labor unions actively support SkillsUSA on a national level through financial aid, in-kind contributions and involvement of their people in SkillsUSA activities. Many more work directly with state associations and local chapters.\n\nSkillsUSA programs include local, regional, state and national competitions. During the annual national-level SkillsUSA Championships, more than 6,500 students compete in 100 hands-on skill and leadership contests.\n\nSkillsUSA programs also help to establish industry standards for job skill training in the classroom and is cited as a \"successful model of employer-driven youth development training program\" by the U.S. Department of Labor.\n\nThe SkillsUSA Career Essentials suite, introduced in 2017, includes three parts. \"Career Essentials: Foundations\", formerly called the Career Readiness Curriculum, includes 29 lesson plans based on Common Core State Standards. It infuses 21st-century skills into student engagement activities. \"Career Essentials: Experiences\" replaces the Professional Development Program. The new online curriculum has 15 project-based learning experiences; these provide real-world context for the essential elements of the SkillsUSA Framework of developing personal, workplace and technical skills grounded in academics. The third component of the suite, \"Career Essentials: Assessments\", previously known as Skill Connect Assessments, offers reliable evaluation of over 40 technical and employability areas. The assessments were originally developed through a grant from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. \n\nStudent2Student Mentoring gives high school students a chance to mentor younger students. Jump into STEM! provides tools for high school students to mentor middle- and elementary-school students in skills and activities that may lead to career interests in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.\n\nCareerSafe is a credentialed 10-hour online training program developed in cooperation with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to provide students with basic knowledge of safety and a credential desired in the job market.\n\nThe National Leadership and Skills Conference is held annually in Louisville, Ky. Most of the competitions are held at the Kentucky Exposition Center, on the showroom floor. General sessions are held in Freedom Hall. The week-long conference entails the competitions, SkillsUSA TECHSPO (the nation's largest trade show in trade and industrial education), a career fair, and SkillsUSA student government sessions. The SkillsUSA Championships is expected to bring in $14 million to Louisville's economy.\n\nStudents from the various state associations socialize and learn from one another during the week. Each state association has collectible pins that are often traded between students from various state associations. These pins are normally worn on the official SkillsUSA blazer.\n\nThere are recreational activities scheduled during the conference week, including a SkillsUSA night at Kentucky Kingdom.\n\nThe week culminates in the awards ceremony. The NLSC generally has a featured keynote speaker. There have been a number of noteworthy speakers. Some of them include:\n\n\nSkillsUSA offers competitive activities in which students strive to achieve in a variety of occupational skill and leadership areas. Competition in skill and personal achievement is encouraged at all levels. Leadership contests include public speaking, parliamentary procedure, safety, Opening and Closing ceremonies, and job interviewing. Occupational skill contests include the building trades, health occupations, automotive technology, the electrical/electronics industry and personal services. Among many others, there are competitions for outstanding SkillsUSA chapter, community service, entrepreneurship and customer service.\n\nCompetitions begin locally and continue through the state and national levels. Some states also have district competitions. In most contests at the national championships, SkillsUSA presents medallions to the top three winners. In other contests, more than three medals may be presented if a standard is met. State and local contests may include the official national contests, but may also include contests not offered at the national level.\n\nThe contests are organized and run through a partnership of industry, labor and education. These partners provide awards as well. More than 5,500 students – winners from their states – compete in the $36-million national event, which covers exposition space equivalent to 16 football fields.\n\nSkillsUSA is the official U.S. representative to the WorldSkills Competition. Select winners from the SkillsUSA Championships train for one year before competing at the biennial internationals.\nSkillsUSA competitions develop enthusiasm for learning and a sense of accomplishment. By recognizing students’ skills and abilities, the competitions promote professional development and appreciation of quality job skills. The events also stimulate public, and specifically student, interest in career and technical training.\n\nStudents may participate in three types of contests: Leadership, Occupationally Related, and Skilled and Technical Sciences. Demonstration contests are added to determine interest. If interest is sufficient, demonstration contests can become official competitions and are added to one of the three categories..\n\n"}
{"id": "636799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636799", "title": "Small-world experiment", "text": "Small-world experiment\n\nThe small-world experiment comprised several experiments conducted by Stanley Milgram and other researchers examining the average path length for social networks of people in the United States. The research was groundbreaking in that it suggested that human society is a small-world-type network characterized by short path-lengths. The experiments are often associated with the phrase \"six degrees of separation\", although Milgram did not use this term himself.\n\nGuglielmo Marconi's conjectures based on his radio work in the early 20th century, which were articulated in his 1909 Nobel Prize address, may have inspired Hungarian author Frigyes Karinthy to write a challenge to find another person to whom he could not be connected through at most five people. This is perhaps the earliest reference to the concept of six degrees of separation, and the search for an answer to the small world problem.\n\nMathematician Manfred Kochen and political scientist Ithiel de Sola Pool wrote a mathematical manuscript, \"Contacts and Influences\", while working at the University of Paris in the early 1950s, during a time when Milgram visited and collaborated in their research. Their unpublished manuscript circulated among academics for over 20 years before publication in 1978. It formally articulated the mechanics of social networks, and explored the mathematical consequences of these (including the degree of connectedness). The manuscript left many significant questions about networks unresolved, and one of these was the number of degrees of separation in actual social networks.\n\nMilgram took up the challenge on his return from Paris, leading to the experiments reported in \"The Small World Problem\" in the May 1967 (charter) issue of the popular magazine \"Psychology Today\", with a more rigorous version of the paper appearing in \"Sociometry\" two years later. The \"Psychology Today\" article generated enormous publicity for the experiments, which are well known today, long after much of the formative work has been forgotten.\n\nMilgram's experiment was conceived in an era when a number of independent threads were converging on the idea that the world is becoming increasingly interconnected. Michael Gurevich had conducted seminal work in his empirical study of the structure of social networks in his MIT doctoral dissertation under Pool. Mathematician Manfred Kochen, an Austrian who had been involved in statist urban design, extrapolated these empirical results in a mathematical manuscript, \"Contacts and Influences\", concluding that, in an American-sized population without social structure, \"it is practically certain that any two individuals can contact one another by means of at least two intermediaries. In a [socially] structured population it is less likely but still seems probable. And perhaps for the whole world's population, probably only one more bridging individual should be needed.\" They subsequently constructed Monte Carlo simulations based on Gurevich's data, which recognized that both weak and strong acquaintance links are needed to model social structure. The simulations, running on the slower computers of 1973, were limited, but still were able to predict that a more realistic three degrees of separation existed across the U.S. population, a value that foreshadowed the findings of Milgram.\n\nMilgram revisited Gurevich's experiments in acquaintanceship networks when he conducted a highly publicized set of experiments beginning in 1967 at Harvard University. One of Milgram's most famous works is a study of obedience and authority, which is widely known as the Milgram Experiment. Milgram's earlier association with Pool and Kochen was the likely source of his interest in the increasing interconnectedness among human beings. Gurevich's interviews served as a basis for his small world experiments.\n\nMilgram sought to devise an experiment that could answer the small world problem. This was the same phenomenon articulated by the writer Frigyes Karinthy in the 1920s while documenting a widely circulated belief in Budapest that individuals were separated by six degrees of social contact. This observation, in turn, was loosely based on the seminal demographic work of the Statists who were so influential in the design of Eastern European cities during that period. Mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, born in Poland and having traveled extensively in Eastern Europe, was aware of the Statist rules of thumb, and was also a colleague of Pool, Kochen and Milgram at the University of Paris during the early 1950s (Kochen brought Mandelbrot to work at the Institute for Advanced Study and later IBM in the U.S.). This circle of researchers was fascinated by the interconnectedness and \"social capital\" of social networks.\n\nMilgram's study results showed that people in the United States seemed to be connected by approximately three friendship links, on average, without speculating on global linkages; he never actually used the phrase \"six degrees of separation\". Since the \"Psychology Today\" article gave the experiments wide publicity, Milgram, Kochen, and Karinthy all had been incorrectly attributed as the origin of the notion of \"six degrees\"; the most likely popularizer of the phrase \"six degrees of separation\" is John Guare, who attributed the value \"six\" to Marconi.\n\nMilgram's experiment developed out of a desire to learn more about the probability that two randomly selected people would know each other. This is one way of looking at the small world problem. An alternative view of the problem is to imagine the population as a social network and attempt to find the average path length between any two nodes. Milgram's experiment was designed to measure these path lengths by developing a procedure to count the number of ties between any two people.\n\n\nShortly after the experiments began, letters would begin arriving to the targets and the researchers would receive postcards from the respondents. Sometimes the packet would arrive to the target in as few as one or two hops, while some chains were composed of as many as nine or ten links. However, a significant problem was that often people refused to pass the letter forward, and thus the chain never reached its destination. In one case, 232 of the 296 letters never reached the destination.\n\nHowever, 64 of the letters eventually did reach the target contact. Among these chains, the average path length fell around five and a half or six. Hence, the researchers concluded that people in the United States are separated by about six people on average. Although Milgram himself never used the phrase \"six degrees of separation\", these findings are likely to have contributed to its widespread acceptance.\n\nIn an experiment in which 160 letters were mailed out, 24 reached the target in his home in Sharon, Massachusetts. Of those 24 letters, 16 were given to the target by the same person, a clothing merchant Milgram called \"Mr. Jacobs\". Of those that reached the target at his office, more than half came from two other men.\n\nThe researchers used the postcards to qualitatively examine the types of chains that are created. Generally, the package quickly reached a close geographic proximity, but would circle the target almost randomly until it found the target's inner circle of friends. This suggests that participants strongly favored geographic characteristics when choosing an appropriate next person in the chain.\n\nThere are a number of methodological criticisms of the small-world experiment, which suggest that the average path length might actually be smaller or larger than Milgram expected. Four such criticisms are summarized here:\n\n\nIn addition to these methodological criticisms, conceptual issues are debated. One regards the social relevance of indirect contact chains of different degrees of separation. Much formal and empirical work focuses on diffusion processes, but the literature on the small-world problem also often illustrates the relevance of the research using an example (similar to Milgram's experiment) of a targeted search in which a starting person tries to obtain some kind of resource (e.g., information) from a target person, using a number of intermediaries to reach that target person. However, there is little empirical research showing that indirect channels with a length of about six degrees of separation are actually used for such directed search, or that such search processes are more efficient compared to other means (e.g., finding information in a directory).\n\n\"The Tipping Point\" by Malcolm Gladwell, based on articles originally published in \"The New Yorker\", elaborates on the \"funneling\" concept. Gladwell condenses sociological research, which argues that the six-degrees phenomenon is dependent on a few extraordinary people (\"connectors\") with large networks of contacts and friends: these hubs then mediate the connections between the vast majority of otherwise weakly connected individuals.\n\nRecent work in the effects of the small world phenomenon on disease transmission, however, have indicated that due to the strongly connected nature of social networks as a whole, removing these hubs from a population usually has little effect on the average path length through the graph (Barrett et al., 2005).\n\nSmaller communities, such as mathematicians and actors, have been found to be densely connected by chains of personal or professional associations. Mathematicians have created the Erdős number to describe their distance from Paul Erdős based on shared publications. A similar exercise has been carried out for the actor Kevin Bacon and other actors who appeared in movies together with him — the latter effort informing the game \"Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon\". There is also the combined Erdős-Bacon number, for actor-mathematicians and mathematician-actors. Players of the popular Asian game Go describe their distance from the great player Honinbo Shusaku by counting their Shusaku number, which counts degrees of separation through the games the players have had.\n\nThe small-world question is still a popular research topic today, with many experiments still being conducted. For instance, Peter Dodds, Roby Muhamad, and Duncan Watts conducted the first large-scale replication of Milgram's experiment, involving 24,163 e-mail chains and 18 targets around the world.\n\nDodds \"et al\". also found that the mean chain length was roughly six, even after accounting for attrition. A similar experiment using popular social networking sites as a medium was carried out at Carnegie Mellon University. Results showed that very few messages actually reached their destination. However, the critiques that apply to Milgram's experiment largely apply also to this current research.\n\nIn 1998, Duncan J. Watts and Steven Strogatz from Cornell University published the first network model on the small-world phenomenon. They showed that networks from both the natural and man-made world, such as the neural network of \"C. elegans\" and power grids, exhibit the small-world phenomenon. Watts and Strogatz showed that, beginning with a regular lattice, the addition of a small number of random links reduces the diameter—the longest direct path between any two vertices in the network—from being very long to being very short. The research was originally inspired by Watts' efforts to understand the synchronization of cricket chirps, which show a high degree of coordination over long ranges as though the insects are being guided by an invisible conductor. The mathematical model which Watts and Strogatz developed to explain this phenomenon has since been applied in a wide range of different areas. In Watts' words:\n\nGenerally, their model demonstrated the truth in Mark Granovetter's observation that it is \"the strength of weak ties\" that holds together a social network. Although the specific model has since been generalized by Jon Kleinberg, it remains a canonical case study in the field of complex networks. In network theory, the idea presented in the small-world network model has been explored quite extensively. Indeed, several classic results in random graph theory show that even networks with no real topological structure exhibit the small-world phenomenon, which mathematically is expressed as the diameter of the network growing with the logarithm of the number of nodes (rather than proportional to the number of nodes, as in the case for a lattice). This result similarly maps onto networks with a power-law degree distribution, such as scale-free networks.\n\nIn computer science, the small-world phenomenon (although it is not typically called that) is used in the development of secure peer-to-peer protocols, novel routing algorithms for the Internet and ad hoc wireless networks, and search algorithms for communication networks of all kinds.\n\nSocial networks pervade popular culture in the United States and elsewhere. In particular, the notion of six degrees has become part of the collective consciousness. Social networking websites such as Facebook, Friendster, MySpace, XING, Orkut, Cyworld, Bebo, and others have greatly increased the connectivity of the online space through the application of social networking concepts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30587279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30587279", "title": "Society of Les Voyageurs", "text": "Society of Les Voyageurs\n\nThe Society of Les Voyageurs is a fraternal student organization at the University of Michigan. It is one of the oldest university outing clubs in the United States. Founded in 1907, the Society of Les Voyageurs is the second oldest student organization on the University of Michigan campus. On Sunday evenings during the academic year, the Society hosts communal dinners known as \"Sunday Feeds\" along with educational programs and entertainment related to the outdoors.\n\nThe Society of Les Voyageurs was founded in 1907 by University of Michigan students Elmer \"Lindy\" Lehndorff, Lawrence \"Larry\" Lark, and Chester MacChesney. They named the Society after the pioneering French-Canadian voyageurs of the Great Lakes fur trade, whom they admired as early adventurers and outdoorsmen. Society membership was initially open only to male students at the University. The Society's Constitution was amended in 1972 to allow for the admission of women, and the Society has been co-ed since that time. The Society has published an annual yearbook since 1910 as well as several volumes of Society history.\n\nAfter nearly two decades of renting space on the University of Michigan campus, the Society drew up plans in 1924 to construct a cabin on several acres of property along the Huron River in Ann Arbor. \"Pine Lodge\", as it was originally named, was built almost entirely by Society members in the spring and summer of 1925, and has continually served since then as the home for the Society as well as a residence for student members. During the summer of 2012, the renamed Habe Mills Pine Lodge underwent an extensive renovation, including the installation of \"Kay's Kitchen.\" The new kitchen is named for Kay Lane, a University student in the late 1960s and early 1970s upon whom Society members bestowed the title \"Queen of the Cabin,\" and who ultimately paved the way for the admission of women as full members of the Society. After graduating from the University of Michigan, Kay remained active in the Society and was a well known friend and mentor to several generations of members.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 2012, the cabin underwent a major renovation costing over $100,000. Plans for the renovation had been tossed around for years, and the final plans were made official in early January of that year. Most of the work was contracted out to By The River Carpentry, but many of the actives and alumni were around and gave a helping hand. The renovation consisted of expanding the dining room, adding an upstairs bathroom, re-doing the kitchen, adding in a hallway between the dining room and kitchen and expanding the upstairs lodge. The work was completed in August 2012, and was ready to welcome back students for the 2012 Fall semester. Potlucks continue as normal, but now there is more space to accommodate even more lovely guests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "474711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474711", "title": "Spring break", "text": "Spring break\n\nSpring break is a vacation period in early spring at universities and schools which started during the 1930s in the United States and is observed in some other mainly Western countries. Spring break is frequently associated with extensive gatherings and riotous partying in warm climate locations such as Daytona Beach, Florida and Cancun, Mexico, attended regardless of participants' educational standings.\n\nAs a holiday it is variously known as Easter vacation, Easter holiday, April break, spring vacation, mid-term break, study week, reading week, reading period, or Easter week, depending on regional conventions.\n\nSpring break is an academic tradition in various mostly western countries that is scheduled for different periods depending on the state and sometimes the region.\n\nIn Japan, the spring break starts with the end of the academic year in March and ends on April 1 with the beginning of a new academic year.\n\nIn Kuwait, the spring break is between the two academic or school semesters, usually in December or January, but could last until early February. It is usually a 2 or 3-week break, however, there is no fixed date for it, as the date is adjusted in accordance with the Lunar or Hijri calendar, as it is the case for almost all Arab and Muslim nations.\n\nIn South Korea, the spring break starts in mid-February (the end of the academic year) and ends on March 1 (a national holiday) with the beginning of a new academic year.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, only primary and secondary school students have a spring break. The break is one week long and the date of the break differs from county to county to avoid overcrowding of the break destinations in the Czech Republic (Czechs usually travel to the mountains to ski there). The counties are divided into six groups, each group containing counties evenly distributed across the country. The first group starts the holiday on the first Monday of February, the last group starts the holiday five weeks later (usually in early March). The last group of counties becomes the first one to have the spring break the next year.\n\nBefore 2017, the spring break in Georgia was typically an Easter holiday, lasting from Thursday to Tuesday in the Holy Week. In 2017, the new Minister of Education and Science of Georgia Aleksandre Jejelava made a new reform by which, students of preschools, elementary & high schools as well as colleges and universities get six days of holiday in March, lasting from March 8 to March 15, for people to go on winter vacations or do other activities.\n\nIn Germany, universities typically schedule a semester break of five to eight weeks around March. The Whitsun (Pentecost) holidays around late May or early June are also considered a spring break.\n\nIn Greece, spring break takes place during the Holy Week and the one after it.\n\nIn Lithuania, spring break (called Easter holidays or spring holidays) takes place one week before Easter and one day after it (as it is the second day of Easter), all school students have this vacation. Primary school students have another week of holidays after Easter.\n\nIn Portugal, spring break is mostly known as \"Easter Holidays\" and it gives two weeks to all students around the country.\n\nBefore 1917 there was an Easter Break in schools. In the Soviet Union, spring break was always from 24 to 31 of March. Now, many schools in Russia still have the spring break, but the exact date is decided by the school itself. In the majority of cases it is set in the middle of April. Also, the public holidays in May, connected with Labour day, can be an accurate equivatent of the spring break.\n\nSlovakia gives a week-long break to its elementary school and secondary school students in the months of February and March. The break is one week long and the date of the break differs from county to county to avoid overcrowding of the break destinations in the Slovak Republic. The counties are divided into three groups, the first group starts the holiday on the end of February, the last group starts the holiday two weeks later (in early March).\n\nThere is, as well another, shorter Easter break which starts on Holly Thursday and ends on next Tuesday. \n\nIn Spain, there is not a spring break. Instead, the Holy Week is celebrated and students usually have holidays during these days.\n\nThe Easter break in the United Kingdom is from one to two and a half weeks (depending on the local council and school policy) for primary and high schools, and for two to four weeks for university students, and fits around Easter.\n\nCanada gives a week-long break to its elementary school and secondary school students in the month of March, with the time varying from province to province; New Brunswick and Quebec, for example, place their March breaks during the first week of March; Ontario, Nova Scotia, and British Columbia schedule theirs during the second or third week, and is usually a week long; the break in Alberta and Manitoba usually occurs in the last week of March. In Canada, spring Break for post-secondary students is called 'reading week' or 'reading break,' depending on the duration. However, the formal title of Mid-term Break has been the preferred generic term. Reading Week in Canada usually occurs in the month of February, coinciding with Family Day. \n\nIn Jamaica, the spring break starts in the first week of Good Friday. The break may range from one week to two weeks, often times two. This break starts depending on which month the Easter holiday begins, March or April.\n\nIn Mexico, spring break takes place during the Holy Week and the one after it.\n\nIn the United States, spring break at the college and university level can occur from March to April, depending on term dates and when Easter holiday falls. Usually, spring break is about one week long, but many K–12 institutions in the United States schedule a two-week-long break known as \"Easter Break,\" \"Easter Holidays\", or \"Easter Vacation\", as they generally take place in the weeks before or after Easter. However, in the states of Massachusetts and Maine, schools typically schedule spring break for the week of the third Monday in April to coincide with Patriots' Day.\n\nIn Guatemala and Honduras, it takes place during Easter; schools give students a whole week to rest while the staff workforce rests approximately three days.\n\nIn Colombia, spring break takes place the first week of April, during the Holy Week until the second week.\n\nIn Chile, many schools and universities take vacations in the middle of September coinciding with the celebration of the Fiestas Patrias (Celebration of that country).Being located in the Southern Hemisphere, spring begins approximately at the end of this holiday week so it acts similarly to the American spring break.\n\nLarge annual spring break festivities take place in various countries, often in the form of music festivals and joined by special nightclub parties, beach activities and accommodation offers. This is an incomplete list of places with spring break festivals.\n\nThe South Pacific enjoys spring break during November. Some tour companies are now chartering out entire island resorts for the festivities.\n\n\n\nEuropean party destinations are increasingly becoming popular for international spring break guests. Tour agencies have cited the lower drinking ages in these places and that even then, they are rarely enforced. Some tour companies put on special chartered flights for spring break at discounted rates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStarting in the late 90's, Panama City Beach began advertising the destination hoping to attract crowds that had formerly gone to Fort Lauderdale and then Daytona Beach before those communities enacted restrictions. From 2010-2016 an estimated 300,000 students traveled to the destination. The spawn of social media and digital marketing helped boost the beach town into a student mecca during March. Following well publicized shootings and a gang rape in 2015, several new ordinances were put into effect prohibiting drinking on the beach and establishing a bar closing time of 2 a.m. Central Time. Reports show a drop in Panama City Beach's spring break turnout in March 2016 followed by increased family tourism in April 2016. Both are credited/blamed on the new ordinances by the Bay County Community Development Corporation (CDC).\n\nFort Lauderdale's reputation as a spring break destination for college students started when the Colgate University men's swim team arrived to practice there over Christmas break in 1934. Attracting approximately 20,000 college students in the 1950s, spring break was still known as 'Spring vacation' and was a relatively low key affair. This began to change when Glendon Swarthout’s novel, \"Where the Boys Are\" was published in 1960, effectively ushering in modern spring break. Swarthout’s 1960 novel was quickly made into a movie of the same title later that year, \"Where the Boys Are\", in which college girls met boys while on spring break there. The number of visiting college students immediately jumped to over 50,000. By the early 1980s, Ft. Lauderdale was attracting between 250,000-350,000 college students per year during spring break. Residents of the Fort Lauderdale area became so upset at the damage done by college students that the local government passed laws restricting parties in 1985. At the same time, the National Minimum Drinking Age Act was enacted in the United States, requiring that Florida raise the minimum drinking age to 21 and inspiring many underage college vacationers to travel to other locations in the United States for spring break. By 1989, the number of college students traveling to Fort Lauderdale fell to 20,000, a far cry from the 350,000 who went four years prior.\n\nIn the early 1980s, South Padre Island became the first location outside of Florida to draw a large number of college students for spring break. With only a few thousand residents, South Padre Island has consistently drawn between 80,000 and 120,000 spring breakers for the last 30 years.\n\nIt is common for major brands that cater to the youth market (e.g., Coca-Cola, Gillette, MTV, and branches of the United States Armed Forces) to market at spring break destinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2988348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2988348", "title": "Sycamore Hill Writer's Workshop", "text": "Sycamore Hill Writer's Workshop\n\nSycamore Hill Writer's Workshop is a workshop for science fiction writers. Since its origin in 1985, it has been held in Raleigh, North Carolina; Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania; and most recently in Little Switzerland, North Carolina.\n\nCurrently organized by Richard Butner, Sycamore Hill was started by John Kessel and Mark L. Van Name. It is an invitation-only workshop for established SF, fantasy, and slipstream writers. Attendees have included Kelly Link, Carol Emshwiller, Harlan Ellison, Bruce Sterling, Connie Willis, Karen Joy Fowler, Jonathan Lethem, James Patrick Kelly, Robert Frazier, Ted Chiang, Benjamin Rosenbaum, and Don Webb, among many others.\n\nA collection of original stories from the 1994 workshop was published as the anthology \"Intersections: The Sycamore Hill Anthology\", edited by John Kessel, Mark L. Van Name and Richard Butner (Tor Books, 1996). It includes works by Richard Butner, Carol Emshwiller, Karen Joy Fowler, Robert Frazier, Gregory Frost, Alexander Jablokov, James Patrick Kelly, John Kessel, Nancy Kress, Jonathan Lethem, Maureen F. McHugh, Michaela Roessner, Bruce Sterling, and Mark L. Van Name.\n\nOrson Scott Card wrote about his experience at the Sycamore Hill Writer's Workshop in the essay \"On Sycamore Hill.\" Scholars such as Michael Collins identify Card's Sycamore Hill experience as marking a critical \"turning point\" in his career. Sycamore Hill is known to have shaped several award-winning stories, and is featured in the acknowledgment pages of books like Ted Chiang's Arrival (Stories of Your Life).\n\n"}
{"id": "43659969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43659969", "title": "Teachers College Record", "text": "Teachers College Record\n\nTeachers College Record is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal of education that was established in 1900. It is published by Teachers College, Columbia University and the editor-in-chief is Gary Natriello (Teachers College, Columbia University).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 0.722.\n"}
{"id": "10021728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10021728", "title": "Utah Coalition for Educational Technology", "text": "Utah Coalition for Educational Technology\n\nThe Utah Coalition for Educational Technology (UCET) is a 501(c)3 Utah not-for-profit, volunteer-service organization comprising educators and others interested in promoting technology-enhanced learning and teaching for all teachers and students. Its annual membership exceeds a thousand persons. UCET is a full affiliate of the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE). UCET is associated with and works closely with the Utah Education Network and the Utah State Office of Education.\n\n\nOne of the annual highlights of UCET action is its annual conference, attended by several hundred enthusiastic registrants, including educators, prospective educators and other interested people from all parts of Utah, the United States, and other nations. Recent keynote speakers include David Pogue, David Warlick, Marc Prensky, Bernajean Porter, Ann Collier, Bernie Dodge and Steve Wozniak, among other stellar technology-wielding educators. The UCET website also includes archives of past conference materials and plans for upcoming conferences.\n\nUCET's editor has also prepared an outstanding series of monthly newsletters with news, tips, and other very timely information. These are also available for viewing or download on the website.\n\n"}
{"id": "44409997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409997", "title": "Vergara v. California", "text": "Vergara v. California\n\nVergara v. California was a lawsuit in the California state courts which dealt with a child's right to education and to instruction by effective teachers. The suit was filed in May 2012 by lawyers on behalf of nine California public school student plaintiffs. It alleged that several California statutes on teacher tenure, layoffs, and dismissal violate the Constitution of California by retaining some \"grossly ineffective\" teachers and thus denying equal protection to students assigned to the teachers. Furthermore, according to the complaint, the statutes had a disparate impact on poor and minority students, who were more likely to be assigned to a grossly-ineffective teacher.\n\nOn June 10, 2014, after a two-month trial, Judge Rolf M. Treu of the California Superior Court ruled that all of the statutes challenged by the student plaintiffs were unconstitutional; the ruling was finalized in August 2014. On April 14, 2016, a three judge panel on the Court of Appeal reversed the trial court's decision and held that the challenged statutes did not violate the California Constitution. In May 2016, lawyers for the school students asked the California Supreme Court to reconsider the Court of Appeal reversal and reinstate the trial court's ruling in their favor. On August 22, 2016 the State's highest court declined to review the case in a 4-3 decision, thus permitting the Court of Appeal decision upholding the statutes to stand.\n\nThe lawsuit identified five separate statutes that kept ineffective teachers in the classroom. The argument by the student plaintiffs in the lawsuit was that tenure decisions had to be made too quickly, and that once tenure was granted it was too difficult to remove a teacher if a mistake had been made in granting tenure. The presence of ineffective teachers necessarily meant that some students were denied their constitutional right to a quality education. The defendants argued that it was possible to remove bad teachers and that these laws did not cause bad teachers to be in the schools.\n\nCertain provisions of the California Education Code conferred \"permanent employment\" status (or tenure) on any teacher who had not been informed that his or her teaching contract had been cancelled by March of the second year of teaching. Permanent status required school districts to follow specific evidentiary and procedural requirements before firing a teacher. Lawyers for teachers unions in \"Vergara\" argued that this was not equivalent to lifetime employment, but instead just recognition of the due process requirements that would have to be satisfied if teachers were to be fired for any one of a number of specified reasons.\n\nA series of three statutes in California specified a series of procedural requirements that had to be satisfied if a tenured teacher was to be dismissed. These requirements, the plaintiffs argued, put undue cost on districts if they wished to remove a teacher. They were also considerably beyond the normal due process rights for other civil servants in California. John Deasy, Superintendent of the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), testified that the statutes harmed students.\n\nThe final challenged statute dictates how district administrators prioritize which teachers are to be laid off if they were to reduce the size of their teaching staff. The California law required strict application of last in first out, or LIFO. With a few exceptions, before any tenured teacher could be laid off, the district had to remove all of the more junior, nontenured teachers. According to LIFO, it is impermissible to use information about teacher effectiveness in making layoff decisions.\n\nOn June 10, 2014, the court ruled that the statutes at issue produced disparities that \"shock the conscience\" and violate the equal protection clause of the California Constitution.\n\nAs background, the court began the \"Vergara\" opinion with a discussion of the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954) and the California Supreme Court cases of \"Serrano v. Priest I\" (1971), \"Serrano v. Priest II\" (1976), and \"Butt v. State of California\" (1992). \"While these cases addressed the issue of a lack of equality of educational opportunity . . . here this Court is directly faced with issues that compel it to apply these constitutional principles to the quality of the educational experience.\"\n\nThe court examined the challenged California statutes under strict scrutiny judicial review.\n\nSchool administrators asked the judge to review a copy of \"California Standards for the Teaching Profession\" (2009 Edition) as evidence. The court pointed out that the opening sentence of those Standards state: \"A growing body of research confirms that the quality of teaching is what matters most for the students' development and learning in schools.\" (Emphasis added by the court).\n\n\"Based on a 4 year study, Dr. [Thomas] Kane testified that students in LAUSD [the Los Angeles Unified School District] who are taught by a teacher in the bottom 5% of competence lose 9.54 months of learning in a single year compared to students with average teachers.\"\n\n\"Dr. [David] Berliner, an expert called by [California school administrators], testified that 1 - 3% of teachers in California are grossly ineffective. Given that the evidence showed roughly 275,000 active teachers in this state, the extrapolated number of grossly ineffective teachers ranges from 2,750 to 8,250.\"\n\nThe court found that California's tenure period was actually less than the two-year period ostensibly outlined in the statute. This was because a tenure decision had to be made in March, before the end of a new teacher's second school year. In contrast, the credentialing induction period for new teachers lasted two full school years. \"Thus, a teacher reelected [for tenure] in March may not be recommended for credentialing after the close of the induction program in May, leaving the applicable district with a non-credentialed teacher with tenure.\"\n\n\"There was extensive evidence presented, including some from [school administrators that the tenure statute did not] provide nearly enough time for an informed decision to be made regarding the decision of tenure (critical for both students and teachers).\"\n\nJesse Rothstein and David Berliner were experts who testified for the defendant school officials during the trial. Both stated that two years was not the optimal amount of time needed to make a tenure decision. Three years to five years was instead suggested as a better time frame to make the tenure decision for the mutual benefit of students and teachers.\n\nSurveying tenure periods in other U.S. states, the court found that as of the trial (January 27 to March 27, 2014) 4 states had no tenure system at all, 9 states had tenure periods of four to five years, 32 had a three-year period, and 5 (including California) had a period of two years or less.\n\nLawyers for the plaintiff school students alleged that it was \"too time consuming and too expensive to go through the dismissal process as required by the Dismissal Statutes to rid school districts of grossly ineffective teachers.\" The court agreed, concluding that \"such time and cost constraints cause districts in many cases to be very reluctant to even commence dismissal procedures.\"\n\nThe court noted that school administrators and teachers unions had raised \"the entirely legitimate issue\" of protecting a teacher's due process rights when she or he was faced with the possibility of being fired. However, the court decided that \"given the evidence . . . the Dismissal Statutes present the issue of \"uber\" due process.\"\n\n\"This Court is confident that the independent judiciary of this state is no less dedicated to the protection of reasonable due process rights of teachers than it is of protecting the rights of children to constitutionally mandated equal education opportunities.\"\n\nCalifornia's LIFO-only layoff statute required \"the last-hired teacher [to be] the statutorily-mandated first-fired one when lay-offs occur.\"\n\nThe statute did not contain \"an exception or waiver based on teacher effectiveness.\"\n\n\"No matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\"\n\n\"The logic of [this statutory scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\nSurveying layoff rules for teachers in other U.S. jurisdictions, the court found that as of the trial (January 27 to March 27, 2014) 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered; 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion; 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors; and 10 states (including California) provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nFunding for the plaintiff school students was provided by David Welch, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur. Welch is the founder of a nonprofit education reform organization called Students Matter through which the plaintiffs' attorney's fees were paid.\n\nThe plaintiff school students' trial experts included a group of economists who examined various aspects of teacher effectiveness under \"value-added modeling\". The original complaint was built on the analyses of teacher effectiveness and the estimated economic cost of ineffective teachers by Eric Hanushek of Stanford University. Raj Chetty (Harvard University) and Thomas Kane (Harvard University) testified on the distribution of ineffective teachers in California and particularly in Los Angeles. Dan Goldhaber (University of Washington) testified on the impact of LIFO layoff statutes. Plaintiff rebuttal testimony was provided by Eric Hanushek and by Dr. Anthony Smith, former superintendent of the Oakland Unified School District.\n\nOther expert witnesses during the trial included Linda Darling Hammond (Stanford University), David Berliner (Arizona State University), and Susan Moore Johnson (Harvard University), who testified on their understanding of the problems of tenure and of the impact of ineffective teachers. Jesse Rothstein of the University of California, Berkeley, testified that tenure restrictions served the interest of student achievement.\n\nThe school students were represented by the Gibson Dunn law firm. The defense for school administrators was provided by the California Attorney General. The California Teachers Association intervened on the side of the defense and was represented by Altschuler Berzon.\n\nSoon after the trial court's ruling was issued it was appealed by California Governor Jerry Brown, who reasoned that \"[c]hanges of this magnitude, as a matter of law and policy, require appellate review.\" The case was heard on February 25, 2016 by the California Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District, Division Two. On April 14, 2016 the Court of Appeal's three judge panel unanimously overturned the trial court's ruling, finding that the attorneys for the plaintiff school students \"failed to show that the statutes themselves make any certain group of students more likely to be taught by ineffective teachers than any other group of students,\" and that the job of the appellate judges was \"merely to determine whether the statutes are constitutional, not if they are 'a good idea.'\" Instead of focusing on the statutes alone, the Court of Appeal found that \"[t]he evidence . . . revealed deplorable staffing decisions being made by some local administrators that have a deleterious impact on poor and minority students.\"\n\nAttorneys for the student plaintiffs asked the California Supreme Court to reconsider the Court of Appeal's reversal, however, on August 22, 2016, California's highest court declined to review the case in a 4-3 split decision, thereby upholding the challenged statutes. The four justice majority which denied review did so without comment, other than issuing a standard statement that \"an order denying review represents only a determination that, for whatever reason, a grant of review is not appropriate at the time of the order.\"\n\nTwo out of the three justices who disagreed with the decision to deny review submitted dissenting statements outlining why they believed the Court of Appeal decision should have been re-examined. Justice Goodwin Liu wrote, \"[a]s the state's highest court, we owe the . . . schoolchildren throughout California, our transparent and reasoned judgment on whether the challenged statutes deprive a significant subset of students of their fundamental right to education and violate the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of the laws.\" Additionally, Justice Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar wrote that he and his fellow justices should have had the opportunity to determine if the flaws highlighted in the \"Vergara\" case amounted only to \"the usual blemishes in governance left as institutions implement statutes or engage in routine trade-offs [or if they were] staggering failures that threaten to turn the right to education for California schoolchildren into an empty promise.\"\n\nThe day after the \"Vergara\" trial court decision in June 2014, the Associated Press described it in a USA Today article as \"a landmark decision that could influence the gathering debate over tenure across the country.\"\n\nOfficials from the teachers' union criticized the trial court's decision, saying that insufficient evidence was provided by the plaintiffs to show that the statutes being challenged were harmful for students, and further that the court \"blatantly ignored\" evidence to the contrary, saying that in actuality, the laws improve public education. They further criticized the decision for \"intrud[ing] on an inherently legislative function.\"\n\nOn July 3, 2014 a similar lawsuit modeled on the \"Vergara\" case, \"Davids v. New York\", was filed in New York State. And, on April 13, 2016 another lawsuit was filed in Minnesota which challenged teacher tenure rules and layoff procedures giving preference to more senior teachers.\n\nAn article published in the Washington Post on April 14, 2016 said that the Court of Appeal's decision reversing the trial court handed \"a major victory to teachers unions.\" A subsequent report on National Public Radio used similar language (albeit limited to California) when discussing the California Supreme Court's refusal to review the appellate decision, calling the denial of review \"a major victory for teachers unions in California.\"\n\nCalifornia's two largest teachers unions issued triumphant press releases after the California Supreme Court precluded further state court review. The president of the NEA-affiliated California Teachers Association called \"Vergara\" a \"case brought by wealthy anti-public education millionaires who spent millions of dollars to bypass voters, parents, and the legislature in an attempt to impose their harmful education agenda on local schools.\" The president of the California Federation of Teachers (the AFT's California affiliate) blamed the \"Vergara\" lawsuit for fostering a teacher shortage in the state, and then said, \"[w]e can now turn closer attention to solving the actual problems we confront in our schools, such as securing adequate funding . . . reducing class sizes, promoting and strengthening peer assistance and review, and reinforcing collaborative district practices with a proven record of success.\"\n\nWhen the trial court judge determined that the tenure, dismissal and layoff statutes were unconstitutional, he also conceded that \"it is not the function of this Court to dictate or even to advise the legislature . . . how to replace the Challenged Statutes.\" After the California Supreme Court's denial of review effectively upheld the validity of those same statutes, the leaders of the Students Matter group that initiated and funded the lawsuit signaled that the next battles might be legislative: \"The Supreme Court’s decision places the responsibility for improving the state’s teacher retention, evaluation and dismissal laws squarely with the California Legislature. And that’s where we intend to take this fight.\"\n\nMany proponents from both sides of the dispute agreed that the legislature, and not the courts, was the appropriate venue for further deliberation to take place. Assistant professor in public policy at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth Mark Paige said of the state court's decision, \"This was an appropriate move by the Supreme Court and really a victory for the idea of a separation of powers as it relates to education-policy matters.\" He continued, \"The trial court decision was an example of an activist court. The opinion lodged the trial court in the middle of a policy matter.\"\n\nIn the days after the California Supreme Court denied review, leading newspapers in California's two largest metropolitan areas (Los Angeles and San Francisco) published editorials which called on the state's legislature and teachers unions to address the issues raised in the \"Vergara\" case. The \"Los Angeles Times\" acknowledged that labor statutes protecting teachers may not be the most significant contributors to the educational difficulties encountered by California's students. Nonetheless, the \"Times\" Editorial Board concluded that \"California’s tenure and seniority laws do tend to protect the worst teachers at the expense of students. The Legislature, always too obliging to the desires of the teachers unions, must gather its strength on behalf of the state’s children to reform bad laws.\" The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" also reproved California's teachers unions for keeping \"profoundly rigid rules that protect incompetent classroom instructors and harm low-income students.\" Like the \"Times\", the editors at the \"Chronicle\" asserted that it should be \"the Legislature [that overhauls] the tenure rules,\" but they also noted that \"teacher groups are among California’s biggest political spenders and have gutted past efforts at addressing these educational inequities.\"\n\n\nCourts\nEducation reform organizations\nPublic school administrators\n\nTeachers unions\n"}
