{"id": "53875120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53875120", "title": "3C-model", "text": "3C-model\n\nThe 3C-model of motivation („3C“ stands for the „three components of motivation“) was developed by Professor Hugo M. Kehr, PhD., at UC Berkeley. The 3C-model is an integrative, empirically validated theory of motivation that can be used for systematic motivation diagnosis and intervention.\n\n“3C” stands for the three components of motivation, which can be illustrated as three partially overlapping circles (see Fig. 1). In psychological terminology, the three components are explicit (self-attributed) motives, implicit (unconscious) motives, and perceived abilities. For practical applications, the metaphor “head”, “heart” and “hand”, which goes back to Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, is being used.\nFulfilment of the components head and heart results in intrinsic motivation: The person is fully concentrated and likes to perform the activity at hand. Hereby, it does not matter whether the component hand is also fulfilled: Skills and abilities are not a prerequisite for intrinsic motivation.\n\nOptimal motivation results from all three components being fulfilled (represented by the overlap section of the three circles in Figure 1). Here, the person is intrinsically motivated and also has all the skills and abilities needed. This situation is associated with the experience of flow. However, if one of the two components head or heart is not fulfilled (i.e., the person is lacking cognitive support for the activity or he or she experiences unpleasant belly-aches), the person will struggle when performing the activity. This situation may be experienced as “demotivation”. Here, willpower (volition) is needed in order to perform the activity and suppress aversion or doubt. Volitional self-control can be momentarily successful – but it also induces a loss of energy and can, in the long run, lead to over-control and health problems.\n\nTwo kinds of volition need to be distinguished: Volition Type 1 is needed for tasks which are supported by the head but lack support from the heart. This is the case, for instance, when important, but aversive tasks need to be fulfilled. Volition Type 2 is needed for tasks that are supported by the heart but not the head; such situations may be experienced as temptation or fear.\n\nLacking support by the component hand requires problem-solving mechanisms to compensate one’s lacking skills and abilities, for instance by asking others for help.\n\nIn practical application, for instance in self-management, in coaching, in leadership training, or in change management, the 3C-model can be used for systematic diagnosis of motivation deficits and intervention.\nFor diagnostical purposes, fulfillment of the three components of motivation can be assessed with the so-called 3C-check. The following questions can be used (see Figure 2):\nBased on the answers to these questions, appropriate support can be sought (see Figure 3).\n\nInterventions based on the 3C-check can best be illustrated with an example. Let us assume a sales manager has performed a 3C-check with her sales representative with respect to a guided sales pitch.\n\nIf the 3C-check shows that the sales pitch in use is supported by the components head and heart, but not the component hand (this combination is represented by Section A in Fig. 3), it should first be discussed whether the lack of skill and ability is only subjective (i.e., felt by the sales representative) or also objective. In case of an objective skill and ability deficit, (e.g., when the co-worker is not yet familiar with the guidelines or the calculation methods used), measures like training, coaching, or collegial advice may be appropriate. Moreover, other colleagues may be asked to assist the sales representative and help overcome the hand-related obstacle. In case of a subjective skill and ability deficit, the manager could try to increase the sales representative’s self-efficacy by providing positive feedback about her employee’s prior performance.\n\nThe 3C-check might also reveal lacking support by the components head (represented by sector B in Fig. 3): The sales representative may not be convinced, that the guided sales pitch in use is instrumental, or she prefers other sales channels. Here, the supervisor is well advised to try to increase her employee’s cognitive support. For instance, she could convince her with arguments, set extrinsic rewards (e.g., a bonus) or solve goal conflicts by reprioritizing goals.\n\nBut what if the 3C-check shows that the components head and hand are fulfilled, but not the component heart (represented by sector C in Fig. 3)? That is if the sales representative finds the task important and instrumental and has all the required skills and abilities, but still does not like her task?\n\nPerhaps she does not like following the rigid sales pitch guideline, she may not like to visit customers at home, or she may be anxious to receive a negative response from her customers. Here, her manager is well-advised to not ignore her lacking emotional support but to seek possible solutions. She could try to modify the task so that it better matches her employee’s underlying motives or to find motive-congruent incentives. Kehr and von Rosenstiel call this “metamotivation”. For example, if her employee’s has a strong need for affiliation, she could try to preferably allocate uncomplicated, friendly customers to her, or to organize the sales pitch as a team event. In addition, the manager could assist her employee in finding a personal vision which matches her employees motives. These measures, if successful, arouse the component heart and increase one’s emotional support. Otherwise, the managers may consult her sales representative in finding effective volitional strategies to overcome her motivational barriers. Kehr und von Rosenstiel call this “metavolition”. Here, it seems advisable to reduce overcontrol (e.g., negative fantasies, excessive impulse control, too much planning) and rather motivate oneself by reframing (positive fantasies) or by changing aversive framework conditions, for instance by conducting the sales pitch in a neutral environment.\n\nIf the 3C-check shows support from all three components (represented by the overlap section of the three circles in Fig. 3), the manager can delegate the task to her co-worker and trust her co-worker’s self-management. However, she might still want to keep in touch with her employee and be wary that the boundary conditions could become aversive or her co-workers motivation might change. Further, the manager should also consider future challenges for her co-worker.\n\nInitially, the 3C-model was published as the “compensatory model of work motivation and volition”. The original title referred to one of the central assumptions of the model, namely that volition compensates for insufficient motivation. Because of the potential confusion with “worker compensation,” however, the name was changed to “3C-model.”\nThe notion of three independent components of motivation is based on McClellands differentiation of „motives, skills, and values“. The 3C-model relates this approach with other researchers‘ conceptions of volition, intrinsic motivation and flow.\n\nRuth Kanfer, renowned expert for work motivation, calls the result from this integration a „radical, complementary new paradigm“ (\"Applied Psychology\", 2005, p. 190).\n\nThe 3C-model has attracted considerable empirical research conducted at the University of Munich, UC Berkeley, MGSM in Sydney and the Technische Universität München, amongst others. An overview of the research regarding the 3C-model is given by Kehr (2014). Key results are:\n\nCertain education styles are conducive for the development of discrepancies between head and heart, so-called motive discrepancies.\n\nDiscrepancies between head and heart impair well-being and lead to burnout.\n\nDiscrepancies between head and heart reduce one’s willpower.\n\nFear motives, e.g. fear of rejection, reduce one’s willpower and well-being.\n\nFlow results from all three components of the 3C-model being fulfilled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38776954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38776954", "title": "American Friends Service Committee", "text": "American Friends Service Committee\n\nThe American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) is a Religious Society of Friends (\"Quaker\") founded organization working for peace and social justice in the United States and around the world. AFSC was founded in 1917 as a combined effort by American members of the Religious Society of Friends to assist civilian victims of World War I. It continued to engage in relief action in Europe and the Soviet Union after the Armistice of 1918. By the mid-1920s it focused on improving racial relations in the U.S., as well as exploring ways to prevent the outbreak of another conflict before and after World War II. As the Cold War developed, it moved to employ more professionals rather than Quaker volunteers, and over time attempting to broaden its appeal and respond more forcefully to racial injustice, women's issues, and demands of sexual minorities for equal treatment.\n\nQuakers traditionally oppose violence in all of its forms and therefore many refuse to serve in the military, including when drafted. AFSC's original mission grew from the need to provide conscientious objectors (COs) with a constructive alternative to military service. In 1947 AFSC received the Nobel Peace Prize along with its British counterpart, the Friends Service Council (now called Quaker Peace and Social Witness) on behalf of all Quakers worldwide. Although established by Friends, acting individually, AFSC and the Society of Friends have no legal connections, as stated by its long-time Executive Secretary Clarence Pickett in 1945.\n\nIn April 1917—days after the United States joined World War I by declaring war on Germany and its allies—a group of Quakers met in Philadelphia to discuss the pending military draft and how it would affect members of peace churches such as Quakers, Mennonites, Brethren, and the Amish. They developed ideas for alternative service that could be done directly in the battle zones of northern France.\nThey also developed plans for dealing with the United States Army, since it had been inconsistent in its dealing with religious objectors to previous wars. Although legally members of pacifist churches were exempt from the draft, individual state draft boards interpreted the law in a variety of ways. Many Quakers and other COs were ordered to report to army camps for military service. Some COs, unaware of the significance of reporting for duty, found that this was interpreted by the military as willingness to fight. One of AFSC's first tasks was to identify CO's, find the camps where they were located, and then visit them to provide spiritual guidance and moral support. In areas where the pacifist churches were more well known (such as Pennsylvania), a number of draft boards were willing to assign COs to AFSC for alternative service.\n\nIn addition to conducting alternative service programs for COs, AFSC collected relief in the form of food, clothing, and other supplies for displaced persons in France. Quakers were asked to collect old and make new clothing; to grow fruits and vegetables, can them, and send them to AFSC headquarters in Philadelphia. AFSC then shipped the materials to France for distribution. The young men and women sent to work in France, working with British Quakers, provided relief and medical care to refugees, repaired and rebuilt homes, helped farmers replant fields damaged by the war, and founded a maternity hospital.\n\nAfter the end of the war in 1918, AFSCs began working in Russia, Serbia, and Poland with orphans and with the victims of famine and disease, and in Germany and Austria, where they set up kitchens to feed hungry children. Eventually AFSC was chartered by President Herbert Hoover to provide the United States sponsored relief to Germans.\n\nDuring the 1930s and through World War II, AFSC helped refugees escape from Nazi Germany, aiding people who were not being helped by other organizations, primarily non-religious Jews and Jews married to non-Jews. They also provided relief for children on both sides of the Spanish Civil War, and provided relief to refugees in Vichy France. At the same time AFSC operated several Civilian Public Service camps for a new generation of COs. When Japanese Americans were \"evacuated\" from the West Coast into inland concentration camps, the AFSC headed the effort to help college students transfer to Midwest and East Coast schools in order to avoid camp, and worked with Japanese Americans resettling in several cities during and after the war. After the war ended, they did relief and reconstruction work in Europe, Japan, India, and China. In 1947 they worked to resettle refugees during the partition of India, and in the Gaza Strip. Between 1937 and 1943, the AFSC built the Penn-Craft community for unemployed coal miners in Fayette County, Pennsylvania.\n\nAs the Cold War escalated, AFSC was involved in relief and service efforts, often supporting civilians on both sides of conflicts around the world including the Korean War, the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the Algerian War, and the Nigerian-Biafran War. Beginning in 1966, AFSC developed programs to help children and provided medical supplies and artificial limbs to civilians in both North Vietnam and South Vietnam. Unable to secure U.S. State Department approval to send medical supplies to North Vietnam, the committee dispatched goods through Canada. AFSC also supported draft counseling for young American men throughout the conflict.\n\nIn 1955, the committee published \"Speak Truth to Power: A Quaker Search for an Alternative to Violence\", drafted by a group including Stephen G. Cary, A. J. Muste, Robert Pickus, and Bayard Rustin. Focused on the Cold War, the 71-page pamphlet asserted that it sought \"to give practical demonstration to the effectiveness of love in human relations\". It was widely commented on in the press, both secular and religious, and proved to be a major statement of Christian pacifism.\n\nIn the United States, AFSC supported the American Civil Rights Movement, and the rights of African-Americans, Native Americans, Mexican Americans, and Asian Americans. Since the 1970s AFSC has also worked extensively as part of the peace movement, especially work to stop the production and deployment of nuclear weapons.\n\nIn fiscal year 2015, AFSC had revenues of US$28.6 million and expenses of US$36.1 million. AFSC had net assets of US$87.8 million.\n\nToday AFSC programs address a wide range of issues, countries, and communities. AFSC describes the programs as united by \"the unfaltering belief in the essential worth of every human being, non-violence as the way to resolve conflict, and the power of love to overcome oppression, discrimination, and violence\".\n\nAFSC employs more than two hundred staff working in dozens of programs throughout the United States and works in thirteen other nations. AFSC has divided the organization's programs between 14 geographic regions, each of which runs programs related to peace, immigrant rights, restorative justice, economic justice, and other causes. AFSC's international programs often work in conjunction with Quaker Peace and Social Witness (formerly the British Friends Service Council) and other partners.\n\nAFSC also provides administrative support to the Quaker United Nations Office (QUNO) in New York City. This office is the official voice of Quakerism in the United Nations headquarters. There is a second QUNO office in Geneva, Switzerland; support for that office is provided by European Quakers. QUNO is overseen by the Friends World Committee for Consultation.\n\nAFSC carries out many programs around the world. The organization's 2010 annual report describes work in several African countries, Haiti, Indonesia, and the United States. Recently AFSC opened a traveling art exhibit called \"Windows & Mirrors\", examining the impact on the war in Afghanistan on civilians.\n\n\"Cost of War\" are real-time cost-estimation exhibits, each featuring a counter/estimator for the Iraq War and the Afghanistan War. These exhibits are maintained by the National Priorities Project. As of June 1, 2010 both wars had a combined estimated cost of over 1 trillion dollars, separately the Iraq War had an estimated cost of 725 billion dollars and the Afghanistan War had an estimated cost of 276 billion dollars. The numbers are based on US Congress appropriation reports and do not include \"future medical care for soldiers and veterans wounded in the war\".\n\nBased on National Priorities Project Cost of War concept, American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) launched an exhibit title titled \"Cost of War\" in May 2007, at the close of the National Eyes Wide Open Exhibit. It features ten budget trade-offs displayed on 3x7 foot full-color vinyl banners. AFSC uses to cost of the Iraq War estimated by economists Linda Bilmes and Joseph Stiglitz in the article \"Economic Costs of the Iraq War: An Appraisal Three Years After The Beginning Of The Conflict\", written in January 2006 that estimates the total daily cost of the Iraq War at $720 million. AFSC uses The National Priorities Project's per unit costs for human needs such as health care and education to make budget comparisons between the U.S. budget for human needs to \"One Day of the Iraq War\". The ten banners read:\n\n\nThere are currently 22 Cost of War exhibits located in Northern and Southern California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas/Missouri, Maryland, Massachusetts/Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York/New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, West Virginia.\n\nIn 2004, AFSC started the project \"Eyes Wide Open\" in Chicago. \"Eyes Wide Open\" is an exhibition on the human cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nThe AFSC has five key issues:\n\nThroughout much of the group's history the US Federal Bureau of Investigation and other government agencies have monitored the work of this and many other similar organizations.\n\nSince the 1970s, criticism has also come from liberals within the Society of Friends, who charge that AFSC has drifted from its Quaker roots and has become indistinguishable from other political pressure groups. Quakers expressed concern with AFSC's abolition of their youth work camps during the 1960s and what some saw as a decline of Quaker participation in the organization.\n\nIn June 1979, a cover article in The New Republic attacked AFSC for abandoning the tradition of pacifism. The criticisms became prominent after a gathering of Friends General Conference in Richmond, Indiana, in the summer of 1979 when many Friends joined with prominent leaders, such as Kenneth Boulding, to call for a firmer Quaker orientation toward public issues. Subsequent to the FGC Gathering, a letter listing the points of criticism was signed by 130 Friends and sent to the AFSC Board. In 1988, the book \"Peace and Revolution\" by conservative scholar Guenter Lewy repeated charges that AFSC had abandoned pacifism and religion. In response to Lewy's book, Chuck Fager published \"Quaker Service at the Crossroads\" in 1988.\n\nIn 2010, Fager described that AFSC was \"divorced\" from Quakers' life as faith community due to \"an increasingly pronounced drift toward a lefty secularism\" since the 1970s. It was reported that the Committee in 1975 adopted \"a formal decision to make the Middle East its major issue\".\n\nSome Jewish supporters of Israeli government policies have accused AFSC of having an anti-Jewish bias. In 1993, Jacob Neusner called the Committee \"the most militant and aggressive of Christian anti-Israel groups\".\n\nThe AFSC's position on its web site is that it \"supports the use of boycott and divestment campaigns targeting only companies that support the occupation, settlements, militarism, or any other violations of international humanitarian or human rights law. Our position does not call for a full boycott of Israel nor of companies because they are either Israeli or doing business in Israel. Our actions also never focus on individuals.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "491690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491690", "title": "American Library Association", "text": "American Library Association\n\nThe American Library Association (ALA) is a nonprofit organization based in the United States that promotes libraries and library education internationally. It is the oldest and largest library association in the world, with more than 57,000 members.\n\nFounded by Justin Winsor, Charles Ammi Cutter, Samuel S. Green, James L. Whitney, Melvil Dewey (Melvil Dui), Fred B. Perkins, Charles Evans, and Thomas W. Bicknell on October 6, 1876 during the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and chartered in 1879 in Massachusetts, its head office is now in Chicago.\n\nDuring the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, 103 librarians, 90 men and 13 women, responded to a call for a \"Convention of Librarians\" to be held October 4–6 at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. At the end of the meeting, according to Ed Holley in his essay \"ALA at 100,\" \"the register was passed around for all to sign who wished to become charter members,\" making October 6, 1876, to be ALA's birthday.\nIn attendance were 90 men and 13 women, among them Justin Winsor (Boston Public, Harvard), William Frederick Poole (Chicago Public, Newberry), Charles Ammi Cutter (Boston Athenaeum), Melvil Dewey, and Richard Rogers Bowker. Attendees came from as far west as Chicago and from England.\nThe aim of the association, in that resolution, was \"to enable librarians to do their present work more easily and at less expense.\" The association has worked throughout its history to define, extend, protect and advocate for equity of access to information.\n\nLibrary activists in the 1930s pressured the American Library Association to be more responsive to issues put forth by young members involved with issues such as peace, segregation, library unions and intellectual freedom. In 1931, the Junior Members Round Table (JMRT) was formed to provide a voice for the younger members of the ALA, but much of what they had to say resurfaced in the social responsibility movement to come years later. During this period, the first Library Bill of Rights (LBR) was drafted by Forrest Spaulding to set a standard against censorship and was adopted by the ALA in 1939. This has been recognized as the moment defining modern librarianship as a profession committed to intellectual freedom and the right to read over government dictates. The ALA formed the Staff Organization's Round Table in 1936 and the Library Unions Round Table in 1940.\n\nThe ALA appointed a committee to study censorship and recommend policy after the banning of \"The Grapes of Wrath\" and the implementation of the LBR. The committee reported in 1940 that intellectual freedom and professionalism were linked and recommended a permanent committee – Committee on Intellectual Freedom. The ALA made revisions to strengthen the LBR in June 1948, approved the Statement on Labeling in 1951 to discourage labeling material as subversive, and adopted the Freedom to Read Statement and the Overseas Library Statement in 1953.\n\nIn 1961, the ALA took a stand regarding service to African Americans and others, advocating for equal library service for all. An amendment was passed to the LBR in 1961 that made clear that an individual's library use should not be denied or abridged because of race, religion, national origin, or political views. Some communities decided to close their doors rather than desegregate. In 1963, the ALA commissioned a study, \"Access to Public Libraries\", which found direct and indirect discrimination in American libraries.\n\nIn 1967, some librarians protested against a pro-Vietnam War speech given by General Maxwell D. Taylor at the annual ALA conference in San Francisco; the former president of Sarah Lawrence College, Harold Taylor, spoke to the Middle-Atlantic Regional Library Conference about socially responsible professionalism; and less than one year later a group of librarians proposed that the ALA schedule a new round table program discussion on the social responsibilities of librarians at its next annual conference in Kansas City. This group called themselves the Organizing Committee for the ALA Round Table on Social Responsibilities of Libraries. This group drew in many other under-represented groups in the ALA who lacked power, including the Congress for Change in 1969. This formation of the committee was approved in 1969 and would change its name to the Social Responsibilities Round Table (SRRT) in 1971). After its inception, the Round Table of Social Responsibilities began to press ALA leadership to address issues such as library unions, working conditions, wages, and intellectual freedom. The Freedom to Read Foundation was created by ALA's Executive Board in 1969. The Black Caucus of the ALA and the Office for Literacy and Outreach were set up in 1970.\n\nIn June 1990, the ALA approved \"Policy on Library Services to the Poor\" and in 1996 the Task Force on Hunger Homelessness, and Poverty was formed to resurrect and promote the ALA guidelines on library services to the poor.\n\nIn 2014, Courtney Young, the president of the association, commented on the background and implications of a racist joke author Daniel Handler made as African-American writer Jacqueline Woodson received a National Book Award for \"Brown Girl Dreaming\". \"His comments were inappropriate and fell far short of the association's commitment to diversity,\" said Young. \"Handler's remarks come at a time when the publishing world has little diversity. Works from authors and illustrators of color make up less than 8 percent of children's titles produced in 2013. The ALA hopes this regrettable incident will be used to open a dialogue on the need for diversity in the publishing industry, particularly in regards to books for young people.\"\n\nThe ALA Archives, including historical documents, non-current records, and digital records, are currently held at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign archives.\n\nALA membership is open to any person or organization, though most of its members are libraries or librarians. Most members live and work in the United States, with international members comprising 3.5% of total membership.\n\nThe ALA is governed by an elected council and an executive board. Since 2002, Keith Michael Fiels has been the ALA executive director (CEO). Policies and programs are administered by various committees and round tables. One of the organization's most visible tasks is overseen by the Office for Accreditation, which formally reviews and authorizes American and Canadian academic institutions that offer degree programs in library and information science. The ALA's current President is Loida Garcia-Febo (2018-2019).\n\nNotable past presidents of the ALA include Theresa Elmendorf, its first female president (1911–1912), Clara Stanton Jones, its first African-American president (she served as acting president from April 11 to July 22 in 1976 and then president from July 22, 1976 to 1977), Loriene Roy, its first Native American president (2007–2008), Michael Gorman (2005-2007), Roberta A. Stevens, and Carla Hayden (2003-2004), the current Librarian of Congress (See List of presidents of the American Library Association.)\n\nThe official purpose of the association is \"to promote library service and librarianship.\" Members may join one or more of eleven membership divisions that deal with specialized topics such as academic, school, or public libraries, technical or reference services, and library administration. Members may also join any of seventeen round tables that are grouped around more specific interests and issues than the broader set of ALA divisions.\n\n\n\nEstablished in 1969, the Social Responsibilities Round Table currently oversees a number of task forces including the 'Feminist Task Force'; the 'Hunger, Homelessness, and Poverty Task Force (HHPTF)'; the 'International Responsibilities Task Force'; the 'Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Task Force (MLKTF)'; 'The Rainbow Project Task Force'; and the 'Task Force on the Environment'. According to their website, the Social Responsibilities Round Table (SRRT) have worked to make the American Library Association (ALA) more democratic and progressive. Their primary focus is to promote social responsibility as a core value in librarianship and to ensure that libraries and librarians work to recognize and solve social problems in their community.\n\nIn 1970, the ALA founded the first lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender professional organization, called the \"Task Force on Gay Liberation\", now known as the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table or GLBT Round Table. The first leader was Israel David Fishman. Barbara Gittings became its coordinator in 1971. In the early 1970s, the Task Force on Gay Liberation campaigned to have books about the gay liberation movement at the Library of Congress reclassified from HQ 71–471 (\"Abnormal Sexual Relations, Including Sexual Crimes\"). In 1972, after receiving a letter requesting the reclassification, the Library of Congress agreed to make the shift, reclassifying those books into a newly created category, HQ 76.5 (\"Homosexuality, Lesbianism—Gay Liberation Movement, Homophile Movement\"). In 1971, the GLBTRT created the first award for GLBT books, the Stonewall Book Award, which celebrates books of exceptional merit that relate to LGBT issues. \"Patience and Sarah\" by Alma Routsong (pen name Isabel Miller) was the first winner. In 1992, American Libraries published a photo of the GLBTRT (then called the Gay and Lesbian Task Force) on the cover of its July/August issue, drawing both criticism and praise from the library world. Some commenters called the cover \"in poor taste\" and accused American Libraries of \"glorifying homosexuality,\" while others were supportive of the move. Christine Williams, who wrote an essay about the controversy surrounding the cover, concluded that in the mid-90s, the library world was \"not an especially welcoming place to gays and lesbians.\" In 2010, the GLBTRT announced a new committee, the Over the Rainbow Committee. This committee annually compiles a bibliography of books that show the GLBT community in a favorable light and reflects the interests of adults. The bibliographies provide guidance to libraries in the selection of positive GLBT materials.\n\nOn July 23, 1976, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship was established as a Council Committee of the ALA on recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee with the same name (which had been appointed by the President of the ALA in December 1975) and of the Committee on Organization. The Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship works to \"officially represent the diversity of women's interest within ALA and to ensure that the Association considers the rights of the majority (women) in the library field; to promote and initiate the collection, analysis, dissemination, and coordination of information on the status of women in librarianship; to coordinate the activities of ALA units which consider questions of special relevance for women; to identify lags, gaps, and possible discrimination in resources and programs relating to women; in cooperation with other ALA units, to help develop and evaluate tools, guidelines, and programs designed to enhance the opportunities and the image of women in the library profession, thus raising the level of consciousness concerning women; to establish contacts with committees on women within other professional groups and to officially represent ALA concerns at interdisciplinary meetings on women's equality; and to provide Council and Membership with reports needed for establishment of policies and actions related to the status of women in librarianship; and to monitor ALA units to ensure consideration of the rights of women.\" In 1979, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship received the Bailey K. Howard - World Book Encyclopedia - ALA Goal Award to develop a profile of ALA personal members, known as the COSWL Study. In 1980, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship was awarded the J. Morris Jones - World Book Encyclopedia - ALA Goals Award with the OLPR Advisory Committee to undertake a special project on equal pay for work of equal value.\n\n\nThe ALA is affiliated with regional, state, and student chapters (SCALA) across the country. It organizes conferences, participates in library standards development, and publishes a number of books and periodicals. The ALA publishes the magazines \"American Libraries\" and \"Booklist\". Along with other organizations, it sponsors the annual Banned Books Week the last week of September. Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) also sponsors Teen Read Week, the third week of each October, and Teen Tech Week, the second week of each March. In addition, the ALA helps to promote diversity in the library profession with various outreach activities, including the Spectrum Scholarship program, which awards academic scholarships to minority library students each year.\nThe ALA helps to provide a total of 29 scholarships (over $300,000 annually), a list of which can be found on their website. National Library Week, the second week of each April, is a national observance sponsored by the ALA since 1958. Libraries across the country celebrate library resources, library champions and promote public outreach.\n\nThe ALA annually confers numerous book and media awards, primarily through its children's and young adult divisions (others are the Dartmouth Medal, Coretta Scott King Awards, Schneider Book Awards, and Stonewall Book Award).\n\nThe children's division ALSC administers the Caldecott Medal, Newbery Medal, Batchelder Award, Belpré Awards, Geisel Award, and Sibert Medal, all annual book awards;\nthe Odyssey Award for best audiobook (joint with YALSA), and the (U.S.) Carnegie Medal and for best video. There are also two ALSC lifetime recognitions, the Children's Literature Legacy Award and the Arbuthnot Lecture.\n\nThe young-adult division YALSA administers the Margaret Edwards Award for significant and lasting contribution to YA literature, a lifetime recognition of one author annually, and some annual awards that recognize particular works: the Michael L. Printz Award for a YA book judged on literary merit alone, the William C. Morris Award for an author's first YA book, the new \"YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults\", and the \"Alex Award\" list of ten adult books having special appeal for teens. Jointly with the children's division ALSC there is the Odyssey Award for excellence in audiobook production.\n\nThe award for YA nonfiction was inaugurated in 2012, defined by ages 12 to 18 and publication year November 2010 to October 2011. The first winner was \"The Notorious Benedict Arnold: A True Story of Adventure, Heroism & Treachery\" by Steve Sheinkin (Roaring Brook Press, November 2010) and four other finalists were named.\n\nBeside the Alex Awards, ALA disseminates some annual lists of \"Notable\" and \"Best\" books and other media.\n\nThe annual awards roster includes the John Cotton Dana Award for excellence in library public relations.\n\nIn 2000, the Office for Literacy and Outreach Services (OLOS) launched the Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture in tribute to the work of the first OLOS director, Dr. Jean E. Coleman. Barbara J. Ford gave the inaugural lecture, \"Libraries, Literacy, Outreach and the Digital Divide.\"\n\nSince 2006, the ALA has selected a class of Emerging Leaders, typically comprising about 100 librarians and library school students. This minor distinction is a form of organizational outreach to new librarians. The Emerging Leaders are allocated to project groups tasked with developing solutions to specified problems within ALA divisions. The class meets at the ALA Midwinter and Annual Meetings, commonly January and June. Project teams may present posters of their completed projects at the Annual.\n\nThe ALA and its divisions hold numerous conferences throughout the year. The two largest conferences are the annual conference and the midwinter meeting. The latter is typically held in January and focused on internal business, while the annual conference is typically held in June and focused on exhibits and presentations. The ALA annual conference is notable for being one of the largest professional conferences in existence, typically drawing over 25,000 attendees.\n\n\nThe ALA advocates positions on United States political issues that it believes are related to libraries and librarianship. For court cases that touch on issues about which the organization holds positions, the ALA often files amici curiae briefs, voluntarily offering information on some aspect of the case to assist the court in deciding a matter before it. The ALA has an office in Washington, D.C., that lobbies Congress on issues relating to libraries, information and communication. It also provides materials to libraries that may include information on how to apply for grants, how to comply with the law, and how to oppose a law.\n\nThe primary documented expressions of the ALA's intellectual freedom principles are the Freedom to Read Statement and the Library Bill of Rights; the Library Bill of Rights urges libraries to \"challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment.\" The ALA Code of Ethics also calls on librarians to \"uphold the principles of intellectual freedom and resist all efforts to censor library resources.\"\n\nThe ALA maintains an Office for Intellectual Freedom (OIF), which is charged with \"implementing ALA policies concerning the concept of intellectual freedom,\" defined as \"the right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement may be explored.\" Its goal is \"to educate librarians and the general public about the nature and importance of intellectual freedom in libraries.\" The OIF compiles lists of challenged books as reported in the media and submitted to them by librarians across the country.\n\nSince January 2016 the OIF has been headed by James Larue. Larue is the third director of the office, having succeeded Barbara M. Jones, former University Librarian for Wesleyan University and internationally known intellectual freedom advocate and author. Jones had assumed the position in December 2009; prior to that, the first director, Judith Krug, had headed the office for four decades, until her death in April 2009.\n\nIn 1950, the Intellectual Freedom Committee, the forerunner of the OIF, investigated the termination of Ruth W. Brown as librarian of the Bartlesville Public Library, a position she held in the Oklahoma town for 30 years. Brown's termination was based on the false allegation that she was a communist and that she had as part of the library's serials collection two left wing publications, \"The New Republic\" and \"The Nation\". The ALA support for her and the subsequent legal case was the first such investigation undertaken by the ALA or one of its state chapters.\n\nIn 1999, radio personality Laura Schlessinger campaigned publicly against the ALA's intellectual freedom policy, specifically in regard to the ALA's refusal to remove a link on its web site to a specific sex-education site for teens. Sharon Priestly said, however, that Schlessinger \"distorted and misrepresented the ALA stand to make it sound like the ALA was saying porno for 'children' is O.K.\"\n\nIn 2002, the ALA filed suit with library users and the ACLU against the United States Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA), which required libraries receiving federal E-rate discounts for Internet access to install a \"technology protection measure\" to prevent children from accessing \"visual depictions that are obscene, child pornography, or harmful to minors.\" At trial, the federal district court struck down the law as unconstitutional. The government appealed this decision, and on June 23, 2003, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld the law as constitutional as a condition imposed on institutions in exchange for government funding. In upholding the law, the Supreme Court, adopting the interpretation urged by the U.S. Solicitor General at oral argument, made it clear that the constitutionality of CIPA would be upheld only \"if, as the Government represents, a librarian will unblock filtered material or disable the Internet software filter without significant delay on an adult user's request.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation attempted to use librarians as possible informants in the conspiracy case of the Harrisburg Seven in 1971. The Harrisburg Seven, made up of religious anti-war activists, were primarily accused of conspiring to kidnap National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger. The supposed leader of the group, Philip Berrigan, was serving time at the Lewisburg penitentiary. The FBI sought \"to use library surveillance and librarian informants\" at Bucknell University as evidence of the Harrisburg Seven's \"characters and intentions.\" Boyd Douglas became one such informant for the FBI: he was a prisoner at the same penitentiary with a work-release position at the library. Boyd presented himself as an anti-war activist and offered to smuggle letters he collected while at work to Philip Berrigan at the prison.\n\nThe FBI also attempted to use Zoia Horn, a librarian at the Bucknell library, and interviewed other library workers. The FBI met with Horn in her home to debrief her, but Horn refused to answer their questions. She refused to testify, even after she was given immunity from self-incrimination. Horn stated, \"To me it stands on: Freedom of thought\" and that the government \"spying in homes, in libraries and universities inhibits and destroys this freedom.\" Zoia Horn was charged with contempt of the court and served 20 days in jail. She was \"the first librarian who spent time in jail for a value of our profession\" according to Judith Krug of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom. Horn continued to fight for intellectual freedom in libraries and beyond. The Intellectual Freedom Committee of the California Library Association now awards the Zoia Horn Intellectual Freedom Award in honor of those who make contributions to intellectual freedom.\n\nIn the 1970s, United States Department of the Treasury agents also pressured public libraries across the country to \"release circulation records recording the names and identifying information of people who checked out books on bomb making.\" The ALA believed this to be an \"unconscionable and unconstitutional invasion of library patrons' privacy.\"\n\nAs a result of these two situations and many others, the ALA affirmed the confidential status of all records which held patron names in a \"Policy on the Confidentiality of Library Records\". The ALA also released the ALA Statement on Professional Ethics in 1975 which advocated for the protection of the \"confidential relationship\" between a library user and a library.\n\nThe FBI tried to use surveillance in library settings as part of its Library Awareness Program of the 1980s; it aimed to use librarians \"as partners in surveillance.\" The program was known to the FBI as \"The Development of Counterintelligence Among Librarians,\" indicating that the FBI believed that librarians might be supportive in its counterintelligence investigations. The FBI attempted to profile \"Russian or Slavic-sounding last names\" of library patrons to look for possible \"national security threats.\" The FBI wanted libraries to help it trace \"the reading habits of patrons with those names.\"\n\nThe ALA responded by writing to the FBI director. The Intellectual Freedom Committee also created \"an advisory statement to warn libraries\" of the Library Awareness Program, including ways to help librarians \"avoid breaking their ethical obligations if faced with FBI surveillance.\"\n\nIn 2003, the ALA passed a resolution opposing the USA PATRIOT Act, which called sections of the law \"a present danger to the constitutional rights and privacy rights of library users\". Since then, the ALA and its members have sought to change the law by working with members of Congress and educating their communities and the press about the law's potential to violate the privacy rights of library users. ALA has also participated as an \"amicus curiae\" in lawsuits filed by individuals challenging the constitutionality of the USA PATRIOT Act, including a lawsuit filed by four Connecticut librarians after the library consortium they managed was served with a national security letter seeking information about library users. After several months of litigation, the lawsuit was dismissed when the FBI decided to withdraw the National Security Letter. In 2007, the \"Connecticut Four\" were honored by the ALA with the Paul Howard Award for Courage for their challenge to the National Security Letter and gag order provision of the USA PATRIOT Act.\n\nIn 2006, the ALA sold humorous \"radical militant librarian\" buttons for librarians to wear in support of the ALA's stances on intellectual freedom, privacy, and civil liberties. Inspiration for the button's design came from documents obtained from the FBI by the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The request revealed a series of e-mails in which FBI agents complained about the \"radical, militant librarians\" while criticizing the reluctance of FBI management to use the secret warrants authorized under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act.\n\nIn 2018, the organization changed the name of the Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal to the Children's Literature Legacy Award. According to the \"New York Times\", the name change was made \"in order to distance the honor\" from what the ALA described as \"culturally insensitive portrayals\" in Wilder's books.\nThe ALA \"supports efforts to amend the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and urges the courts to restore the balance in copyright law, ensure fair use and protect and extend the public domain\". It supports changing copyright law to eliminate damages when using orphan works without permission; is wary of digital rights management; and, in \"ALA v. FCC\", successfully sued the Federal Communications Commission to prevent regulation that would enforce next-generation digital televisions to contain rights-management hardware. It has joined the Information Access Alliance to promote open access to research. The Copyright Advisory Network of the association's Office for Information Technology Policy provides copyright resources to libraries and the communities they serve. The ALA is a member of the Library Copyright Alliance, along with the Association of Research Libraries and the Association of College and Research Libraries, which provides a unified voice for over 300,000 information professionals in the United States.\nCurrently, the ALA supports bill H.R. 905, also known as the You Own Devices Act, stating \"to foster the social and commercial evolution of the \"Internet of Things\" by codifying the right of the owner of a device containing 'essential software' intrinsic to its function to transfer both the and the device.\"\n\nALA-Accredited programs can be found at schools in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada. Theses programs offer degrees with names such as Master of Library Science (MLS), Master of Arts, Master of Librarianship, Master of Library and Information Studies (MLIS), and Master of Science. To be accredited, the program must undergo an external review and meet the Standards for Accreditation of Master's Programs in Library and Information Studies. The ALA website provides a directory directory in database form of ALA-Accredited programs. There are currently 59 accredited programs, and two that are candidates seeking accreditation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20750674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20750674", "title": "Aristocracy (class)", "text": "Aristocracy (class)\n\nThe aristocracy is a social class that a particular society considers its highest order. In many states, the aristocracy included the upper class of people (\"aristocrats\") with hereditary rank and titles. In some—such as ancient Greece, Rome and India—aristocratic status came from belonging to a military caste, although it has also been common, notably in African societies, for aristocrats to belong to priestly dynasties. Aristocratic status can involve feudal or legal privileges. They are usually below only the monarch of a country or nation in its social hierarchy. In modern European societies, the aristocracy has often coincided with the nobility, a specific class that arose in the Middle Ages, but the term \"aristocracy\" is sometimes also applied to other elites, and is used as a more generic term when describing earlier and non-European societies.\n\nThe term \"aristocracy\" derives from the Greek ἀριστοκρατία (\"aristokratia\" from ἄριστος (\"aristos\") \"excellent,\" and κράτος (\"kratos\") \"power.\" In most cases, aristocratic titles were and are hereditary.\n\nThe term \"aristokratia\" was first used in Athens with reference to young citizens (the men of the ruling class) who led armies at the front line. Due to martial bravery being highly regarded as a virtue in ancient Greece, it was assumed that the armies were being led by \"the best.\" This virtue was called \"arete\" (ἀρετή). Etymologically, as the word developed, it also produced a more political term: \"aristoi\" (ἄριστοι). The term aristocracy is a compound word stemming from the singular of aristoi, \"aristos\" (ἄριστος), and the Greek word for power, \"kratos\" (κράτος).\n\nFrom the ancient Greeks, the term passed to the European Middle Ages for a similar \"hereditary class\" of military leaders, often referred to as the nobility. As in Greece, this was a class of privileged men and women whose familial connections to the regional armies allowed them to present themselves as the most \"noble\" or \"best\" of society.\n\nHistorically, the status and privileges of the aristocracy in Europe were below royalty and above all non-aristocrats.\n\nThe French Revolution attacked aristocrats as people who had achieved their status by having been born in a wealthy family rather than by merit, and this was considered unjust. In the United Kingdom and other European countries, such as Spain and Denmark, in which hereditary titles are still recognised, \"aristocrat\" still refers to the descendant of one of approximately 7,000 families with hereditary titles, many still in possession of considerable wealth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, members of the highest echelon of the aristocracy, the hereditary peers were, until 1999, members of the House of Lords—the upper house of the legislature, the Parliament of the United Kingdom. In 1999, most ceased to be members. However, the Duke of Norfolk, who always serves as Earl Marshal, the hereditary peer who serves as Lord Great Chamberlain (currently the Marquess of Cholmondeley), and a further 90 Representative Hereditary Peers elected by the Hereditary Peers retained membership. Since 1958, non-hereditary \"life peers\" have been created, who are automatically members of the House of Lords for life with the right to be known by their title. For example, John Gummer became (The Rt Hon.) Lord Deben.\n\nHowever, life peers are not considered part of the aristocracy, nor are knights, unless born into an aristocratic or landed gentry family. Examples include James Douglas-Hamilton, Baron Selkirk of Douglas, and Sir Winston Churchill—all born into aristocratic families. Besides the hereditary peers, the gentry (consisting of baronets, Scottish barons, lairds, esquires, gentlemen, and any other untitled landowning armigerous families) are also considered part of the aristocracy. Unlike the Continental untitled nobility, British untitled families that belong to the gentry have no legal recognition of their aristocratic position.\n\nUnder the rule of the Mughal Empire, the titles for those under a king were borrowed from Persia. These titles of landed aristocracy include \"jagirdar\", \"thikanadar\", \"talukdar\", and \"zamindar\".\n\nMany landholding families either held legal or administrative offices, and were sometimes considered the Indian version of the Nobility of the Robe. The princes appointed officers, such as \"dewan\" and other state level ministers, to run their administrations, who were considered members of the regional nobility. Most of these officers were either relatives of the princes who appointed them, or were themselves substantial landlords under the sovereignty of the Princely States, and most held hereditary titles. Sometimes, educated men belonging to the British Imperial Services were also appointed to the high offices of the Princely States, but their positions were not hereditary and they were seen as career bureaucrats rather than noblemen by their employers.\n\nToday, aristocratic titles like Taluqdar, Rai, Rao, Roy, Chaudhary, Sardar, Zaildar, Jagirdar, Tarafdar, Thakur, Nair, Madampi are still used in the Indian Subcontinent.\n\nDeriving mostly from the pre-colonial states of the region that would become known as Nigeria, the legally recognised titles of the Nigerian aristocracy range from \"king\" to the ubiquitous \"chief\". They give their bearers no political authority in theory, but in practice allow them to serve as immensely powerful patrons of the country's political leaders due to their control of popular opinion within its various tribes. Along with those of their titled relatives and courtiers, they also serve as the guiding forces behind Nigerian cultural and religious ceremonies. \n\nTitles such as Oba, Amanyanaboh, Mai, Obong, Sarki, Attah, and Obi are used by the dynastic heads, while \"prince\" and \"princess\" are either used in their English forms or in their native ones by the dynasts of their houses. Their privy counsellors, meanwhile, tend to be called either \"chiefs\" or \"elders\" depending on what their monarchs are themselves called, with chiefs serving under a ruler who is called a king and elders serving under one called a chief.\n\nThe nobility of China was an important feature of the traditional social and political organization of Imperial China. While the concepts of hereditary sovereign and peerage titles and noble families were featured as early as the semi-mythical early historical period, a settled system of nobility was established from the Zhou dynasty. In the subsequent millennia, this system was largely maintained in form, with some changes and additions, although the content constantly evolved. The last well-developed system of noble titles was established under the Qing dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "24372201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24372201", "title": "Barack Obama \"Joker\" poster", "text": "Barack Obama \"Joker\" poster\n\nThe Barack Obama \"Joker\" poster is a digitally manipulated image of United States President Barack Obama, designed by Firas Alkhateeb in January 2009, that was adopted by some critics of the Obama administration and described as the most famous anti-Obama image. The image portrays Obama as comic book supervillain the Joker, based on the portrayal by Heath Ledger in \"The Dark Knight\" (2008). Alkhateeb has said the image was not intended to make a political statement. He uploaded the image to the photo-sharing website Flickr, from where it was downloaded by an unknown individual who added the caption \"socialism\".\n\nDescribed by \"The Guardian\" as the \"American right's first successful use of street art\", since April 2009, the poster was frequently used by anti-Obama protesters.\n\nThe first known use of Obama's image being \"Jokerized\" was published on Myspace by a user listed as Ross Brummet in August 2008. The image was of a smiling Barack Obama, his face painted over with Joker-style makeup, and the quote \"The U.S. deserves a better class of war criminal, and I'm going to give it to them.\" A second instance, and the first to receive media coverage, occurred at a rally for Vice Presidential candidate Joe Biden at Florida State University on November 2, 2008. Two members of the FSU College Republicans created the poster from an Obama \"Hope\" poster they had purchased from the school's College Democrats club, and used it to demonstrate outside the Biden event. This design featured the caption \"Why So Socialist?\", a parody of \"The Dark Knight\"s \"Why So Serious\" tagline. The students dismissed criticism of the poster, explaining that it was simply a pop culture reference designed to \"get the attention of a college audience\".\n\nThe version of the image that was eventually popularized was created by Alkhateeb, a 20-year-old Palestinian American history student at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He digitally manipulated the Obama photograph from the October 2006 \"Time\" magazine cover, using Adobe Photoshop. His version did not contain the \"socialism\" label. Alkhateeb was influenced by artist Shepard Fairey, designer of the Obama \"Hope\" poster, and wanted to practice a \"Jokerize\" technique he learned in class. He digitally added the Joker face paint over the Obama image and uploaded it to Flickr on January 18, 2009. Alkhateeb is said to have had no ill-will towards Obama, but was simply bored.\n\nThe image went largely unnoticed until an unknown person began placing posters of the image, with the added label \"socialism,\" throughout downtown Los Angeles, California. In April 2009, \"Bedlam\" magazine became the first media outlet to report on Obama \"Joker\" signs being spotted in Los Angeles. During the summer months, Obama \"Joker\" posters were distributed in Florida and Atlanta, Georgia. In August 2009, the posters became a viral phenomenon online. The poster quickly became the center of an international \"media typhoon\" widely covered by news outlets such as CNN, Fox News, and the \"Drudge Report\".\n\nMedia coverage ranged from praise for the image's artistic value to critics labeling the poster racist. Culture critic Philip Kennicott of \"The Washington Post\" described the poster as a \"subtly coded, highly effective racial and political argument\". Thomas Lifson, editor of \"The American Thinker\", described it as \"open mockery of Barack Obama, as disillusionment sets in with the man\", and \"The First Post\" suggested the image marked \"a turning of the tide of public opinion against a president who promised so much\". Film critic Peter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\" described the poster as \"the single most chilling—and brilliant—piece of poisonous political propaganda I think I have ever seen.\"\n\nThe media coverage resulted in Flickr removing all copies of the image, citing a Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) takedown notice, and deleting forum threads discussing the image. The takedown was met with much backlash from the Flickr community and caused Flickr to change their DMCA takedown policy. The new policy provides for a page to remain if a takedown notice is filed against it, but for the image to be replaced with one that reads: \"This image has been removed due to a claim of copyright infringement.\" A spokesperson for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights advocacy group, defended Alkhateeb's image citing fair use protection. As a result of Flickr removing the Obama \"Joker\" image, some online communities viewed Alkhateeb as the most visible representative, in August 2009, of free speech on the Internet.\n\nThe image was adopted by some of Obama's critics and used for posters, T-shirts, bumper stickers, and other merchandise. The image is considered by some a symbol of the Tea Party protest movement. During the September 12, 2009, Taxpayer March on Washington, the largest demonstration against the Obama Administration's policies to date, protesters denouncing deficit spending and the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, dubbed \"Obamacare\" by critics, carried Obama \"Joker\" signs captioned .\n\nSome Democrats have called the image racist, suggesting a similarity to blackface makeup that was used during minstrel show performances. Earl Ofari Hutchinson, president of the Los Angeles Urban Policy Roundtable, said, \"Depicting the president as demonic and a socialist goes beyond political spoofery. It is mean-spirited and dangerous. We have issued a public challenge to the person or group that put up the poster to come forth and publicly tell why they have used this offensive depiction to ridicule President Obama.\"\n\nRay Tampa, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter in St. Petersburg, Florida, had a differing opinion: \"I see it as the Joker, and being that I see it as the Joker I will have to say that it's fair game\".\n\nAlkhateeb, in response to the usage of his image, said, \"To accuse [Obama] of being a socialist is really ... immature. First of all, who said being a socialist is evil?\" He also stated \"socialism is an idea thats time has come and passed. It’s basically like calling someone a loyalist to the British crown\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658215", "title": "Betsy McCaughey", "text": "Betsy McCaughey\n\nElizabeth McCaughey (; born Elizabeth Helen Peterken, October 20, 1948), formerly known as Betsy McCaughey Ross, is an American politician who was the Lieutenant Governor of New York from 1995 to 1998, during the first term of Governor George Pataki. She unsuccessfully sought the Democratic Party nomination for governor after Pataki dropped her from his 1998 ticket, and she ended up on the ballot under the Liberal Party line. In August 2016 the Donald Trump presidential campaign announced that she had joined the campaign as an economic adviser.\n\nA historian by training, with a PhD from Columbia University, McCaughey has, over the years, provided conservative media commentary on US public policy affecting healthcare-related issues. Her 1993 attack on the Clinton healthcare plan was likely a major factor in the initially-popular bill's defeat in Congress. Also, it brought her to the attention of Republican Pataki, who chose her as his nominee/running mate. In 2009, her criticisms of the Affordable Care Act, then a bill being debated in Congress, again gained significant media attention in television and radio interviews, and it may have specifically inspired the \"death panel\" claim about the act.\n\nShe has been a fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute and Hudson Institute thinktanks and has written numerous articles and op-eds. She was a member of the boards of directors of medical equipment companies Genta (from 2001 to 2007) and Cantel Medical Corporation, but she resigned in 2009 to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest with her public advocacy against the Affordable Care Act.\n\nShe was married to business magnate Wilbur Ross, the current Secretary of Commerce, from 1995 until their divorce five years later in 2000.\n\nMcCaughey and her twin brother, William, were born in Pittsburgh to Albert Peterken, a factory janitor, and his wife, Ramona. The family moved around the Northeastern United States for six years before it settled down in Westport, Connecticut, where McCaughey's father did maintenance and later engineering work at a nail clipper factory. McCaughey recalled her parents' difficulty in affording medical treatment: \"my brother was a serious asthmatic as a child. I remember my parents sitting at the kitchen table wondering if they could afford to take [him] to the hospital.\"\n\nMcCaughey attended public schools in Westport through the 10th grade, spending much of her free time at the library. After receiving a scholarship, she transferred to a private Massachusetts boarding school, the Mary A. Burnham School, for her last two years of high school, rarely visiting home, then or during her college years.\n\nShe received a scholarship to attend Vassar College, where she majored in history. She wrote her senior thesis on Karl Marx and Alexis de Tocqueville, won several fellowships, and received her BA, with distinction, in 1970. McCaughey went on to graduate school at Columbia University in New York City, earning her MA in 1972 and her PhD in constitutional history in 1976.\n\nShe won Columbia's Bancroft Dissertation Award in American History in 1976 and her dissertation was published by the prestigious Columbia University Press in 1980, \"From Loyalist to Founding Father: The Political Odyssey of William Samuel Johnson:'.\n\nShe also contributed a chapter about Johnson to the 1979 book \"The American Revolution: Changing Perspectives\" by William M. Fowler and Wallace Coyle.\n\nWhile completing her PhD, McCaughey trained in the corporate banking department at Chase Manhattan Bank, and she served as a loan officer in the Food, Beverage, and Tobacco Division. She also took courses in accounting at Columbia's School of Business.\n\nMcCaughey's father died in 1970 at the age of 60. Her mother, an alcoholic, died the next year of liver disease at the age of 42. In 1972, she married Thomas K. McCaughey, a Yale College graduate she had met in college. He was then moving up as an investment banker. The McCaugheys separated in 1992 and divorced in 1994, with McCaughey and her ex-spouse sharing joint custody of their three daughters. In January 1993, she filed an affidavit in her divorce proceeding in which she said she had no annual earnings from employment during most of the 18 years of her marriage to Thomas, and she had never earned more than $20,000 per year except in 1990, when she \"sold an idea to Fox television for a windfall once-in-a-lifetime sum of $75,000.\"\n\nShe married wealthy investment banker and prominent Democratic Party fundraiser Wilbur Ross, Jr. in December 1995. He filed for divorce in November 1998.\n\nMcCaughey taught history as a visiting assistant professor at Vassar College in 1977–1978 and was a lecturer in 1979–1980. She was an assistant professor at between 1981 and 1983, teaching two classes per year, both at Columbia University Between 1983 and 1984, she had a National Endowment for the Humanities postdoctoral fellowship. From 1986 to 1988, she served as a guest curator at the New-York Historical Society and was responsible for the museum's exhibit commemorating the bicentennial of the US Constitution. She also authored a book, \"Government by Choice: Inventing the United States Constitution\", which cataloged the exhibit.\n\nIn the late 1980s, McCaughey briefly considered a career in TV news, but she opted instead for a position as a senior scholar at the Center for the Study of the Presidency, serving from 1989 to 1992. There, she wrote an article, book reviews, and a guest editorial for its journal, \"Presidential Studies Quarterly (PSQ)\", and an op-ed in \"USA Today\" advocating reform of the Electoral College method of electing the president. She testified at a July 22, 1992 hearing before the United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and helped produce a report suggesting constitutional amendments to fix perceived flaws in the Electoral College.\n\nMcCaughey also wrote op-ed columns that appeared in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\", and \"USA Today\" in which she opposed plans involving local and state redistricting to comply with the Voting Rights Act, and she criticized federal court-ordered desegregation of schools in Connecticut and New Jersey. She also supported the nomination of a federal judge, Clarence Thomas to the United States Supreme Court by arguing that he would judge cases there on their merits and not tend to interpret cases in a manner consistent with his conservative beliefs; She also supported a tobacco company in litigation before the Supreme Court and praised the 1992 \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" Supreme Court decision, restricting abortion rights.\n\nIn February 1993, the John M. Olin Foundation funded a fellowship at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank, for McCaughey to write a book on race and the legal system to be titled \"Beyond Pluralism: Overcoming the Narcissism of Minor Differences\". McCaughey wrote op-eds over the next six months in \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"USA Today\" in which she supported the 1993 selection of a jury from predominately-white, Republican, rural counties for the urban (Memphis)-located retrial of African American and Democratic US Representative Harold Ford, Sr., and praised the 1993 \"Shaw v. Reno\" Supreme Court decision, favoring five white voters who said their rights had been infringed upon by redistricting that had been done to comply with the Voting Rights Act.\n\nOn September 22, 1993, US President Bill Clinton delivered a nationally televised speech about his healthcare reform plan to a joint session of Congress. From September 28 to 30, 1993, First Lady Hillary Clinton, the architect of the universal health care plan, testified about its details before five US congressional committees. The cost of providing insurance for the estimated 37 million people then uninsured was to be covered in part by new taxes on tobacco. On the last day of Hillary Clinton's testimony, \"The Wall Street Journal\" published an op-ed by McCaughey, who wrote that the 239-page draft legislation differed markedly from the White House's public statements and would have \"devastating consequences\". Citing words and phrases from the draft, she argued that the 77 percent of Americans then covered by insurance would see a downgrade in their policies, and most would not be able to keep their own physicians but be forced into price-controlled health maintenance organizations (HMOs), which would provide only the most basic care. According to McCaughey, the HMO plans would not pay for visits to specialists or for second opinions, and most physicians would be driven out of private practice.\n\nIn late November 1993, the bill for the Clinton health care plan of 1993 was introduced in the Congress and made publicly available. \"The Wall Street Journal\" then published an op-ed by McCaughey in which said she had pored over the entire bill and concluded that it had price controls that would cause rationing, and the bill was dangerous.\n\nMcCaughey expanded her op-eds into a five-page article titled \"No Exit\", which appeared as the cover story in \"The New Republic\" and was published a few days before President Clinton's 1994 State of the Union address. An internal memo by tobacco company Philip Morris, dated March 1994, indicated that representatives of Philip Morris had collaborated with McCaughey when she was writing \"No Exit\": \"Worked off-the-record with Manhattan and writer Betsy McCaughey as part of the input to the three-part exposé in The New Republic on what the Clinton plan means to you. The first part detailed specifics of the plan.\" (When the memo was discussed in a 2009 story in \"Rolling Stone\", McCaughey declined to comment.)\n\nMcCaughey's \"No Exit\" article was quickly used by conservative officials and commentators seeking to discredit the Clinton plan. Senator Bob Dole, in the Republican Party response to the President's State of the Union, used some of McCaughey's arguments of fewer choices, lower quality, and more government control. Bill Kristol's Project for the Republican Future quickly launched television advertisements featuring quotes from McCaughey's two \"Wall Street Journal\" op-ed columns and her \"The New Republic\" article. \"Newsweek\" columnist George Will used McCaughey's writings as a basis for predicting that the Clinton health plan would kill patients and make it illegal for patients to pay doctors directly for care, with 15-year jail terms for patients who tried to do so.\n\nThe Clinton White House press office issued a response to McCaughey's \"No Exit\" article by arguing that it contained \"numerous factual inaccuracies and misleading statements.\" McCaughey responded that her claims came \"straight from the text of the bill.\" Supporters of the Clinton plan questioned McCaughey's claims, including her statements that \"the law will prevent you from going outside the system to buy basic health coverage you think is better\" and that \"doctor[s] can be paid only by the plan, not by you\" by pointing to the text of the legislation such as Section 1003: \"Nothing in this Act shall be construed as prohibiting... An individual from purchasing any health care services.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", the \"No Exit\" article, the White House response, and the ensuing television and radio interviews with McCaughey made her a star: \"Her toothy good looks, body-conscious suits, Vassar BA and Columbia PhD reduced right-wingers to mush.\"\n\nThe bill stalled and died in Congress in 1994, and the next year, Clinton was reduced to asking Congress for a series of small, incremental reforms to healthcare. The \"No Exit\" article won the National Magazine Award for excellence in the public interest. Andrew Sullivan, the editor of \"The New Republic\", later stated that he believed there were flaws in McCaughey's article, but he ran it \"as a provocation to debate.\" In 2006, a new editor recanted the story.\n\nIn 2009, \"The Daily Beast\" called her \"The Woman Who Killed Health Care\".\n\nFollowing the national attention McCaughey received in the 1990s healthcare legislation debate, Pataki, a first-term New York state senator who was running for governor, chose her as his running mate. Despite McCaughey's complete lack of experience as a political candidate or officeholder and the fact that Pataki did not personally know McCaughey, Pataki perceived that she was very popular among conservatives, who, at the time, were still suspicious of him and that her public image would make his longshot candidacy more appealing to independent and female voters. Regarding her status as a political rookie, McCaughey said, \"Many New Yorkers see that as a plus.\"\n\nMcCaughey said that she accepted the nomination by believing she would be Pataki's \"point person on health policy.\" After winning the election, Pataki told \"The New York Times\", McCaughey would have \"very real and significant responsibilities\" as lieutenant governor. McCaughey was initially tasked by Pataki to work on education policy and on reducing New York's Medicaid budget. By January 1995, McCaughey had produced a set of recommendations that required cost cutting by hospitals and nursing homes so that the poor did not have to bear the entire burden of balancing the state's Medicaid budget by a reduction of their benefits. However, McCaughey's recommendations were largely ignored.\n\nAfter Pataki refused to give McCaughey permission to conduct a study into child abuse, she did one anyway and publicly announced its results. McCaughey was publicly critical of the governor's proposed cuts to Medicaid and gave a pro-choice speech without his advance permission. In March 1996, \"The New York Times\" reported that McCaughey was locked out of the governor's inner circle because she had violated the \"unwritten rules\" of the conventional lieutenant governor's role. Rather than following protocol as lieutenant governor by taking a seat with everyone else during Pataki's State of the State address to the legislature in 1996, McCaughey stood for the entire 56 min speech's length, further attracting attention to herself at her governor's expense. In the spring of 1997, Governor Pataki announced that McCaughey would not be his running mate when he ran for re-election in 1998. He later selected New York State Supreme Court Justice Mary Donohue to replace her.\n\nThough she had always voted Republican in presidential elections and taken conservative Republican policy positions, McCaughey suddenly switched her party affiliation to Democrat and soon announced plans to run for governor against Pataki. McCaughey was the early frontrunner for her new party's nomination process, in part because of her statewide name and face recognition and in part because of the financial support of her wealthy then-husband. During her campaign for governor, she was criticized for firing a succession of campaign aides and political advisers and possibly changing her core political beliefs in order to appear more electable to New York voters. As her opinion poll numbers sank, her husband took away more than half of the funds he had pledged to her campaign.\n\nMcCaughey was defeated in the Democratic primary election by New York City Councilman Peter Vallone (who then lost the general election to Pataki, 54 percent to 33 percent). McCaughey had earlier received the nomination of the Liberal Party of New York for governor and stayed in the general election. McCaughey's campaign attracted little support, and she received only 1.65 percent of the general vote for governor. Following the election, she divorced and then sued her former husband alleging \"$40 million fraud,\" claiming that he promised to fund her campaign unconditionally.\n\nMcCaughey has worked on patient advocacy and healthcare policy issues since leaving office in 1999. She was senior fellow at the conservative Hudson Institute beginning in 1999 and an adjunct senior fellow beginning in 2002. She was a member of the board of directors of Genta, a company focused on the delivery of innovative products for cancer treatment from 2001 to her resignation in October 2007. She was also a member of the board of directors of the Cantel Medical Corporation, a medical device manufacturer, from 2005 to her resignation in August 2009 to avoid the appearance a conflict of interest while she was engaged in advocacy on healthcare reform legislation.\n\nIn 2004, she founded the Committee to Reduce Infection Deaths (RID) in reaction to a rise in antibiotic resistant staphylococcus aureus and other hospital-borne infections. The non-profit RID is \"devoted solely to providing safer, cleaner, hospital care\". She remains the chair and representative of the organization. She has appeared on \"Fox News\", \"CNN\", and many radio shows to discuss her research and how to prevent infection deaths. Her organization's efforts have led to legislation in more than 25 states requiring hospitals to report infections.\n\nIn August 2007, the American Cancer Society dedicated $15 million to a public awareness campaign on inadequate access to healthcare for the 47 million Americans not covered by insurance. It claimed that there would be a greater decline in cancer deaths if more cases of cancer were diagnosed in the early stages. The society noted that studies had shown that patients without insurance were more than twice as likely to have their cancer diagnosed in the late stages of the disease. One of the cancer society's commercials stated, \"We're making progress, but it's not enough if people don't have access to the care that could save their lives.\"\n\nMcCaughey criticized the campaign, saying that it should instead refocus on educating people about cancer prevention and detection. She argued that evidence had shown that the US had higher rates of cancer survival than countries with universal healthcare coverage because of shorter wait times for treatment, better availability of new drugs for therapy, and more frequent cancer screenings. She expanded her argument into a \"Brief Analysis\" published the following month by the National Center for Policy Analysis in which she maintained that the US was number one in the world in cancer care. Sources for her analysis included a paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research, a non profit, non partisan research organization, and an article in the British medical journal \"Lancet Oncology\", which analyzed 2000–2002 cancer survival figures from Europe. The American Cancer Society responded by citing a study of nearly 600,000 cancer cases that concluded that compared to people with private insurance, uninsured patients in the US were 1.6 times more likely to die within five years of their diagnosis.\n\nMcCaughey published an op-ed on February 9, 2009 and claimed that the Obama administration's pending American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 stimulus contained the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, hidden provisions that would harm the health of Americans as well as the healthcare sector of the economy. She argued that the bill would establish two powerful new bureaucracies: the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology and the Federal Coordinating Council for Comparative Effectiveness Research.\n\nMcCaughey said the National Coordinator would monitor patients' electronic medical records to ensure that doctors and hospitals treated patients in a way that \"the federal government deems appropriate and cost effective\" and that doctors and hospitals deviating from the government's \"electronically delivered protocols\" would be penalized. She said that the Federal Coordinating Council would be composed of appointed bureaucrats charged with a costcutting agenda that would slow the development of new medical products and drugs and ration healthcare for senior citizens. She opined that the bureaucrats would use a comparative effectiveness formula, which, in the United Kingdom, had resulted in a requirement that senior citizens go blind in one eye before the government would pay for a treatment to save the sight in the other eye.\n\nCritics claimed McCaughey's claims were distorted, pointing out that the National Coordinator was not new but had been created five years earlier by George W. Bush and that the 2009 legislation was not about limiting doctors' ability to prescribe treatments but instead establishing a system of electronic records to give physicians complete and accurate information their patients.\n\nFactCheck.org noted that comparative effectiveness research had been funded by the US government for years but agreed with McCaughey that there would be penalties for health providers that did not use the electronic records system. The effectiveness research council was a new initiative, as McCaughey had said. However, supporters of the stimulus bill provision said that research funded would provide additional evidence to guide treatment decisions and save lives and money by avoiding unnecessary, ineffective, or risky treatments.\n\nMcCaughey's viewpoint was soon echoed and extended by conservative talk show host Rush Limbaugh and multiple Fox News Channel broadcasters. Republican US Representative Charles Boustany Jr. of Louisiana, a heart surgeon, added that he feared that comparative effectiveness research would be misused by federal bureaucrats to \"ration care, to deny life-saving treatment to seniors and disabled people.\" Other conservatives agreed that the legislation could put the federal government in the middle of the doctor-patient relationship. The stimulus bill was passed with the healthcare-related provisions still included. McCaughey urged their repeal so that their potential impact could be studied further.\n\nMcCaughey opposed the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 debated in Congress in 2009. She made allegations about certain provisions of the bills that provided for Medicare payments to physicians for end-of-life and living will counseling and about Ezekiel Emanuel, then an adviser to the Obama administration's budget director and chairman of the bioethics department at the National Institutes of Health. McCaughey's claims may have inspired Sarah Palin's more high-profile claims that the legislation would lead to so-called death panels. The provisions in the legislation that McCaughey advocated against were removed from the bill before it became law.\n\nIn July 2009, McCaughey claimed that a section in the pending healthcare legislation, \"Advance Care Planning Consultation\", actually prescribed \"euthanasia for the elderly\" because it included provisions thatwould make it mandatory — absolutely require — that every five years people in Medicare have a required counseling session that will tell them how to end their life sooner [and inform them how to] decline nutrition, how to decline being hydrated, how to go in to hospice care ... all to do what's in society's best interest or in your family's best interest and cut your life short.McCaughey's choice of words and analysis were described by \"The Atlantic\"'s James Fallows as inaccurate and sensationalistic. Politifact responded that the end-of-life counseling was voluntary, calling McCaughey's claim a \"ridiculous falsehood\" and giving it their lowest accuracy rating, \"pants on fire\". Factcheck.org called the claims \"nonsense\" and stated that what that section of the bill would actually do is \"require Medicare to pay for voluntary counseling sessions helping seniors to plan for end-of-life medical care, including designating a health care proxy, choosing a hospice and making decisions about life-sustaining treatment.\" During an appearance on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" which aired on August 20, 2009, McCaughey repeated these assertions about the counselling sessions and referred to the Factcheck.org as \"spot-check dot org\", claiming they failed to adequately read the House health care bill. In a rebuttal, Factcheck.org stood by their analysis and provided further analysis, which led them to conclude that McCaughey had misinterpreted the bill.\n\nIn August 2009, WNYC's \"On the Media\" also addressed McCaughey's claims, concluding that the provision actually mandated that the federal government compensate \"counseling sessions\" on elder law, such as estate planning, \"will writing and hospice care.\"\n\nMcCaughey described Emanuel in a \"New York Post\" opinion article as a \"Deadly Doctor\" who advocated healthcare rationing by age and disability. Factcheck.org said this was incorrect and that \"Emanuel's meaning is being twisted... he was talking about a philosophical trend, and... writing about how to make the most ethical choices when forced to choose which patients get organ transplants or vaccines when supplies are limited.\" An article in \"Time\" magazine said that Emanuel \"was only addressing extreme cases like organ donation, where there is an absolute scarcity of resources\", and quoted Emanuel as saying: \"My quotes were just being taken out of context.\" The \"New York Times\" noted that Emanuel had opposed the legalization of euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide when such proposals were being debated in the late 1990s.\n\nMcCaughey resigned from the Board of Cantel Medical Corporation on August 20, 2009 \"to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest during the national debate over healthcare reform\", according to a press release by the company. Other reports claimed that she resigned after negative reactions to her performance on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" one day earlier.\n\nIn an appearance on MSNBC's \"Morning Meeting\" on October 6, 2009, McCaughey advocated gradually extending the minimum age for Medicare coverage upward from 65 to 70 in order to keep the Medicare system solvent.\n\nIn an August 7, 2012 opinion piece in \"The\" \"Wall Street Journal\", McCaughey described as \"phony\" an assertion that repealing the Affordable Care Act would increase federal deficits.\n\nIn a September 15, 2013 opinion piece in the \"New York Post\" entitled \"Obamacare will question your sex life\", McCaughey wrote: Are you sexually active? If so, with one partner, multiple partners or same-sex partners?\" Be ready to answer those questions and more the next time you go to the doctor, whether it's the dermatologist or the cardiologist and no matter if the questions are unrelated to why you're seeking medical help. And you can thank the Obama health law.\nPolitifact rated this assertion as \"Pants on Fire\", and FactCheck.org also called it false.\n\nIn an October 25, 2013 appearance on Fox News, McCaughey said that the Affordable Care Act would have the effect of \"eviscerating Medicare.\"\n\nOn her Twitter feed and on television, McCaughey stated that members of Congress and other government employees were granted a \"special subsidy\" and a \"premium illegally arranged by Obama\" under the Affordable Care Act. Factcheck.org, Politifact, and fact checkers at CNN all found that assertion to be false.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52236264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52236264", "title": "Border Five", "text": "Border Five\n\nBorder Five is an informal forum on customs and border management policy issues, with participation from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The participating authorities are Canada Border Services Agency, Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection, the New Zealand Customs Service, US Department of Homeland Security, and UK Border Force.\n\n"}
{"id": "11001734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11001734", "title": "Brambles Farm Peace Camp", "text": "Brambles Farm Peace Camp\n\nThe Brambles Farm Peace Camp was a peace camp set up in the Spring of 1982 on farmland at Waterlooville, Hampshire by local residents and peace campaigners to protest at and to disrupt the planned construction of a torpedo factory on the site. The demonstrators occupied the land for some 12 weeks before being evicted in September of that year. The site was soon re-occupied for a short time although this was short-lived and the peace camp folded soon after. The Torpedo Town Festival was born out of the camp and was held at various locations, wandering from Hampshire to as far away as Wales, until the early nineties.\n"}
{"id": "4352484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4352484", "title": "Brazilian firearms and ammunition referendum, 2005", "text": "Brazilian firearms and ammunition referendum, 2005\n\nOn October 23, 2005, Brazil held a country-wide referendum on article 35 of the Disarmament Statute to determine whether to approve or disapprove the article, which states in full, \"The sale of firearms and ammunition is prohibited in the entire national territory, except to those entities provided in article 6 of this Law.\" (\"Art. 35. É proibida a comercialização de arma de fogo e munição em todo o território nacional, salvo para as entidades previstas no art. 6 desta Lei.\") The referendum failed by nearly ⅔ and that part of the statute was not enacted.\n\nThe referendum and its date had been provided by the Disarmament Statute itself (art. 35, §1). During the drafting and development of the law, it had been decided that article 35 should be submitted to a referendum because of the importance of its subject. On July 7, 2005, the Federal Senate of Brazil promulgated legislative decree 780, which authorized the referendum. Article 2 of its decree stipulated that the public consultation should employ the following question: \"Should commerce in firearms and ammunition be prohibited in Brazil?\" (\"O comércio de armas de fogo e munição deve ser proibido no Brasil?\")\n\nVoting was compulsory for people between the ages of 18 and 70. The belief of a fundamental natural human right to self-defense, low efficacy of police, high levels of use of illegal weapons in crimes in contrast to a very rare usage of legal weapons, are some of the factors that may have influenced 65% of Brazilian people to vote against the ban proposal. The gun ban proposal received broad support in the press, while celebrities were generally in favor of it, only Brazil's anti-ban social groups and right-wing press, most importantly Veja the Brazilian news magazine (indeed weekly publication of any kind) with the largest paid circulation in the country. Other media, like the powerful Globo group (owners of Brazil's largest TV network Rede Globo) and newspapers of record like Folha de S.Paulo advocated clearly pro gun ban. The Federal Government was a self-declared pro gun ban power .\n\nAccording to the Brazilian constitution, every citizen has the right to self-defense and the pro-gun campaigners focused their arguments on this constitutional right, as well as making economic arguments.\n\nA decisive argument made by the pro-gun campaigners was to question the morality of the government removing a right from its citizens, resulting in a strong feeling among voters that no rights should ever be allowed to be taken away by the government. Also, there were debates about the significant cultural status of gun ownership in the southern states of the country.\n\nAnother major argument used by the pro-gun ownership campaigners was the fact that the absolute majority of the gun crimes in Brazil were committed with unregistered and illegal guns, specially high caliber guns, that were already forbidden in Brazil and due to that, it would be of no use to forbid law-abiding citizens to own legal registered guns in accordance to the law. This argument was strongly reinforced by the fact that the regions where gun ownership is widespread were the ones with the smallest number of gun-related deaths. In the South region where there is the highest number of legal guns per citizen only 59% of all murders were caused by firearms in contrast to 70% in the Northeast where there is the lowest number of legal firearms per citizen.\n\nThe anti-gun proponents argued that guns are dangerous for society and that their only reason to exist is to harm others.\n\nThe anti-gun campaign received widespread support from several famous actors, musicians and other Brazilian celebrities and a noticeable support from the nation's main TV station, Rede Globo.\n\nThe ban had the backing of the federal government and sections of the Brazilian Roman Catholic Church. The anti-gun lobby received vast support and free coverage from the press, including Rede Globo, Brazil's largest TV network despite its parent company fairly neutral stance which eventually was reflected. By that time most Protestant-evangelical news organizations had taken a clearly anti-ban stance (including the Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus-owned Rede Record, Globo's main competitor at the time.\n\nThe IANSA member groups \"Instituto Sou da Paz\" and \"Viva Rio\" campaigned for a complete ban on civilian gun sales in Brazil, in support of the referendum. A week before the vote, IANSA, an international gun control organization coordinated an international day of support for the Brazilian ban, with demonstrations taking place in Britain, Italy, South Africa, and other countries. IANSA urged support of the ban to \"reinforce the movement in favor of gun control in other Latin American countries riddled with armed violence, and back the efforts to control private gun ownership at [an] international level.\"\n\nThe result of the referendum ended with a victory of those against the gun ban, with over 63% of the voters opposed. Although the Brazilian Government, the Catholic Church, and the United Nations, argued in favor of a gun ban, it was argued successfully that guns are needed for personal security.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9524912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9524912", "title": "Canada's New Government", "text": "Canada's New Government\n\n\"Canada's New Government\" was a branding term or political slogan used by the Government of Canada during the first twenty months of the 28th Canadian Ministry under Stephen Harper. Previously, federal government announcements simply referred to the \"Government of Canada\".\n\nHarper, leader of the Conservative Party, took office as Prime Minister of Canada on February 6, 2006. Immediately thereafter, the federal government began to use the term as part of a marketing campaign to differentiate the Harper government from the previous Liberal Party government, led by Paul Martin.\n\nFor the first few months after Harper's party assumed office, it is believed that this term was used only in very high level communication and press releases from the Prime Minister's Office and the offices of federal cabinet ministers. It was also applied to some government communication through the www.gc.ca web portal. Beginning in the summer of 2006, wider use of the term was encouraged by the Harper government in Canada's public service, however policies for its use were unclear.\n\nThe phrase was quietly dropped in October 2007, with most references reverting to the \"Government of Canada\".\n\nIssues regarding usage of the phrase within the public service culminated in a situation where Andrew Okulitch, a retired research scientist and at that time a scientist emeritus with the Geological Survey of Canada, refused to comply with a communications directive from Natural Resources Canada that specified employees use the term.\n\nIt read as follows:\n\nThis was followed with a reply from Okulitch to all recipients of the email:\n\nOkulitch received this reply to his email within an hour from Irwin Itzkovitch, then Assistant Deputy Minister, Earth Sciences Sector:\n\nA media frenzy ensued, deriding the federal government's treatment of the affair and Okulitch was reinstated by Deputy Minister of Natural Resources, Cassie Doyle who informed Okulitch that he would not have to use the phrase as it was not intended for \"working-level people and never was.\" This was confirmed by Minister of Natural Resources, Gary Lunn, who said there was no expectation for anyone in the department to use the slogan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56220874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56220874", "title": "Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage", "text": "Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage\n\nCentral Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage was a committee formed in 1872 in London to lobby parliament. It was initially led by activists from Manchester.\n\nJacob Bright suggested in 1871 that it would be useful to create a London-based organisation to lobby members of parliament concerning women's suffrage. The Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage first met on 17 January 1872. The first committee included Frances Power Cobbe, Priscilla Bright McLaren, Lilias Ashworth Hallett and Agnes Garrett. The committee introduced a subscription fee of a shilling per annum. Millicent Fawcett joined the committee in 1874.\n\nLydia Becker became the chair of the committee in 1881. Other committee members then included Helen Blackburn, Millicent Fawcett, Jessie Boucherett, Eva McLaren, Margaret Bright Lucas as well as Priscilla Bright McLaren and Frances Power Cobbe.\n"}
{"id": "36351667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36351667", "title": "Centre for Public Policy Research", "text": "Centre for Public Policy Research\n\nCentre for Public Policy Research(CPPR) is an independent non-profit research organization located in Kochi, India. It was established in the year 2004. It conducts professional research, integrating developments in the areas of education, livelihood, governance, urban reforms and environment. The four focus study centers are: CPPR Centre for Urban Studies, CPPR Centre for Comparative Studies, CPPR Centre for Strategic Studies and CPPR Academy.\n\nCPPR was conceived as a policy by a group of young individuals, who believed in Freedom of Expression, Rule of Law and Right to Livelihood. The centre aims to support the creation of an equitable, socially just and environmentally sound society enriched by the principles of democracy and secularism.\n\nIn 2009, the Ministry of Science and Technology, India authorised the CPPR team and Civitas Legal Solutionsto assist the Government of India (GOI) in preparing the National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy. The Cabinet of India cleared the draft policy on February 15, 2012.\n\nCPPR also initiated the Digital RTI Missionin 2009, making Kerala the first RTI digital state of India.\n\nSusan Zielinski, Managing Director of SMART, Michigan University, launched the CPPR Centre for Urban Studies in Kochi on September 2, 2013.\n\nThe centre aims to understand the emergence of growth centers, market activity and the diverse nature of urbanization in India. It strives to develop market models for building sustainable systems and processes to meet the growing demands of urban spaces. It was in the forefront of initiating ‘Bus Day’ in Kochi, a campaign aimed at branding buses as the best way to move about a city. The campaign encouraged people to leave their private vehicles at home and hop on to city buses, to understand the importance of the public transport system in reducing traffic and environmental issues.\n\nDr Chandra Ranade, Adjunct Faculty of Virginia International University, launched the CPPR Centre for Comparative Studies in Kochi on September 6, 2013. \n\nThe centre attempts to study the socio-economic and political factors influencing the development of states in India. It analyses the evolution of democratic processes, voting patterns and new actors of conflict in the states of India. The centre also looks into Centre–state relationship, state–state relationship and city–city relationship in the post-globalised world.\n\nCPPR Centre for Strategic Studies was launched in Kochi on August 16, 2013 . The event was marked by a lecture on ‘Prospects of ASEAN in India’s Look East Policy’ delivered by Dr. Ernest Bower, Senior Adviser and Sumitro Chair for Southeast Asia Studies, Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS), Washington D.C. It was held in association with the Office of Public Affairs, U.S. Consulate General, Chennai.\n\nThe centre initiates research in the areas of energy security, maritime security, terrorism, inter-state and inter-country cooperation and extremism. It seeks to develop database and expertise on security in India at the regional level. It also aims to develop a vision plan for Centre-State relationship in national security. This will aid the Indian Government and its security agencies in developing a framework to strengthen security and coordination at the state level.\n\nCPPR Academy aims to promote research and scientific thinking and strives to spread knowledge about public policy research. The academy purports to seek partnerships with like-minded academia and institutions across the world.\nAround 80 students and staff of Semester at Sea (SAS), a 105-day academic voyage around the world on a floating campus, MV Explorer, anchored in Kochi for the first time in 2010. The participants visited the CPPR office in Kochi to attend a presentation on ‘Social Justice, Sustainable Development and Democracy in India’. SAS is a unique course designed for students from various streams and nationalities with sessions inside a ship. The University of Virginia is the academic sponsor of the programme.\n\nSAS has now become a regular affair with Kochi and India on its map, due to the efforts of CPPR. The centre has hosted SAS six times since 2010, with the latest being a thematic session on 'Global Trade from India's Perspective' in March 2016.\n\n\nCPPR conducts a three-day residential certificate course for law graduates called the Finishing School for Law Students (FSL). The course offers the participants unique insights into legal practice. It is organised by the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Centre, the dispute resolution wing of CPPR. Launched in 2008, the ADR Centre provides cutting-edge services to assist the growth of ADR in India.\n\nThe concept of Winter School was initiated in 2012, when the Atlas Economic Research Foundation or Atlas Network and CPPR came together to launch a pilot venture to impart necessary training in research techniques to public policy researchers across the globe. Surprisingly, it was found that many institutions working in the arena of public policy, advocacy and policy analysis were doing research with less or no understanding of research techniques. The Atlas Network wanted CPPR to train research institutions and individual researchers, who can utilise the skills for their activities in their home countries. The primary aim was to facilitate research that stood out for its originality of thought and approach. Over the years, both Summer Schools and Winter Schools have attracted participants from Europe, Africa, Australia, America and Asia.\n\n\nCPPR offers internship opportunities to undergraduate and graduate students looking to engage with the public policy space. It has hosted more than 100 interns from different educational and cultural backgrounds, who have become its campus ambassadors in India and abroad. \n\nThe CPPR Quarterly Lecture Series is one of the prestigious events organised by CPPR, which has helped cement its position as one of the leading policy think tanks in India. Through the lecture series, CPPR aims to stimulate thought processes and inspire people to act through talks, debates and discussions on social, political, economic, strategic and legal areas.\n\n\nCPPR has remarkably manifested its presence in the society within its short span of time. Through academic and nonacademic activities CPPR initiated a change in the existing system of the society. To name a few milestones and achievements, it includes\nMobility Hub: CPPR created a Mobility Hub concept with the District Administration of Ernakulam. CPPR developed feasibility study for the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). It is a long-term transport solution for the city of KochiBased on suggestions from Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), Cochin, Kochi Metro Rail Limited decided to shift Vyttila station to Vyttila Mobility Hub to follow the guidelines of ministry of Urban Development to integrate various mode of transport.Long distance buses operate out of Vyttila hub and the hub authorities are planning to build a new boat jetty there as the part of their second phase of development. Thus, the Kochi metro project became the first metro in the country which connects rail, road and water transport facilities\n\nLivelihood Freedom Campaign: The Law, Liberty and Livelihood Project documented the livelihood regulations and entry level barriers governing the informal sectors in the 63 Indian cities identified for Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM).\n\nIndia Development Indicators: It is an online platform that leverages existing investments in data by standardizing, harmonizing, and visualizing development data at various resolutions such as state, district, and parliamentary constituency. CPPR carried out this project in 20 states and 2 UTs covering 378 districts.\n\nStudy on Autorickshaw sector in Chennai: CPPR partnered with Civitas Urban Solutions for a study commissioned by Chennai City Connect Foundation. The study aimed at finding the reasons for the distorted pricing of autorickshaw fare system in Chennai. The study was comprehensive with a larger representative samples of the passengers and auto rickshaw drivers of Chennai. Study proposed suggestions for the policy changes in the sector.\n\nNDSAP: CPPR was given the mandate by the Ministry of Science and Technology to assist the Government of India in preparing the National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy (NDSAP), 2011 - intended to meet the demands of the general public to access government documents through a single window system.\n\nStudy on Para-transit System in Chennai: Urban Consultancy wing of CPPR, Civitas Urban Solutions in association with Chennai City Connect and supported by Sakthi Foundation, Delhi, conducted a study on the para-transit system in the city of Chennai. This Study aims at raising the status of Para-transit services, formally integrate them into the existing and future public transport system with nurturing and transparent regulations. The report has been taken up by the City Traffic Commissioner, Chennai City to make improvements in Parking in Chennai City.\n\nCompendium on campus politics in India: Liberal Youth Forum (LYF), in association with the Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), conducted a study, wherein it probed how and to what extent Lyngdoh’s recommendations were implemented in colleges and universities, and what were the results. The study feature dialogues with educational authorities and campus leaders to understand how campus politics is conducted.The study was able to cover 100 colleges and universities across the country.\n\nParking Guidelines for Chennai: This study was conducted by the Civitas Urban Solutions in partnership with CPPR. Study undertook four case study areas and suggested guidelines for the parking slots and infrastructure.\n\nDr D Dhanuraj is the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of CPPR. The advisory board includes former Ambassador T. P. Sreenivasan, Professor Shanta Sinha, and Professor K.N. Panikkar.\n\n"}
{"id": "48816838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48816838", "title": "Committee for the Defence of Democracy", "text": "Committee for the Defence of Democracy\n\nThe Committee for the Defence of Democracy, CDD(, \"KOD\") is a Polish-born civic organization and NGO promoting European values, especially democracy, rule of law and human rights, founded in November 2015 by a group of citizens including Mateusz Kijowski, as a result of, and triggered by, the Polish constitutional crisis, 2015. The organization is independent of any political parties and has declared that it has no intention to transform into one, but its events and actions are supported by the liberal opposition including the Modern (.N) and Civic Platform (PO) parties. It is opposed to the actions of the government led by the Law and Justice (PiS) party.\n\nKOD has its Polish headquarters in Warsaw and international office in Brussels (KOD International), with chapters and affiliated associations around Europe, in North America, Asia and Australia.\n\nThe organization was awarded the 2016 European Citizens' Prize by the European Parliament for defending fundamental rights and democracy.\n\nKOD was formed after Law and Justice won parliament election. In opposition to several actions taken by the governing party, Law and Justice (, PiS), which in October 2015 became the first party in post-communist Polish history to control an absolute majority of the seats in the Polish Parliament, with a PiS-backed candidate, Andrzej Duda, winning the presidential elections just a few months earlier. The primary impetus for the formation of KOD was the Parliament’s enactment of a law on 26 November 2015 purporting to invalidate the prior Government’s appointment of five judges to the Polish Constitutional Court and the nomination of new PiS-affiliated judges to replace them. Since then the organisation has opposed and reacted to any actions taken by the government or President Andrzej Duda which were deemed unlawful, undermining democracy, limiting civil liberties or going against European principles.\n\nOn November 26, 2015, the members of KOD wrote an open letter entitled “A Letter of the Citizens of the Constitutional State to Andrzej Duda, the President of Poland” asking him to swear in three of the five judges to the Constitutional Court. KOD argued that those three, although not the other two, were duly elected by the previous parliament.\n\nAs the disagreements between the governing party and the Constitutional Court continued, KOD called for protests against what it perceives as a breach of the Constitution in violation of democratic norms and the constitutional separation of powers between the legislature, executive branch, and judiciary.\n\n\nMost of the protests in Poland are accompanied by smaller protests by KOD cells in most European capitals and around the world, notably in Brussels, London, Paris, Berlin and the USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1230415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230415", "title": "Data remanence", "text": "Data remanence\n\nData remanence is the residual representation of digital data that remains even after attempts have been made to remove or erase the data. This residue may result from data being left intact by a nominal file deletion operation, by reformatting of storage media that does not remove data previously written to the media, or through physical properties of the storage media that allow previously written data to be recovered. Data remanence may make inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information possible should the storage media be released into an uncontrolled environment (\"e.g.\", thrown in the trash or lost). \n\nVarious techniques have been developed to counter data remanence. These techniques are classified as clearing, purging/sanitizing, or destruction. Specific methods include overwriting, degaussing, encryption, and media destruction.\n\nEffective application of countermeasures can be complicated by several factors, including media that are inaccessible, media that cannot effectively be erased, advanced storage systems that maintain histories of data throughout the data's life cycle, and persistence of data in memory that is typically considered volatile.\n\nSeveral standards exist for the secure removal of data and the elimination of data remanence.\n\nMany operating systems, file managers, and other software provide a facility where a file is not immediately deleted when the user requests that action. Instead, the file is moved to a holding area, making it easy for the user to undo a mistake. Similarly, many software products automatically create backup copies of files that are being edited, to allow the user to restore the original version, or to recover from a possible crash (\"autosave\" feature).\n\nEven when an explicit deleted file retention facility is not provided or when the user does not use it, operating systems do not actually remove the contents of a file when it is deleted unless they are aware that explicit erasure commands are required, like on a solid-state drive. (In such cases, the operating system will issue the Serial ATA TRIM command or the SCSI UNMAP command to let the drive know to no longer maintain the deleted data.) Instead, they simply remove the file's entry from the file system directory, because this requires less work and is therefore faster, and the contents of the file—the actual data—remain on the storage medium. The data will remain there until the operating system reuses the space for new data. In some systems, enough filesystem metadata are also left behind to enable easy undeletion by commonly available utility software. Even when undelete has become impossible, the data, until it has been overwritten, can be read by software that reads disk sectors directly. Computer forensics often employs such software.\n\nLikewise, reformatting, repartitioning, or reimaging a system is unlikely to write to every area of the disk, though all will cause the disk to appear empty or, in the case of reimaging, empty except for the files present in the image, to most software.\n\nFinally, even when the storage media is overwritten, physical properties of the media may permit recovery of the previous contents. In most cases however, this recovery is not possible by just reading from the storage device in the usual way, but requires using laboratory techniques such as disassembling the device and directly accessing/reading from its components.\n\nThe section on complications gives further explanations for causes of data remanence.\n\nThere are three levels commonly recognized for eliminating remnant data:\n\nClearing is the removal of sensitive data from storage devices in such a way that there is assurance that the data may not be reconstructed using normal system functions or software file/data recovery utilities. The data may still be recoverable, but not without special laboratory techniques.\n\nClearing is typically an administrative protection against accidental disclosure within an organization. For example, before a hard drive is re-used within an organization, its contents may be cleared to prevent their accidental disclosure to the next user.\n\nPurging or sanitizing is the removal of sensitive data from a system or storage device with the intent that the data cannot be reconstructed by any known technique. Purging, proportional to the sensitivity of the data, is generally done before releasing media beyond control, such as before discarding old media, or moving media to a computer with different security requirements.\n\nThe storage media is made unusable for conventional equipment. Effectiveness of destroying the media varies by medium and method. Depending on recording density of the media, and/or the destruction technique, this may leave data recoverable by laboratory methods. Conversely, destruction using appropriate techniques is the most secure method of preventing retrieval.\n\nA common method used to counter data remanence is to overwrite the storage media with new data. This is often called wiping or shredding a file or disk, by analogy to common methods of destroying print media, although the mechanism bears no similarity to these. Because such a method can often be implemented in software alone, and may be able to selectively target only part of the media, it is a popular, low-cost option for some applications. Overwriting is generally an acceptable method of clearing, as long as the media is writable and not damaged.\n\nThe simplest overwrite technique writes the same data everywhere—often just a pattern of all zeros. At a minimum, this will prevent the data from being retrieved simply by reading from the media again using standard system functions.\n\nIn an attempt to counter more advanced data recovery techniques, specific overwrite patterns and multiple passes have often been prescribed. These may be generic patterns intended to eradicate any trace signatures, for example, the seven-pass pattern: 0xF6, 0x00, 0xFF, random, 0x00, 0xFF, random; sometimes erroneously attributed to the US standard DOD 5220.22-M.\n\nOne challenge with an overwrite is that some areas of the disk may be inaccessible, due to media degradation or other errors. Software overwrite may also be problematic in high-security environments which require stronger controls on data commingling than can be provided by the software in use. The use of advanced storage technologies may also make file-based overwrite ineffective (see the discussion below under \"Complications\").\n\nThere are specialized machines and software that are capable of doing overwriting. The software can sometimes be a standalone operating system specifically designed for data destruction. There are also machines specifically designed to wipe hard drives to the department of defense specifications DOD 5220.22-M.\n\nPeter Gutmann investigated data recovery from nominally overwritten media in the mid-1990s. He suggested magnetic force microscopy may be able to recover such data, and developed specific patterns, for specific drive technologies, designed to counter such. These patterns have come to be known as the Gutmann method.\n\nDaniel Feenberg, an economist at the private National Bureau of Economic Research, claims that the chances of overwritten data being recovered from a modern hard drive amount to \"urban legend\". He also points to the \"-minute gap\" Rose Mary Woods created on a tape of Richard Nixon discussing the Watergate break-in. Erased information in the gap has not been recovered, and Feenberg claims doing so would be an easy task compared to recovery of a modern high density digital signal.\n\nAs of November 2007, the United States Department of Defense considers overwriting acceptable for clearing magnetic media within the same security area/zone, but not as a sanitization method. Only degaussing or physical destruction is acceptable for the latter.\n\nOn the other hand, according to the 2014 NIST Special Publication 800-88 Rev. 1 (p. 7): \"For storage devices containing \"magnetic\" media, a single overwrite pass with a fixed pattern such as binary zeros typically hinders recovery of data even if state of the art laboratory techniques are applied to attempt to retrieve the data.\" An analysis by Wright et al. of recovery techniques, including magnetic force microscopy, also concludes that a single wipe is all that is required for modern drives. They point out that the long time required for multiple wipes \"has created a situation\nwhere many organisations ignore the issue all together – resulting in data leaks and\nloss.\"\n\nDegaussing is the removal or reduction of a magnetic field of a disk or drive, using a device called a degausser that has been designed for the media being erased. Applied to magnetic media, degaussing may purge an entire media element quickly and effectively.\n\nDegaussing often renders hard disks inoperable, as it erases low-level formatting that is only done at the factory during manufacturing. In some cases, it is possible to return the drive to a functional state by having it serviced at the manufacturer. However, some modern degaussers use such a strong magnetic pulse that the motor that spins the platters may be destroyed in the degaussing process, and servicing may not be cost-effective. Degaussed computer tape such as DLT can generally be reformatted and reused with standard consumer hardware.\n\nIn some high-security environments, one may be required to use a degausser that has been approved for the task. For example, in US government and military jurisdictions, one may be required to use a degausser from the NSA's \"Evaluated Products List\".\n\nEncrypting data before it is stored on the media may mitigate concerns about data remanence. If the decryption key is strong and carefully controlled, it may effectively make any data on the media unrecoverable. Even if the key is stored on the media, it may prove easier or quicker to overwrite just the key, vs the entire disk. This process is called crypto-shredding.\n\nEncryption may be done on a file-by-file basis, or on the whole disk. Cold boot attacks are one of the few possible methods for subverting a full-disk encryption method, as there is no possibility of storing the plain text key in an unencrypted section of the medium. See the section Complications: Data in RAM for further discussion.\n\nOther side-channel attacks (such as keyloggers, acquisition of a written note containing the decryption key, or rubber-hose cryptanalysis) may offer a greater chance to success, but do not rely on weaknesses in the cryptographic method employed. As such, their relevance for this article is minor.\n\nThorough destruction of the underlying storage media is the most certain way to counter data remanence. However, the process is generally time-consuming, cumbersome, and may require extremely thorough methods, as even a small fragment of the media may contain large amounts of data.\n\nSpecific destruction techniques include:\n\n\nStorage media may have areas which become inaccessible by normal means. For example, magnetic disks may develop new bad sectors after data has been written, and tapes require inter-record gaps. Modern hard disks often feature reallocation of marginal sectors or tracks, automated in a way that the operating system would not need to work with it. The problem is especially significant in solid state drives (SSDs) that rely on relatively large relocated bad block tables. Attempts to counter data remanence by overwriting may not be successful in such situations, as data remnants may persist in such nominally inaccessible areas.\n\nData storage systems with more sophisticated features may make overwrite ineffective, especially on a per-file basis. \nFor example, journaling file systems increase the integrity of data by recording write operations in multiple locations, and applying transaction-like semantics; on such systems, data remnants may exist in locations \"outside\" the nominal file storage location. Some file systems also implement copy-on-write or built-in revision control, with the intent that writing to a file never overwrites data in-place. Furthermore, technologies such as RAID and anti-fragmentation techniques may result in file data being written to multiple locations, either by design (for fault tolerance), or as data remnants.\n\nWear leveling can also defeat data erasure, by relocating blocks between the time when they are originally written and the time when they are overwritten. For this reason, some security protocols tailored to operating systems or other software featuring automatic wear leveling recommend conducting a free-space wipe of a given drive and then copying many small, easily identifiable \"junk\" files or files containing other nonsensitive data to fill as much of that drive as possible, leaving only the amount of free space necessary for satisfactory operation of system hardware and software. As storage and/or system demands grow, the \"junk data\" files can be deleted as necessary to free up space; even if the deletion of \"junk data\" files is not secure, their initial nonsensitivity reduces to near zero the consequences of recovery of data remanent from them.\n\nAs optical media are not magnetic, they are not erased by conventional degaussing. Write-once optical media (CD-R, DVD-R, etc.) also cannot be purged by overwriting. Rewritable optical media, such as CD-RW and DVD-RW, may be receptive to overwriting. Methods for successfully sanitizing optical discs include delaminating or abrading the metallic data layer, shredding, incinerating, destructive electrical arcing (as by exposure to microwave energy), and submersion in a polycarbonate solvent (e.g., acetone).\n\nResearch from the Center for Magnetic Recording and Research, University of California, San Diego has uncovered problems inherent in erasing data stored on solid-state drives (SSDs). Researchers discovered three problems with file storage on SSDs:\n\nSolid-state drives, which are flash-based, differ from hard-disk drives in two ways: first, in the way data is stored; and second, in the way the algorithms are used to manage and access that data. These differences can be exploited to recover previously erased data. SSDs maintain a layer of indirection between the logical addresses used by computer systems to access data and the internal addresses that identify physical storage. This layer of indirection hides idiosyncratic media interfaces and enhances SSD performance, reliability, and lifespan (see wear leveling); but it can also produce copies of the data that are invisible to the user and that a sophisticated attacker could recover. For sanitizing entire disks, sanitize commands built into the SSD hardware have been found to be effective when implemented correctly, and software-only techniques for sanitizing entire disks have been found to work most, but not all, of the time. In testing, none of the software techniques were effective for sanitizing individual files. These included well-known algorithms such as the Gutmann method, US DoD 5220.22-M, RCMP TSSIT OPS-II, Schneier 7 Pass, and Mac OS X Secure Erase Trash.\n\nThe TRIM feature in many SSD devices, if properly implemented, will eventually erase data after it is deleted, but the process can take some time, typically several minutes. Many older operating systems do not support this feature, and not all combinations of drives and operating systems work.\n\nData remanence has been observed in static random-access memory (SRAM), which is typically considered volatile (\"i.e.\", the contents degrade with loss of external power). In one study, data retention was observed even at room temperature.\n\nData remanence has also been observed in dynamic random-access memory (DRAM). Modern DRAM chips have a built-in self-refresh module, as they not only require a power supply to retain data, but must also be periodically refreshed to prevent their data contents from fading away from the capacitors in their integrated circuits. A study found data remanence in DRAM with data retention of seconds to minutes at room temperature and \"a full week without refresh when cooled with liquid nitrogen.\" The study authors were able to use a cold boot attack to recover cryptographic keys for several popular full disk encryption systems, including Microsoft BitLocker, Apple FileVault, dm-crypt for Linux, and TrueCrypt.\n\nDespite some memory degradation, authors of the above described study were able to take advantage of redundancy in the way keys are stored after they have been expanded for efficient use, such as in key scheduling. The authors recommend that computers be powered down, rather than be left in a \"sleep\" state, when not in physical control of the owner. In some cases, such as certain modes of the software program BitLocker, the authors recommend that a boot password or a key on a removable USB device be used. TRESOR is a kernel patch for Linux specifically intended to prevent cold boot attacks on RAM by ensuring encryption keys are neither user accessible nor stored in RAM.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425596", "title": "Democratic Union for Integration", "text": "Democratic Union for Integration\n\nThe Democratic Union for Integration (, \"BDI\"; , \"ДУИ\" — \"Demokratska unija za integracija\", \"DUI\") is the largest Albanian political party in the Republic of Macedonia, and the third largest political party in all of Macedonia. It was formed immediately after the country's 2001 conflict between the National Liberation Army (NLA) and the Macedonian Security Forces. The NLA leader Ali Ahmeti became party president.\n\nAt the legislative elections on 15 September 2002, the party won 11.9% of the popular vote (70% of the Albanian vote) and 16 of 120 seats.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006 it was part of the ruling coalition along with the Social Democratic Union of Macedonia (SDSM) and the Liberal Democratic Party.\n\nIn the 2006 legislative election, the party formed coalition with Party for Democratic Prosperity and Democratic League of Bosniaks. This coalition received 12,2% of the vote and 18 seats. Although DUI won the largest number of seats among ethnic Albanian parties (14), since their Macedonian governmental partners lost the election, it was not invited by the new Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski to participate in the new government. Its place was taken by the second largest Albanian political party, the Democratic Party of the Albanians.\n\nHowever, after the 2008 legislative early election, the party returned to government in coalition with VMRO-DPMNE.\n\nIn the 2011 parliamentary election, DUI received 10.2% of the total vote, winning 15 seats, a loss of the 3 seats from the previous election.\n\nAfter the foundations of a 13th-century church were found by a governmentally funded excavation within the Skopje Fortress complex, the Cultural Heritage Protection Office actioned a project to restore it in the form of a church museum. The DUI requested the Macedonian Government to halt construction in early 2011, which was ignored. Two weeks later, just under a hundred DUI supporters converged on the site on 11 February 2011, among them three high-ranking ethnic Albanian ministers, and some damaged part of the scaffolding.\n\n"}
{"id": "1215737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1215737", "title": "Department of Social Security (United Kingdom)", "text": "Department of Social Security (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Department of Social Security (DSS) is a defunct governmental agency in the United Kingdom. The old abbreviation is still often used informally. Advertisements for rented accommodation often describe prospective tenants who would be paying their rent by means of Housing Benefit as \"DSS\" tenants.\n\nAfter the Fowler report, the Department of Health and Social Security separated during 1988 to form two departments, one of which was the DSS. During 2001, the department was largely replaced by the Department for Work and Pensions, with the other responsibilities of the department assumed by the Treasury and the Ministry for Defence. \n\nBeginning in 1989, the department was subdivided into six executive agencies - firstly into the \"Resettlement agency\", in 1990 \"ITSA\" (Information Technology Services Agency), the \"Benefits Agency\" and \"Contributions Agency\" in 1991, the \"Child Support Agency\" in 1993 and the \"War pensions Agency\" in 1994.\n\nAs part of the then UK government's spending review (March 1998), a paper \"New Ambitions for our Country: A New Contract for Welfare\" (1998) announced plans to increase efficiency (\"streamline\") in the administration of \"benefits\" from policy of social welfare, plans subsequently adopted as the \"single gateway to benefits\". The Welfare Reform and Pensions Act of 1999 brought reforms to the DSS guided by the principle of \n"}
{"id": "1204401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204401", "title": "Diplomatic rank", "text": "Diplomatic rank\n\nDiplomatic rank is a system of professional and social rank used in the world of diplomacy and international relations. A diplomat's rank determines many ceremonial details, such as the order of precedence at official processions, table seatings at state dinners, the person to whom diplomatic credentials should be presented, and the title by which the diplomat should be addressed.\n\nThe current system of diplomatic ranks was established by the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961). There are three ranks, two of which remain in use:\n\n\nThe body of diplomats accredited to a country form the Diplomatic corps. Ambassadors have precedence over chargés, and precedence within each rank is determined by the date on which diplomatic credentials were presented. The longest-serving ambassador is the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, who speaks for the entire diplomatic corps on matters of diplomatic privilege and protocol. In many Catholic countries, the papal nuncio is always considered the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps.\n\nThe ranks established by the Vienna Convention (1961) modify a more elaborate system of ranks that was established by the Congress of Vienna (1815):\n\n\nThe rank of \"Envoy\" was short for \"Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary\", and was more commonly known as \"Minister\". For example, the \"Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States to the French Empire\" was known as the \"United States Minister to France\" and addressed as \"Monsieur le Ministre\".\n\nAn Ambassador was regarded as the personal representative of his sovereign as well as his government. Only major monarchies would exchange Ambassadors with each other, while smaller monarchies and republics only sent Ministers. Because of diplomatic reciprocity, Great Powers would only send a Minister to a smaller monarchy or a republic. For example, in the waning years of the Second French Empire, the United Kingdom sent an Ambassador to Paris, while Sweden-Norway and the United States sent Ministers.\n\nThe rule that only monarchies could send Ambassadors was more honored in the breach than the observance. This had been true even before the Congress of Vienna, as England continued to appoint ambassadors after becoming a republic in 1649. Countries that overthrew their monarchs proved to be unwilling to accept the lower rank accorded to a republic. After the Franco-Prussian War, the French Third Republic continued to send and receive ambassadors. The rule became increasingly untenable as the United States grew into a Great Power. The United States followed the French precedent in 1893 and began to exchange ambassadors with other Great Powers.\n\nHistorically, the order of precedence had been a matter of great dispute. European powers agreed that the papal nuncio and Imperial Ambassador would have precedence, but could not agree on the relative precedence of the kingdoms and smaller countries. In 1768, the French and Russian ambassadors to Great Britain even fought a duel over who had the right to sit next to the Imperial Ambassador at a court ball. After several diplomatic incidents between their ambassadors, France and Spain agreed in 1761 to let the date of arrival determine their precedence. In 1760, Portugal attempted to apply seniority to all ambassadors, but the rule was rejected by the other European courts.\n\nThe Congress of Vienna finally put an end to these disputes over precedence. After an initial attempt to divide countries into three ranks faltered on the question of which country should be in each rank, the Congress instead decided to divide \"diplomats\" into three ranks. A fourth rank was added by the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle (1818). Each diplomatic rank had precedence over the lower ranks, and precedence within each rank was determined by the date that their credentials were presented. The papal nuncio could be given a different precedence than the other ambassadors. The Holy Roman Empire had ceased to exist in 1806, so the Austrian ambassador would accumulate seniority along with the other ambassadors.\n\nIn modern diplomatic practice, there are a number of diplomatic ranks below Ambassador. Since most missions are now headed by an ambassador, these ranks now rarely indicate a mission's (or its host nation's) relative importance, but rather reflect the diplomat's individual seniority within their own nation's diplomatic career path and in the diplomatic corps in the host nation:\n\n\nThe term \"attaché\" is used for any diplomatic agent who does not fit in the standard diplomatic ranks, often because they are not (or were not traditionally) members of the sending country's diplomatic service or foreign ministry, and were therefore only \"attached\" to the diplomatic mission. The most frequent use is for military attachés, but the diplomatic title may be used for any specific individual or position as required, generally related to a specific or technical field. Since administrative and technical staff benefit from only limited diplomatic immunity, some countries may routinely appoint support staff as attachés. Attaché does not, therefore, denote any rank or position (except in Soviet and post-Soviet diplomatic services, where attaché is the lowest diplomatic rank of a career diplomat). Note that many traditional functionary roles, such as press attaché or cultural attaché, are not formal titles in diplomatic practice, although they may be used as a matter of custom.\n\nFurthermore, outside this traditional pattern of bilateral diplomacy, as a rule on a permanent residency basis (though sometimes doubling elsewhere), certain ranks and positions were created specifically for multilateral diplomacy:\n\nSpecial envoys have been created \"ad hoc\" by individual countries, treaties and international organizations including the United Nations. A few examples are provided below:\n\n\nMost countries worldwide have some form of internal rank, roughly parallel to the diplomatic ranks, which are used in their foreign service or civil service in general. The correspondence is not exact, however, for various reasons, including the fact that according to diplomatic usage, all Ambassadors are of equal rank, but Ambassadors of more senior rank are typically sent to more important postings. Some countries may make specific links or comparisons to military ranks.\n\nOfficers from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) are graded into four broad bands (BB1 to BB4), with the Senior Executive Service (SES Band 1 to SES Band 3) following above.\n\nAmbassadors, High Commissioners and Consuls-General usually come from the Senior Executive Service, although in smaller posts the head of mission may be a BB4 officer. Generally speaking (and there are variations in ranking and nomenclature between posts and positions), Counsellors are represented by BB4 officers; Consuls and First and Second Secretaries are BB3 officers and Third Secretaries and Vice Consuls are BB2 officers. DFAT only posts a limited number of low-level BB1 staff abroad. In large Australian missions an SES officer who is not the head of mission could be posted with the rank of Minister.\n\nThere are six ranks in the Brazilian Ministry of External Affairs (\"):\n\n\n\"\" is the honorary dignity conceded permanently when a Minister of First Class assumes a Post overseas. It can also be a temporary assignment, when carried on by a lower-rank diplomat or Brazilian politician of high level.\n\nHer Majesty's Diplomatic Service differentiates between officers in the \"Senior Management Structure\" (SMS; equivalent to the Senior Civil Service grades of the Home Civil Service) and those in the \"delegated grades\". SMS officers are classified into three pay-bands, and will serve in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London as (in descending order of seniority) Permanent Under-Secretary, Directors-General, Directors, or Heads of Department; overseas they will be Ambassadors (High Commissioners in Commonwealth countries), or Consuls-General, Deputy Heads of Mission or Counsellors for larger posts. (Deputy Heads of Mission at the historically most significant Embassies, for example those in Washington and in Paris, are known as Ministers.)\n\nIn the \"delegated grades\", officers are graded by number from 1 to 7; the grades are grouped into bands lettered A‑D (grades 1 and 2 are in Band A; 3 in B; 4 and 5 in C; and 6 and 7 in D). Overseas, A2 grade officers hold the title of Attache, B3‑grade officers are Third Secretaries; C4s are Second Secretaries; and C5s and D6s are First Secretaries. D7 officers are usually Deputy Heads of Mission in medium-sized posts or Heads of Mission in small posts.\n\nThe following ranks are used in the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs:\n\n\nThere are five ranks in the French Diplomatic Service:\n\nThere are two additional ranks for ICT specialists (also in ascending order):\n\nIn Italy, ranks and functions are not exactly connected: each rank can cover several functions. Moreover, several exceptions apply.\n\n\nThere are about 30 people who hold the rank of Ambassador. Therefore, most of the about 150 Italian embassies or permanent representations are held by a Minister Plenipotentiary: traditionally, ambassadors are appointed to the most important representations, such as London, Paris, Washington, New Delhi and Peking embassies and representations to the UN in New York City and the EU in Brussels.\n\nAfter the merger of the Consular and Diplomatic Corps, the current eight grades of Spanish career diplomats are (in ascending order):\n\nIn the United States Foreign Service, the personnel system under which most U.S. diplomatic personnel are assigned, a system of personal ranks is applied which roughly corresponds to these diplomatic ranks. Personal ranks are differentiated as \"Senior Foreign Service\" (SFS) or \"Member of the Foreign Service\". Officers at these ranks may serve as ambassadors and occupy the most senior positions in diplomatic missions. The SFS ranks, in order from highest to lowest, are:\nMembers of the Foreign Service consist of five groups, including Foreign Service Officers and Foreign Service Specialists. Like officers in the U.S. military, Foreign Service Officers are members of the Foreign Service who are commissioned by the President. As with Warrant Officers in the U.S. military, Foreign Service Specialists are technical leaders and experts, commissioned not by the President but by the Secretary of State. Ranks descend from the highest, FS‑1, equivalent to a full Colonel in the military, to FS‑9, the lowest rank in the U.S. Foreign Service personnel system. (Most entry-level Foreign Service members begin at the FS‑5 or FS‑6 level.) Personal rank is distinct from and should not be confused with the diplomatic or consular rank assigned at the time of appointment to a particular diplomatic or consular mission.\n\nIn a large mission, several Senior Diplomats may serve under the Ambassador as Minister-Counselors, Counselors, and First Secretaries; in a small mission, a diplomat may serve as the lone Counselor of Embassy.\n\nFormally the consular career (ranking in descending order: consul-general, consul, vice-consul, consular agent; equivalents with consular immunity limited to official acts only include honorary consul-general, honorary consul, and honorary vice-consul) forms a separate hierarchy. Many countries do not internally have a separate consular path or stream, and the meaning of \"consular\" responsibilities and functions will differ from country to country. Other titles, including \"vice consul-general\", have existed in the past. Consular titles may be used concurrently with diplomatic titles if the individual is assigned to an embassy. Diplomatic immunity is more limited for consular officials without other diplomatic accreditation, and broadly limited to immunity with respect to their official duties.\n\nAt a separate consular post, the official will have only a consular title. Officials at consular posts may therefore have consular titles, but not be involved in traditional consular activities, and actually be responsible for trade, cultural, or other matters.\n\nConsular officers, being nominally more distant from the politically sensitive aspects of diplomacy, can more easily render a wide range of services to private citizens, enterprises, et cetera. They may be more numerous since diplomatic missions are posted only in a nation's capital, while consular officials are stationed in various other cities as well. However, it is not uncommon for individuals to be transferred from one hierarchy to the other, and for consular officials to serve in a capital carrying out strictly consular duties within the \"consular section\" of a diplomatic post, e.g., within an embassy. Some countries routinely provide their embassy officials with consular commissions, including those without formal consular responsibilities, since a consular commission allows the individual to legalize documents, sign certain documents, and undertake certain other necessary functions.\n\nDepending on the practice of the individual country, \"consular services\" may be limited to services provided for citizens or residents of the sending country, or extended to include, for example, visa services for nationals of the host country.\n\nSending nations may also designate incumbents of certain positions as holding consulary authority by virtue of their office, while lacking individual accreditation, immunity and inviolability. For example, 10 U.S.C. §§ 936 and 1044a identify various U.S. military officers (and authorize the service secretaries to identify others) who hold general authority as a notary and consul of the United States for, respectively, purposes of military administration and those entitled to military legal assistance. A nation may also declare that its senior merchant sea captain in a given foreign port—or its merchant sea captains generally—has consulary authority for merchant seamen.\n\n"}
{"id": "8182743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8182743", "title": "Ethnic hatred", "text": "Ethnic hatred\n\nEthnic hatred, inter-ethnic hatred, racial hatred, or ethnic tension refers to feelings and acts of prejudice and hostility towards an ethnic group in various degrees. See list of anti-ethnic and anti-national terms for specific cases. \n\nThere are multiple origins for ethnic hatred and the resulting ethnic conflicts. In some societies it is rooted in tribalism, while in others it originates from a history of non-peaceful co-existence and the resulting actual disputed issues. \n\nOften ethnic conflict is enhanced by nationalism and feeling of national superiority. For which reason inter-ethnic hatred borders with racism, and often the two terms are conflated.\n\nEthnic hatred has often been exploited and even fueled by some political leaders to serve their agenda of seeking to consolidate the nation or gain electorate by calling for a united struggle against a common enemy (real or imaginary). \n\nIn many countries incitement to ethnic or racial hatred is a criminal offense.\n\nMedia persuasion plays a role in dissemination of ethnic hatred. Media presence spreads underlying messages that negatively portrays certain ethnic groups to the eye of the public. For example, political elites use media exposure to influence the views of the viewers towards a certain propaganda. In 1930s Nazi Germany, media presence in exposing propaganda in terms of hatred was effectively organized by Joseph Goebbels.Although, Recent US Data (Berelson, Lazarsfeld, and McPhee 1954; Lazarsfeld, Berelson, and Gaudet 1944) shows media as a tool that does not carry “significant independent influence,” media “strengthens people’s predispositions.” Furthermore, Exogenous variation plays a role in utilizing media content towards escalating ethnic hatred presence according to recent economic studies. The effects of media on people varies in different platforms strengthening mass medias influence towards the public. Data polled from Muslim countries shows that exposure to Al-Jazeera is associated with higher levels of reported anti-Americanism in contrast to exposure to CNN associating with less anti-Americanism. \n\nThere are two types of persuasion: direct and indirect. Direct persuasion in regard to mass media exponentially expands hatred that leads to violence of ethnic groups. Indirect persuasion exports hatred and directs behavior towards executing violence.\n\nThe continuous use of mass media as an apparatus to spread negative image of ethnic groups is seen throughout variations of history. Most media hate speech that amplified worldwide attention are experienced in Rwanda and Yugoslavia. Also, Media’s control of hate speech that Nazi and fascist parties manipulate agitate and attract followers into advocating for hatred and violence. Today, Social Media plays a role in ethnic conflicts in Kenya. Ethnicity is a big part in determining voting patterns in Kenya; however, many associate ethnicity with grievances that mobilize patterns of differences, hatred, and violence.\nAlong with mass media, propaganda plays as much role in distributing messages in terms of ethnic hatred. Propaganda is highly associated with totalitarian regimes in the twentieth century such as 1984 and Animal Farm by George Orwell that paved a way of commentating the regimes during the time.However, propaganda is dangerous when utilized negatively. In original meaning, propaganda promotes beliefs leading towards action.Alternatively, Jowett and O’Donnell defines propaganda as ‘deliberate, systematic attempt to shape perceptions, manipulate cognitions, and direct behavior to achieve a response that furthers the desired intent of the propagandist’.The definition shows self-interested manipulation – an assumption that is difficult to prove. Negatively, propaganda presents “organised myth” that limits the chance of discovering the truth. The utilization of propaganda by Stalin, Hitler and Mussolini popularize the false impression of propaganda that hid the truth for an extended time.In addition, there are complex influences that emerged during the propaganda campaigns of the Great War (1914-18) and Russian Revolution (1917) such as telegraphs, newspapers, photography, radio, film, large corporations seeking new markets, rise of reform-minded journalism, and the influence of art movements, psychology, sociology, and marketing.The variation of propaganda and psychological warfare are essentially organized processes of persuasion.              \n\n"}
{"id": "22120684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22120684", "title": "European Commission against Racism and Intolerance", "text": "European Commission against Racism and Intolerance\n\nEuropean Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) is the Council of Europe’s independent human rights monitoring body specialised in combating antisemitism, discrimination, racism, religious intolerance, and xenophobia. It publishes periodic reports on CoE member states and general policy recommendations. The decision to found ECRI was adopted in 1993. The organization became officially active as of March 1994.\n\nECRI consists of 47 experts, one from every CoE member state. The chair of the commission is Jean-Paul Lehners from Luxembourg, since 2017. \n\nEach ECRI member is allowed a renewable term of five years through appointing by their respective governments. To maintain membership, they must also abide by these terms of the ECRI Statute: The members of ECRI shall have high moral authority and recognised expertise in dealing with racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, antisemitism, and intolerance; The members of ECRI shall serive in their individual capacity, shall be independent and impartial in fulfilling their mandate. They shall not receive any instructions from their government.The first ECRI chair was the Swedish Discrimination Ombudsman Frank Orton, who held the position until 1998.It was his idea that the commission should undertake its now well-known country-by-country studies, aimed at providing the member states with country-specific advice how to combat racism and related intolerance.\n\nFormer ECRI chairs include Nikos Frangakis, Michael Head, Eva Smith Asmussen and Nils Muižnieks.\n\nThe main purpose of the ECRI is to provide a constructive critique, called a General Policy Report (GPR), to countries on their actions and legislature to improve the welfare of the minority groups residing within the nation. The ECRI also pens its reports itself, and not the country being examined, which differentiates it from CERD at the United Nations. \n\nMerja Pentikainen relays the ECRI's desire for immigrants and resident non-EU citizens' full integration and participation in EU societies. In particular, the ECRI is a strong advocate of the integration of the Romani people in European society and Romani children in EU school systems. In fact, the Romani are the main objects of attention in most of the organization's calls for integration. However, while racism and discrimination have always been a large part of the ECRI agenda, integration has only started to make prominent appearances in recent GPRs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27110706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27110706", "title": "Experience management", "text": "Experience management\n\nExperience management is the activity where organizations measure and improve the various experiences they provide, not only to customers, but to all their stakeholders like vendors, suppliers, employees, and shareholders. It is premised on the idea that experiences are a distinct economic offering, that create economic value and competitive advantage.\n\nOrganizations are increasingly collecting experience data as opposed to operational data, since experiences are seen as a competitive advantage. Experience management platforms provide various services to automate the process of identifying and improving experiences across an organization.\n\nBroader than customer experience, experience management now encompasses customer experience along with other areas, such as brand experience, employee experience and product experience, which are all seen as interrelated.\n\nIn 1994 Steve Haeckel and Lou Carbone collaborated on a seminal early article on experience management, titled \"Engineering Customer Experiences,\" where they defined experience as \"the 'take-away' impression formed by people's encounters with products, services and businesses — a perception produced when humans consolidate sensory information.\" They argued that the new approach must focus on total experience as the key customer value proposition.\n\nThe concept reached a wide audience in 1999, when it was popularized by B. Joseph Pine II and James H. Gilmore in their book \"Experience Economy\". In the same year, Bernd Schmitt published \"Experiential Marketing: How to Get Customers to Sense, Feel, Think, Act, and Relate to Your Company and Brands.\"\n\nIn the 2000s, experience management emerged as a complex field unifying the experiences of brands, employees, products and more. It was acknowledged that generating new experiences for end customers requires designing better experiences for internal players of an organization. Value is created by focusing on the experiences of everyone involved in or affected by a new offer, such as customers, employees, suppliers, and other stakeholders.\n\nTo create and manage the experiences, businesses must evaluate, implement, integrate, and build experiences from a fragmented landscape. Such needs are met by experience management platforms, which help automate the process of measuring and improving experiences across an organization by coordinating content, customer data and core services, and unifying marketing, commerce and service processes.\n\nExperience management platforms compare multiple layers of data and statistics to enable organizations to identify any experience gaps. They connect operational databases with human feedback, analyzing respondents' emotions, beliefs, and sentiments for a holistic view of the experiences they provide. Their methods include artificial intelligence, predictive analytics, and statistical models.\n\nWhile the term \"experience management\" is predominantly used in business, it has another meaning. It is used for a special kind of knowledge management that deals with collecting, modeling, storing, reusing, evaluating, and maintaining experience. In that sense, the term is interchangeable with \"expertise management\".\n"}
{"id": "41591013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41591013", "title": "Fort Lee lane closure scandal", "text": "Fort Lee lane closure scandal\n\nThe Fort Lee lane closure scandal, also known as the George Washington Bridge lane closure scandal or Bridgegate, is a U.S. political scandal in which a staff member and political appointees of New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a Republican, colluded to create traffic jams in Fort Lee, New Jersey, by closing lanes at the main toll plaza for the upper level of the George Washington Bridge.\n\nThe problems began on Monday, September 9, 2013, when two of three toll lanes for a local street entrance were closed during morning rush hour. Local officials, emergency services, and the public were not notified of the lane closures, which Fort Lee declared a threat to public safety. The resulting back-ups and gridlock on local streets ended only when the two lanes were reopened on Friday, September 13, 2013, by an order from Port Authority Executive Director Patrick Foye. He said that the \"hasty and ill-informed decision\" could have endangered lives and violated federal and state laws.\n\nIt was later suggested that the lanes had been closed to intentionally cause the massive traffic problem for political reasons, and especially theorized that they were a retribution attack against Fort Lee's Mayor Mark Sokolich, a Democrat who had not supported Christie as a candidate in the 2013 New Jersey gubernatorial election. The ensuing investigations centered on several of Christie's appointees and staff, including David Wildstein, who ordered the lanes closed, and Bill Baroni, who had told the New Jersey Assembly Transportation Committee that the closures were for a traffic study.\n\nThe United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey Paul J. Fishman launched a massive federal investigation, resulting in a sweeping nine-count indictment against Bridget Anne Kelly, the deputy chief of staff, Baroni and Wildstein. Wildstein entered a guilty plea, and testified against Baroni and Kelly, who were found guilty on all counts in November 2016. David Samson pleaded guilty to one felony count of conspiracy in July 2016, for acts unrelated to the lane closures but unearthed by the federal Bridgegate investigation.\n\nGovernor Chris Christie's political standing was badly damaged by the scandal. Once considered a leading contender for the 2016 Republican nomination for President, Christie dropped out of the presidential race after a poor showing in the New Hampshire primary. The scandal was widely cited as a major factor in the early demise of Christie's 2016 presidential ambitions. Christie called Bridgegate \"a factor\" in why he was bypassed by Donald Trump as the vice presidential nominee. In September 2016, both the prosecution and the defense in the trial of two of Christie's former aides argued that Christie knew of his close associates' involvement in a plan to shut down lanes leading to the George Washington Bridge as it was happening, and that the closings were to punish Sokolich for declining to support Christie's reelection bid. This was the first time Christie had been officially accused of contemporaneous knowledge of the plot.\n\nThe George Washington Bridge, a double-decked toll bridge, is the busiest motor-vehicle bridge in the world, with a toll charge for traffic from New Jersey to New York. At the time, there were 29 operating toll lanes, spread among three toll plazas. At the main toll plaza for the upper level, there were twelve toll lanes and a Fort Lee entrance at Martha Washington Way (also called Park Avenue). During rush hours, for the previous 30 years or longer, the three lanes located furthest to the right (the south end of the toll plaza) were ordinarily reserved for local traffic entering from Fort Lee and the surrounding communities. This local traffic was segregated by movable traffic cones from the heavier traffic of the major highways. There were other Fort Lee street entrances, which did not have dedicated toll lanes, to the lower and upper levels of the bridge.\n\nThe Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ or simply the PA), the owner of the bridge, was overseen by a Board of Commissioners. Under an informal power-sharing agreement, the Governor of New Jersey chose the chairman of the board and the deputy executive director, while the Governor of New York chose the vice-chairman and executive director.\n\nChris Christie, a Republican, was first elected Governor of New Jersey in November 2009 and re-elected in November 2013. During his first term, he appointed Bill Baroni as deputy executive director of the PA. David Wildstein, a local politician and political blogger who had known Christie during high school, was hired by Baroni based on Christie's referral and recommendation in May 2010. As director of interstate capital projects, Wildstein was New Jersey's second highest executive at the Port Authority, and often substituted for Baroni at major meetings.\n\nDuring the week of August 4, 2013, Christie met with David Samson, Christie's appointed chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the Port Authority. The deputy speaker of the New Jersey Assembly, John Wisniewski, who, as chair of the Assembly Transportation Committee had been leading the Assembly's investigation into the closures, alleged that David Wildstein, the Christie appointee who ordered the closures, must have believed the meeting was related to the lane closures, because a reference to the meeting was included in the subpoenaed documents Wildstein submitted in which all information not pertaining to the Fort Lee lane closures had been redacted.\n\nOn August 13, Bridget Anne Kelly, deputy chief of staff in Christie's office, sent an eight-word e-mail to David Wildstein that read, \"Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee.\" Wildstein responded to Kelly's e-mail: \"Got it.\"\n\nOn September 6, Wildstein instructed George Washington Bridge manager Robert Durando not to tell anyone in Fort Lee about the upcoming closure, not even the police. When Durando questioned the order, which he thought was \"odd\" since he had never been instructed in his 35-year career not to tell host town officials about an event that would disrupt traffic, Wildstein told him \"it would impact the study\" if people knew and Wildstein \"wanted to see what would naturally happen\".\n\nWildstein sent an e-mail the same day to Kelly informing her that Christie had approved $60,000 to fund a traffic study for Springfield in Union County. The Democratic mayor, David Amlen, did not endorse Christie for re-election and was not informed of the approval of their requested traffic study until after Christie won re-election.\n\nOn Monday, September 9, 2013, prior to the morning rush hour on the first day of the school year, two of the three dedicated toll lanes at one of the Fort Lee entrances to the upper level of the GW Bridge were closed to local use, and were reallocated to the main highway traffic, on orders from Wildstein without notification to Fort Lee government and police officials. In an area that normally experiences a great deal of traffic, the lane closings caused a significant increase in traffic congestion. This led to major delays for school transportation and police and emergency responses within Fort Lee, both during and after the peak hours of travel.\n\nAccording to the Fort Lee emergency medical services coordinator, traffic jams delayed paramedic response times, including a 9-1-1 call for Florence Genova, who subsequently died of cardiac arrest. In January 2014, her daughter told \"The New York Times\" that she \"wants to stay out of it. It's not political\". She noted her mother's advanced age (91) and opined that \"it was just her time\".\n\nIn at least one instance, emergency medical workers were forced to leave their ambulance and respond on foot because traffic congestion was so heavy. Emergency responders were delayed nearly one hour in rendering assistance to a man experiencing chest pains.\n\nWithin hours of the closure, various Port Authority officials were being told that the traffic delays posed a threat to public safety. At 9:29 a.m., Matthew Bell, a special assistant to Bill Baroni, e-mailed Baroni regarding \"urgent matter of public safety in Fort Lee\". Fort Lee Borough Administrator Peggy Thomas e-mailed the PA's director of government and community relations, Tina Lado, with her concerns, noting that police and emergency departments received no advance notice of the closures. At 11:24 a.m., Lado e-mailed both Wildstein and Baroni informing them that due to the closures, police and ambulances were having difficulty responding to emergencies. That e-mail noted two specific incidents: a missing child (later found) and a cardiac arrest. These safety warnings were reportedly ignored.\n\nAt the federal trial of Baroni and Kelly, Fort Lee Police Chief Keith Bendul testified that he had reached Durando on that Monday, who asked for a meeting not at the PA office, but in a nearby municipal parking lot. \"I thought it was cloak and dagger.\" Durando spoke of the traffic study, and Bendul demanded its ending, citing the various safety problems. \"I told [Durando] bluntly that if anybody dies, I'm going to tell those people to sue him and everybody at the Port Authority.\" A nervous Durando told Bendul that Sokolich should contact Baroni, and added that \"if anybody asked if this meeting occurred, he [Durando] would deny it,\" Bendul testified.\n\nDeputy Chief of Staff Bridget Kelly e-mailed Wildstein and asked about his response, if any, to Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich. Wildstein responded: \"Radio silence. His name comes right after Mayor Fulop [of Jersey City].\"\n\nPAPD Lieutenant Thomas \"Chip\" Michaels, a Christie childhood friend, ordered his subordinates not to touch the cones, and chauffeured Wildstein around the Fort Lee area on an observation tour, and updated Wildstein on traffic conditions throughout the week, via text messages.\n\nOn Tuesday, September 10, Sokolich texted Baroni: \"Presently we have four very busy traffic lanes merging into only one toll booth ... bigger problem is getting kids to school. Help please. It's maddening.\" Kelly's text message exchange with Wildstein referred to the mayor's message. Kelly asked, \"Is it wrong that I am smiling?\" Wildstein replied, \"No.\" Kelly then wrote, \"I feel badly about the kids. I guess.\" Wildstein responded, \"They are the children of Buono voters,\" referring to Barbara Buono, Christie's Democratic opponent in the November election.\n\nTwelve-year veteran PAPD Officer Steve Pisciotta was stationed near the affected entrance, and reported over his radio about hazardous conditions created by the severe traffic. PAPD Deputy Inspector Darcy Licorish radioed back, \"Shut up,\" and that there should be no over-the-air discussion of the closure. Lt. Michaels and PAPD Sgt. Nadine Rhem later visited Pisciotta in person, warning that his communication was inappropriate.\n\nOn Wednesday, September 11, Robert Durando said in a Port Authority e-mail that if the automated toll lanes were closed permanently in favor of one manned lane for local traffic, it would be \"very expensive\" since annual toll-collector costs would increase approximately $600,000. This would have covered overtime, as well as stationing reserve employees when a scheduled toll collector was not able to work. He said there would be additional, but still to be determined costs, for PA police due to their coverage of traffic for a greatly extended rush hour.\n\nChristie, Wildstein, Samson and Baroni were photographed together at the site of the World Trade Center during a commemoration of the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks. On that occasion, Wildstein later testified, Baroni sarcastically told Christie, \"Governor, there is a tremendous amount of traffic in Fort Lee, please know Mayor Sokolich is frustrated he can't get his calls returned,\" to which Christie was said to have responded, \"I imagine they wouldn't be getting their calls returned.\" According to Wildstein, Baroni then told Christie that Wildstein would monitor the traffic, and Christie responded, \"Well, I'm sure Mr. Edge wouldn't be involved in anything political,\" and laughed. (\"Wally Edge\" was the pseudonymous persona used by Wildstein in his earlier highly political blog.)\n\nOn Thursday, September 12, PA engineers said that reported delays for local traffic greatly exceeded any time savings for the major highway traffic based on reported information for vehicle travel times on Interstate 95 and local traffic counts from that week. In an internal PowerPoint presentation, it was estimated that the extra daily morning rush hour time, 2,800 vehicle-hours, endured by local traffic on a typical day greatly outweighed time savings, 966 vehicle-hours, for the I-95 traffic.\n\nSokolich wrote to Baroni that \"many members of the public have informed me that the PA police officers are advising commuters ... that this recent traffic debacle is the result of a decision that I, as the Mayor, recently made.\"\n\nAccording to his later testimony, John Ma (the chief of staff to the Port Authority's executive director, Patrick Foye), with Foye's knowledge beforehand, tipped off John Cichowski, the \"Road Warrior\" columnist for \"The Record\". \"I told him, off the record, that to my knowledge there was no traffic study and that the lane closures had been ordered by David Wildstein.\" Cichowski contacted the PA to ask about the delays, and this contact appeared on that evening's internal PA report of media contacts, getting the attention of Foye.\n\nOn Friday morning, September 13, 2013, Patrick Foye, the executive director of the Port Authority and an appointee of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, ordered that the lanes be reopened in a strongly worded 7:44 AM e-mail to senior PA officials and staff, including Bill Baroni and David Samson. In the e-mail, Foye called the decision to close the lanes \"hasty and ill-advised\", said that the decision violated policy and long-standing custom at the PA, and that he believed that closing the lanes \"violates Federal Law and the laws of both States.\" Foye asked his spokesman to get the word out. Upon learning this, Baroni attempted to prevent any disclosure in order to keep the public in the dark. Additionally, Baroni forwarded the e-mail to Regina Egea, Christie's Director of the authorities unit overseeing the PA, three hours after it was sent by Foye.\n\nFoye would later testify that Baroni met with him two times on that Friday, pressing for reinstatement of the closure, saying it was \"important to Trenton,\" or else \"Trenton\" would call, which Foye understood to mean Christie's office. \"I said they should call,\" Foye testified. \"I opened [the lanes], I was not closing them.\" However, Foye did approve a press release that he knew falsely cited a \"traffic study.\"\n\nDuring and after the lane closures, \"hundreds of pages of e-mails and internal documents\" showed \"how Christie loyalists inside the PA worked to orchestrate a cover-up after traffic mayhem\" in Fort Lee. In September, as more reporters began asking about the GW Bridge problems, officials conferred on how to respond. On September 13, \"The Record\" reported the outrage commuters were expressing toward the PA following days of long, inbound delays, and Fort Lee officials' unsuccessful efforts to get an explanation. Then on September 16, a \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter asked PA spokesman Coleman about what had occurred after some \"Journal\" editors had been in traffic the previous week. \"Coleman passed the query up the chain of command\" and Wildstein forwarded it to Baroni, commenting \"I call bullshit on this.\" Further inquiries were directed by Coleman to Baroni and Wildstein, asking how they wanted the PA to respond, and Wildstein forwarded one of these inquiries to Christie's press secretary and chief spokesman, Michael Drewniak. Coleman also wrote to Baroni and Wildstein, \"I will not respond unless instructed to do so.\"\n\nOn September 17, Wildstein informed Baroni that he had received a call from \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter Tedd Mann. \"Jesus\", Baroni replied, \"Call Drewniak\".\n\nThe e-mails showed efforts by Christie appointees in the PA and his office in Trenton to respond to the aftermath and media inquiries for the toll lane closures. The participants included Baroni, Wildstein, and PA Chairman Samson, as well as Drewniak and Maria Comella, Communications Director. In a September 18 e-mail, Samson warned that Foye is \"playing in traffic, made a big mistake\" in response to a leak to \"The Wall Street Journal\" for their September 17 story citing unnamed PA officials as saying the decision to close the toll lanes had caused tensions within the bi-state agency.\n\nIn other communications, officials used an ethnic pejorative to refer to the Fort Lee mayor. In an e-mail from Wildstein responding to Bill Stepien, he said \"It will be a tough November for this little Serbian\", derogatorily referring to Sokolich, who is Croatian-American. Baroni referred to \"Serbia\" in text messages in another apparent reference to Mayor Sokolich. Sokolich told \"The Huffington Post\": \"That slight is offensive to me, and it's offensive to me of everyone of Serbian background. If I were Serbian, I would be absolutely, positively appalled by it.\" The Serbian remarks received the attention of Serbian and Croatian media, and was commented upon by the Serbian government's Office for Cooperation with the Diaspora and Serbs in the Region.\n\nOn October 9, Philippe Danielides, a senior adviser to Samson, e-mailed Wildstein a daily news summary and asked \"Has any thought been given to writing an op-ed or providing a statement about the GWB study? Or is the plan just to hunker down and grit our way through it?\" Wildstein replied \"Yes and yes\" and forwarded these e-mails to Baroni.\nWildstein sought advice from Drewniak, with the two meeting in person on December 4. On December 6, Wildstein announced he would resign at the end of the year, saying the response to the traffic lanes closure had become \"a distraction\". At a December 13 press conference, Christie announced the immediate resignations of Baroni and Wildstein.\n\nIn the wake of the lane closings, the Port Authority's chairman David Samson was the subject of media reports alleging ethical violations and conflicts of interest. It was alleged that Samson's law firm and their clients profited from dealings with the Port Authority and from projects involving New Jersey government financing or tax incentives. It was also reported that Christie benefited politically and his allies benefited financially during Samson's term as chairman. Patrick Foye, the Port Authority's executive director, asserted that Samson lacked the moral authority to run the agency.\n\nCalls for Samson's resignation or removal came from New Jersey officials and media sources, including \"The Star-Ledger\", \"The Daily News\" (New York), \"The Record\", and \"The New York Times\". On March 4, the freeholders in Bergen County, where Fort Lee is located, called for the resignation of Samson and the other five New Jersey appointed commissioners, with the commissioners faulted for failure to exercise proper oversight.\n\nIn February 2014, Christie stood firmly behind his support of Samson as PA chairman.\n\nOn March 28, 2014, Christie announced that Samson had offered his resignation from the Port Authority, effective immediately. They both agreed with the recommended Port Authority reforms in the March 26 report commissioned by the governor's office for an investigation of Bridgegate allegations. The report did not mention any involvement by Samson (who had refused to be interviewed) in any Bridgegate events, or any of the other allegations during his role as PA chairman. On April 29, 2014, Christie nominated John J. Degnan, a former state attorney general, as Samson's replacement, later confirmed by the New Jersey state senate.\n\nOn July 14, 2016, Samson pleaded guilty to a felony for conspiring to impede an airplane hangar project that was important to United Airlines in order to force the airline to reinstate a discontinued flight from Newark Airport to Columbia, South Carolina. U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman declined to say whether Samson would be cooperating in the Bridgegate case.\n\nThe May 2015 indictments of Wildstein, Baroni and Kelly contend that the lane closures were political retribution against Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, for not supporting Christie in the 2013 New Jersey gubernatorial election. Sokolich initially claimed that he was asked for an endorsement once, in the spring of 2013, months before the August \"time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee\" e-mail by Bridget Kelly to David Wildstein. Although the two men are from different parties and an endorsement would normally not be expected, Christie ran on a platform of bipartisanship and had secured the endorsement of many other Democratic officials.\n\nIn an interview on February 6, 2014, with \"The Record\", Sokolich said that the Christie administration had courted his endorsement over a period of time going back to around 2010, when Christie invited Sokolich and a handful of other mayors, including Hoboken's Dawn Zimmer, to have lunch at the governor's mansion in Princeton. Christie was shown in a picture talking with local mayors in a lineup, including Sokolich, after a news conference in Teaneck on December 8, 2011. In 2012, Sokolich and his cousins were given a personal tour of the 9/11 Memorial Plaza by Wildstein, who repeatedly told Sokolich, \"I've been told to be nice to you.\" Matt Mowers, regional political director for Christie's re-election campaign, who had previously worked in the governor's intergovernmental affairs office, met with Sokolich regularly in 2013 and told him about other Democrats who endorsed Christie for governor. On at least three occasions, Sokolich noted that Mowers brought up the subject of Sokolich's possible endorsement. Sokolich eventually supported Barbara Buono, Christie's Democratic opponent in the 2013 election. Christie said at his January 9, 2014, press conference that Sokolich was \"never on my radar screen\" and that he would not \"have been able to pick him [Sokolich] out of a lineup.\"\n\nE-mails indicated that Wildstein and Baroni were aware the closures would harm Sokolich. In an e-mail from Wildstein responding to Bill Stepien, Wildstein wrote \"It will be a tough November for this little Serbian\", derogatorily referring to Sokolich, who is Croatian-American. Baroni referred to \"Serbia\" in text messages in another apparent reference to mayor Sokolich.\n\nThe May 2015 indictment, citing text messages between Wildstein, Baroni and Kelly, contended that the lane closures were designed to have maximum impact upon motorists and the city of Fort Lee. The closures targeted the first day of school, and deliberately steered cars to the cash lane, so as to maximize traffic disruption in the surrounding areas. \"The New York Times\" reported that \"the three plotting like petulant and juvenile pranksters, using government resources, time and personnel to punish a public official whose sole offense was failing to endorse their political patron. The three were in constant contact, brazenly using government e-mails, their tone sometimes almost giddy. They even gave the increasingly desperate mayor of Fort Lee their own version of the silent treatment.\"\nAnother theory had claimed that the closures were intended to affect Sokolich's promotion of Hudson Lights, a $1 billion redevelopment project that was underway at the Fort Lee bridge access point. It has been noted that \"the Hudson Lights project is a billion-dollar project because it offers unparalleled access to the George Washington Bridge. But take away that access and it's no longer a billion-dollar project.\" In a September 12, 2013, e-mail to Bill Baroni, during the time when the closure was still on-going, Mayor Sokolich raised concerns about the redevelopment project, asking \"What do I do when our billion-dollar development is put on line at the end of next year?\"\n\nAnother theory was that the retaliation was for Sokolich's opposition to the PA's recent toll hike.\n\nOn January 9, 2014, Steven Fulop, Mayor of Jersey City, alleged that he was also targeted for political reprisals by the Christie administration for declining to endorse Christie in the 2013 governor election. His claim may be supported by a September 9, 2013, e-mail by David Wildstein after Bridget Kelly asked about his response to Fort Lee Mayor Sokolich about the toll lane closures. Wildstein responded: \"Radio silence. His name comes right after Mayor Fulop.\"\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the e-mails discussing the lane closure \"could represent evidence that government resources were used for political purposes, a potential crime\". According to legal experts, federal prosecutors also could \"examine whether the obstruction of interstate commerce on the bridge between New Jersey and New York\" violated federal law, and either federal or state prosecutors also might \"build a cover-up case, rather than one based on the traffic tie-ups themselves\".\n\nOn January 17, 2014, Alan Zegas, Wildstein's attorney, said that his client would offer to shed light on the scandal on the condition that he was given immunity from prosecution from the relevant federal and state law enforcement agencies. There had not been any offer of immunity from the office of the United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey.\n\nA joint legislative committee, New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on Investigation, was created on January 27, 2014, to take over the original investigation by the Assembly Transportation Committee.\n\nOn October 2, 2013, Assemblyman John Wisniewski (D-Middlesex), said that he would open an investigation with the Assembly Transportation Committee to determine whether or not the lane closures were politically motivated.\n\nThe first hearing was held on November 25, 2013, for which Bill Baroni attended on behalf of the PA. Baroni, who was not sworn in to testify under oath, said that David Wildstein had ordered a study to determine if closing two of the Fort Lee toll lanes, and assigning them to mainline traffic, would shorten delays for commuters from other parts of New Jersey. Baroni argued that it was unfair that Fort Lee drivers occupied three out of the 12 lanes on the upper level, despite being only 4.5% of all traffic. Committee members pointed out that 4.5% was based on the number of E-ZPass users from Fort Lee that use all approaches to the bridge, and that vehicles from many other towns, besides Fort Lee, use that Fort Lee entrance. He admitted the actual percentage of vehicles, which utilize that Fort Lee entrance, could be higher than 4.5% of overall traffic, and also failed to mention that there are actually 29 operating toll lanes for the bridge when comparing the three dedicated toll lanes for this entrance.\nBaroni said that with the reduction in Fort Lee toll lanes, traffic data showed that the mainline traffic travel times in the express lanes' approach to the bridge were about four minutes faster on two days. He apologized for what he acknowledged was the agency's failure to properly communicate with local officials and the public in advance of this project. Following the hearing, Wisniewski called the closures at best \"clumsy and ham-handed\" and at worst \"political mischief by a political appointee and another political appointee that they did not make available for testimony\", referring to Wildstein's non-attendance.\n\nImmediately after Baroni made his presentation, a text exchange occurred, according to subpoenaed documents from Wildstein. Wildstein said \"you did great\" and said that the \"Trenton feedback\" was good.\n\nSen. Kevin O'Toole released a statement that day to the media, echoing various talking points from Baroni's presentation. All of this suggested that O'Toole had prior communications with Wildstein and possibly Baroni.\n\nWisniewski subpoenaed Foye and career PA staffers to give sworn testimony on December 9, 2013, about the lane closures. The committee had gotten subpoena power only because the PA had been stonewalling the delivery of documents in an unrelated investigation of a controversial toll hike. \"Had the Port Authority simply complied with the requests, there probably wouldn't have been a rationale for the committee to get subpoena power,\" Wisniewski later said.\n\nRobert Durando, George Washington Bridge manager, said that he feared retaliation if he did not follow Wildstein's orders to close two toll lanes to local traffic and not notify local officials or the public about these changes. Durando and Cedrick Fulton, director of tunnels, bridges, and terminals, both said that they were personally told by Wildstein that he would notify Foye of the change. Foye said that he was unaware of any traffic study until he ordered its termination on September 13, 2013, and blamed Wildstein for the toll lane changes, while believing Baroni was involved in the planning. When Wildstein called Fulton on September 6, 2013, to inform him that the lane closures would begin on September 9, Fulton explained that he thought that was unusual since planning for traffic disruptions on major facilities typically starts years in advance. He said that he told Wildstein, \"This will not end well\", due to expected traffic problems.\n\nRedacted documents were turned over under a subpoena to investigators of the committee and those documents were turned over to \"The New York Times\" and other news media. On January 8, 2014, \"The Star-Ledger\", \"The Record\", \"The New York Times\", and other news media published e-mails and text messages tying Bridget Kelly, deputy chief of staff in Christie's office, to the closure. The content of the released communications said that the lane closures were ordered with the knowledge that they would cause a massive traffic jam. Christie released a statement later that day denying knowledge of the scandal, rebuking Kelly for her role in the lane closure event, and vowing that \"people will be held responsible for their actions\" in the affair.\n\nA Republican member of the Assembly committee complained that the Republican members had not been given sufficient time to review the subpoenaed documents in advance of hearing testimony: \"Allowing Republican committee members less than 24 hours to review more than 900 pages of information is a disservice to the bipartisan committee process ... As chairman, he [Wisniewski] should be impartial and provide committee members, regardless of their political affiliation, a reasonable opportunity to review documents he has had access to for weeks\".\n\nOn January 9, 2014, David Wildstein, who appeared with his attorney, Alan Zegas, refused to testify before the committee, invoking the right against self-incrimination in the federal and New Jersey constitutions. The committee voted to hold Wildstein in contempt, asserting that the right against self-incrimination did not apply in such a hearing.\n\nWisniewski said \"I do think laws have been broken. Public resources—the bridge, police officers—all were used for a political purpose, for some type of retribution, and that violates the law\". He called it \"unbelievable\" that Christie did not know anything about his aides' plans, stating: \"It's hard to really accept the governor's statement that he knew nothing until the other morning\". He also raised the issue of the potential for Christie's impeachment if Christie was aware of his aides' actions.\n\nOn January 16, 2014, the New Jersey Assembly and Senate each created committees to take over the investigation from the Assembly Transportation Committee. The Assembly committee hired Reid Schar as special counsel, who would assist in the investigation. He is a former assistant U.S. attorney from Illinois who assisted in the prosecution of former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich.\n\nThe New Jersey Assembly re-authorized the legislative subpoena powers, which were immediately used to subpoena two organizations and 18 individuals in Christie's administration, the governor's office, his 2013 election campaign, and the Port Authority, but not Christie himself. Those receiving subpoenas were instructed to submit by February 3, 2014, all documents and communications, going back to September 1, 2012, related to the reassignment of the two toll lanes during the week of September 9, 2013, and any attempts to conceal the activities or reasons related to that incident.\n\nOn January 21, 2014, Assemblyman Wisniewski and State Senate majority leader Loretta Weinberg, whose district includes Fort Lee, announced that the Senate and Assembly committees were being merged into a bi-partisan joint investigative committee of 12 members, and that they would co-chair the New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on Investigation. While the committee initially focused on the Bridgegate scandal, it had the power to investigate other allegations against the Christie administration.\n\nOn January 24, 2014, the members of the bi-partisan committee were announced, consisting of eight Assembly representatives (five Democrats and three Republicans), and four Senators (three Democrats and one Republican). At the time, 40% of the members of the New Jersey Legislature were Republican. Besides the two Democratic co-chairs, members included Assemblywoman Marlene Caride (D-Bergen), Assemblyman Michael Patrick Carroll (R-Morris), Senator Nia Gill (D-Essex), Senator Linda Greenstein (D-Middlesex), Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald (D-Camden), Assemblywoman Amy Handlin (R-Monmouth), Assemblywoman Valerie Huttle (D-Bergen), Assemblywoman Holly Schepisi (R-Bergen), Assemblywoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-Mercer), and an unnamed Republican Senator. On January 27, both houses voted unanimously to combine the investigations, maintaining the partisan balance, and announced Senator Kevin O'Toole's (R-Essex) to fill the last spot, despite his mention in a December 5 e-mail from Wildstein to Michael Drewniak.\n\nAs a precautionary move, the new investigative committee re-issued subpoenas that had been sent earlier, with the requested records still due on the original deadline, February 3.\n\nIn a January 31, 2014, letter to Reid Schar, general counsel for the legislative committee, Kevin Marino, the attorney for Stepien, said that he would not submit anything in response to their subpoena and requested its withdrawal, citing his client's Fifth Amendment right and New Jersey common law privileges against self-incrimination, with regard to the criminal inquiry underway by the U.S. Attorney, and Fourth Amendment and New Jersey Constitution (Article I, paragraph 7) rights against unreasonable search and seizure. Wisniewski said the subpoena was perfectly sound, and that Schar would review the attorney's objections and consider the committee's legal options. Michael Critchley, the attorney for Kelly, submitted a letter that his client would not comply with the subpoena based on similar claims.\n\nOn February 3, 2014, Wisniewski and Weinberg issued a statement, without details, that some responses to subpoenas had been received and that extensions for submissions had been granted to others. Mark Sheridan, an attorney for Christie's campaign organization, said it had been granted an extension while it awaited an opinion from the state Election Law Enforcement Commission, which on February 11 allowed the campaign to use existing funds and raise funds to pay its legal bills in response to the NJ Legislature and federal subpoenas for general evidence. It could not use those funds in response to any criminal investigations.\n\nOn February 10, 2014, the committee voted to reject the objections raised by the lawyers of Stepien and Kelly to not comply with the subpoenas for their records, and to compel Stepien and Kelly to produce all related documents, instructing special counsel Reid Schar to \"take all necessary steps\" to enforce the subpoenas. All four Republicans abstained in the vote. They claimed that they did not have enough time to review the legal arguments, including Fifth Amendment rights, presented in Schar's legal brief countering the lawyers' objections.<ref name=\"compel Stepien/Kelly records\"></ref>\n\nOn the same day, the committee announced it was issuing 18 new subpoenas to individuals within the governor's office and the Port Authority that also included new recipients, as well as the governor's office itself and Christie's 2013 re-election campaign. The new recipients included assistants to Foye, Wildstein, Baroni, and Kelly. Other new PA recipients included Christie referral, Philip Kwon, deputy general counsel, Christie appointee William \"Pat\" Schuber, a commissioner, who had served in a variety of local, county, and state elected positions in New Jersey, and Steve Coleman, deputy director of media relations. One of the subpoenas was sent to the New Jersey State Police aviation unit for flight information records when Christie used a state helicopter during the toll lane closings. An agency spokesperson said that Christie had not used one to fly over the Fort Lee area during the lane closings. The subpoenas also sought information related to any dossiers compiled by Christie's re-election campaign and his governor's office on Fort Lee Mayor Sokolich.\n\nThe subpoenas sought information for records from staff at the PA and the governor's office related to preparations for Baroni's presentation to the Assembly Transportation Committee's November 25, 2013, hearing. Wildstein's attorney had claimed that Wildstein was present during some of the times when Kwon, who attended the committee hearing, helped prepare Baroni over several days for his presentation about a traffic study and other issues related to the local toll lane closures. A PA spokesman said: \"Meeting with a witness prior to testimony is a routine function of any lawyer and any attempt to assign ulterior motives to this general practice is unwarranted.\" Kwon served as first assistant attorney general during Christie's first term as governor and previously worked for him in the U.S. Attorney General's office in New Jersey. He was also Christie's 2012 Supreme Court justice nominee, who was blocked by Democratic state legislative members.\n\nOne of the subpoenas sought documents from the PANYNJ related to toll increases for the tunnels and bridges and Christie's 2010 decision to cancel the Access to the Region's Core project, specifically with regard to projected cost overruns. It also requested the names of job candidates sent by Christie's office to the agency.\n\nOn February 19, 2014, it was reported that the co-chairs said that the committee would need to question Senator O'Toole about what he knew, including any communications with Baroni and/or Wildstein, prior to Baroni's November 25 presentation to the Assembly Transportation Committee. A previously redacted November 25 text message from Wildstein to Baroni said that O'Toole was ready with a statement, which was issued to the media, that echoed talking points from Baroni's same day presentation and attacked the Democrats investigating these issues. O'Toole followed up with an editorial in \"The Record\" that elaborated on these talking points and attacks. It raised further questions on whether O'Toole should continue to serve on the committee.\n\nOn February 28, 2014, Bonnie Watson Coleman withdrew from the committee, a day after she called on Christie to resign as governor due to the culture of bullying she says was fostered under him. On March 21, 2014, Assembly Speaker Vincent Pietro named Assemblyman Paul Moriarty (D-Camden) to fill that vacancy.\n\nOn March 31, 2014, Wisniewski announced the intention to subpoena notes, records, and interviews from the inquiry conducted for the governor's office by Randy Mastro of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, since they had not been made available to the committee. Wisniewski said that there would be questions about the objectivity and independence of that investigation if subpoenaed items were withheld. In response, Mastro released a statement saying that the governor's office did not release interview transcripts because of its cooperation with the U.S. Attorney's Office's investigation and would respond to any subpoena request, when received. These matters could go to court if the governor's office tried to exercise any rights not to provide subpoenaed items. On April 11, 2014, the committee received the list of 75 persons interviewed by Mastro's team. Wisniewski said that he expected all existing interview materials in \"whatever form\", or the committee would issue a subpoena. The interview notes, marked \"privileged and confidential attorney opinion work product\", were turned over to the legislative committee and U.S. Attorney's Office, and publicly released online on April 14, without a subpoena. Wisniewski and Weinberg said in a joint statement that the committee reserved the right to request or subpoena further information, if required.\n\nOn April 9, 2014, the committee's investigation was dealt a setback when New Jersey Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson ruled that Stepien and Kelly do not have to hand over subpoenaed documents since the subpoenas were written too broadly, like a \"fishing expedition\". The judge also said that the subpoenas, as written, \"clearly violate\" federal and state protections against self-incrimination and unlawful search and seizure. The ruling said that Kelly and Stepien could assert their Fifth Amendment rights because of the investigation by the U.S. Attorney in New Jersey, and these documents could provide a \"link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute the claimant for a federal crime\".\nThe judge suggested that the committee could consider reissuing subpoenas with more limited document requests that could be acceptable. Legal experts agreed with that approach, and also suggested that electronic copies of the original subpoenaed documents could be obtained through subpoenas of system servers that store those documents since individuals do not have any personal right to bar the subpoena of a server.\n\nThe judge also expressed reservations about having jurisdictional powers to compel the turnover of subpoenaed documents since \"the committee has the power to enforce its own subpoenas through orders to compel and grant immunity in return.\" The lawyers for Stepien and Kelly have contended that the committee could grant their clients immunity from criminal prosecution in exchange for the documents. Reid Schar said that the committee had no such powers.\n\nWisniewski forecast that \"north of ten\" people would be subpoenaed for testimony. On April 22, 2014, he announced the joint committee's first subpoenas for oral testimony, initially calling four witnesses to testify: Christina Genovese Renna (former director of intergovernmental affairs), William \"Pat\" Schuber (a PA commissioner), Patrick Foye, and Michael Drewniak. All four agreed to testify. After a subpoena on April 29 calling Matt Mowers (former campaign staffer who reportedly asked Sokolich for an endorsement, and who has been cooperating with the committee), and some schedule adjustments, testimony was set for May 6 (Renna), May 13 (Drewniak), May 20 (Mowers), and June 3 (Foye and Schuber). However, the committee later postponed Foye's testimony, at the request of the US Attorney. Kevin O'Dowd (chief of staff and nominee for attorney general) was subpoenaed to testify on June 9. The committee was considering issuing a second set of more narrowly focused subpoenas to Bridget Kelly and Bill Stepien. Christie would not be subpoenaed.\n\nOn May 7, 2014, the committee announced a subpoena for documents and records from Michael DuHaime (Christie's chief political strategist). According to the Gibson Dunn memo on the DuHaime interview, he told Christie \"on or about\" December 11, 2013, that Wildstein, Stepien, and Kelly had knowledge of the \"traffic study\" beforehand. During Christie's December 13 news conference, he denied involvement by anyone in his office.\n\nCommittee work slowed in July 2014, and they postponed or skipped some witnesses' testimony, in deference to the federal investigation. On July 17, it heard testimony from Regina Egea, Christie's Chief of Staff, who had learned of the lane closures on September 13, 2013, after their reversal and who had later assisted Bill Baroni prepare for his testimony, but she was not accused of wrongdoing.\n\nOn October 16, 2013, the Port Authority announced that it would conduct an internal review. Its inspector general opened an investigation on December 10.\nOn February 16, 2014, Executive Director Pat Foye ordered the inspector general and PA Police Chief Louis Koumoutsos to examine PA Police Lieutenant Thomas \"Chip\" Michaels for his role in chauffeuring Wildstein on an observation tour on the first day of the closures and allegations of PA Police officers telling frustrated motorists to direct their ire at Mayor Sokolich. Michaels had at least one day's advance knowledge of the closure. Lt. Michaels and his brother Jeffrey Michaels (a GOP lobbyist in Trenton) are childhood friends of Christie.\n\nThe PA investigation reportedly interviewed only 3 people (Wildstein not among them), and was finished within a few weeks, although PA officials still continued to claim \"ongoing investigation\" a month later, when deflecting reporters' questions.\n\nOn January 9, 2014, Paul J. Fishman, the United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey, opened a preliminary federal inquiry into matters related to the toll lane closures. Fishman's office has jurisdiction because the Port Authority was created via an interstate compact between New York and New Jersey. Rebekah Carmichael, public affairs officer for the U.S. attorney's office, said in a statement: \"The Port Authority Office of Inspector General has referred the matter to us, and our office is reviewing it to determine whether a federal law was implicated.\"\n\nThe U.S. Attorney, whose office did not identify who was being served, began an official investigation and issued grand jury subpoenas for documents related to the Bridgegate scandal to various people and entities. Mark Sheridan, a partner with Patton Boggs, which had been retained to represent Christie's 2013 re-election campaign organization and the New Jersey Republican State Committee in connection with investigations into this scandal, said on January 23, 2014, that both organizations had received subpoenas. On February 3, Christie said that his governor's office received a subpoena. The Federal Bureau of Investigation assisted the U.S. Attorney in its investigation.\n\nProsecutors at the U.S. Attorney's Office met with Mayor Sokolich on February 21 and Governor Christie's press secretary, Michael Drewniak, as a \"fact witness\", on February 27. Drewniak, who had been subpoenaed by the legislative committee, was referenced in several previously subpoenaed documents released by the committee from others.\n\nThe United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, in Manhattan, issued a subpoena to PA Chairman David Samson on March 7, 2014, but then rescinded it on March 10, because of overlap with the Fishman investigation based in New Jersey.\n\nAs part of the criminal investigation, Drewniak testified on April 4, 2014, in Newark before the grand jury investigating the scandal. His lawyer, Anthony Iacullo, said he was not a target of the investigation. ABC News reported that this was the first confirmation of a convened grand jury, which can meet for up to 18 months (with further extensions possible), for interviewing witnesses. It has the power to indict, subpoena, and interview witnesses without their attorneys being present. \"The New York Times\" reported that it was the same grand jury that had reviewed subpoenaed documents.\n\nOn April 7, 2014, it was reported that David Wildstein met with federal prosecutors in Newark for several days during the week of March 31 and Charlie McKenna met with investigators in mid-January in Fishman's office.\n\nOn April 25, 2014, it was reported that Fishman had subpoenaed the New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on Investigation for \"any and all records\" they have gathered, with delivery due on May 2. Committee co-chairs Weinberg and Wisniewski said that they will comply, and that the request \"reaffirms\" their progress.\n\nOn May 1, 2014, it was reported that the federal grand jury had subpoenaed PA attorney Phillip Kwon, who had reportedly assisted preparing Bill Baroni's unsworn November 25, 2013, \"traffic study\" testimony to the Assembly Transportation Committee, and that Kwon had asked the PA to cover his legal fees.\n\nOn September 18, 2014, WNBC-TV4 (New York) reported that unnamed federal investigators told them that thus far no evidence that Christie knew in advance of the closures or had directed them was found, but cautioned that the investigation is ongoing and that no final determination has been made. That evening's NBC report by Brian Williams, \"federal [Bridgegate] charges are now ruled out for Chris Christie\", was retracted.\n\nIn January 2015, it was reported that Christie was interviewed by federal prosecutors and FBI agents in December 2014. He reportedly met with investigators voluntarily to give his side of the story. The meeting lasted two hours and was described as \"professional, collegial and courteous.\"\n\nThe federal investigation led to Wildstein's guilty plea and the prosecution of Baroni and Kelly.\n\nThe United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation had opened its own inquiry into the closure. Committee chairman Jay Rockefeller (D-West Virginia) had written Samson and Vice Chairman Scott Rechler in December 2013 to demand answers about how the Port Authority handled the closure and its aftermath. According to his letter, Rockefeller, who has long been critical about shortcomings in the PA's operations, was concerned about what seemed to be evidence of \"political appointees abusing their power to hamper interstate commerce and safety without public notice.\" It also said that based on a review of recent testimony before the New Jersey Assembly Transportation Committee, it appeared that there was no traffic study underway. Rockefeller also asked the United States Department of Transportation to conduct its own review of the incident.\n\nThe PA's written response to Rockefeller's questions, signed by board secretary Karen Eastman, restated and summarized the December 9, 2013, testimony by Foye and two other PA managers before the Assembly Transportation Committee. It said that the closures had been ordered by Wildstein on September 6, 2013, despite various PA engineers expressing their concerns, particularly about more traffic congestion on local streets and no advance notice to Fort Lee officials. Wildstein, the letter said, had ordered bridge officials not to notify Foye of the closures. It also revealed that the PA's board had not approved Baroni's November 25 presentation before that committee, that the closures were part of a traffic study. It showed that PA's procedures for planning and internal notifications for any traffic study were not followed. However, the letter did not reveal any reason why the closures were ordered. It characterized the incident as \"aberrational\". Rockefeller declared that based on the PA's response, there was \"zero evidence\" that a \"legitimate\" traffic study had been planned. He also said that the letter revealed the PA had not followed its own procedures for lane closures.\n\nThe lane-closure scandal also sparked inquiries by the Manhattan District Attorney's office and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC and Manhattan DA probes are focusing on the Pulaski Skyway, an elevated highway linking Newark and Jersey City. On June 23, 2014, \"The New York Times\" reported that the inquiries are focusing on possible securities law violations caused by Christie's use of Port Authority funds to pay for repairs to the Skyway in 2010 and 2011, using money that was to be used on a new Hudson River rail tunnel that Christie canceled in October 2010.\n\nOn May 1, 2015, the U.S. Attorney unsealed indictments, charging Bill Baroni and Bridget Anne Kelly with nine counts of conspiracy, fraud and related charges. These included conspiracy to commit fraud by \"knowingly converting and intentionally misapplying property of an organization receiving federal benefits\". That same day, prosecutors released David Wildstein's plea bargain. He had agreed in January to plead guilty to conspiracy to commit fraud and conspiracy against civil rights. Wildstein, whose sentencing was delayed until after the trial, agreed to testify against Baroni and Kelly.\n\nThe indictments charge that the lane closures were retribution against Sokolich for not endorsing Christie. Fishman said that Wildstein had corroborated the allegations in the indictments, and said that the three officials \"agreed to and did use public resources to carry out a vendetta and exact retribution,\" and that they \"callously victimized the people of Fort Lee.\" Kelly vigorously denied wrongdoing. Baroni argued that his indictment was improperly based on the unsworn testimony and documents he had provided to the legislative committee in 2014, but prosecutors countered that he had not been offered immunity at that time.\n\nThe trial for Baroni and Kelly, originally scheduled to begin July 7, 2015, was repeatedly rescheduled, first to November 16, 2015, to allow more time for the defense to review the large volume of documents provided by the prosecutors, then to May 16, 2016, and then to September 12, 2016.\n\nProsecutors asked the court that those documents, about 1.5 million pages, be kept from public view in order to protect the privacy of unindicted co-conspirators, but the defense teams opposed that proposal as overly broad, and preventing collaboration with anyone who could assist but would not be a witness. U.S. District Court Judge Susan Wigenton ruled on July 7 in favor of the prosecutors, writing, \"The Confidential Discovery Materials shall not be disclosed by defense counsel to anyone other than the defendants and any agent working at the direction of defense counsel in this matter.\" thereby preventing public access to certain items presented as evidence in the criminal case. Media outlets—including The Associated Press, \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Star-Ledger\", and \"The Record\"—requested a hearing with Wigenton to ask that the ban be lifted or modified arguing for the First Amendment right of access to criminal court records.\n\nThose news organizations together asked the court to release the prosecution's list of unindicted co-conspirators. On February 17, 2016, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman's office filed a brief to Wigenton requesting that the Bridgegate records remain sealed so that the list of uncharged third-party co-conspirators not be made public. Coconspirators refers to \"individuals the government believes may have known about the plot to abruptly shut down access lanes to the bridge to cause massive traffic disruptions, but were not charged.\" Fishman claimed that it was a policy of the United States Department of Justice \"to avoid unnecessary public references to wrongdoing\" by unindicted co-conspirator because they have no \"evidentiary value\" in the criminal matter. If the names were made public, then public employees or appointed officials, who were said to be involved in the lane closures, would not have the \"opportunity to challenge that information in court.\" Their names would be revealed if they were relevant at a future trial or if the Government \"moves for the admission of an out-of-court statement made in furtherance of the conspiracy by an unindicted coconspirator.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2016, Judge Wigenton ruled for the list's release, which she said named individuals \"whom the government has sufficient evidence to designate as having joined the conspiracy.\" Christie predicted that he would not appear on the list. One of the men on the list filed an emergency motion, as John Doe, and the release was delayed. On September 7, 2016, a federal appellate court ruled that the list, and the identity of John Doe, would remain secret for the time being, but that \"the time may come, perhaps at trial.\"\n\nThe media also asked for a separate existing list, which Kelly's attorney characterized as individuals \"who were not unindicted co-conspirators, but whom the government believed were aware of the alleged criminal conspiracy charged in this case but did not join the conspiracy.\"\n\nThe jury of seven women and five men, plus four alternates, was seated on September 14, 2016. RNC member and former law partner Bill Palatucci, described as Christie's closest counselor, may be called to testify.\n\nIn its opening statement on September 19, 2016, the prosecution said that at the World Trade Center site on the third day of the closure, \"the evidence will show that [Wildstein and Baroni] bragged [to Christie] about the fact that there were traffic problems in Fort Lee, and that Mayor Sokolich was not getting his calls returned,\" and that Wildstein would testify and \"admit that he was the one who came up with that idea.\"\n\nOver the course of a month, prosecutors presented their case. David Wildstein appeared in week two, giving over eight days of testimony. After Wildstein left, prosecutors moved to secondary witnesses. On October 13, 2016, prosecutors concluded their arguments, having spent nearly four weeks laying an argument. The case moves to the defense to make an argument.\n\nOver the next two weeks, the jury heard arguments from the defense, with Bridget Anne Kelly on the spotlight, saying it was \"crude humor\". Bill Baroni maintained the argument that the traffic jams were part of a legitimate study to determine \"whether congestion on the main approaches to the toll plaza could be reduced if the lanes earmarked for Fort Lee were eliminated.\" The case on October 26 concluded with the defense resting.\n\nOn November 4, 2016, after deliberating the testimony of 35 witnesses (including the defendants) and other evidence over the course of five days, the jury found Baroni and Kelly guilty on all counts.\n\nOn March 29, 2017, Baroni was sentenced to 24 months in prison, and Kelly was sentenced to 18 months. Appeals are expected.\n\nOn July 12, 2017, Wildstein received a sentence of three years' probation and 500 hours of community service.\n\nBaroni and Kelly filed formal arguments with the 3rd District Court of Appeals on Friday, August 25, 2017.\n\nPrivate citizen, activist, and retired Teaneck firefighter William J. Brennan, who had attended Seton Hall Law School but is not a member of the New Jersey Bar, filed a complaint in September 2016 in the Fort Lee municipal court, alleging official misconduct by Christie. The complaint specifically said that Christie had failed to stop the closure then in progress when, according to Wildstein's sworn testimony, Christie heard about it from Baroni and Wildstein on Wednesday, September 11, 2013, the third day of the closure. The complaint alleged that Fort Lee and its mayor \"were deprived the benefit and enjoyment of their community as a consequence of this intentional evil minded act.\"\nOn October 13, 2016, Judge Roy F. McGeady, the presiding judge for the municipal courts in Bergen County, accepted jurisdiction based on the events having occurred in Fort Lee. Christie was represented by the law firm of Alston & Bird at the Hackensack hearing. McGready ruled, \"I'm satisfied that there's probable cause to believe that an event of official misconduct was caused by Governor Christie. I'm going to issue the summons.\" The audience in the courtroom applauded.\n\nThat summons put the case into the hands of the Bergen County prosecutor's office, which must decide whether to bring an indictment against Christie. Prosecutor Gurbir S. Grewal was appointed by Christie, and so was expected to recuse himself.\n\nThe charge carries a sentence of up to 10 years in prison.\n\nBrian Murray, speaking for Christie, said the governor would appeal the ruling immediately, adding, \"this is a dishonorable complaint filed by a known serial complainant and political activist with a history of abusing the judicial system,\" and reiterating the governor's denial of knowledge before or during the closure.\n\nA hearing on November 30, 2016, was to address the appointment of a special prosecutor, for which Brennan has called, saying he cannot trust the objectivity of state prosecutors or the Attorney General's office.\n\nIn January 2017, despite request for dismissal the case was remanded to a lower court, but prosecutors later decided not to pursue charges against Christie. While prosecutors chose not to pursue the case, the judge ruled that it was not dismissed as had been claimed.\n\nOn February 17, 2017, the judge ruled that the case could proceed, saying \"The court is satisfied that [Christie] had knowledge of the traffic problems in Fort Lee\",\n\nOn January 16, 2014, the governor's office announced the hiring of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher to assist with an internal review and cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's investigation. The firm also agreed to assist \"with document retention and production in connection with the United States Attorney inquiry, and other appropriate inquires and requests for information\" and review the governor's office operations and information flow. The lead attorney was Randy Mastro, a long time associate of Rudy Giuliani, the former Mayor of New York City and former United States Attorney. Mastro served under Giuliani as Deputy Mayor of New York City and Assistant US Attorney.\n\nIn February, Mastro requested interviews about the toll lane closures with Wildstein and with Sokolich and Kelly, who all declined and were not interviewed.\n\nThe report, released on March 27, 2014, found that Christie had no advance knowledge of the bridge \"lane realignment,\" and didn't know why it happened. It blamed Bridget Kelly and David Wildstein for orchestrating the toll lane closures. The report revealed that Wildstein said that he informed Christie of the ongoing lane closures during a September 11, 2013, memorial event, but asserted that Christie did not recall that exchange. It noted that Michael Drewniak said Wildstein appeared \"anxious\" during a dinner with him on December 4, 2013, and that Wildstein \"had mentioned the Fort Lee traffic study to the Governor\" while the lane closures were taking place. Drewniak said Wildstein told him that the plan to shut the lanes and attribute it to a \"traffic study\" were Wildstein's idea, and that Kelly and Bill Stepien had \"some knowledge.\" The report also found \"no evidence\" that Stepien or Baroni knew of the improper motives for the lane closures, although they were aware that the lanes were to be closed and that traffic patterns were to be changed as a result.\n\nAfter the report was released, Christie said he was shocked by the actions of his former aides and that \"Sometimes, people do inexplicably stupid things.\"\n\nThe report said the lane closures were political retribution against Sokolich but did not identify the specific motive. However, it noted the day before her infamous \"Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee\" message, Kelly confirmed that Sokolich would not endorse Christie. It said she was \"irate\" and \"on fire\" when a Christie aide met with Sokolich several days later.\n\nThe report relied on documents provided by the governor's office and interviews with 75 witnesses, including Christie and others from his administration, but no one interviewed had been at the Port Authority at the time of the lane closings. The interviews were not under oath. The report also was based on more than 250,000 documents, many of them e-mails and text messages. Transcripts of the interviews and the names of the interviewees were not released at the time the report was made public. It was estimated that the taxpayer-funded report cost more than $1 million. A separate section of the report rejected allegations by Hoboken's Mayor Dawn Zimmer that Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno and Richard Constable, director of the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs, had linked release of Hurricane Sandy relief funds to approval of a project represented by David Samson's law firm.\n\nIn April 2014, U.S. Internal Revenue Service filings disclosed that Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher donated $10,000 to the Republican Governors Association, of which Christie was then chairman. The contribution was made on March 18, 2014, nine days before release of the Mastro report. The firm donated $55,000 to the association from 2009 to 2012, when Christie was not its leader. It made no donations to the Democratic Governors Association from 2012 to 2014.\n\nAfter Assemblyman Wisniewski gave a deadline of April 11, 2014, for providing the interview records, which were part of the basis of the report, or they would be subpoenaed, Gibson Dunn turned over on that date a list of 75 persons interviewed for the report. On April 14, the interview notes were turned over to the committee and U.S. Attorney's office, and publicly released. Gibson Dunn lawyers said that there were no recordings or verbatim transcripts of the interviews, prompting Wisniewski to characterize the conclusions from these interviews as \"hearsay\". There were nearly 370 instances in which the persons interviewed could not recall details about events they were asked to address.\n\nThe interview notes contained information that was downplayed or omitted from the original Mastro report, showing a governor's office in which government and political operations were deeply connected. They showed how the governor's office worked to secure Democratic endorsements and coordinated with Christie's election campaign to penalize mayors who did not endorse Christie in his re-election.\n\nIn July 2015, a federal court ruling ordered that materials used to prepare the report be made available to legal defense teams of those indicted.\n\nCritics attacked the report as a whitewash, which they claimed read more like a legal defense than an objective investigation. They noted investigators could not interview any of the most important figures in the scandal, and contended that Mastro had a conflict of interest since his firm was politically tied to Christie. Wisniewski and Weinberg, co-chairs of the legislature investigative committee, criticized the report as incomplete and potentially biased since it was prepared by lawyers hired by the Christie administration, and the lawyers did not interview key figures in the scandal. Baroni, Kelly, Samson, Stepien, and Wildstein declined to be interviewed.\n\nNewspaper editorials noted that one of the lawyers on the investigation team was a close friend of Christie. The report was also criticized for \"sexism\" for its treatment of Christie aide Bridget Kelly.\n\nA Monmouth University Polling Institute poll, released on April 2, 2014, found that 52% of New Jersey residents believed the report was conducted to help Christie's reputation. At about that time, a Quinnipiac University poll found that 56% of New Jersey registered voters viewed it as a \"whitewash\", while 36% said it was a \"legitimate investigation\".\n\nIn May 2014, a lawyer for Bill Stepien demanded a retraction of the report's contention that Stepien lied to Christie.\n\nOn December 16, 2015, a United States District Court Judge issued an opinion criticizing the Gibson firm and its investigation for intentionally failing to preserve notes of interviews conducted by attorneys. Judge Susan Davis Wigenton, presiding in the criminal trial of Kelly and Baroni, wrote: \"The taxpayers of the State of New Jersey paid [Gibson Dunn] millions of dollars to conduct a transparent and thorough investigation. What they got instead was opacity and gamesmanship. They deserve better.\"\n\nOn December 2, 2013, Christie said at a press conference that Democrats were just playing politics by holding hearings into lane closures. \"Just because [Rep.] John Wisniewski is obsessed with this, and [Sen.] Loretta Weinberg, it just shows that they really have nothing to do,\" Christie said. Christie later credited the e-mail documents subpoenaed by the hearings as the first information he had that his staff was involved. When reporter Matt Katz asked, \"Governor, did you have anything to do with these lane closures in September outside the GW Bridge? Have you spoken to--\" Christie dismissively joked \"I worked the cones, actually, Matt. Unbeknownst to everybody I was actually the guy out there. I was in overalls and a hat. You really are not serious with that question.\"\n\nChristie questioned the policy of allowing three dedicated lanes, saying \"I didn't know Fort Lee got three dedicated lanes until all this stuff happened, and I think we should review that entire policy. Because I don't know why Fort Lee needs three dedicated lanes to tell you the truth,\" and \"the fact that one town has three lanes dedicated to it? That kind of gets me sauced [upset].\" However, members of the New Jersey Assembly Transportation Committee said at a November 25, 2013, hearing that the Fort Lee entrance has been used by an even greater number of commuters from the surrounding Bergen County towns. PA officials, including Patrick Foye, confirmed that assessment in their sworn testimony at the committee hearing on December 9, 2013.\n\nChristie has denied involvement, saying that his staff acted without his knowledge regarding to the planning for the lane closures. He said at an April 2014 town hall meeting: \"if anybody told me they were going to do this, I would have stopped it\".\n\nOn December 12, 2013, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Christie was said to have called New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to complain about Patrick Foye, the executive director of the Port Authority and a Cuomo appointee, in an apparent attempt to shut down Foye's investigation of the lane closures. On December 13, 2013, Christie denied such a call, saying, \"The story is categorically wrong. I did not have that conversation with Governor Cuomo in any way, shape or form.\" In his January 9, 2014, press conference, he also denied any such conversation. Heather Haddon of \"The Wall Street Journal\" still stood by the report on February 19, and Matt Katz said that he had independently confirmed it. During the federal trial of Baroni and Kelly, PA Commissioner Scott Rechler (appointed by Cuomo as vice-chairman under Samson) testified that Cuomo had told him that \"Governor Christie mentioned to [Cuomo] that David Samson was once again complaining about Pat Foye interfering, getting involved in politics.\"\n\nAt a press conference on December 13, Christie announced the immediate resignations of Baroni and Wildstein. Nevertheless, Christie said the closure was \"absolutely, unequivocally not\" political retribution.\n\nChristie added: \"I've made it very clear to everybody on my senior staff that if anyone had any knowledge about this, they needed to come forward to me and tell me about it. And they've all assured me that they don't.\" Christie said: \"The chief of staff and chief counsel assured me they feel comfortable that we have all the information we need to have.\"\n\nAt that point during the December 13 press conference, Christina Genovese Renna texted to Pete Sheridan, \"Are you listening? He [Christie] just flat out lied about senior staff and [Bill] Stepien not being involved,\" and \"He lied. And if e-mails are found with the subpoena or [campaign] e-mails are uncovered in discovery if it come to that it could be bad.\" The texts from Renna (an employee of Kelly) to Sheridan (who had worked on the re-election campaign) came to light in court filings by Baroni's attorneys on August 10, 2016, to which Christie responded, \"I absolutely dispute it. It's ridiculous. It's nothing new.\" At the federal trial, Renna walked back her comments, testifying, \"I had no knowledge of whether the governor was lying or not. But it seemed to contradict what I had been told.\"\n\nIn a nearly two-hour press conference on January 9, 2014, Christie apologized for the toll lane closures and said that he was \"embarrassed and humiliated\" by the behavior of his staff. Christie claimed he first learned of his staff's involvement via news media reports on January 8. The governor announced that he had fired Bridget Kelly, calling her \"deceitful\", claiming her lack of disclosure about her actions and e-mails caused him to mislead the public. Christie admonished his two-time campaign manager Bill Stepien and said he had asked Stepien to withdraw his name from the Republican State Party Chairman race, and to cease his consulting role for the Republican Governors Association. Christie promised that he and his staff would cooperate with any government investigations, including those by the New Jersey Legislature. When asked what he would do if subpoenaed to testify on the matter, Christie said, \"I'm not going to speculate on that\".\n\nChristie said \"I have had no contact with David Wildstein in a long time, a long time, well before the election.\" Christie was re-elected Governor on November 5, 2013. On September 11, 2013, during the third day of the closures, Christie, Wildstein, Samson and Baroni were photographed together at the site of the World Trade Center during a commemoration of the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks.\n\nIn the press conference, Christie described his earlier efforts to determine his staff's involvement, saying: \"I brought my senior staff together I think about four weeks ago tomorrow. And I put to all of them one simple challenge: If there is any information that you know about the decision to close these lanes in Fort Lee, you have one hour to tell either my chief of staff, Kevin O'Dowd, or my chief counsel, Charlie McKenna.\"\n\nThe governor's office issued a statement on January 31, 2014, that denied the allegations about Christie that were contained in a January 31 letter from Alan Zegas (Wildstein's attorney) to the PA, which had been made public. The letter questioned the accuracy of various statements made by Christie about his client, without providing any specific references, and claimed that there is evidence of Christie being aware of the toll lane closures at the time that they were closed. The governor's office said that Christie stood by his position that he \"first learned lanes were closed when it was reported by the press\". Christie previously said in his December 13 press conference that this was well after the toll lanes for local traffic were reopened.\n\nDuring his monthly talk radio broadcast on February 3, Christie said he was cooperating with subpoenas from the state legislative committee and the U.S. Attorney to his governor's office, which began turning over documents to the legislative committee earlier in the day and would continue to do so as the requested items were located.\n\nOn April 17, Christie enacted two recommendations of the Mastro report. He eliminated the Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, which had been headed by Bridget Kelly. He named Patrick E. Hobbs, dean of Seton Hall University School of Law, Christie's \"alma mater\", as a part-time ombudsman to address complaints about misconduct, enhance ethics training and accountability, and improve electronic communications in the governor's office. Critics noted that Christie's staff and others had used personal e-mails to avoid public scrutiny.\n\nHobbs retained his Seton Hall post. Hobbs asserted that Christie had given him \"full authority and independence\" and would leave the job if he felt impeded. The United States Ombudsman Association recommends, however, that ombudsmen be appointed by entities outside of their jurisdiction, preferably by a legislature, to avoid any questions about independence. In 2006, as U.S. Attorney, Christie approved Bristol-Myers Squibb's endowment of an ethics chair at Seton Hall's law school in a controversial prosecution settlement. After a controversy arose over this agreement, Hobbs wrote a letter in 2006 to the editor of \"The Wall Street Journal\" praising Christie. Hobbs said he has had a 15-year professional relationship with Christie, and denied the Bristol-Meyers-Squibb arrangement would compromise his role as ombudsman.\n\nOn April 24, Christie denied creating a \"culture of divisiveness\" or that perceptions about his attitude may have led others to plan and allow the lane closures to occur as retaliation. \"If in fact I created a culture where people were going after each other, then how did we do all these things together with Republicans and Democrats?\" Christie asked during a Brick, New Jersey town hall meeting. The \"Star-Ledger\" editorial board answered that Richard Nixon had cut deals with Democrats, but had still abused power; and that despite Christie's early bipartisanship, he has thrown himself into several partisan standoffs; and that his personal style had always been \"vindictive and aggressive\"; and concluded that Christie \"created the culture that inspired\" the lane closures.\n\nAfter the May 2015 indictment of Baroni and Kelly and the Wildstein guilty plea, Christie said that the outcome of the federal investigation was a vindictation. He said on Twitter \"Today's charges make clear that what I've said from day one is true,\" and \"I had no knowledge or involvement in the planning or execution of this act.\"\n\nNew Jersey Democratic political leaders lambasted Christie and the lane closings. Sokolich called them \"a petty political vendetta,\" while Barbara Buono contended that a culture of intimidation and retribution engendered by Christie and his staff hampered funding of a challenger even though the state was mostly Democratic. The Democratic National Committee released a video in December 2013 that raised questions if \"Christie's political payback\" was behind the toll lane closures. It released a satirical video, timed to coincide with the January Assembly hearing, about what questions still needed to be answered. At the beginning of February, it released an online video ad with a Super Bowl 48-inspired, football game theme. It was followed soon after by a video that parodied Facebook's popular \"Look Back\" videos.\n\nRudy Giuliani said that if Christie was \"not telling the truth, he's ruined.\" While Giuliani claimed that he was not acting as a surrogate for Christie, many of the media inquiries for interviews with Giuliani had gone to the governor's office and were forwarded to Giuliani by Maria Comella, Christie's Communications Director.\n\nFormer Republican New Jersey Governor Thomas Kean, a longtime mentor and supporter of Christie, said in January 2014 that he believed Christie when he said he did not know his aides were involved in the lane closures until incriminating e-mails were revealed on January 8. Kean said that there were still unanswered questions about the atmosphere in the governor's office and \"whether or not there are more than two or three people involved.\" In an April 2014 interview with \"The New Yorker\", Kean questioned whether Christie \"created an atmosphere in which some of those people thought they were doing his will because they were getting back at people.\" Kean said he had reconsidered his support of Christie as a potential presidential candidate, and that if Christie was not telling the truth, \"then he's finished. As governor, too.\"\n\nChristie was not named in the May 2015 indictment, and the U.S. Attorney, Paul Fishman, refused to speak on the possible culpability of persons other than the three persons charged. According to \"The New York Times\", the indictment would have a negative political impact on Christie's possible presidential ambitions. Iowa GOP donor Gary Kirke said that Christie's delay to announce a possible presidential campaign until after being cleared of wrongdoing, greatly reduced his chances of winning the 2016 Iowa caucuses. GOP operatives said that the scandal itself had not been an issue leading up to Iowa, nor to New Hampshire, where the first presidential primary would be held.\n\nIn January 2014, there was a wide range of opinion about the long-term impact of this scandal on a potential Christie 2016 presidential bid for the 2016 election. By early February, national polling showed a substantial erosion in his political standing and 2016 presidential campaign prospects.\n\nA Quinnipiac poll, published January 21, showed him trailing former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the leading potential Democratic contender, 46% to 38%, which was a downturn from two previous polls that showed Christie and Clinton about even, after Christie had gained considerably in the polls against her since March 2013. Peoples' view of his presidential capabilities went down with 35% agreeing and 36% disagreeing that he would make a good president. This was down from 49% agreeing to 31% disagreeing in a November poll. For those who had heard of the Bridgegate scandal, 50% said this scandal would hurt Christie's presidential hopes, and made 34% of those polled less likely to vote for him. His favorability rating declined to only 33% viewing him generally as favorable with 30% unfavorable. This was down from his highest rating of 47% favorable to 23% unfavorable in December 2013. The poll showed that he had gone from the leading potential Republican candidate in December to a statistical tie with three others.\n\nA Rasmussen poll of New Jersey residents, published January 10, 2014, showed that 56% believe Christie should resign \"if it is proven that he approved of retaliation against an elected official who refused to support him.\" Only 29% disagreed. A majority believed it was at least somewhat likely that Christie was aware that the September toll lane closures were retaliation for the mayor of Fort Lee's refusal to support his re-election.\n\nA Rutgers-Eagleton poll, published January 24, 2014, showed that the Fort Lee scandal had hurt his standings among New Jersey residents. Christie's favorability rating, as governor, was shown to be 46%, down 22 points from just before his landslide re-election victory in November 2013, with 43% having an unfavorable view. While the majority of residents still approved his overall performance as governor, his 53% job approval was down 15 points from November. A majority, 56%, said that it was \"very unlikely\" or \"somewhat unlikely\" that Christie's top aides acted without his knowledge in the Fort Lee scandal. Only 20% said they fully believed Christie's explanation about this topic, while 42% did not believe his version at all and 33% only partially believed him.\n\nA Monmouth University/Asbury Park Press poll, published February 24, 2014, showed Christie's job approval ratings in New Jersey at 50%, which was down 9% since January and 20% from 12 months prior. Other results showed 61% believed the governor was not completely honest about what he knew about the toll lane closures, and 50% (up from 34% in January) thought Christie was personally involved in the decision to close the toll lanes. A similar poll, released on April 2, showed his approval ratings to be about the same, remaining 14 points lower than December, before the Bridgegate scandal broke. It reported that 62% said that Bridgegate and Hoboken's Sandy relief aid issues hurt his presidential prospects for 2016, up from 51% in January.\n\nThe lane closure controversy has received substantial attention from the New York area and national media. The first story in the media about the lane closures, and the first to bring politics into the mix, was reported by \"The Record\"'s John Cichowski in his Road Warrior column on September 13, 2013, that there was speculation that Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich was targeted \"either for failing to endorse Governor Christie's election bid or for pushing through a $500 million, 47-story high-rise housing development near the bridge, or for failing to support the Port's last toll hike.\"\n\nOn September 17, 2013, Ted Mann of \"The Wall Street Journal\" wrote a story about what could have possibly prompted the Port Authority to close toll lanes to local traffic without public notifications. Citing anonymous sources, he reported that \"the decision to close the traffic lanes caused tension\" since \"the lane closures came as a surprise to some high-ranking officials at the bi-state agency.\" He said that the toll lanes were reopened to local traffic based on an order from Executive Director Patrick Foye, \"who argued that the abrupt shift in traffic patterns caused a threat to public safety and should have been advertised to the public ahead of time.\"\n\nA subsequent newspaper report by Mann, published on October 1, 2013, was the first to address the contents and quote some of the text from Foye's September 13, 2013, e-mail to PA officials. Foye's e-mail ordered the toll lanes to be reopened, while denouncing the closures as an \"abusive decision\" and pledging to investigate \"how PA process was wrongfully subverted and the public interest damaged\" without Foye's knowledge. The e-mail said that there were potential violations of state and federal laws. PA insiders disputed that there was a traffic study. All of this reinforced the reported rumors that the toll lanes might have been closed by political surrogates of Governor Chris Christie, a Republican, as an alleged act of political retribution against Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, for not endorsing Christie in his 2013 re-election campaign. \"The Record\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and other news media continued to investigate the matter in comprehensive reporting over the next few months, using sources and requests for public records.\n\n\"The New York Times\" covered the lane closure story on December 8, 2013.\n\nThe scandal broke in full on January 8, 2014, with an online story by Shawn Boburg of \"The Record\" that Christie's deputy chief of staff Bridget Kelly was involved in the planning of the toll lane closures. That revelation catapulted the story into a national political event. \"The Record\" continued with details of the dialogues in the troves of e-mails and texts supplied to the New Jersey Assembly Transportation Committee by David Wildstein. \"The Record\" described \"vindictive lane closures\" that were intended to cause massive traffic jams in Fort Lee. Related news with quotes from the e-mails and texts were subsequently published the same day in other news media. During his January 9, 2014, press conference about the scandal, Governor Christie cited \"The Record\" as breaking the pivotal story on January 8.\n\nMSNBC gave substantial coverage to the Bridgegate scandal, and the network's ratings reached their highest point since the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings when it covered Chris Christie's apologetic press conference on January 9, 2014. MSNBC's intensive coverage was criticized by Christie, who was formerly close to MSNBC, calling it a \"partisan network\" that is \"almost gleeful in their efforts attacking\" him. In February 2014, comedian Bill Maher also criticized MSNBC for its overextended coverage. In response to Christie's criticisms of the intensive coverage by MSNBC and other media, Steve Kornacki noted in 2015 that coverage by the media primarily focused on the causes and effects of the bridge toll lane closures and the involvement of members of Christie's administration and his Port Authority appointees, David Wildstein and Bill Baroni, rather than Christie himself. Observing that Christie had ridiculed the media in 2013 for trying to implicate Wildstein and Baroni, Kornacki noted that by 2015, Wildstein had pleaded guilty to federal charges and Baroni was facing a federal indictment in connection with the scandal.\n\nIn a decision on July 2, 2014, Superior Court Judge P. J. Innes ruled in favor of the North Jersey Media Group, publisher of the newspaper \"The Record\", that the state must partially comply with open records request and turn over some information it had previously refused to release regarding current and former state employees' written requests for the state to appoint them attorneys or pay their legal fees resulting from parallel criminal and legislative investigations into the lane closures, though not the names of the employees. The state must pay the media group's legal fees. The media group plans to appeal, to gain fuller disclosure of the documents.\n\nThe scandal and subsequent events have been extensively covered in Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19973692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973692", "title": "Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development", "text": "Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development\n\nThe Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development highlights the role that states and civil society must play in preventing and reducing violence associated with war, crime, and social unrest. The Declaration was adopted on 7 June 2006 and is now endorsed by 113 states. It is the strongest political statement to date that addresses the impact of armed violence within a development context. Regular high-level diplomatic regional meetings and ministerial review conferences take place to assess progress concerning the process and implementation of the Geneva Declaration; the first two ministerial review conferences took place in 2008 and 2011. During 2014 a series of Regional Review Conferences have been organized not only to review the process in implementing the Geneva Declaration but also to reflect and gather support in integrating meaningfully armed violence reduction in national and international development processes, including the post-2015 development agenda.\n\nBy signing the Geneva Declaration states commit to:\n\n\nUnderstanding that the fight against the global scourge of armed violence and the prospects for sustainable development are closely linked, the signatories recognize that armed violence constitutes a major obstacle to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. They agree to strengthen their efforts to integrate armed violence reduction and conflict prevention programs into national, regional, and multilateral development frameworks and strategies.\n\nThe approach is based on three pillars:\n\n\nA Core Group of 14 signatory states and affiliated organizations is responsible for steering the process and guiding the implementation of the Geneva Declaration. Affiliated organizations include the Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery (BCPR) of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Small Arms Survey—which also hosts the Geneva Declaration Secretariat—, the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the Quaker United Nations Office (QUNO).\n\nCore group member states:\n\n\n\nSignatory states:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7454836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7454836", "title": "Gille Coluim the Marischal", "text": "Gille Coluim the Marischal\n\nGille Coluim the Marischal was an official of the Scottish crown in the second half of the 12th century. His name occurs in the witness lists of two extant charters, both issued by King William of Scotland at Perth, which indicates that he was probably a native of somewhere in southern Perthshire. He seems in fact to have been the lord of Madderty in Strathearn. In either 1172 or 1173 he witnessed King William's grant of Ardross to Merleswain mac Cholbaín, a relative of the mormaer of Fife.; and somewhere between 1178 and 1185 he witnessed the king's grant of lands in Inverness-shire to Gille Brigte, Mormaer of Strathearn. In both of these charters, the grants are to native Scots and Gille Coluim appears alongside other native Scots, such as (in both cases) Gille Críst mac ingine Samuel (\"Gillecrist mac inien Samüel\") and Gille Míchéil mac Donnchada (\"Gillemichel mac Dunecan\"). Gille Coluim in both cases appears with the title \"Marescal\", meaning that he was the king's military commander. It appears to be in this role that Gille Coluim was given control of the castle at Auldearn (\"Heryn\") in Moray during a rebellion by the Meic Uilleim, a royal kindred who were claiming the throne of Scotland. A charter issued by King William at Linlithgow, between 1187 and 1189 grants Gille Brigte, mormaer of Strathearn, the land of Madderty and states that neither Gille Coluim nor his heirs have any right to the land after giving up Auldearn to the \"Meic Uilleim\". In the charter, King William declares that Gille Coluim \"feloniously surrendered my castle of Heryn and then went over to my mortal enemies in the manner of a wicked traitor and stood with them against me to do as much harm as he could\". We can be certain then that Gille Coluim surrendered the castle during the insurrection of Domnall MacUilleim (\"Donald MacWilliam\") which took place between 1179 and 1187. Nothing more is heard of Gille Coluim. The charter indicates that Gille Coluim was not dead at the time of issue (no later than 1190) and his death is not otherwise reported.\n\n"}
{"id": "44872249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44872249", "title": "Guardia alla Frontiera", "text": "Guardia alla Frontiera\n\nThe Guardia alla Frontiera (GaF), was an Italian Army Border guard created in 1937 who defended the 1.851 km of northern Italian frontiers with the so-called \"Vallo Alpino Occidentale\" (487 km with France), \"Vallo Alpino Settentrionale\" (724 km with Switzerland and 420 km with Austria) and \"Vallo Alpino Orientale\" (220 km with Yugoslavia).\n\nIn 1940 the GaF had 21,000 military personnel, deployed in eight commands, 27 sectors and seven regiments of artillery. It manned 1,000 fortifications, 6,000 machine guns, 1,000 mortars, 100 Cannone da 47/32 M35 , and another thousand other medium and small-caliber cannons (75/27 and 149/35).\n\nThe GaF was divided into the following \"Corpi d'Armata\":\n\nBy 10 June 1940 (Italy's entry into the war) the GaF (not counting colonies in Libya and Albania) contained 23 sectors, 50,000 men, 28 battalions \"Vallo Alpino\", 22 battalions of fascist militia.\n\nEach command of the army of GaF could be divided into \"sectors\" (27 areas of coverage, from I to XXVII, along the border; sectors XVIII, XIX and XX were never realized), which could break down in \"sub\" and then in \"groups of milestones\" and so on for ever smaller units. Each command in the field had two or more subsectors which controlled the fortifications. These works were manned by infantry, artillery, engineers, etc. Despite the GaF was a body predominantly static type, its dependencies were also made five light tank (carristi) companies, equipped with Fiat 3000 that over time, due to their age and lack of spare parts, ended largely abandoned in Sector armories or buried in order to use the turrets as a fort.\n\nThe Guardia alla Frontiera disappeared after 1943, but nominally was active until 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "15588392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15588392", "title": "Health risk assessment", "text": "Health risk assessment\n\nA health risk assessment (also referred to as a health risk appraisal and health & well-being assessment) is one of the most widely used screening tools in the field of health promotion and is often the first step in multi-component health promotion programs.\n\nA health risk assessment (HRA) is a health questionnaire, used to provide individuals with an evaluation of their health risks and quality of life. Commonly a HRA incorporates three key elementsan extended questionnaire, a risk calculation or score, and some form of feedback i.e. face-to-face with a health advisor or an automatic online report.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention define a HRA as: “a systematic approach to collecting information from individuals that identifies risk factors, provides individualised feedback, and links the person with at least one intervention to promote health, sustain function and/or prevent disease.” \n\nThere is a range of different HRAs available for adults and children. Some target specific populations. For example, in the US, Medicare HRAs ask seniors about their ability to perform daily activities. Medicaid assessments ask questions about health-care access, availability of food, and living conditions. Most HRAs capture information relating to:\n\nThe main objectives of a HRA are to:\n\nIn the US, HRAs used as part of the Medicare Annual Wellness Visit help identify issues important to a senior’s health and well-being. HRAs used as part of Medicaid enrollment help identify individuals with health problems that need immediate attention.\n\nThe original concept of the HRA can be traced back to the decision by the assistant Surgeon General of the United States to conduct a study to determine probable 10-year lifespan of individuals based on lifestyles and predisposed conditions. The project, led by Lewis C. Robbins, MD, of the Public Health Service, was the Framingham study. The study was based on in-depth longitudinal studies of 5,000 families in Framingham, Massachusetts, that continues to this day under funding from the National Institutes of Health.\nDr. Robbins left the Public Health Service and joined Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis where, working with Jack Hall, MD, he developed the first set of health hazard tables. This culminated in the publication of How to Practice Prospective Medicine in 1970 – a guide for practising physicians, which outlined the health risk assessment questionnaire, risk computations and patient feedback strategies. It wasn't until 1980, when the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a publicly available version, that the HRA became widely used, particularly in workplace settings.\nHealth & Welfare Canada reviewed How to Practice Prospective Medicine and created a mainframe version of the book. The Centers for Disease Control became aware of this product and adapted it to the newly available personal computer. When Prudential Life Insurance also took an interest and asked to fund an update of the program, the CDC, which could not accept private project funding at the time, transferred ownership to the Carter Center at Emory University where it was updated from 1986-7. The transfer and subsequent program were managed by Dr. Ed Hutchins who had worked on the HRA in positions at the University of Pennsylvania and Charlotte-Mecklenberg Hospital. At Charlotte Mecklenberg, he secured a contract with the World Health Organization to create a mainframe product that could be used on an international basis.\nThe HRA was managed as a not-for-profit product. Copies were distributed to every state health department and liaisons were assigned to each to work with their staffs to evaluate related data. Over 2,000 copies of the software were distributed to users who requested it and approximately 70 copies of the code were provided to for-profit companies that were interested in developing proprietary products. This proliferation coincided with the rapid growth in interest in corporate health promotion programs as awareness developed on health risks and for-profit vendors monetized the programs.\nThe Carter Center's interest shifted to Africa and Dr. Hutchins founded the Healthier People Network (HPN) which in 1991 to continue the work. HPN raised funds to support the HRA but additional funding was not forthcoming from government sources. As a result, the Carter Center and HPN could not underwrite basic supporting activities such as annual conferences and, over time, the State-based liaison network and associated intellectual capital atrophied as programs lost funding and liaisons moved on.\nThe use of HRAs and corporate wellness programs has been most prevalent in the United States, with comparatively slower growth elsewhere. However, there has been recent strong growth in corporate wellness outside the US, particularly in Europe and Asia.\n\nOnce an individual completes a HRA, they usually receive a report, detailing their health rating or score, often broken down into specific sub scores and areas such as stress, nutrition and fitness. The report can also provide recommendations on how individuals can reduce their health risks by changing their lifestyle.\n\nIn addition to individual feedback, HRAs are also used to provide aggregated data reporting for employers and organizations. These reports include demographic data of participants, highlight health risk areas and often include cost projections and savings in terms of increased healthcare, absence and productivity. Organization-level reports can then be used to provide a first step by which organizations can target and monitor appropriate health interventions within their workforce.\n\nThe delivery of HRAs has changed over the years in conjunction with advances in technology. Initially distributed as paper-based, self-scoring questionnaires through on-site workplace health promotion sessions, HRAs are now most commonly implemented online. Other delivery methods include telephone, mail and face-to-face.\n\nThe advantages of online HRAs include:\n\nExtensive research has shown that HRAs can be used effectively to:\n\nThere is also recent evidence to suggest that taking a HRA alone can have a positive effect on health behavior change and health status.\n\nHowever, it is generally accepted that HRAs are most effective at promoting behavior change when they form part of an integrated, multi-component health promotion program. Applied in this way, the HRA is used primarily as a tool to identify health risks within a population and then target health interventions and behavior change programs to address these areas.\n\nThe limitations of a HRA are largely related to its usage and it is important to recognise that a HRA highlights health risks but does not diagnose disease and should not replace consultation with a medical or health practitioner.\n\nThere are reportedly over 50 different HRA providers in the market, offering a variety of versions and formats. Major vendors generally have National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) Wellness and Health Promotion (WHP) Certification or Health Information Products (HIP) Certification.\n"}
{"id": "8249764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8249764", "title": "Homestead Act of 1860", "text": "Homestead Act of 1860\n\nThe Homestead Act of 1860 in the United States would have made land available for 25 cents per acre. This act was passed by the United States Congress, but was ultimately vetoed by President James Buchanan. The late 19th century and early 20th century were a time of violent conflict over land use in the American West. The Johnson County War in Wyoming was one of the worst episodes in the saga.\n\nThis was at a time where northerners had an idea that the government should give plots of land to pioneers for free. \nPeople went to the west to start new lives and for the cheap land.\n\nThere was much worry with the free land idea. The southerners, who were still pro-slavery, worried that this would result in the west becoming populated with free-soilers. This in turn would create many anti-slavery states, creating an imbalance in the Senate against the South. Another group who opposed this idea was the Eastern industrialists. They feared employees would be drained into the West for free land.\n\n"}
{"id": "50490951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50490951", "title": "Insider threat management", "text": "Insider threat management\n\nInsider threat management is the process of preventing, combating, detecting, and monitoring employees, remote vendors and contractors, to fortify an organization's data from theft, fraud and damage.\n\nAn insider is an individual who is employed by an agency and has access to facilities, sensitive information, organizational data, information systems, and other equipment. They may have accounts giving them legitimate access to computer systems, with this access originally having been given to them to serve in the performance of their duties; these permissions could be abused to harm the organization. Insiders are often familiar with the organization's data and intellectual property as well as the methods that are in place to protect them. This makes it easier for the insider to circumvent any security controls of which they are aware. Physical proximity to data means that the insider does not need to hack into the organizational network through the outer perimeter by traversing firewalls; rather they are in the building already, often with direct access to the organization's internal network. Insider threats are harder to defend against than attacks from outsiders since the insider already has legitimate access to the organization's information and assets.\n\nInsiders may comprise permanent and temporary employees, vendors, contractors, suppliers, or ex-employees. Most common insiders are those that have elevated access where they can utilize sensitive information without drawing suspicion. However, anyone can be an insider threat to an organization if they do not dispose, secure, utilize sensitive information described in an agency's regulations. There have been cases where individuals are compromised by an opposing agency and exploited by the individual's financial status, threats on their life, or other factors in order to force the individual to comply with the opposing agencies demands.\n\nAn insider may attempt to steal property or information for personal gain, or to benefit another organization or country. These attacks may range from information data being stolen to the destruction of business property. Insiders may perform the following threats against their organization:\n\nInsiders have similar characteristics that can be compiled to in order to help determine possible threats. Most researchers have identified that insiders mainly show antisocial behavior that may include but not limited to: Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy.\n\nOn the information system side, there is the list of common behavioral indicators of known insiders:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3012782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3012782", "title": "Interpretations of Weber's liberalism", "text": "Interpretations of Weber's liberalism\n\nThere are varying interpretations of Max Weber's liberalism due to his well-known sociological achievements. Max Weber is considered an eminent founder of modern social sciences, rivaled by the figures of Émile Durkheim and Karl Marx. Some students of Weberian thought have paid less attention to Weber's extensive and often passionate engagement with the politics of his day, particularly in the United States. However, European intellectuals have given more attention to his political thought. Most of Weber's political writings have not been published in translation, or have been translated only recently in a piecemeal form.\n\nWeber's political ideas have inspired disagreement in Germany for decades. His conception of democracy has been the subject of particularly heated debate. Weber rejected the Wilhelmine regime's authoritarian political structure. He advocated parliamentary and democratic reform. Weber championed the freedoms of what he called the \"age of the Rights of Man\". Some find the liberalism of Weber as problematic.\n\nRaymond Aron has noted that Weber was not a \"liberal in the American sense,\" and not, \"strictly speaking, a democrat in the sense that the French, the English, or the Americans gave the term.\" Aron saw Weber to have looked to place the \"glory of the nation and the power of the state\" above all other things.\n\nStephen P. Turner and Regis A. Factor have concluded that Weber rejected the philosophical basis for most Western formulations of Enlightenment liberalism. Weber conceived \"parliamentarization\" primarily for selecting leaders. Weber was strongly technocratic.\n\nJ-P Mayer wrote a 1944 critique of Max Weber, entitled \"Max Weber and German Politics: a study in political sociology\". Published in England during the war, this work never appeared in German translation. Mayer had been an archivist for the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and the primary book reviewer for the \"Vorwärts\", the SPD party paper. He was a target of Nazi persecution, from which he escaped to England. There he became involved with the Labour Party and was a member of the faculty at the London School of Economics during the last part of the Second World War.\n\nMayer labeled Weber's philosophy as the \"new Machiavellianism of the steel age.\" The conception of the state that Weber supported was viewed as a middle phase in a destructive tradition of German realpolitik—a tradition that Mayer saw to extend from Bismarck to Hitler. Mayer interpreted a \"tragic\" satisfaction with which Weber was seen to embrace \"the empty character\" of Heinrich Rickert's neo-Kantian philosophy of value. Mayer viewed Weber's value theory as a nihilistic contribution to the rise of National Socialism.\n\nWolfgang J. Mommsen initiated debate by arguing this in the 1959 German publication of \"Max Weber and German Politics 1890–1920\". Mommsen questioned the sociologist's liberal reputation. According to Mommsen, Weber's sociological idea of charismatic authority was evident in his political views, and was \"close to fascist notions of plebiscitary leadership.\" Mommsen wrote that Weber's theory of democracy \"lent itself all too readily to an authoritarian reinterpretation\" Mommsen also associated Weber with the rise of Hitler: \"Weber's teachings concerning charismatic leadership coupled with the radical formulation of the meaning of democratic institutions, contributed to making the German people inwardly ready to acclaim the leadership position of Adolf Hitler.\"\n\nMax Weber's call for the democratic reform of the Wilhelmine state, and his involvement in the drafting of the Weimar Constitution, had led German intellectuals in the 1950s to consider him as an authority who could justify the democratic character of the new Federal Republic of Germany. Mommsen's thesis, that Max Weber supported parliamentary democracy as a means to serve the power interests of the German nation-state, met a sharp response, because, in Raymond Aron's words, this removed \"the new German democracy of a 'founding father,' a glorious ancestor, and a spokesman of genius.\"\n\nWeber's political views have been considered to threaten the reputation of his sociology. Günther Roth, Reinhard Bendix, and Karl Loewenstein have defended Weberian sociology by arguing that it stands separate from his political convictions. They consider Weber's distinction between scientific value-neutrality and evaluative politics to support this claim. In their view, Weber's politics should be interpreted as separate from the interpretation of his sociology. This idea was rejected by Mommsen.\n\nMommsen wrote of continuities between Weber's \"value-neutral\" sociology and his \"evaluative\" politics. The second edition of \"Max Weber and German Politics 1890-1920\" argued that \"values and science, in Weber's thought, were interdependent.\" Critics were dismissed as attempting \"to shield Max Weber's sociological works against any possible criticism based on political aspects.\" Günther Roth responded in a 1965 American sociological journal, stating that Weber was a major target for a series of critiques aimed at political sociology in general, if not at most of social science. Roth also stated that Mommsen was removed from the interest of American sociologists in Weber, and his treatment becomes questionable when he interprets Weber's sociological analysis as political ideology. Roth stated that his \"major intent\" was \"not to provide an historical defense of Weber but a review of critiques as they seem to bear on the raison d'etre of political sociology.\" He claimed that Weber \"must appear relativist and Machiavellian to all those who, for ideological reasons, cannot recognize any dividing line between political sociology and political ideology. Weber emphatically insisted on such a distinction, while his critics refuse to distinguish between his scholarship and his politics.\"\n\nRaymond Aron did not consider Weber's sociology to stand above politics. He viewed Weber, in both politics and sociology, to be a typical \"power-politician.\" Aron wrote in 1971 that Weber \"belongs to the posterity of Machiavelli as much as to the contemporaries of Nietzsche,\" and that \"the struggle for power between classes and individuals\" seemed to Weber as the \"essence\" of politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "21399966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21399966", "title": "Land reform in Ethiopia", "text": "Land reform in Ethiopia\n\nThe problem of land reform in Ethiopia has hampered that country's economic development throughout the late 19th and 20th centuries. Attempts to modernize land ownership by giving title either to the peasants who till the soil, or to large-scale farming programs, have been tried under imperial rulers like Emperor Haile Selassie, and under Marxist regimes like the Derg, with mixed results. The present Constitution of Ethiopia, which was put into force January 1995, vests land ownership exclusively \"in the State and in the\npeoples of Ethiopia.\" The relevant section continues, \"Land is a common property of the Nations, Nationalities and Peoples of Ethiopia and shall not be subject to sale or to other means of exchange.\" Despite these different approaches to land reform, Ethiopia still faces issues of sustainable food self-sufficiency.\n\nPrior to the 1974 Ethiopian Revolution, Ethiopia had a complex land tenure system. In Wollo Province, for example, there were an estimated 111 types of land tenure. The existence of so many land tenure systems, coupled with the lack of reliable data, has made it difficult to give a comprehensive assessment of landownership in Ethiopia. However, the tenure system can be understood in a rudimentary way if one examines it in the context of the basic distinction between landownership patterns in the north and those in the south.\n\nHistorically, Ethiopia was divided into the northern highlands, which constituted the core of the old Christian kingdom, and the southern highlands, most of which were brought under imperial rule by conquest. This north-south distinction was reflected in land tenure differences. In the northern regions—particularly Gojjam, Begemder and Semien (called Gondar after 1974), Tigray, highland Eritrea, parts of Wollo, and northern Shewa—the major form of ownership was a type of communal system known as \"rist\". According to this system, all descendants (both male and female) of an individual founder were entitled to a share, and individuals had the right to use (a usufruct right) a plot of family land. \"Rist\" was hereditary, inalienable, and inviolable. No user of any piece of land could sell his or her share outside the family or mortgage or bequeath his or her share as a gift, as the land belonged not to the individual but to the descent group. Most peasants in the northern highlands held at least some \"rist\" land, but there were some members belonging to minority ethnic groups who were tenant farmers.\n\nThe other major form of tenure was \"gult\", an ownership right acquired from the monarch or from provincial rulers who were empowered to make land grants. \"Gult\" owners collected tribute from the peasantry and, until 1966 (when \"gult\" rights were abolished in principle), exacted labor service as payment in kind from the peasants. Until the government instituted salaries in the twentieth century, \"gult\" rights were the typical form of compensation for an official.\n\nOther forms of tenure included \"samon\", \"mengist\", and \"maderia\" land. \"Samon\" was land the government had granted to the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in perpetuity. Traditionally, the church had claimed about one-third of Ethiopia's land; however, actual ownership probably never reached this figure. Estimates of church holdings range from 10 - 20% of the country's cultivated land. Peasants who worked on church land paid tribute to the church (or monastery) rather than to the emperor. The state owned large tracts of agricultural land known as \"mengist\" and \"maderia\". \"Mengist\" was land registered as government property, and \"maderia\" was land granted mainly to government officials, war veterans, and other patriots in lieu of a pension or salary. Although it granted \"maderia\" land for life, the state possessed a reversionary right over all land grants; this form of tenure comprised about 12% of the country's agricultural land. \"Maderia\" tenure became a far more common following the Second World War, as Emperor Haile Selassie used it to reward the \"arbegnoch\" (or \"Patriots\") who had fought the Italian occupiers.\n\nIn general, absentee landlordism in the north was rare, and landless tenants were few. For instance, tenancy in Begemder and Semien and in Gojjam was estimated at about 2% of holdings. In the southern provinces, however, few farmers owned the land on which they worked. Southern landownership patterns developed as a result of land measurement and land grants following the Ethiopian conquest of the region in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. After the conquest, officials divided southern land equally among the state, the church, and the indigenous population. Warlords who administered the occupied regions received the state's share. They, in turn, redistributed part of their share to their officers and soldiers. The government distributed the church's share among the church hierarchy in the same manner. Officials divided the rest between the traditional leaders (balabats) and the indigenous people. Thus, the loss of two-thirds of the land to the new landlords and the church made many local people tenants (gebbars). Tenancy in the southern provinces ranged between 65% and 80% of the holdings, and tenant payments to landowners averaged as high as 50% of the produce.\n\nIn the lowland periphery and the Great Rift Valley, the traditional practice of transhumance and the allocation of pastoral land according to tribal custom remained undisturbed until after World War II. These two areas are inhabited by pastoralists, including the Afar and Issa in eastern Eritrea, Wollo, and Hararghe; the Somali in the Ogaden; the Borana in Sidamo and Bale; and the Karayu in the Great Rift Valley area of Shewa. The pastoral social structure is based on a kinship system with strong interclan connections; grazing and water rights are regulated by custom.\n\nUntil the 1950s, this pastoral life remained largely undisturbed by the highlanders, who intensely disliked the hot and humid lowland climate and feared malaria. Beginning in the 1950s, however, the malaria eradication programs made irrigation agriculture in these areas possible. The government's desire to promote such agriculture, combined with its policy of creating new tax revenues, put pressure on many pastoralists, especially the Afar and the Arsi Oromo. Major concessionaires, such as the Tendaho Cotton Plantation (managed until the 1974 revolution by the British firm Mitchell Cotts) and the Wonji Sugar Plantation (managed by HVA, a Dutch company), was granted large tracts of traditional Afar and Arsi grazing land and converted them into large-scale commercial farms. The loss of grazing land to these concessions significantly affected traditional migration patterns for grazing and water.\n\nIn the northern and southern parts of Ethiopia, peasant farmers lacked the means to improve production because of the fragmentation of holdings, a lack of credit, and the absence of modern facilities. Particularly in the south, the insecurity of tenure and high rents killed the peasants' incentive to improve production. Further, those attempts by the Imperial government to improve the peasant's title to their land were often met with suspicion. One example was the 1968 Gojjam revolt, where the peasants successfully resisted government efforts to survey their lands, believing that it would increase the taxes levied by local corrupt officials.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, many sectors of Ethiopian society favored land reform. University students led the land reform movement and campaigned against the government's reluctance to introduce land reform programs and the lack of commitment to integrated rural development. By 1974 it was clear that the archaic land tenure system was one of the major factors responsible for the backward condition of Ethiopia's agriculture and the onset of the revolution. On March 4, 1975, the Derg announced its land reform program. The government nationalized rural land without compensation, abolished tenancy, forbade the hiring of wage labor on private farms, ordered all commercial farms to remain under state control, and granted each peasant family so-called \"possessing rights\" to a plot of land not to exceed ten hectares. The Ethiopian Church lost all its land, and its clergy and lay people had to rely on stipends from the Derg to live.\n\nTenant farmers in southern Ethiopia, where the average tenancy was as high as 55% and rural elites exploited farmers, welcomed the land reform. But in the northern highlands, where \"rist\" tenures dominated and large holdings and tenancy were exceptions, many people resisted land reform. Despite the special provision for communal areas (Article 19 of the proclamation gave peasants in the communal areas \"possessing rights\" to the land they were tilling at the time of the proclamation) and the Derg's efforts to reassure farmers that land reform would not affect them negatively, northerners remained suspicious of the new government's intentions. The reform held no promise of gain for most northerners; rather, many northern farmers perceived land reform as an attack on their rights to \"rist\" land. Resistance intensified when \"Zemecha\" members campaigned for collectivization of land and oxen.\n\nLand reform had the least impact on the lowland peripheries, where nomads traditionally maintained their claims over grazing lands. The new proclamation gave them rights of possession to land they used for grazing. Therefore, the nomads did not perceive the new program as a threat. However, in the Afar area of the lower Awash Valley, where large-scale commercial estates had thrived, there was opposition to land reform, led mainly by tribal leaders (and large landowners), such as Alimirah Hanfadhe the Sultan of Aussa.\n\nThe land reform destroyed the feudal order; changed landowning patterns, particularly in the south, in favor of peasants and small landowners; and provided the opportunity for peasants to participate in local matters by permitting them to form associations. However, problems associated with declining agricultural productivity and poor farming techniques still were prevalent.\n\nGovernment attempts to implement land reform also created problems related to land fragmentation, insecurity of tenure and former tenants, and shortages of farm inputs and tools. Peasant associations often were periodically compelled to redistribute land to accommodate young families or new households moving into their area. The process meant not only smaller farms but also the fragmentation of holdings, which were often scattered into small plots to give families land of comparable quality. Consequently, individual holdings were frequently far smaller than the permitted maximum allotment of ten hectares. A 1979 study showed that around Addis Ababa individual holdings ranged from 1.0 to 1.6 hectares and that about 48 percent of the parcels were less than one-fourth of a hectare in size. Another study, of Dejen \"awraja\" (subregion) in Gojjam, found that land fragmentation had been exacerbated since the revolution. For example, during the pre-reform period, sixty-one out of 200 farmer respondents owned three or four parcels of land; after the reform, the corresponding number was 135 farmers.\nThe insecurity of the tenants was the most prevalent problem especially in areas where few strong landlords dominate both the political and economic environments of the region. In some areas such as Gojam and Begemidir (later called Gondar), where there was strongholds of Orthodox Church and royal landlords,the tenants who got plots of land were attacked by the landlord families. Those tenants who got new farmlands were secretly submitting gifts to landlord family and the church until some measurements were taken by the regime. Some farmers such as handcraft workers who fear the hidden bitter hands of the former landlords fled to the nearby towns;others made a deal with their former landlords and employers.\n\nThe second problem related to security of tenure, which was threatened by increasing pressure to redistribute land and to collectivize farms. Many peasants were reluctant to improve their land because they were afraid that they would not receive adequate compensation for upgrades. The third problem developed as a result of the military government's failure to provide farmers with basic items like seeds, oxen, and fertilizer. For instance, one study of four communities in different parts of Ethiopia found that up to 50 percent of the peasants in some areas lacked oxen and about 40 percent did not have plows.\n\nIn 1984 the founding congress of the Workers' Party of Ethiopia emphasized the need for a coordinated strategy based on socialist principles to accelerate agricultural development. To implement this strategy, the government relied on peasant associations and rural development, cooperatives and state farms, resettlement and villagization, increased food production, and a new marketing policy.\n\nArticles 8 and 10 of the 1975 Land Reform Proclamation required that peasants be organized into a hierarchy of associations that would facilitate the implementation of rural development programs and policies. Accordingly, after the land reform announcement, the government mobilized more than 60,000 students to organize peasants into associations. By the end of 1987, there were 20,367 peasant associations with a membership of 5.7 million farmers. Each association covered an area of 800 hectares, and members included tenants, landless laborers, and landowners holding fewer than ten hectares. Former landowners who had held more than ten hectares of land could join an association only after the completion of land redistribution. An umbrella organization known as the All-Ethiopia Peasants' Association represented local associations. Peasant associations assumed a wide range of responsibilities, including implementation of government land use directives; adjudication of land disputes; encouragement of development programs, such as water and land conservation; construction of schools, clinics, and cooperatives; organization of defense squads; and tax collection. Peasant associations also became involved in organizing forestry programs, local service and production cooperatives, road construction, and data collection projects, such as the 1984 census.\n\nStarting in 1976, the government encouraged farmers to form cooperatives. Between 1978 and 1981, the Derg issued a series of proclamations and directives outlining procedures for the formation of service cooperatives and producers' cooperatives. Service cooperatives provided basic services, such as the sale of farm inputs and consumer items that were often rationed, the provision of loans, the education of peasant association members in socialist philosophy, and the promotion of cottage industries.\n\nThe producers' cooperatives alleviated shortages of inputs (because farmers could pool resources) and problems associated with the fragmentation of landholdings. The government ordered the creation of these cooperatives because of its belief that small farmers were inefficient and were unable to take advantage of economies of scale.\n\nThe producers' cooperatives developed in three stages. The first stage was the \"melba\", an elementary type of cooperative that required members to pool land (with the exception of plots of up to 2,000 square meters, which could be set aside for private use) and to share oxen and farm implements. The second stage, \"welba\", required members to transfer their resources to the cooperative and reduce private plots to 1,000 square meters. The third stage, the \"weland\", abolished private land use and established advanced forms of cooperatives, whose goal was to use mechanized farming with members organized into production brigades. Under this system, income would be distributed based on labor contributions.\n\nThe government provided a number of inducements to producers' cooperatives, including priority for credits, fertilizers, improved seed, and access to consumer items and building materials. According to the ten-year plan, more than half of the country's cultivated land would be organized into producers' cooperatives by 1994. Despite the incentives, farmers responded less than enthusiastically. They saw the move to form cooperatives as a prelude to the destruction of their \"family farms.\" By 1985/86 there were only 2,323 producers' cooperatives, of which only 255 were registered. Some critics argued that the resistance of farmers caused the government to formulate its resettlement and villagization programs.\n\nA major component of the Derg's agricultural policy was the development of large-scale state farms. Following the 1975 land reform, the Derg converted a majority of the estimated 75,000 hectares of large, commercial farms owned by individuals and cooperatives into state farms; not long afterwards, the government expanded their size. By 1987/88 there were about 216,000 hectares of state farmland, accounting for 3.3% of the total cultivated area. The ten-year plan indicated that state farms would be expanded to 468,000 hectares by 1994, accounting for 6.4% of the cultivated land.\n\nThe primary motive for the expansion of state farms was the desire to reverse the drop in food production that has continued since the revolution. After the 1975 land reform, peasants began withholding grain from the market to drive up prices because government price-control measures had created shortages of consumer items such as coffee, cooking oil, salt, and sugar. Additionally, increased peasant consumption caused shortages of food items such as teff, wheat, corn, and other grains in urban areas. The problem became so serious that Mengistu Haile Mariam, the chairman of the Derg, lashed out against the peasantry on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of military rule in September 1978, criticizing them for their capitalist mentality and their petit bourgeois tendencies. Mengistu and his advisers believed that state farms would produce grain for urban areas and raw materials for domestic industry and would also increase production of cash crops such as coffee to generate badly needed foreign exchange. Accordingly, state farms received a large share of the country's resources for agriculture; from 1982 to 1990, this totaled about 43% of the government's agricultural investment. In 1983 state farms received 76% of the total allocation of chemical fertilizers, 95% of the improved seeds, and 81% of agricultural credit. In terms of subsidies, between 1982/83 and 1985/86 the various state farm corporations received more than 90 million Birr in direct subsidies. Despite the emphasis on state farms, state farm production accounted for only 6% of total agricultural output in 1987 (although meeting 65% of urban needs), leaving peasant farmers responsible for over 90% of production.\n\nThe policy of encouraging voluntary resettlement went back to 1958, when the government established the first known planned resettlement in Sidamo. Shortly after the 1974 revolution, it became Derg policy to accelerate resettlement. By 1986 the government had resettled more than 600,000 people to three settlement areas. After a brief halt to the program in response to international pressure, the program resumed in 1987. Western donors and governments expressed fears that the resettlement plans would strain the country's finances, would depopulate areas of resistance, would weaken the guerrillas' support base and deny them access to recruits, would violate human rights through lack of medical attention. Although many of these charges were valid, some criticisms may have been unfounded.\n\nIn 1985 the government initiated a new relocation program known as \"villagization\". The objectives of the program, which grouped scattered farming communities throughout the country into small village clusters, were to promote rational land use; conserve resources; provide access to clean water and to health and education services; and strengthen security. Government guidelines stipulated that villages were to house 200 to 300 households. By March 1986, about 4.6 million people in Shewa, Arsi, and Harerge had been relocated into more than 4,500 villages. Although the government had villagized about 13 million people by 1989, international criticism, deteriorating security conditions, and lack of resources doomed the plan to failure.\n\nOpponents of villagization argued that the scheme was disruptive to agricultural production because the government moved many farmers during the planting and harvesting seasons. There also was concern that villagization could have a negative impact on fragile local resources, particularly on water and grazing land; accelerate the spread of communicable diseases; and increase problems with plant pests and diseases. In early 1990, the government essentially abandoned villagization when it announced new economic policies that called for free-market reforms and a relaxation of centralized planning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47415329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47415329", "title": "List of Malayan federal electoral districts 1955–59", "text": "List of Malayan federal electoral districts 1955–59\n\nThis is a list of the Malayan federal electoral districts used between 1955 and 1959. During this period, the Federal Legislative Council had 52 seats. This arrangement was only used in the 1955 Malayan general election.\n"}
{"id": "11386929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11386929", "title": "Lithuanian–Polish Peace Force Battalion", "text": "Lithuanian–Polish Peace Force Battalion\n\nLithuanian–Polish Peace Force Battalion or LITPOLBAT () was a Lithuanian–Polish peacekeeping battalion, formed in 1997 and disbanded in 2007 as one of the examples of military cooperation between Lithuania and Poland, now both members of NATO. Soldiers of the battalion served in various peacekeeping missions of the United Nations, NATO and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. Soldiers of LITPOLBAT have been deployed in Kosovo, Syria, Lebanon and Iraq.\n\nPolish–Lithuanian foreign relations were established in 1991. Origins of the military cooperation that led to the unit's creation can be traced to an agreement on the establishment of mutual military cooperation between Poland and Lithuania. That agreement was signed by those countries respective defense ministries (the Ministry of National Defense of Republic of Poland and the Ministry of National Protection of the Lithuanian Republic) on June 15, 1993 in Vilnius. Since it was signed, various joint training exercises have taken place at the squad and platoon level between Polish and Lithuanian military. Poland has also assisted Lithuanian military by donating equipment worth over one million US dollars and assisting with training.\n\nCreation of such specific unit was first proposed by President of Lithuania, Algirdas Brazauskas, during his speech in Polish parliament (Sejm) in 1995. The unit was officially created on March 3, 1997 when a specific agreement was reached by Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its Lithuanian counterpart. On December 31, 1998 the battalion reached operational readiness. \n\nDuring a visit of the President of Poland Aleksander Kwaśniewski to Lithuania on April 14, 1999, LITPOLBAT was presented with two military standards, Polish and Lithuanian one, financed by presidents of both countries. In 2000 LITPOLBAT became part of the European Union's Rapid reaction force.\n\nIn 1999 Poland joined NATO and has since then been supporting Lithuanian entry into that organization; Lithuania joined NATO in 2004. On February 5, 2001 a new agreement of cooperation on the issue of defence was signed between the Government of Poland and the Government of Lithuania reflecting their new NATO-related closer cooperation.\n\nIn 2007 the battalion was disbanded. However, from 2008-9 a new formation, the Lithuanian–Polish–Ukrainian Brigade (LITPOLUKRBRIG), has been proposed to continue and expand the same type of regional combined force.\n\nPolish units of LITPOLBAT came from 4 Suwałki Armored Cavalry Brigade named after General Zygmunt Podhorski in Orzysz, part of Warmia–Mazury Polish 15th Mechanized Division named after king of Poland and Lithuania, Jogaila. Lithuanian units come from Mechanized Infantry Battalion in Alytus, named after Great Lithuanian Duchess Birutė, part of Iron Wolf Mechanised Infantry Brigade in Vilnius.\n\nNearly 800 soldiers served in the battalion (435 Poles and 351 Lithuanians). NATO press release from 2004 gave the strength of 784. The key staff positions are taken up by rotation. The commander of the unit served for 3 years.\n\nThe bilaterally staffed Battalion Headquarters were located in Orzysz, Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "59040315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59040315", "title": "M Ravi", "text": "M Ravi\n\nRavi Madasamy, commonly known as M Ravi, is an international human rights lawyer and author based in Singapore.\n\nUpon graduating in Sociology and Political Science from National University of Singapore, he went on to study law and graduated in LL.B from Cardiff University. He was born in Singapore to parents of Singapore Indian descent. He was diagnosed for bipolar disorder in 2006 and was under medication for it.\n\nHe is known for defending high-profile death penalty cases like \"Yong Vui Kong v. Public Prosecutor\", \"Iwuchukwu Amara Tochi\" and \"Shanmugam Murugesu\".He has also been the first and last Singapore lawyer to cross examine Lee Kuan Yew in a defamation trial. He has been famously noted for his discursive court room style in lawyering. His work has been critically acclaimed by international legal scholars who say 'Ravi as the striking expression of an exception that holds the promise of a shift away from the general rule of the masked and absent Singapore cause lawyer'. He has also argued other landmark human rights cases such as \"Vellama d/o Marie Muthu v Attorney‐General on\" voting rights\", Shadrake v Attorney-General on\" freedom of expression and contempt of court, \"Tan Eng Hong v AG\" on gay rights and decriminalisation of homosexuality amongst many others. \n\n\"Kampong Boy\" (2013)\n\n\"Hung at Dawn\" (2005)\n\n\"Land of Good English (\"2004)\n"}
{"id": "1466832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1466832", "title": "Maximilian III Joseph, Elector of Bavaria", "text": "Maximilian III Joseph, Elector of Bavaria\n\nMaximilian III Joseph (28 March 1727 – 30 December 1777) was a Prince-elector of the Holy Roman Empire and Duke of Bavaria from 1745 to 1777.\n\nBorn in Munich, Maximilian was the eldest son of Holy Roman Emperor Charles VII and his wife, Maria Amalia of Austria, daughter of Holy Roman Emperor Joseph I.\n\nUpon his father's death in January 1745, he inherited a country in the process of being invaded by Austrian armies (see War of the Austrian Succession). The 18-year-old Maximilian Joseph wavered between the \"Peace-party\", led by his mother Maria Amalia of Austria and Army Commander Friedrich Heinrich von Seckendorff and the \"War-party\", led by Foreign Minister General Ignaz Count of Törring and the French envoy Chavigny. After the decisive defeat in the Battle of Pfaffenhofen on 15 April Maximilian Joseph quickly abandoned his father's imperial pretenses and made peace with Maria Theresa in the Treaty of Füssen, in which he agreed to support her husband, Grand Duke Francis Stephen of Tuscany, in the upcoming imperial election. During the Seven Years' War Bavarian forces then fought on the Habsburg side. Maximilian Joseph's sister Maria Josepha of Bavaria was married in 1765 to Maria Theresa's son Emperor Joseph II. But long-term weakening of Prussia was not in the Bavarian interest, as that country offered the only counterweight to the Habsburg monarchy. Maximilian Joseph tried, as far as possible, to keep Bavaria out of the wars. Apart from militia troops, he sent only a small force of 4,000 men to join the Austrian army. In 1758/1759 (only a year and half into the war), he withdrew Bavarian auxiliary troops from Austrian service. Together with the Wittelsbach Elector Charles Theodore of the Palatinate he enforced the neutrality of the Empire during the conflict.\n\nMaximilian Joseph was a progressive and enlightened ruler who did much to improve the development of his country. He encouraged agriculture, industry, and exploitation of the mineral wealth of the country, and abolished the Jesuit censorship of the press. In 1747 the Nymphenburg Porcelain Factory was established, while the \"Codex Maximilianeus bavaricus civilis\" was written in 1756. In 1759, he founded Munich's first academic institution, the Bavarian Academy of Sciences. During the severe famine in 1770 Maximilian sold some of the crown jewels to pay for grain imports to relieve hunger. In that year, he also issued an edict against the extravagant pomposity of the Church which contributed to the end of the era of Bavarian rococo. He also forbade the Oberammergau Passion Play. In 1771 the elector regulated general school attendance.\n\nIn December 1777 Maximilian Joseph rode in his carriage through Munich; on the ride, as he passed one of the tower clocks, the mechanism broke, and the clock struck 77 times. Commenting to the passengers, Max Joseph decided this was an omen, and that his years had run out. Within days, he was stricken with a strange disease. None of his 15 doctors could diagnose it, but by Christmas, it had become clear that it was a particularly virulent strain of smallpox, called \"purple small pox\" at the time.\n\nBy the last day of the month he was dead without leaving an heir. Maximilian III Joseph is buried in the crypt of the Theatinerkirche in Munich.\n\nAs the last of the junior branch of the Wittelsbach dynasty which derived from Louis IV, Holy Roman Emperor and had ruled Bavaria since early 14th century, Maximilian's death led to a succession dispute and the brief War of the Bavarian Succession. He was succeeded by his distant cousin, the Elector Palatine Charles Theodore from the senior branch of the dynasty. Maximilian's widow Maria Anna Sophia of Saxony and Maximilian's sister Duchess Maria Antonia of Bavaria as well as Maria Anna of Palatinate-Sulzbach, the widow of the former Bavarian crown prince Duke Clement Francis of Bavaria negotiated with Prussia to secure Bavaria's independence from Austria, which had invaded portions of the duchy immediately after the Elector's death.\n\nMaximilian III Joseph ordered in 1751 François de Cuvilliés to construct the splendid rococo Cuvilliés Theatre and in 1755 the \"Stone Hall\" of Nymphenburg Palace. He also ordered to decorate some rooms of the New Schleissheim Palace in rococo style.\n\nWolfgang Amadeus Mozart was received by Maximilian III Joseph, who was like his sister Maria Antonia Walpurgis of Bavaria skilled in music and composed, but due to a need for strict frugality no post could be offered. In 1775 \"La finta giardiniera\", an Italian opera by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, received its first performance at the Salvatortheater in Munich.\n\nIn 1770 Maximilian III Joseph established the precursor of the Academy of Fine Arts in Munich.\n"}
{"id": "20791231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20791231", "title": "Merry Crisis", "text": "Merry Crisis\n\n\"Merry Crisis\" or \"Merry Crisis and a Happy New Fear\" is a slogan that appeared as graffiti in Athens during the 2008 Civil Unrest in Greece. Earlier, a picture of such graffiti appeared on the cover of Vavel Magazines's 2007 Christmas special. The British anarchist publication \"Occupied London\" states that it was \"one of the main slogans of the 2008 revolt.\" \n"}
{"id": "56760749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56760749", "title": "Ministry of Education (Guyana)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Guyana)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MOE) is a ministry of the government of Guyana. Nicolette Henry is the minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "1108038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108038", "title": "National Revival of Poland", "text": "National Revival of Poland\n\nNational Rebirth of Poland (), abbreviated to NOP, is an ultranationalist, far-right, neofascist and national-revolutionary (or Third Position) political party in Poland registered by the District Court in Warsaw and National Electoral Commission. As of the 2015 election, the party had no seats in the Polish parliament. It was a member of the European National Front.\n\nNational Rebirth of Poland was founded as a nationalist discussion group for young people on 10 November 1981. It joined the Christian National Union when that party was founded in 1989, before leaving in February 1990. The NOP registered as a political party in 1992. The party is the only far-right organisation to claim to be a successor to the National Radical Camp Falanga (RNR), the pre-war nationalist youth organisation, which was banned in 1934.\n\nNOP publishes the magazines \"Szczerbiec\" (the name of the Polish royal coronation sword), which lists neofascists Derek Holland and Roberto Fiore among the members of its editorial board, \"Młodzież Narodowa\" (\"National Youth\"), \"Myśl\" (\"The Thought\"), and \"17 – Cywilizacja Czasów Próby\" (\"17 – The Civilization of the Times of Trial\").\n\nIn 2009, NOP membership in Poland was estimated at 1000. NOP also has supporters outside Poland, notably among the Polish American community, including Polish Patriots’ Association residing in New York City, and the revisionist Polish Historical Institute in Chicago.\n\nIn 2001, the NOP tried to enter parliamentary politics for the first time. The newly created NOP front organization, the New Forces Alliance (\"Sojusz Nowych Sił\"), joined the nationalist electoral bloc, Alternative Social Movement (\"Alternatywa Ruch Społeczny\"). Among the NOP candidates were Marcin Radzewicz, the leader of the openly neo-Nazi National Socialist Front (\"Front Narodowo-Socjalistyczny\"). ARS gained just below 0.5% of the votes, and the alliance was dissolved.\n\nIn the 2005 parliamentary elections, the NOP received 0.06% of the vote. In the 2006 self-government regional elections, it received 0.30%, or about 41 000 votes. In the 2007 parliamentary election, the NOP received 42 407 votes in four electoral districts. In the self-government regional elections in 2010, the party received 0.24% of the vote.\n\nIn the 2011 parliamentary elections, NOP senate candidate Anetta Stemler, running in the 1st electoral district, received 2934 votes, or 3.10%.\n\nThe NOP is known for trying to get media attention with its shock value campaigns. During the 2007 parliamentary election, the NOP distributed election campaign posters with the slogan \"Fascism? We are worse.\"\n\nAnother, openly homophobic shock value campaign conducted by the NOP was called \"Zakaz Pedałowania\" (\"Faggotry Forbidden\"). On 17 May 2006 in Toruń, the NOP organized a counter-demonstration against a public LGBT rights supporters' meeting. NOP members chanted slogans, including \"gas the queers\" (pedały do gazu) and \"there will be a baton for each queer face\" (znajdzie się kij na pedalski ryj).\n\nThe NOP is stated to be an antisemitic organisation by a number of government bodies, nongovernmental organizations, academic institutions and individual experts worldwide, such as the United States Department of State, and the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI). According to The Stephen Roth Institute for the Study of Contemporary Antisemitism and Racism, the NOP is promoting violent forms of neo-fascism and antisemitism, including Holocaust denial.\nAccording to the British historian, Dr John Pollard, neo-Nazi elements in the NOP and their racism and homophobia continue to give rise to concern in other member countries of the European Union.\nNOP actions were also condemned by the Anti-Defamation League, which claims that the NOP is an openly anti-Semitic extremist organization. According to the magazine \"The Warsaw voice\", the manifesto of the National Revival of Poland, which contains a sentence stating that \"Jews will be removed from Poland, and their possessions will be confiscated\", is taken directly from Adolf Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\". The magazine also claims that the official greeting gesture used in the party is the Nazi-like gesture of the raised arm.\n\nA number of NOP-related incidents received some media coverage in Poland and abroad. According to the European Roma Rights Centre, on July 3, 1998, NOP supporters vandalised the Roma community centre in Łódź. Along with racist graffiti, swastikas were sprayed onto the office walls. The perpetrators also left behind their signature as NOP – Narodowe Odrodzenie Polski. During the same night, the same group reportedly vandalised the premises of the Jehovah's Witnesses religious group.\n\nIn March 2000, in Łódź, swastikas and the slogan \"Jews out!\" along with NOP symbols were spray-painted on the home of Marek Edelman, who was the deputy commander in the Warsaw Ghetto uprising and the last of the leaders of the uprising still alive. The incident was condemned by the president and prime minister of Poland, who sent Edelman letters of support and apology.\n\nNOP front organization National-Radical Institute (\"Instytut Narodowo-Radykalny\", INR) was involved in publishing Western and Polish Holocaust denial literature. In 1997, INR published a volume of translated works of Western Holocaust deniers under the title \"The Myth of the Holocaust\". The same year, INR announced that there were no exterminations in gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp.\n\nIn 2006, the NOP was involved in campaigning to free convicted British Holocaust denier David Irving from prison in Austria, and produced a poster containing the slogan \"David Irving – Uwolnić prawdę\" (\"David Irving – Free the truth\".)\n\nThe party also expressed support for the bombing of Israel at the time of the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict, with a poster image stating, \"Bomby na Izrael – Już czas !!!\" (\"Bombs against Israel – it's about time!!!\"). On August 13, 2006, NOP leader Adam Gmurczyk published a declaration on behalf of the NOP Executive Council titled \"Izrael musi zostać zniszczony!\" (\"Israel must be destroyed!\"), calling for the international military takeover of Israel, and offering to put administrative control of Jerusalem in the hands of Pope Benedict XVI and his successors.\n\nOn April 14, 2007, in Kraków, antisemitic slogans were shouted and fascist-like gestures made by the participants of an NOP demonstration. Investigations by the Public Prosecutor's Office were discontinued on November 26, 2007, as no perpetrators were identified and the case was not classified as an offense.\n\nIn 2001, the NOP tried to enter parliamentary politics for the first time. The newly created NOP front organization, the New Forces Alliance (Sojusz Nowych Sił), joined the nationalist electoral bloc, Alternative Social Movement (Alternatywa Ruch Społeczny). Among the NOP candidates were Marcin Radzewicz, the leader of the openly neo-Nazi National Socialist Front (Front Narodowo-Socjalistyczny). ARS gained just below 0.5% of the votes, and the alliance was dissolved.\n\nIn the 2005 parliamentary elections, the NOP received 0.06% of the vote. In the 2006 self-government regional elections, it received 0.30%, or about 41 000 votes. In the 2007 parliamentary election, the NOP received 42 407 votes in four electoral districts. In the self-government regional elections in 2010, the party received 0.24% of the vote.\n\nIn the 2011 parliamentary elections, NOP senate candidate Anetta Stemler, running in the 1st electoral district, received 2934 votes, or 3.10%. She failed to win the Senate seat. After the 2011 parliamentary elections, NOP did not take part in any further elections; be it to Sejm, Senate or even local. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9867713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9867713", "title": "Occupation of factories", "text": "Occupation of factories\n\nOccupation of factories is a method of the workers' movement used to prevent lock outs. They may sometimes lead to \"recovered factories\", in which the workers self-manage the factories.\n\nThey have been used in many strike actions, including:\n\n\nRadical unionism started after the first world war. The movement was a result of increasing internal commissions or \"faculty councils\". Around November 1918, the councils/commissions had morphed into a national problem. By February 1919, the federation of Italian metal workers had successfully received a contract permitting these commissions in their factories. In May 1919, these commissions began to transfer into councils that were managing the factories and were dominating the power structure of said workplaces. The contract also prevented democratic elections of these council members or \"stewards\". In April 1920, at Fiat, there was the beginning of sit-in strikes by the workers, which eventually grew to 500,000 workers striking at its peak.\n\nIn France in January 1936, the PCF, a Stalinist communist organization spurred the creation of a coalition of radicals called the \"popular front\". This organization was designed to defend democracy and disassemble fascist bonds. In May 1936, the popular front won a majority election and assembled a cabinet of eighteen socialist, thirteen radicals and four independent socialist to govern. Communists supported the leaderrLeon Blum but refused to join the cabinet. This change in power was spurred by a massive general strike in the years preceding where thousands of factories had been occupied by French workers to ensure said democratic governance. Blum effectively ended the strike when this government came to power.\n\nDuring a period of civil unrest in France in the 1960s, student protests were joined by factory occupations and strikes by French workers. See May 1968 events in France.\n\nIn the 1960s, a historic movement of strikes and factory occupations had a significant effect on Italy. After constant failure by the government to follow through on promises for reform in Italy, a surge of uprising and strikes occurred between 1968 and 1970. Earlier strikes at northern factories in Turin were successful in gaining momentum in 1962. The Lancia factory walkout was successful in gaining some workers rights. The Michelin Factory strike around the same time had less success. A large strike in Turin however, amassing 93,000 of the Fiat workforce for a massive walkout and intimidation of those who did not participate. After further political negotiation and action through the years that followed, and unsatisfactory changes in policy coupled with increasingly educated and aware workers, the series of massive strikes broke out in 1968. The autumn of 1969 is considered the climax of these strikes and they continued through the early 1970s resulting in significantly improved conditions for Italian workers. In 1973, over 6 million workers were on strike.\n\nThe Upper Clyde Ship Builders are a Scottish shipbuilder consortium that was birthed in 1968 by an adjoining of 5 shipbuilders. It was liquidated in 1971 resulting in occupation/work-in campaign by shop stewards in shipyards. See Upper Clyde Shipbuilders.\n\nThe Harco work-in of 1971 was an occupation by steel plant workers in New South Wales, Australia. The 4-week long work-in was the result of a dispute between Harco owners and workers on company sacking and rehiring practices during low production periods to save money. See 1971 Harco work-in.\n\nDuring 1973, a close of parliament and essential dictatorship by the president created unrest and the leftist union called for a general strike and occupation of factories. After two weeks most of the union leaders were in jail, exile, or dead. See 1973 Uruguayan general strike.\n\nWhen the LIP factory in France decided to close a factory due to financial problems in the late 60s and early 70s, strikes and a very public factory occupation eventually transferred control and management of the factory to the workers. See LIP (company)\n\nDuring the Argentine uprising of the early 2000s, there was a complete takeover of the Zanon tile factory in Argentina. The workers went on strike in the year 2000, the first of a series of strikes that was spurred by the death of a worker from a heart attack. They also were adamant about making their conflicts with the company very public. Workers traveled and occupied places other than factories as well. In January 2001, there was a 6-day strike over unpaid wages. In April 2001, there was a 34-day strike over outstanding wages. These strikes were followed by many other occupations and strikes that ultimately cause the factories to lose almost 50% of their production.\n\nWhen Republic Windows and Doors company was declared bankrupt in December 2008, an organized sit-own strike of 200 workers in the factory occurred to protest federal labor law violations by the company.\n\nA long occupation of the Ssangyong car factory by 900 factory workers and several thousand others began on May 22, 2009 after a list of firings was released by the company that showed over 1000 workers to be laid off. This was the result of the company filing for bankruptcy in February 2009. Workers were essentially sieged by the company during their occupation and workers refused all company negotiations that did not include jobs.\n\n"}
{"id": "46612927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46612927", "title": "Parrish Dennison", "text": "Parrish Dennison\n\nOn March 5, 2013, Parrish Dennison was shot and killed by Albuquerque police officers Perdue, Dedler and Aragon. Dennison was suspected of being one of three people attempting to sell a stolen banjo from the robbery of a local music store. Police fired on Dennison after they alleged that he pointed out a revolver on them. Dennison's mother, Charlotte Ingraham asserts that footage from a helicopter camera shows otherwise. Police video from after the shooting shows Dennison on the ground with a gun in his hand. Since the incident Dennison’s family has filed a lawsuit for a wrongful death. The shooting was ruled as justified by the Bernalillo County District Attorney's Office.\n\nA witness to the incident says that Dennison did not point a gun at officers before the shooting, and that Dennison tried to break through a window but bounced off before police fired upon him. The witness said, \"He never once pointed the gun at them, nothing… He just hit that window and just bounced back and then boom, boom, boom.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27033421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27033421", "title": "Poll card", "text": "Poll card\n\nAn official poll card is a document which is sent to all registered voters shortly before an election in the United Kingdom. The poll card gives information about the election and the voter such as the date of the election, the location of the polling station, opening and closing times and the name, address and electoral number of the voter. \n\nIt is not necessary to take the card to the polling station to vote.\n"}
{"id": "23570348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23570348", "title": "President's Surveillance Program", "text": "President's Surveillance Program\n\nThe President's Surveillance Program (PSP) is a collection of secret intelligence activities authorized by the President of the United States George W. Bush after the September 11 attacks in 2001 as part of the War on Terrorism. Information collected under this program was protected within a Sensitive Compartmented Information security compartment codenamed STELLARWIND.\n\nThe last presidential authorization expired on February 1, 2007, but some of the collection activities were continued, first under the authority of the Protect America Act of 2007, passed in August of that year, and then under the FISA Amendments Act (FAA), which was enacted in July 2008.\n\nOne part of the program was the Terrorist Surveillance Program, which authorized warrantless wiretapping of international communications where one party to the communication was believed to be affiliated with al-Qaeda. The other activities have reportedly included data mining of e-mail messages and telephone call detail records in the NSA call database.\n\nIn 2007 the Attorney General publicly acknowledged the existence of other intelligence activities covered under the same Presidential authorizations. The full extent of the President's Surveillance Program was revealed in June 2013, when \"The Guardian\" published a highly classified report of the Inspector General of the NSA, describing how the program was established and evolved from September 2001 until January 2007.\n\nThe President's Surveillance Program activities were periodically reauthorized by the President, and were later transitioned to authority granted in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008. The act required the Inspectors General of all intelligence agencies involved in the program to \"complete a comprehensive review\" of the activities through January 17, 2007, and produce an unclassified report within one year after enactment. The report published on July 10, 2009 concluded that the President's program involved \"unprecedented collection activities\" that went far beyond the scope of the Terrorist Surveillance Program. The report raised questions over the legal underpinnings of the authorizations, a lack of oversight, excessive secrecy, and the effectiveness of the program. The report concluded that the program was built on a \"factually flawed\" legal analysis.\n\nPublic disclosure of the Terrorist Surveillance Program in 2005 ignited the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy. The other classified aspects of the program had also raised serious concerns within the Department of Justice over the program's legal status and its potential effect on future criminal prosecutions. This caused conflicts with the White House that resulted in a dramatic confrontation in 2004 at the hospital bedside of the ailing Attorney General, and nearly led to mass resignations of top Justice officials in protest when they were overruled. The report on the program was also released during a period of intense negotiations over proposed language in the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that would amend the National Security Act of 1947, increasing the requirements for briefing Congress on some classified intelligence programs like this one—President Barack Obama has threatened to veto the bill over that issue.\n\nIn the weeks following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the President of the United States authorized the National Security Agency (NSA) to conduct a classified program to detect and prevent further attacks in the United States. As part of the NSA's classified program, several different intelligence activities were authorized in Presidential authorizations, and the details of these activities changed over time. The program was reauthorized by the President approximately every 45 days, with certain modifications. Collectively, the activities carried out under these authorizations are referred to as the \"President's Surveillance Program\" (PSP).\n\nOne of the activities authorized as part of the PSP was the interception of the content of communications into and out of the United States where there was \"a reasonable basis to conclude that one party to the communication is a member of al-Qa'ida, affiliated with al-Qa'ida, or a member of an organization affiliated with al-Qa'ida\". After a series of articles published in \"The New York Times\" revealed classified details on this aspect of the PSP, they were publicly acknowledged and described by the President, the Attorney General, and other Administration officials beginning in December 2005, including a Presidential radio address on December 17, 2005. The President and other Administration officials labeled the publicly disclosed interception of the content of certain international communications by the NSA as the \"Terrorist Surveillance Program\" (TSP). The Attorney General subsequently publicly acknowledged that other intelligence activities were also authorized under the same Presidential authorization, but the details of those activities remain classified.\n\nSeveral different agencies had roles in the PSP. At the request of the White House, the NSA was involved in providing the technical expertise necessary to create the program. The NSA also was responsible for conducting the actual collection of information under the PSP and disseminating intelligence reports to other agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) for analysis and possible investigation. With the exception of the NSA, the Department of Defense (DoD) had limited involvement in the PSP.\n\nComponents of the Department of Justice (DOJ) other than the FBI also were involved in the program. Most significantly, DOJ's Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) provided advice to the White House and the Attorney General on the overall legality of the PSP. In addition, DOJ's Office of Intelligence Policy and Review (now called the Office of Intelligence in DOJ's National Security Division) worked with the FBI and the NSA to address the impact that PSP-derived information had on proceedings under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). DOJ's National Security Division also handled potential discovery issues that may have involved PSP-related information in international terrorism prosecutions.\n\nThe CIA, in addition to receiving intelligence reports as PSP consumers, requested information from the program and used this information in its intelligence analyses. The CIA also initially prepared threat assessment memoranda that were used to support the periodic Presidential authorizations. Beginning in 2005, the newly created ODNI assumed responsibility for preparing these threat assessment memoranda. In addition, NCTC analysts received program information for possible use in analytical products prepared for the President, senior policymakers, and other Intelligence Community (IC) analysts and officers.\n\nThe Inspectors General (IGs) of the Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Justice (DOJ), Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), National Security Agency (NSA), and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) – collectively the \"PSP IG Group\" – conducted the review required under the FISA Amendments Act. The 32 page unclassified report, dated July 10, 2009, summarized the portions of the collective results of the IG reviews that could be released in unclassified form. A separate classified report summarized the classified results of the individual IG reviews. The classified report is reportedly several hundred pages long. The unclassified report revealed new details of internal deliberations over the programs, but few new details on the scope of the surveillance.\n\nThe PSP IG Group collectively interviewed approximately 200 government and private sector personnel as part of this review. Among the interviewees were former and current senior government officials, including Director of National Intelligence (DNI) John Negroponte, NSA and CIA Director and Principal Deputy DNI (PDDNI) Michael Hayden, White House Counsel and Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, FBI Director Robert Mueller, and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. The IGs did not have the power to compel testimony, and Counsel to the Vice President David Addington, White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card, Attorney General John Ashcroft, DOJ Office of Legal Counsel Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Yoo, and former Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet declined the opportunity to be interviewed for the review.\n\nIn the days immediately after September 11, 2001, the NSA used its existing authorities to gather intelligence information in response to the terrorist attacks. When Director of Central Intelligence Tenet, on behalf of the White House, asked NSA Director Hayden whether the NSA could do more against terrorism, Hayden replied that nothing more could be done within existing authorities. When asked what he might do with more authority, Hayden said he put together information on what was operationally useful and technologically feasible. This information formed the basis of the PSP. Shortly thereafter, the President authorized the NSA to undertake a number of new, highly classified intelligence activities.\n\nThe specific intelligence activities that were permitted by the Presidential Authorizations were highly classified. Former White House Counsel and Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told the DOJ OIG that it was the President's decision to keep the program a \"close hold.\" Gonzales stated that the President made the decision on all requests to \"read in\" any non-operational persons, including DOJ officials. Attorney General Ashcroft approved the first Presidential Authorization for the PSP as to \"form and legality\" on the same day that he was read into the program in October 2001.\n\nThe CIA initially prepared the threat assessment memoranda that were used to support the Presidential Authorization and periodic reauthorizations of the PSP. The memoranda documented intelligence assessments of the terrorist threats to the United States and to U.S. interests abroad from al-Qa'ida and affiliated terrorist organizations. Initially, the analysts who prepared the threat assessments were not read into the PSP and did not know how the threat assessments would be used.\n\n\"DOJ Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Yoo was responsible for drafting the first series of legal memoranda supporting the program. Yoo was the only OLC official 'read into' the PSP from the program's inception in October 2001.\" Jay Bybee was OLC Assistant Attorney General at the time, and Yoo's supervisor. However, Bybee stated he was never read into the PSP and could shed no further light on how Yoo came to draft the OLC opinions on the program. The first OLC opinion directly supporting the legality of the PSP was dated November 2, 2001, and was drafted by Yoo.\n\nNSA Director Hayden consulted with NSA senior technical experts and experienced attorneys from the NSA's Office of General Counsel, but only Hayden knew about and participated in the development of the Presidential Authorization by serving as a technical advisor. After the Authorization was signed, NSA attorneys supported the lawfulness of the resulting program. After Hayden received the first Authorization, he assembled 80 to 90 people in a conference room and explained what the President had authorized. Hayden said: \"We're going to do exactly what he said and not one photon or electron more.\" According to Hayden, the program was designed to provide the NSA with the operational agility to cover terrorism-related targets.\n\nJohn Yoo was the sole OLC attorney who advised Attorney General Ashcroft and White House officials on the PSP from the program's inception in October 2001 through Yoo's resignation from DOJ in May 2003. Upon Yoo's departure, another DOJ official, Patrick Philbin, was selected by the White House to be read into the PSP to assume Yoo's role as advisor to the Attorney General concerning the program. In addition, Jack Goldsmith replaced Jay Bybee as the Assistant Attorney General for OLC on October 6, 2003. Even though Bybee had never been read into the PSI, Philbin persuaded Counsel to the Vice President David Addington to read in Goldsmith, Bybee's replacement. After being read into the PSP, Goldsmith and Philbin became concerned about the factual and legal basis for Yoo's legal memoranda supporting the program.\n\nGoldsmith and Philbin began developing an analysis to more fully address the FISA statute with respect to the PSP. Beginning in August 2003, Philbin and later Goldsmith brought their concerns about the OLC legal opinions to Attorney General Ashcroft. In December 2003, Goldsmith and Philbin met with Counsel to the Vice President Addington and White House Counsel Gonzales at the White House to express their growing concerns about the legal underpinnings of the program. In late January 2004, at Goldsmith's request, the White House agreed to allow Deputy Attorney General James Comey to be read into the PSP following Comey's confirmation as the Deputy Attorney General in December 2003. After being briefed, Comey agreed that the concerns about Yoo's legal analysis were well-founded. Comey told the DOJ OIG that of particular concern to him and Goldsmith was the notion that Yoo's legal analysis entailed ignoring an act of Congress, and doing so without full congressional notification.\n\nThe DOJ OIG later concluded that it was extraordinary and inappropriate that a single DOJ attorney, John Yoo, was relied upon to conduct the initial legal assessment of the PSP, and that the lack of oversight and review of Yoo's work, as customarily is the practice of OLC, contributed to a legal analysis of the PSP that at a minimum was factually flawed. Deficiencies in the legal memoranda became apparent once additional DOJ attorneys were read into the program in 2003 and when those attorneys sought a greater understanding of the PSP's operation. The DOJ OIG concluded that the White House's strict controls over DOJ access to the PSP undermined DOJ's ability to perform its critical legal function during the PSP's early phase of operation.\n\nComey told the DOJ OIG that he met with Attorney General Ashcroft on March 4, 2004, to discuss the PSP and that Ashcroft agreed with Comey and the other DOJ officials' assessment of the potential legal problems with the PSP. Later that day, Ashcroft was struck with severe gallstone pancreatitis and was admitted to the George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C. Because of Ashcroft's disability, Comey took over as Acting Attorney General.\n\nLater on March 5, Gonzales called Goldsmith to request a letter from OLC stating that Yoo's prior OLC opinions \"covered the program,\" meaning the PSP. Goldsmith, Philbin, and Comey re-examined Yoo's memoranda and concluded that Yoo's memoranda did not accurately describe some of the Other Intelligence Activities that were being conducted under the Presidential Authorizations implementing the PSP, and that the memoranda therefore did not provide a basis for finding that these activities were legal. On Saturday, March 6, Goldsmith and Philbin, with Comey's concurrence, met with Addington and Gonzales at the White House to convey their conclusions that certain activities in the PSP should cease.\n\nAfter a series of follow-up meetings between DOJ and White House officials, the President instructed Vice President Cheney on the morning of Wednesday, March 10, to call a meeting with congressional leaders to advise them of the impasse with DOJ. A meeting with the Top administration officials, and the congressional leaders known as the Gang of Eight, but without DOJ personnel, was convened in the White House Situation Room later that day. According to Gonzales's notes of the meeting, the consensus of the congressional leaders was that the program should continue. However, after Gonzales testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on July 24, 2007, Representative Nancy Pelosi, Senator Jay Rockefeller, and Senator Tom Daschle issued statements sharply disputing Gonzales's characterization of their statements at the March 10, 2004 meeting, stating that there was no consensus at the meeting that the program should proceed.\n\nGonzales told the DOJ OIG that following the meeting with the congressional leaders on March 10, President Bush instructed him and Card to go to the George Washington University Hospital to speak to Ashcroft, who was in the intensive care unit recovering from surgery. At approximately 7:00 p.m. that day, Comey learned that Gonzales and Card were on their way to the hospital to see Ashcroft. He relayed this information to FBI Director Mueller, and told him that Ashcroft was in no condition to receive guests, much less make a decision about whether to recertify the PSP. Philbin said he was leaving work that evening when he received a call from Comey, who told Philbin that he needed to get to the hospital right away and to call Goldsmith and tell him what was happening.\n\nComey recalled that he ran up the stairs with his security detail to Ashcroft's floor, and he entered Ashcroft's room, which he described as darkened, and found Ashcroft lying in bed and his wife standing by his side. Comey said he began speaking to Ashcroft, and that it was not clear that Ashcroft could focus and that he \"seemed pretty bad off.\" Goldsmith and Philbin arrived at the hospital within a few minutes of each other, and met with Comey in an adjacent room. Comey, Goldsmith, and Philbin later entered Ashcroft's room and, according to Goldsmith's notes, Comey and the others advised Ashcroft \"not to sign anything.\"\n\nWhen Gonzales and Card arrived, they entered Ashcroft's hospital room and stood across from Mrs. Ashcroft at the head of the bed, with Comey, Goldsmith, and Philbin behind them. Gonzales told the DOJ OIG that he carried with him in a manila envelope the March 11, 2004, Presidential authorization for Ashcroft to sign. According to Philbin, Gonzales first asked Ashcroft how he was feeling and Ashcroft replied, \"Not well.\" Gonzales then said words to the effect, \"You know, there's a reauthorization that has to be renewed ...\"\n\nComey testified to the Senate Judiciary Committee that at this point Ashcroft told Gonzales and Card \"in very strong terms\" about his legal concerns with the PSP, which Comey testified Ashcroft drew from his meeting with Comey about the program a week earlier. Comey testified that Ashcroft next stated: \" 'But that doesn't matter, because I'm not the Attorney General. There is the Attorney General,' and he pointed to me – I was just to his left. The two men [Gonzales and Card] did not acknowledge me; they turned and walked from the room.\"\n\nGonzales subsequently summoned Comey to the White House, and he brought United States Solicitor General Theodore Olson with him as a witness. Andy Card was also present for this meeting which took place later that evening. Gonzales told the DOJ OIG that little more was achieved at this meeting other than a general acknowledgment that a \"situation\" continued to exist because of the disagreement between DOJ and the White House regarding legal authorization for the program.\n\nOn the morning of March 11, 2004, with the Presidential Authorization set to expire, President Bush signed a new Authorization for the PSP. In a departure from the past practice of having the Attorney General certify the Authorization as to form and legality, the March 11 Authorization was certified by White House Counsel Gonzales. At noon on March 11, Director Mueller met with Card at the White House. According to Mueller's notes, Card told Mueller that if no \"legislative fix\" could be found by May 6, 2004, when the March 11 Authorization was set to expire, the program would be discontinued. Mueller wrote that he told Card that the failure to have DOJ representation at the congressional briefing and the attempt to have Ashcroft certify the Authorization without going through Comey \"gave the strong perception that the [White House] was trying to do an end run around the Acting [Attorney General] whom they knew to have serious concerns as to the legality of portions of the program.\"\n\nSeveral senior DOJ and FBI officials considered resigning after the Presidential Authorization was signed without DOJ's concurrence. Comey told the DOJ OIG that he drafted a letter of resignation because he believed it was impossible for him to remain with DOJ if the President would do something DOJ said was not legally supportable. Comey also testified that Ashcroft's Chief of Staff David Ayres believed Ashcroft also was likely to resign and thus Ayres urged Comey to wait until Ashcroft was well enough to resign with him. Goldsmith told the DOJ OIG he drafted a resignation letter at around the same time as Comey. According to his contemporaneous notes, Goldsmith cited the \"shoddiness\" of the prior OLC legal review, the \"over-secrecy\" of the PSP, and the \"shameful\" incident at the hospital as among his grievances.\n\nAt approximately 1:30 a.m. on March 12, 2004, FBI Director Mueller drafted by hand a letter to withdraw the FBI from participation in the program. Mueller told the DOJ OIG that he planned on having the letter typed and then tendering it, but that based on subsequent events his resignation was not necessary. Later that morning, the President met with Mueller. According to Mueller's notes,\nMueller told the President of his concerns regarding the FBI's continued participation in the program, and that he was considering resigning if the FBI were directed to continue to participate without the concurrence of the Attorney General. Mueller wrote that he explained to the President that he had an \"independent obligation to the FBI and to DOJ to assure the legality of actions we undertook, and that a presidential order alone could not do that.\" According to Mueller's notes, the President then directed Mueller to meet with Comey and other PSP principals to address the legal concerns so that the FBI could continue participating in the program \"as appropriate under the law.\"\n\nOn March 17, 2004 the President decided to modify certain PSP intelligence-gathering activities and to discontinue certain Other Intelligence Activities that DOJ believed were legally unsupported. The President's directive was expressed in two modifications to the March 11, 2004 Presidential Authorization. On May 6, 2004 Goldsmith and Philbin completed an OLC legal memorandum assessing the legality of the PSP as it was operating at that time. The OLC memorandum stated that the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) passed by Congress shortly after the attacks of September 11, 2001 gave the President authority to use both domestically and abroad \"all necessary and appropriate force,\" including signals intelligence capabilities, to prevent future acts of international terrorism against the United States.\n\nCertain activities that were originally authorized as part of the PSP have subsequently been authorized under orders issued by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). The activities transitioned in this manner included the interception of certain international communications that the President publicly described as the \"Terrorist Surveillance Program.\" Further details regarding this transition are classified. As a result of this transition, the President decided not to reauthorize these activities and the final Presidential Authorization expired on February 1, 2007. The Protect America Act of 2007, passed in August of that year, amended FISA to address the government's ability to conduct electronic surveillance in the United States of persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United States. This legislation expired in early 2008, and in July 2008 the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008 was enacted.\n\nThe DOJ OIG review concluded that several considerations favored initiating the process of transitioning the PSP to FISA authority earlier than had been done, especially as the program became less a temporary response to the September 11 terrorist attacks and more a permanent surveillance tool. These considerations included the PSP's effect on privacy interests of U.S. persons, the instability of the legal reasoning on which the program rested for several years, and the substantial restrictions placed on FBI agents' access to and use of program-derived information due to the highly classified status of the PSP.\n\nEach Presidential Authorization also included a requirement to maintain the secrecy of the activities carried out under the program. The President also noted his intention to inform appropriate members of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the program \"as soon as I judge that it can be done consistently with national defense needs.\" According to the NSA, between October 25, 2001, and January 17, 2007, Hayden and succeeding NSA Director Keith B. Alexander, sometimes supported by other NSA personnel, conducted approximately 49 briefings to members of Congress and their staff, 17 of which took place before the December 2005 media reports regarding what was called the \"Terrorist Surveillance Program.\" Hayden told the IGs that during the many PSP briefings to members of Congress no one ever suggested that NSA should stop the program.\n\nFrom January 2002 to January 2006, only Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) Presiding Judge Royce C. Lamberth, followed by Presiding Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, were read into the PSP. The circumstances under which the Presiding Judge was notified of the existence of the PSP and read into the program, and the measures subsequently taken to address the effect of the PSP on the government's relationship with the FISC are only revealed in the classified report.\n\nDOJ was aware as early as 2002 that information collected under the PSP could have implications for DOJ's litigation responsibilities under Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure Rule 16 and \"Brady v. Maryland\" 373 U.S. 83 (1963). Analysis of this discovery issue was first assigned to OLC Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Yoo in 2003. However, no DOJ attorneys with terrorism prosecution responsibilities were read into the PSP until mid-2004, and as a result DOJ continued to lack the advice of attorneys who were best equipped to identify and examine the discovery issues in connection with the PSP. The steps taken since then to address discovery issues with respect to the PSP are discussed only in the classified report. The DOJ may need to re-examine past cases to see whether potentially discoverable but undisclosed Rule 16 or Brady material was collected under the PSP, to ensure that it has complied with its discovery obligations in such cases.\n\nThe IGs also examined the impact of PSP information on counterterrorism efforts. Many senior IC officials believe that the PSP filled a gap in intelligence collection thought to exist under the FISA statute shortly after the al-Qa'ida terrorist attacks against the United States. Others within the IC, including FBI agents, CIA analysts and officers, and other officials had difficulty evaluating the precise contribution of the PSP to counterterrorism efforts because it was most often viewed as one source among many available analytic and intelligence-gathering tools in these efforts. The IG reports describe several examples of how PSP-derived information factored into specific investigations and operations.\n\nDuring the May 2006 Senate hearing on his nomination to be CIA Director, Hayden said that, had the PSP been in place before the September 2001 attacks, hijackers Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi almost certainly would have been identified and located. In May 2009, Hayden told NSA OIG that the value of the Program was in knowing that NSA signals intelligence activities under the PSP covered an important \"quadrant\" of terrorist communications. NSA's Deputy Director echoed Hayden's comment when he said that the value of the PSP was in the confidence it provided that someone was looking at the seam between the foreign and domestic intelligence domains.\n\nThe DOJ OIG found that the exceptionally compartmented nature of the program created some frustration for FBI personnel. Some agents and analysts criticized the PSP-derived information they received for providing insufficient details, and the agents who managed counterterrorism programs at the FBI field offices the DOJ OIG visited said the FBI's process for disseminating PSP-derived information failed to adequately prioritize the information for investigation. In sum, the DOJ OIG found it difficult to assess or quantify the overall effectiveness of the PSP program as it relates to the FBI's counterterrorism activities. However, based on the interviews conducted and documents reviewed, the DOJ OIG concluded that although PSP-derived information had value in some counterterrorism investigations, it generally played a limited role in the FBI's overall counterterrorism efforts.\n\nThe CIA OIG determined that several factors hindered the CIA in making full use of the product of the PSP. Many CIA officials stated that too few CIA personnel at the working level were read into the PSP. The CIA OIG determined that the CIA did not implement procedures to assess the usefulness of the product of the PSP and did not routinely document whether particular PSP reporting had contributed to successful counterterrorism operations. In a May 2006 briefing to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior CIA official said that PSP reporting was rarely the sole basis for an intelligence success, but that it frequently played a supporting role.\n\nSpeaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), issued a statement on the day the report was released saying, \"no president should be able to operate outside the law.\" She was responding specifically to a statement in the report attributed to former Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey that, \"Yoo's legal analysis entailed ignoring an act of Congress, and doing so without full congressional notification.\" Pelosi further stated that, \"the House Judiciary and Intelligence Committees will closely examine the findings and recommendations of the classified and unclassified reports, and will conduct appropriate oversight of electronic surveillance activities.\"\n\nJohn Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman, made the following comments in an official statement on the day the report was released: \"This report, mandated by Congress last year, documents what many of us in Congress concluded long ago: President Bush’s warrantless surveillance program was illegal from the beginning, and of questionable value. It clearly violated the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), which regulates domestic surveillance for intelligence purposes, and was based on legal analysis that was 'factually flawed'... The refusal of key Bush administration officials such as David Addington and John Yoo to cooperate with the IGs’ review underscores the need for an independent commission with subpoena power to further review these issues, as I have called for.\"\n\nConyers' counterpart on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), issued a statement on the report saying its conclusions should highlight rule-of-law issues ignored by the previous administration. Leahy said, \"This report underscores why we should move forward with a nonpartisan commission of inquiry. Without a thorough, independent review of decisions that run counter to our laws and treaties, we cannot ensure that these same mistakes are not repeated. Such a commission must have bipartisan support to be able to truly get to the bottom of these issues with objectivity and credibility.\"\n\nShortly after the report was released, former NSA Director Michael Hayden, who designed and implemented the program in 2001, told the Associated Press that he personally briefed key members of congress on the program. He maintained that the members were kept well-informed, and was distressed by suggestions that they were not. Hayden said key members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Senate Select Committee on Intelligence of both parties were briefed about four times a year, but admitted that the number of lawmakers informed was intentionally limited as the program was highly classified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3055847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055847", "title": "Regina M. Anderson", "text": "Regina M. Anderson\n\nRegina M. Anderson (May 21, 1901 – February 5, 1993) was an African-American playwright and librarian. She was of Native American, Jewish, East Indian, Swedish, and other European ancestry (including one grandparent who was a Confederate general); one of her grandparents was of African descent, born in Madagascar. Despite her own identification of her race as \"American\", she was perceived to be African-American by others. Influenced by Ida B. Wells and the lack of black history teachings in school, Regina became a key member of the Harlem Renaissance. \n\nRegina was born in the Hyde Park section of Chicago, Illinois, to Margaret Simons Anderson and William Grant \"Habeas Corpus\" Anderson. Her mom was a ceramics artist and her dad was a skilled attorney. Due to the success of her father, Regina grew up in a respectable, upper middle-class family. After her parents' divorce, Regina was sent to live with her grandparents from her mother's side in Normal, Illinois. After spending a few years in Normal, she journeyed back to Chicago and graduated from Hyde Park High School in 1919. She studied at the historically black college Wilberforce University and worked in its Carnegie Library. After studying there for a year, Anderson returned home to Chicago and was hired as a junior library assistant at the Chicago Public Library in 1921. A short time after, she moved to New York where she first settled in downtown Manhattan living at a YWCA. While staying at the YWCA she applied to be a librarian at the 135th Street branch of the New York Public Library, working under the supervision of Ernestine Rose. She shared an apartment in the Sugar Hill district of Harlem with Ethel Ray and Louella Tucker. The women opened the space to the community, hosting salons, events, and gatherings for artists. Located at 580 Saint Nicholas Avenue, the apartment became known as the \"580\" and the \"Harlem West Side Literary Salon\". Anderson helped to organize the Civic Club dinner of 1924 for black New York intellectuals and writers. Attended by 110 guests, including W. E. B. Du Bois, Jean Toomer, Countee Cullen, Charles S. Johnson, Hubert Thomas Delany, and Langston Hughes, the dinner was one of the coalescing events of the Harlem Renaissance.\n\nAndrews and Du Bois co-founded the Krigwa Players (later Negro Experimental Theatre), a black theater company. The Players produced her plays \"Climbing Jacob's Ladder\" (about a lynching) and \"Underground\" (about the Underground Railroad).\n\nRegina Andrews was one of ten African-American women whose contributions were recognized at the 1939 World's Fair in New York.\n\nShe was the first minority to climb the ranks and become a supervising librarian at the New York Public Library, at the 115th Street ranch in 1938, and her struggle to break the color barrier has earned her numerous accolades.\n\nAndrews outlived virtually all of the other members of the Harlem Renaissance. She died in Ossining, a suburb of New York City.\n\nRegina married the Howard University and Columbia Law School grad William T. Andrews, from Sumter, South Carolina. Andrews was an NAACP lawyer and New York assemblyman. The couple later adopted a daughter who was born in 1945.\n\nAnderson moved to New York in 1921, at the age of 21 to apply for a librarian position at the New York Public Library. Previously, she had worked in various libraries in and around Chicago. She started her position as a full-time clerk in 1923 under the leadership of Ernestine Rose, who wanted to make sure the community was served by librarians that reflected their diversity. During this time, the library hosted meetings by groups like the NAACP and the Anti-Lynching Crusaders. Anderson also organized lectures by individuals like Hubert Harrison and Margaret Sanger. Anderson retired from the NYPL in 1966 but continued to remain active in her community. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39809433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39809433", "title": "Rewire: Digital Cosmopolitans in the Age of Connection", "text": "Rewire: Digital Cosmopolitans in the Age of Connection\n\nRewire: Digital Cosmopolitans in the Age of Connection is a 2013 nonfiction book about contemporary globalization and xenophilia by American blogger Ethan Zuckerman of MIT. It describes homophilic barriers to cosmopolitanism such as filter bubbles and media bias. Zuckerman calls for a strenuously internationalized media and cultural literacy empowered by language translation. He cites the work of scholars Kwame Anthony Appiah, Ronald Stuart Burt, Mark Granovetter, and Robert D. Putnam, and of cosmopolitan exemplars Matt Harding, Erik Hersman, Dhani Jones, Roland Soong, Global Voices Online, Härnu, Meedan, and Tea Leaf Nation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24252826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24252826", "title": "Rita Zucca", "text": "Rita Zucca\n\nRita Luisa Zucca (, 1912–1998) was an Italian-American radio announcer who broadcast Axis propaganda to Allied troops in Italy and North Africa. She became known as one of the \"Axis Sallys\", along with Mildred Gillars, who broadcast out of Berlin, Germany.\n\nZucca's father, Louis, owned a very successful restaurant in New York's Midtown district in the 1930s and 1940s, called Zucca's Italian Garden. Located at 116-118-120 West 49th Street, the restaurant had its own promotional postcards which displayed a distinctly refined setting. Zucca spent her teenage years in a convent school in Florence and, as a young woman, had worked in the family business.\n\nShe returned to Italy in 1938, working as a typist and renouncing her American citizenship three years later to save her family's property from expropriation by Mussolini's government.\n\nAs the Allied invasion of Italy progressed, the Fascist government of Benito Mussolini decided to try to emulate the German radio’s Axis Sally broadcasts of Mildred Gillars. In the summer of 1943, the Italian national radio network in Rome hired the 30-year-old Zucca with this aim in mind, in spite of her losing a typing job in 1942 for copying an anti-Fascist pamphlet.\n\nZucca was teamed with German broadcaster Charles Goedel in the program 'Jerry's Front Calling'. Much to Gillars' chagrin, Zucca was also referred to as Axis Sally. Zucca's trademark sign-off was \"a sweet kiss from Sally\", and she was often mistaken for Gillars.\n\nAccording to one account, Zucca signed onto each show by uttering \"Hello Suckers!\" and her signature tune was \"Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea\".\n\nHer broadcasts sometimes used intelligence provided by the German embassy in Rome in an attempt to confuse Allied troops. On July 8, 1943, the night before the invasion of Sicily, Zucca's broadcast told \"the wonderful boys of the 504th Parachute Regiment\" that \"Col. Willis Mitchell's playboys the 61st Troop Carrier Group are going to carry you to certain death. We know where and when you are jumping and you will be wiped out.\"\n\nAs the Allied armies advanced north into Rome, Zucca retreated north with the Germans in 1944 and resumed broadcasting from Milan. There, in September 1944, the broadcast crew of Jerry's Front was attached to a German military propaganda unit called the Liberty Station. By then Zucca was pregnant. Her son was born on December 15, 1944. She returned to the microphone 40 days later and continued until her final broadcast on April 25, 1945.\n\nAs the Axis army finally collapsed, Zucca went by train to her uncle’s home in Turin, where she took refuge until her identification and arrest on June 5, 1945.\n\nA correspondent from the American military magazine \"Stars and Stripes\" said that Zucca's well-known crossed-eye condition did nothing to detract from her attractiveness: \"True, her left eye is inclined to wander — but that cooey, sexy voice really has something to back it up.\"\n\nNewspapers in America were far more scathing. \"Soft-Voiced 'Sally from Berlin' Found to Be Ugly Ex–N.Y. Girl\" was a typical headline, with descriptions of the young mother as \"[as] ugly and unattractive in person as her voice was appealing.\" Another journalist called her \"cross-eyed, bow-legged and sallow-skinned.\"\n\nAll attempts by the American government to prosecute Zucca for treason broke down when it became clear that she had renounced her American citizenship before she started broadcasting. The FBI's J. Edgar Hoover wrote to the Justice Department: \"In view of the fact that she has lost her American citizenship, no efforts are being made at the present time to develop a treason case against her.\"\n\nZucca was then tried by an Italian military tribunal on charges of collaboration. On March 29, 1946 she was sentenced to 4½ years in prison, but was released after 9 months. She was barred from returning to the United States after the Italian government declared a general amnesty for collaborators in 1946.\n\nZucca lived in relative obscurity in Italy until her death in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "57690891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57690891", "title": "S. L. Bhojegowda", "text": "S. L. Bhojegowda\n\nS. L. Bhojegowda belongs to the Janata Dal (Secular).\n\n"}
{"id": "3364880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364880", "title": "Sarajevo Rose", "text": "Sarajevo Rose\n\nA Sarajevo Rose is a concrete scar caused by a mortar shell's explosion that was later filled with red resin. Mortar rounds landing on concrete create a unique fragmentation pattern that looks almost floral in arrangement. Because Sarajevo was a site of intense urban warfare and suffered thousands of shell explosions during the Siege of Sarajevo, the marked concrete patterns are a unique feature to the city.\n\nAs the capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo was a central zone of conflict during the Bosnian War. The Bosnian Serb Army deployed troops and artillery in the surrounding hills, and on 2 May 1992 began imposing a blockade on all traffic in and out the city, starting what was to be known as the siege of Sarajevo. The Bosnian Serb Army constantly bombarded the civilian population in the city in an effort to prevent the home army from deploying. It has been estimated that on an average day more than 300 shell rounds were fired into the city.\n\nThroughout the city, explosion marks have been filled with red resin to mark where mortar explosions resulted in one or more deaths.\n\nThe Sarajevo roses are disappearing as the asphalt is replaced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90428", "title": "Social Democratic Party", "text": "Social Democratic Party\n\nThe name Social Democratic Party or Social Democrats has been used by a large number of political parties in various countries around the world. Such parties are most commonly aligned to social democracy as their political ideology.\n\n"}
{"id": "22097231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22097231", "title": "Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania", "text": "Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania\n\nThe Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania or VLIK () was an organization seeking independence of Lithuania. It was established on November 25, 1943, during the Nazi occupation. After World War II it moved abroad and continued its operations in Germany and the United States. VLIK claimed to be the legal representative of the Lithuanian parliament and government, but did not enjoy international recognition. It was dissolved in 1990 when Lithuania declared its independence.\n\nWhen Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941, Lithuanians greeted Germans as \"liberators\" from the oppressive Soviet regime. However, soon the attitude changed and various resistance movements began to form at the end of 1941 – beginning of 1942. During 1942 and 1943 these movements began consolidating into the pro-Catholic Nation's Council () and Supreme Committee of the Lithuanians (). After a five-month discussion, these two organizations decided to established one unified organization – VLIK, representing a wide range of political views. The first meeting of VLIK was held on November 25, 1943 in Kaunas and Steponas Kairys was elected the first chairman. VLIK's mission was to act as an underground government until restoration of the Lithuanian independence. VLIK sent its envoys to Sweden and Finland, maintained contacts with Lithuanian diplomats in Switzerland, and attempted to inform the western powers about the crimes perpetrated by the Nazis. VLIK published underground newspapers and agitated for passive resistance against the Nazis. They thought that their biggest enemy was still the Soviet Union and that resources should be conserved for the upcoming armed resistance against the Russians. \n\nIn early 1944 VLIK sent colonel Kazimieras Amraziejus on a mission to Stockholm, but he was captured and interrogated by the Gestapo in Estonia. This led to arrests of eight VLIK members on April 29–30, 1944. In 1944, when the Soviets pushed the Germans from the Baltic states during the Baltic Offensive, most of VLIK members retreated to Germany and VLIK ceased its functions in Lithuania. VLIK originally designed three of its members to remain in Lithuania, but only one did. It was a strategic loss as communication with Lithuania was severed and there was very little contact with remaining resistance groups.\n\nFunctions of VLIK were resumed in October 1944 in Würzburg, but soon moved to Reutlingen ahead of the approaching Red Army. VLIK remained in Reutlingen until 1955. Mykolas Krupavičius became the new chairman. VLIK united 15 different political organizations, whose members held a variety of political views and that hindered decision making. In July 1945, before the Potsdam Conference, VLIK sent memorandums to Winston Churchill and Harry S. Truman asking not to recognize Lithuania's occupation by the Soviet Union and asking for help reestablishing independent Lithuania. Numerous further notes were sent to the United Nations, various diplomats, academics, journalists promoting their cause and reporting human right violations in Lithuania. VLIK also reestablished ELTA news service, including radio broadcasts. VLIK attempted to establish contacts with the armed resistance in Lithuania, but had only limited communication with Juozas Lukša.\n\nVLIK positioned itself as the Lithuanian Seimas (the parliament) and claimed that its executives were equivalent of a cabinet. Despite its claims, VLIK was not recognized by any foreign country as a representative of Lithuania. It further claimed that Lithuanian diplomats, still active in pre-war embassies of independent Lithuania, were subordinates to VLIK. This caused decade-long disagreements with Stasys Lozoraitis, who was in charge of the diplomatic service and had a back-dated appointment as Prime Minister by the last President of Lithuania Antanas Smetona. This tension was one of the reasons why the Lithuanians were unable to form a recognized government-in-exile. Several attempts were made to ease the tension between VLIK (representing the nation) and the diplomatic service (representing the state). The first was a conference in Berne in July 1946. It was decided to form an Executive Council, but it never took off. The second conference was held in Paris in August 1947. \n\nAs war refugees moved out of the displaced persons camps to the United States, VLIK also moved its headquarters to New York City in 1955. After the move, VLIK's political agenda became less prominent. The activists realized that there will be no quick solution to the Cold War. VLIK's main goal was to maintain non-recognition of Lithuania’s occupation and dissemination of information from behind the iron curtain. VLIK established the Lithuanian World Community with a mission to promote Lithuanian language and culture among Lithuanians living abroad. Eventually VLIK ceased to exist after Lithuania declared independence in 1990.\n\nVLIK's chairmen were:\n"}
{"id": "36395191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36395191", "title": "Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union", "text": "Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union\n\nThe Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union or (SYRCU) () is an organization with members from different protest coordination groups from all around Syria. Its members represent their areas and cities for the activities of the Syrian uprising that began in 2011 against the Syrian government. The Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union\" has been active since the beginning of the revolution in peaceful resistance\n\nThe Union includes more than 216 coordination group, local council and group of activists of the protests in Syria. It aims to \"end to the ruling of the 40-years-old al-Assad family ruling Syria, particularly after that government started using lethal force against peaceful protest asking for reform and freedom in May 2011 in the southern Syrian city of Daraa\". The SRCU aims to \"build Syria as country of democracy and rule of law; where civil and human rights are obeyed by citizens and authorities\".\n\nThe Union has helped a number of individual activists and social journalists to relay the news about their areas by providing basic equipment and training.\n\n\nThe Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union has conducted, through its local humanitarian and medical member groups, many humanitarian activities and field hospitals equipment. Particularly since the government's activities has practically disabled the work of any Syrian or foreign NGOs to help injured people and refugees. The SRCU has provided through donors inside and out Syria a number of food boxes, shift clinic equipment and medical supplies to different areas in distress.\n\nSince the beginning of the Syrian uprising against the government, any civilian or protester injured by the regime forces, army or Shabiha militias will have to be treated by volunteer medics or doctors in improvised sites, houses or dedicated shift clinics. Equipping and hiding field treatment locations has been one of the most threatening and resources consuming task during the uprising. The government security forces in a number of occasions used local paid informants to locate and destroy treatment locations equipped by the SRCU.\n\nThe Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union (SYRCU) is a civilian, non-for-profit entity that gathers coordinators of anti-government protests from all around Syria.\nThe SYRCU claims it believes in \"protests, strikes, social campaigns, civil disobedience and other non-violent tools as the most efficient ones to achieve the goal of the Syrian revolution\". The SYRCU also believes that this is the best life-saving approach in the Syrian people struggle to achieve democracy and build Syria as a country for everyone to share, rather than just a single family to control, i.e. Assad Family.\n\nEven though we the SYRCU does not take up arms to for their cause, they still believe in the legitimacy of the fight that defected officers and soldiers, ex-military personnel and other have decided to take. Those people who are now called the Free Syrian Army (FSA) have seen families murdered in cold blood in front in their own eyes and decided that they should defend their neighborhoods, families and property using a lethal forces that is so little compared to that used by the Assad family government.\n\nThe Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union (SYRCU) believes that medical care and humanitarian aid should be provided to any one in need regardless of their belonging. This even applies to arrested soldiers who were just fighting to the Assad government's side. They also believe and approve of the International conventions in this regard, including but not limited to the four Geneva Conventions and the three protocols agreed upon after them.\n\nThe SYRCU also believes that the international community, represented by its major entities like the United Nations, the Arab League and others, are and should be always responsible for making everyone who commits crimes against the Syrian people become accounted by the law. They have supported all the plans presented by the international community in such context including the initiative by Kofi Anan that aimed to end the violence and release all prisoners.\nConsidering all the plans that have been presented, the SYRCU has made it clear several times before that it aims for exactly the same points. The SYRCU believe in its rights to keep its social movement and refuse any dialogue with the government before it withdraws the army from the cities, release all political prisoners and activists, confess to the crimes it did and become prepared to hand-over the power in Syria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55894166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55894166", "title": "TOP Team", "text": "TOP Team\n\nTOP Team is a youth wing of TOP 09. TOP Team exists since 2011. It was founded as an independent organisation to help TOP 09 during elections. It became party's official organisation in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "48761599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48761599", "title": "Zuism", "text": "Zuism\n\nZuism or Sumerian-Mesopotamian Neopaganism define a modern Pagan religious movement based on the Sumerian religion (and later Mesopotamian religions which continued it), and calls itself the \"oldest religion, foundation of all major religions\". Modern Sumerian-Mesopotamian religious groups already existed since the 1980s; however, the first institutional form of the movement was founded in Iceland in 2010 by Ólafur Helgi Þorgrímsson, and in 2013 Zuism was registered among the religions recognised by the Icelandic government. After the mid-2010s, branches of the church were established in other countries of central and northern Europe.\n\nIn late 2015 the Zuist Church of Iceland was taken over by a new leadership, under which the church was turned into a medium for a mass protest against the nationally mandated tax on religious membership; Icelanders began converting in large numbers as the new leadership promised that the tax received by the Zuist Church would have been used to refund the church members themselves. After a legal struggle, in 2017 the original directors of the church were restored to power. They decided to maintain the previous leaders' principle of refunding church members, and also to devolve funds to social welfare institutions. Zuism has spread considerably in Iceland by attracting members among younger, internet-connected, less Christian generations of Icelanders.\n\nModern Sumerian-Mesopotamin religion has been known as \"Zuism\", \"Sumerian-Mesopotamian Neopaganism\" or \"Sumerian-Mesopotamian Reconstructionism\", \"Babylonian Neopaganism\" or \"Babylonian Reconstructionism\", and \"Kaldanism\" (which means \"way of Chaldeans\", Chaldea being a late term for Sumer). Among them, Zuism has become the most popular descriptor for the movement, by virtue of being the name under which the religion is recognised by Icelandic law.\n\nZuism is defined as an international religious movement which intends to represent all the groups professing Sumerian-Mesopotamian religions. The Zuist Church of Iceland, the orgaisation recognised by the Icelandic government, has established branches throughout various countries and intends to be a platform for all Zuist believers. Many Zuists and Sumerian-Mesopotamian Neopagans are contributing to the development of the movement both within and outside the Zuist Church.\n\nThe name \"Zuism\" originates from the Sumerian verb \"zu\" , meaning \"to know\", and is defined as a \"way of knowledge\", of knowing the appropriate modality of being human, in harmony with divinity. It is equated with the Greek term \"gnosis\". The term \"zu\" may also refer to the thunder-bird god of wisdom, \"Zû\", servant of Enlil.\n\nZuism is defined as the knowledge on how to appropriately stand in-between Heaven ( \"An\" or \"Dingir\") and Earth ( \"Ki\"), by acting in accordance with the creative word ( \"utu\") and the measures ( \"me\") represented by the gods ( \"dingir\"), all constituting the energetic \"logos\" ( \"lil\") of Heaven.\n\nGods are held to be immortal beings, who are human-like and yet invisible to human eyes. They are potencies who guide the development of the universe. The four main divine beings are: ① the universal god \"An\"/\"Dingir\" (literally \"Heaven\"/\"God\", astrally identified as the ecliptic north celestial pole encompassed by the coil of the constellation Draco, and with all the constellations spinning around it; the Little Bear is his chariot, \"Mar.gid.da.an.na\", the \"Chariot of Heaven\"), ② \"Ki\" or \"Ninhursag\" (literally \"Earth\" or \"Lady of the Mountain\"), ③ \"Enki\" (literally \"Lord of the Squared Earth\", the god of water and craft, astrally identified as \"Aš.iku\" or \"Mul.iku\", the \"Field\", that is the Square of Pegasus, and generally with the southern sky—called Path of Enki—, that is to say the circle farther from the north celestial pole An) and ④ \"Enlil\" (literally \"Lord of the Storm\", the god of weather and thunder, identified as \"Mul.apin\", the \"Plough\", that is the constellation Triangulum, and generally with the northern sky—called Path of Enlil—, that is to say the circle nearest to the north celestial pole An; his wife \"Ninlil\", literally \"Lady of the Storm\", is \"Mar.gid.da\", the \"Chariot\"). Sky, earth, air and water are thus considered the fundamental elements of the cosmos.\n\nLesser deities include Nanna (the moon), Utu (the sun), Marduk (represented with a sword and a dragon, astrally identified as Jupiter, and also associated with the north celestial pole An), Nabu (god of writing and wisdom, astrally identified as Mercury), Nergal (god of the underworld and plagues, astrally identified as Mars), Ninurta (god of war and farming, astrally identified as Saturn), Inanna (goddess of love, beauty, creativity and war; astrally identified as Venus) and Dumuzi (shepherd god of death and resurrection, astrally identified as Aries).\n\nThe universe is created by the gods through the word, \"utu\" (), and developed through the measures, \"me\" . The divine word (\"utu\") which has performative power, is the power to create. By the words of the founders and earliest leaders, the \"act of creation ... was accomplished through utterance of the divine word\". The deity \"had merely to make plans and pronounce the name of the thing to be created\". The measures (\"me\") are \"universal and unchangeable rules and laws that all beings are obliged to obey\", which \"keep the cosmos in continuous and harmonious operation and ... avoid confusion and conflict\".\n\nBelief and practice of Zuism is based on Sumerian poems, which Zuists recite in their worship services in honour of the gods. Regular gatherings are held for such scripture recitation in honour of the gods, as well as for prayers, which are either personal or for the welfare of others. Believers conduct their daily life according to the \"me\", which in human society are ethical codes modeled after the laws of the universe, and govern every aspect of morality from individual to social economy.\n\nZuism is a \"social religion\", meaning that men and gods are considered symbiotic parts of the same complex whole. Gods govern the fate of men, and relationship with them may not be forsaken. Chiefs and priests are responsible for upkeeping the relationship with the gods through daily, monthly and yearly ordinances held at temples. Priests are called \"en\", \"ensi\" and \"lugal\".\n\nAccording to the Zuist Church, Sumer had the earliest tax system in the history of civilisation for which archeological attestations exist; it was called \"bala\". Sumerians were aware of the threat posed to economies by the accumulation of debt, and for this reason debt was regularly annulled. This practice was called \"amagi\" () or \"amargi\" (), literally \"return to the mother\", and the Zuist Church aims to restore it for today, starting with the redistribution among members of the wealth received through the tax on religious membership which governments—including that of Iceland—impose on their citizens.\n\nThe members of the Zuist Church of Iceland may choose whether to devolve their paid taxes to charity. In 2017, the Zuist Church devolved funds to a number of social welfare organisations: 1.1 million Icelandic crowns were donated to the Circle Children's Hospital (\"Barnaspítala Hringsins\"), 1 million to the Women's Shelter (\"Kvennaathvarfsins\"), and 300 thousand Icelandic crowns to the emergency fund of the UNICEF. With the help of its members, according to the leader Ágúst Arnar Ágústsson, the Zuist Church may become \"a long-term sponsor of such organisations\".\n\nOn 16 January 2018, the Zuist Church of Iceland applied for the allocation of a plot of land in Reykjavík for the burial of its members. On 29 May of the same year, the Zuists of Iceland presented the project and applied for the allocation of land for building a temple in the capital, which will be called the Ekur of Enlil (literally \"Mount-Court of Enlil\" or \"Temple-Mount of Enlil\"). It will function as the headquarters of the Zuist Church and as the main site for religious rituals, including baptisms and weddings. The temple will be on three levels, a ground floor and a first floor dedicated to community activities, and a shrine to the deity on the second floor. The Zuist Church opened a \"fund for the ziggurat\" (\"Zigguratsjóð\") to which members will choose whether to devolve their taxes.\n\nBefore the establishment of the Zuist Church in Iceland, there were already some Zuist or Sumerian-Mesopotamian Neopagan groups, mostly small and informal, many of which still exist, including the Temple of Sumer. The Sumerian-Mesopotamian contemporary new religious movement, indeed, dates back at least to the 1980s. According to the Zuist Church of Iceland, its history may be further traced back well before the 2010s to a \"mother church\" of Icelandic believers who dwelt in Delaware, United States.\n\nZuism became a recognised religion in Iceland in 2013, when Icelandic law was amended to allow further non-Christian religions to be registered with the state. The Zuist Church was founded years before, in 2010, by Ólafur Helgi Þorgrímsson, who left it at an early stage of development. The current head priest of the Zuist Church of Iceland is Ágúst Arnar Ágústsson, who took on the office in September 2014.\n\nThe Zuist Church of Britain was first established in 2013, and then re-established in 2018. It is headquartered in Islington, London and led by Soley Rut Magnusdottir besides Ágúst Arnar and his brother Einar.\n\nA branch of the Zuist Church was established in Denmark after the mid-2010s.\n\nA branch of the Zuist Church was established in Germany after the mid-2010s.\n\nA branch of Zuism was established in 2016, in Norway, as the \"Congregation of Zuism in Norway\", headquartered in Nittedal. As of 2017 it was waiting to be registered as a recognised religion by the Norwegian government as the Zuist Church of Norway.\n\nAnother branch of the Zuist Church was established in Sweden around the same time as the Norwegian branch. The Zuist Church of Sweden's headquarters are located in Malmö.\n\nIn 2015, a Swiss branch, the Zuist Church of Switzerland, was founded.\n\nAccording to the independent Zuist author Uligang Ansbrandt, Christianity (viewed as corrupted and dying in its modern forms) and Islam are \"false religions, or non-religions\", as they \"fail to relink Heaven, Earth and humanity\" — the word \"religion\" is derived from the common root of the Latin verbs \"religere\" (careful \"re-reading\" or \"re-collecting\" right practices) and \"religare\" (\"re-linking\"), according, respectively, to the etymologies provided by Cicero's \"De Rerum Natura\" and Lactantius' \"Divinae Institutiones\". The Zuist vision of God is presented as a thisworldly one, in which God is \"the starry sky and its cycles\". The God as conceived by Abrahamic religions in instead presented as a \"non-existing, otherworldly abstract thing\". The author also rejects Sitchinianism, defined as another \"abstract, nonsense science fiction\", a misinterpretation of ancient knowledge which is worryingly \"very popular nowadays\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
