{"id": "58864320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58864320", "title": "Abjection in Modernity", "text": "Abjection in Modernity\n\nJulia Kristeva’s theory of abjection produces many implications that cause us to think about how we position ourselves between the land of the living and the land of the dead. Kristeva posits that women are abjected as they represent a “suffocating return to the archaic maternal body”, or more specifically, the return to immanence (death). In modernity, the use of the abjected maternal or feminine body is utilised in popular culture to elicit horror from audiences. This, sometimes inadvertently, subverts the patriarchy’s grip on society and brings to light the oppression of women.\n\nDuring the course of her \"Born This Way\" album cycle, Lady Gaga harnessed the abject in order to bring the repressed maternal to the forefront of her performances. In her \"Born This Way Ball\" world tour, Gaga commenced the concert by being birthed out of a large inflatable vagina. This was met by considerable audience disgust, as it threatened the breakdown of our reality, and our distinction between subject and object. In her infamous \"Born This Way\" video, Gaga created a new religious scripture in which the mother is the almighty god. In this video, Gaga discusses the birth of a new race under ‘Mother Monster’, as the “wombs numbered and the mitosis of the future began”, she exclaims that this moment of birth is not temporal, but eternal. Upon its release, this video was scalded for relying on shock tactics. This reaction is perhaps unsurprising due to the way Gaga used the abjected site of the maternal in order to challenge our evolutionary instinct to reject death. Gaga consistently uses the abject to shock audiences and bring attention to the oppression of women in modernity. In 2014, Gaga performed at SXSW (South by Southwest) and included in this performance her song titled Swine, a song about sexual assault against women. For this performance Gaga brought performance artist Millie Brown to the stage, whom of which began to vomit green paint over Gaga’s body while she played the drums.  Using the abject materials of oral disgust and waste , Gaga attempted to emphasise the way in which women are objectified and abused by men. It is a cunning juxtaposition as Gaga sings about her experience with sexual assault and vomit is hurled onto her body. A similar sentiment lies in her infamous ‘meat dress’. Using the abject material of blood and flesh that draped over her body, Gaga left people speechless and in a state of utter disgust. It was only later that Gaga revealed she had worn the dress as a statement against the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy which silenced gay soldiers in the United States military. On the Ellen Show, Gaga exclaimed “if we don't stand up for what we believe in, if we don't fight for our rights, pretty soon we're going to have as much rights as the meat on our bones.”  This makes clear the potential of Julia Kristeva’s theory of abjection to create social change.\n\nIcelandic artist Björk is well known for her outlandish style and eccentric performances. Her latest album, \"Utopia\" is accompanied by a plethora of abject imagery that run parallel with the feminist lyricism of the album. The album cover depicts a creature-like Björk with a bird fetus nestled in her neck, and a vagina growing from her forehead. This effectively uses the abject in order to bring the maternal to the public sphere, forcing us to come to terms with our origin, and consequently, our imminent death. In her music video for \"The Gate,\" Björk constructs a utopia of her own, rife with the symbolism of female genitalia which is played alongside birdsongs and a flute arrangement. This is another instance in which Björk has celebrated the maternal, and thus emphasised the silencing of such through our reaction to the “matriarchal tapestry” she weaves.\n\nIt is only in recent times that American pop artist Ariana Grande has reinforced the notion of abjection within her own works. While she hinted towards a more female oriented approach on songs and videos such as \"Dangerous Woman\", it is one of her latest releases, off her 2018 album \"Sweetener\", that has proven to manifest as Kristeva proposes. \"God is a woman\" has quickly become a cornerstone of powerful female sexuality both in and outside of the private sphere, with rewritings of both history and mythology from a female (and symbiotically feminist) perspective. The overarching message is one of women’s sexual empowerment, and while that is heavily reflected in the lyricism, the accompanying music video leaves audiences with additional images and symbols of the divine feminine. Symbolism and commentary in the form of a variety of depictions of the vagina are evident through various poses and hand gestures especially. The rewriting of spirituality with the phrase “God is a woman” repeated throughout, and the final image of Grande as God in a reimagining of \"The Creation of Adam\" reaffirms this call for female uprising, and challenges our society’s preconceived notions of what is and is not kept private; is a direct confrontation of the patriarchy and what women should “keep” of themselves solely for the pleasure or wants of the men that own them. However, the retaliation from religious sects especially reinstates the notion of abjection, as people of dogmatic faith claim Grande committed blasphemy in her lyrics and images. Grande’s use of this supremely maternal narrative, the notion that God is a woman because of their (or his or her, depending on perspective) divinity, sexual liberation and power of creation drives the message of abjection in modernity home.\n\nDefined as a film in the ‘splatter’ subgenre of horror films, \"Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2\" harnesses the abject in a peculiar way. Horror is often defined as a misogynistic or heteronormative genre, but as Jack Halberstam makes clear, these ‘splatter’ films often use the abject to present queerness, or the unrecognisable human body. In \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2,\" bodies are brutalised by the chainsaw, and what we are left with is the excess flesh that survives the chainsaw, forming a queer and gender indifferent identity.  According to Jack Halberstam, in this film we are subjected to the abject in the form of blood, flesh, etc., which change the bodily terrain of ‘man’ and ‘woman’. A ‘splattered’ or bloody body is queer, as it subverts the connotations of masculinity and femininity through an unrecognisable sea of tarnished flesh. \n\nIn the film Teeth (2007), the theories of Julia Kristeva’s on abjection and Barbara Creed’s monstrous-feminine can be explored.\n\nTeeth is a horror comedy film and Coming-of-age story written and directed by Mitchell Lichtenstein and stars Jess Weixler as Dawn, an outspoken activist of an abstinence-only group at her high school, while trying to suppress her own budding sexual desires.\n\nThe story follows Dawns’ journey of sexual discovery, however, takes a dark turn after Dawn and her new boyfriend Toby take a swim together at a local swimming hole. Toby forces himself onto Dawn, and when she tries to resist he assaults her and knocks her unconscious and proceeds to rape her. Toby is swiftly punished for sexually debasing Dawn with the masculine weapon of rape, as Dawn’s body savagely fights back, and severs Toby’s penis with her vagina. \n\nThrough the violent act of rape and subsequent removal of Toby’s penis, Dawn discovers she is the living embodiment of the myth of the Vagina Dentata or “the toothed vagina” – the vagina that castrates. With this act, Dawn is immediately rendered unnatural to the viewer and abject.  \n\nFreud wrote that “Probably no male human being is spared the terrifying shock of threatened castration at the sight of the female genitals,”. Creed expands on this thought and states that “Castration anxiety is a central concern of the horror film - particularly the slasher sub-genre. Woman's body is slashed and mutilated, not only to signify her own castrated state, but also the possibility of castration for the male.”. Creed describes how the sight of the female genitals is monstrous-feminine as the role of ‘the archaic mother’, as the absence of a penis is proof that castration can occur. As Dawn is the physical manifestation of Castration anxiety for males with her vagina dentata, she is made monstrous-feminine. \n\nThrough the film Dawn learns she has evolved to have this power and learns to control it through other sexual encounters. During her initial research of her vagina dentata, she discovers that to be ‘cured’ a male hero is to conquer vagina dentata through sexual intercourse, and thus restoring the woman to her ‘proper place’ in the ‘natural’ (patriarchal) order of the world. \n\nWhat makes this film different from the usual misogynistic and patriarchal themes and tropes found in a majority of the horror genre, is that it transforms the view of monstrous-feminine to that of a heroine. The director, Mitchell Lichtenstein, explicitly wanted to change the narrative of the myth of vagina dentata to be not about women, but men, and the fear men have of women and desire for control over them. Mitchel Lichtenstein is quoted in interviews that he didn’t want to perpetuate gynophobia and wanted to turn the myth ‘on its head’.  The vagina dentata myth always has the masculine hero conquering the woman, the monstrous-feminine, and destroying the teeth to free her. In his film, Lichtenstein wanted Dawn to be the heroine, with a power so she could never be conquered. Lichtenstein made a concerted effort to both not show Dawn’s toothed vulva or to have the action of the teeth snapping shut to be very audible. This was to ensure that Dawn and her ‘teeth’ were not the monster, the monstrous-feminine, but were an evolved adaption to protect her from violent sexual predators.\n\nEssentially, Dawn evolved her vaginal dentata into a biological Anti-rape device, developed to deter and prevent rape by causing pain and disfigurement to sexual violence perpetrators.\n\nReviews of the film have been mixed with praise from feminists for empowerment and from psychoanalysts for its exploration of the subject matter, while the anti-women Men's rights movement predictably claim the film is grossly misandrist. Given the history of the horror genre and its misogynistic and patriarchal themes, it is refreshing to see a film challenge these outdated ideas.\n\nThroughout its eight seasons, \"American Horror Story\" has continuously shocked viewers with its intense themes. The anthology series is no stranger to depicting its female characters as antagonists, with some of these including brutal criminals, murderers, a nun subjected to demonic possession, cult members and witches. Having such grim and vicious depictions of women has often been one of the focal points for the show, drawing viewers in with the complexities of the powerful, violent feminine. The construction and use of these characters is disconcerting: horror has quite a narrow scope in relation to the presence of predatory women, and this is evident in the impact female heavy seasons of \"American Horror Story\" (such as \"\", \"\", \"\" and more recently \"\") have on ratings, viewers and themes. While female antagonists are commonplace, female victims are (unsurprisingly) also a factor. It is interesting then to explore the almost exclusively female horrors of the first three seasons (\"\", \"\" and \"\") , with tropes such as closeted queerness, fetishisation, rape, birth and abortions (failed, forced and traumatic), suicide, mental illness, institutionalisation, race and the \"Salem Witch Trials\" all confirming and playing out many women’s worst nightmares. Such explicit depictions of this, then, bring Kristeva’s theory into full effect; the notion of abjection being carried out with the blood, gore, violence, nudity, bodies, maternity and spaces \"American Horror Story\" creates. It is mostly in later seasons where female empowerment and justice is served, however, there is always a prevalent and sinister underlying tension when a woman is violated at any point throughout the various ideas explored in the show’s entirety. As a final draw to Kristeva’s theories, the relevance of distorted, disabled, or otherwise abnormal bodies in the show’s fourth season, \"\", is another theme to bring abjection to the forefront. Having differing bodies or abilities outside of the realm of possibility (including a bearded woman, a , several dwarves, a and conjoined twins to name a few) for the season’s 1950s time setting is projected as unsettling and grotesque to not only regular society within the show but also the intended audience.    \n\nAnother depiction of abjection in modernity is within television series \"Orange is the New Black\". The fictional television show, which centralises around the women within a low security prison, uses its scope of women as criminals to fight alongside movements within society (such as LGBT+ and Black Lives Matter). Using the idea of incarcerated females directly correlates with the abject, as it challenges the ideas of the violent and/or deviant feminine, and the links to maternity are pellucid (both literally and symbolically when considering the pregnant female inmates in the show). By highlighting racial divides between the cell blocks and mainstreaming and normalising lesbian identity and sex, the show also calls for women to celebrate and enjoy themselves. Evidenced from the initial audience shock at the themes, vulgarity and sexual prowess of the program, this notion of abjection is extremely relevant when assessing the disruption of what a woman should be in our society, using the distasteful material as fuel to reroute criminality and women in that situation.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of the immensely popular Rupaul’s Drag Race, The Boulet Brothers’ Dragula adapt their own drag reality show that is filled to the brim with abject imagery and references to the monstrous feminine. Horror, and consequently forms of abjection, are often considered to unveil the deepest fears within the culture it is situated.  The fears that the Boulet Brothers attempt to challenge in Dragula are fears of gender indifference, fears of the homosexual body and the fear of the breakdown of heteronormativity in which our culture operates.  The premise of the reality show is to find the ‘Next Drag Supermonster’ that upholds three main traits; filth, horror, and glamour. There is indeed no holding back when it comes to filth and horror. In the season finale, Vander Von Odd stuck her fingers down her throat in order to vomit on a pile of excrement, and then proceeded to ingest it.  It is with this shocking display of the abject elements of excrement and vomit that Vander succeeded in subverting the heteronormative ideas of femininity. It is almost a one-two punch effect with the “fertile territory of horror” being implemented to “serve as a testimony to how much we fear female power” , fusing with the abject elements such as oral disgust that break apart out reality and force us to face our biological immanence.\n"}
{"id": "22542139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22542139", "title": "Aesthetic interpretation", "text": "Aesthetic interpretation\n\nAn interpretation in philosophy of art, is an explanation of the meaning of some work of art. An aesthetic interpretation expresses a particular emotional or experiential understanding most often used in reference to a poem, or piece of literature, and may also apply to a work of visual art, or performance.\n\nReaders may approach reading a text from different starting points. A student assigned to interpret a poem for class comes at reading differently from someone on the beach reading a novel for escapist pleasure. \"Interpretation\" implies the conscious task of making sense out of a piece of writing that may not be clear at first glance or that may reward deeper reading even if it at first appears perfectly clear. The beach reader will probably not need to interpret what she or he reads, but the student will. Professor Louise Rosenblatt, a specialist in the study of the reading process, distinguished between two reading \"stances\" that occupy opposite ends of a spectrum. \"Aesthetic reading\" differs from \"efferent reading\" in that the former describes a reader coming to the text expecting to devote attention to the words themselves, to take pleasure in their sounds, images, connotations, etc. \"Efferent reading\", on the other hand, describes someone, \"reading for knowledge, for information, or for the conclusion to an argument, or maybe for directions as to action, as in a recipe..., reading for what [one is] going to carry away afterwards. I term this efferent reading.\"(L. Rosenblat) That is what \"efferent\" means, leading or conducting away from something, in this case information from a text. On this view, poems and stories do not offer the reader a message to carry away, but a pleasure in which to participate actively—aesthetically.\n\nThere are many different theories of interpretation. On the one hand, there may be innumerable interpretations for any given piece of art, any one of which may be considered valid. However, it may also be claimed that there really is only one valid interpretation for any given piece of art. The aesthetic theory that says people may approach art with different but equally valid aims is called \"pluralism.\" But the aim of some of interpretations is such that they claim to be true or false. \n\nA \"relativistic\" kind of claim - between \"All readings are equally good\" and \"Only one reading is correct\" - holds that readings that tie together more details of the text and that gain approval of practiced readers are better than ones that do not. One kind of relativistic interpretation is called \"formal,\" referring to the \"form\" or shape of patterns in the words of a text, especially a poem or song. Pointing to the rhymes at the ends of lines is an objective set of resemblances in a poem. A reader of Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Raven\". cannot help but hear the repetition of \"nevermore\" as a formal element of Poe's poem. Less obvious and a bit subjective would be an interpreter's pointing to the resemblance tying together all the mentions of weariness, napping, dreaming, and the drug nepenthe.\n\nIn the early 20th Century the German philosopher Martin Heidegger explored questions of formal philosophical analysis verses personal interpretations of aesthetic experience, preferencing the direct subjective experience of a work of art as essential to an individual's aesthetic interpretation.\n\nA contemporary theory informed by awareness that an ever-expanding exposure to ideas made possible by the internet has changed both the act of creation, and the experience of perception, is known as \"Multi Factorial Apperception\" (MFA). This approach seeks to integrate a wide range of cultural variables to expand the contextual frame for viewing the creation, and perception, of aesthetic experience. Emphasis is on a dynamic mulit-layerd cultural framing of the act of creation at a particular moment in time, and admits that the meaning of a particular work will be in flux from that moment onward.[citation needed]\n\nSome students of the reading process advocate that a reader should attempt to identify what the artist is trying to accomplish and interpret the art in terms of whether or not the artist has succeeded. Professor E. D. Hirsch wrote two books arguing that \"the author's intention must be the ultimate determiner of meaning.\" (E. D. Hirsch) In this controversial view, there is a single correct interpretation consistent with the artist's intention for any given art work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5819171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5819171", "title": "Apauruṣeyā", "text": "Apauruṣeyā\n\nApaurusheya (Sanskrit: अपौरुषेय, ), literally means \"not of a man\" and \"superhuman\". The term is used to describe the Vedas, the earliest scripture in the World.\n\n\"Apaurusheya\" is a central concept in the Vedanta and Mimamsa schools of philosophy. These schools accept the \"Vedas\" as \"svatah pramana\" (\"self-evident means of knowledge\"). The Mimamsa school asserts that since the Vedas are composed of words (shabda) and the words are composed of phonemes, the phonemes being eternal, the Vedas are also eternal. To this, if asked whether all words and sentences are eternal, the Mimamsa philosophers reply that the rules behind combination of phonemes are fixed and pre-determined for the Vedas, unlike other words and sentences. The Vedanta school also accepts this line of argument.\n\n"}
{"id": "39153633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39153633", "title": "Ashoka's Hell", "text": "Ashoka's Hell\n\nAshoka's Hell was, according to legend, an elaborate torture chamber disguised as a beautiful palace full of amenities such as exclusive baths and decorated with flowers, fruit trees and ornaments. It was built by Emperor Ashoka (304–232 BCE) in Pataliputra (modern Patna, India), the capital city of the Maurya Empire. The legend of the torture palace is detailed in the \"Ashokavadana\", the text that describes Emperor Ashoka's life through both legendary and historical accounts.\n\nAccording to legend, the palatial torture chamber was artfully designed to make its exterior visually pleasing and was referred to as the \"beautiful gaol\". Beneath the veneer of beauty, however, deep inside the exclusive mansion, torture chambers were constructed which were full of sadistic and cruel instruments of torture including furnaces producing molten metal for pouring on prisoners.\n\nThe narrative mentions that the architect of the chamber was inspired by descriptions of the five tortures of the Buddhist hell for the design of the torture chamber and of the torture methods he inflicted upon his victims. The text of the \"Ashokavadana\", describes how the torture chamber was so terrifying, it caused people to believe that Ashoka had visited hell itself in his quest to perfect its evil design. Through a pact made between Ashoka and the official executioner of the torture chamber anyone entering the palace, even by chance as a visitor, was not allowed to come out alive.\n\nAccording to the narrations of \"Ashokavadana\", Emperor Ashoka, prior to his conversion to Buddhism, was a fierce and sadistic ruler, known as \"Ashoka the Fierce\", or Chandashoka (Ashoka the Cruel), who sent his minions on a quest to find a vicious man to work as his official executioner.\n\nAfter some searching, Ashoka's men found a suitable candidate by the name of Girika who was so vicious that he killed his own parents because they did not want him to become Ashoka's executioner. Girika was introduced to Ashoka who soon appointed him as the official executioner of his Empire.\n\nAccording to legend, Girika persuaded Ashoka to design the torture chamber based on the suffering endured by people reborn in Buddhist hell. The \"Ashokavadana\" documents a long list of torture acts Girika designed and planned to force upon his prisoners including \"prying open their mouths with an iron and pouring boiling copper down their throats\". Innocent persons were not exempt from such treatment.\n\nIn the narrative of \"Ashokavadana\", Ashoka asked Girika to disguise the torture chamber as a beautiful and \"enticing\" palace full of amenities such as exclusive baths and to decorate it with flowers, fruit trees and many ornaments. The palatial torture chamber was artfully designed to make people long to just look at it, and even attract them to enter, and was referred to as the \"beautiful gaol\".\n\nAccording to the mythology, beneath the veneer of beauty, inside the exclusive mansion, torture chambers were constructed which were full of the most sadistic and cruel instruments of torture including furnaces producing molten metal for pouring on the prisoners.\n\nIn the narrative, Ashoka made a pact with Girika that he would never allow anyone who entered the palace to exit alive, including Ashoka himself. The torture chamber was so terrifying, that Emperor Ashoka was thought to have visited hell so that he could perfect its evil design. In the \"Biographical Sutra of Emperor Ashoka\" the palace is described by the sentence: 'Emperor Ashoka constructed a hell'.\n\n\"Ashokavadana\" refers to Girika as Chandagirika or Girika the Cruel. It appears that Girika overheard a Buddhist monk recite the \"Balapanditasutta\" which contains vivid descriptions of the five tortures of hell, such as: and got his ideas of how to torture prisoners from there. The text describes Girika's attitude toward punishment as follows: \"Such are the five great agonies, Girika reflected, and he began to inflict these same tortures on people in his prison\". In addition the \"Balapanditasutta\" compares the King's torture methods to the tortures of hell.\n\nThe \"Ashokavadana\" further mentions that sometime later a Buddhist monk by the name of Samudra happened to visit the palace and upon entering he was informed by Girika that he would be tortured to death, and was subsequently led into the torture chamber. His torturers however failed to injure him and he appeared able to neutralise their torture methods by realising that the suffering of the other prisoners is part of the Buddhist dogma of suffering and attaining arhatship.\n\nA particular narration detailed how Samudra, while tortured in a cauldron full of boiling water, human blood, bone marrow and excrement, caused the contents of the cauldron to cool down and then sat meditating cross-legged on a lotus sprouting from the fluid.\n\nThe narrative further describes that when Ashoka heard of these miracles, he was overcome with curiosity and decided to enter the chamber to verify for himself the veracity of the stories. After arriving there he witnessed Samudra levitating with half his body on fire and the other half raining water. Intrigued he asked Samudra to identify himself.\n\nSamudra replied that he was a disciple of Buddha and adherent to the Dharma. Samudra then chastised Ashoka for having built the torture chamber and further instructed him to build eighty four thousand stupas according to Buddha's prophecy, and to guarantee the security of all beings. To those demands, Ashoka acquiesced. Further he confessed to his crimes and accepted Buddha and the Dharma.\n\nThe \"Ashokavadana\" describes the events leading to the demolition of Ashoka's torture chamber. According to the text, the torture chamber had become the site and the reason of his conversion to Buddhism. Girika, as the resident executioner of the chamber, however, reminded Ashoka of his pledge to kill anyone entering the chamber including Ashoka himself.\n\nAshoka then questioned Girika as to who entered the torture palace first during their visit to see Samudra's miracles. Girika was then forced to admit that it was he who entered first. Upon the executioner's confession, Ashoka ordered him burnt alive and also ordered the demolition of the torture palace. According to the \"Ashokavadana\", \"the beautiful jail was then torn down and a guarantee of security was extended to all beings\".\n\nFrom that point on, Ashoka became known as \"Ashoka the Pious\". Buddhist monk Xuanzang in his writings mentions that in the 7th century AD he had visited the place where Ashoka's torture chamber once was and that it was, even at that time, referred to in Hindu tradition as \"Ashoka's Hell\". Xuanzang also claimed that he saw the column identifying the location of Ashoka's Hell.\n\nIn India, the palace is known as \"Ashoka's Hell\" and its location near Pataliputra became a popular destination for pilgrims. In the 5th century, AD Faxian, who was also a Buddhist monk, also reports visiting it and his account of the story of the palace differs slightly from that of Xuanzang's. In the 1890s, British explorer Laurence Waddell, while in Patna, established that Agam Kuan, which means the \"unfathomable well\", was part of Ashoka's Hell as reported also by the two Chinese monks.\n"}
{"id": "6730067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6730067", "title": "BSI PAS 100", "text": "BSI PAS 100\n\nThe British Composting Association worked to establish an industry standard for composts, the BSI PAS 100 certified by the British Standards Institution. The specification covers the entire process; from raw materials and production methods, through quality control and lab testing ensuring certified composts are quality assured traceable safe and reliable. Description: Composting (waste), Biodegradability, Degradation, Waste disposal, Waste handling, Quality control, Biological hazards, Pathogens, Toxic materials, Toxins, Contaminants, Pollution control, Environmental management, Management operations, Performance, Marking, Labels, Fertilizers. \n\nPAS stands for Publicly Available Specification\n\n"}
{"id": "7636660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7636660", "title": "Behavioral script", "text": "Behavioral script\n\nIn the behaviorism approach to psychology, behavioral scripts are a sequence of expected behaviors for a given situation. Scripts include default standards for the actors, props, setting, and sequence of events that are expected to occur in a particular situation. The classic script example involves an individual dining at a restaurant. This script has several components: props including tables, menus, food, and money, as well as roles including customers, servers, chefs, and a cashier. The sequence of expected events for this script begins with a hungry customer entering the restaurant, ordering, eating, paying and then ends with the customer exiting. People continually follow scripts which are acquired through habit, practice and simple routine. Following a script can be useful because it could help to save the time and mental effort of deciding on appropriate behavior each time a situation is encountered.\n\nThere have been many empirical research studies conducted in order to test the validity of the script theory. One such study, conducted by Bower, Black, and Turner in 1979, asked participants to read 18 different scenarios, all of which represented a doctor’s office script. The participants were later asked to complete either a recall task or a recognition task. In the recall task, the participants were asked to remember as much as they could about each scenario. Here, the participants tended to recall certain parts of the stories that were not actually present, but that were parts of the scripts that the stories represented. In the recognition task, participants were asked to rate various sentences on a 7-point scale regarding their personal confidence that they had seen each sentence in the scenario. Some sentences shown to participants were from the stories and some were not. Of the sentences that were not from the stories, some were relevant to the doctor’s office script and others were not relevant to the script at all. Here, participants tended to recognize certain non-story sentences as having come from the story if the non-story sentence was relevant to the script. Ultimately, Bower, Black, and Turner’s study suggested that scripts serve as a guide for a person’s recall and recognition for certain things that they already know.\n\nSome people may have a tendency to habituate behavioral scripts in a manner that can act to limit consciousness in a subliminal way. This can negatively influence the subconscious mind and, subsequently, can negatively affect perceptions, judgments, values, beliefs, cognition and behavior. For example, over-reliance upon behavioral scripts combined with social norms that encourage an individual to use these behavioral scripts may influence one to stereotype and develop a prejudiced attitude toward others based on socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, etc.\n\nSome applied behavior analysts even use scripts to train new skills and 20 years of research supports script use as an effective way to build new language, social, and activity routines for adults and children with developmental disabilities. With language scripts fading, efforts are being made in an attempt to help the scripts recombine in order to approximate more natural language.\n\n"}
{"id": "425486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425486", "title": "Brithenig", "text": "Brithenig\n\nBrithenig is an invented language, or constructed language (\"conlang\"). It was created as a hobby in 1996 by Andrew Smith from New Zealand, who also invented the alternate history of Ill Bethisad to \"explain\" it.\n\nBrithenig was not developed to be used in the real world, like Esperanto or Interlingua, nor to provide detail to a work of fiction, like Klingon from the \"Star Trek\" scenarios. Rather, Brithenig started as a thought experiment to create a Romance language that might have evolved if Latin had displaced the native Celtic language as the spoken language of the people in Great Britain.\n\nThe result is an artificial sister language to French, Catalan, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Occitan and Italian which differs from them by having sound-changes similar to those that affected the Welsh language, and words that are borrowed from the Brittonic languages and from English throughout its pseudo-history. One important distinction between Brithenig and Welsh is that while Welsh is P-Celtic, Latin was a Q-Italic language (as opposed to P-Italic, like Oscan), and this trait was passed onto Brithenig.\n\nSimilar efforts to extrapolate Romance languages are \"Breathanach\" (influenced by the other branch of Celtic), \"Judajca\" (influenced by Hebrew), \"Þrjótrunn\" (a non-Ill Bethisad language influenced by Icelandic), \"Wenedyk\" (influenced by Polish), and \"Xliponian\" (which experienced a Grimm's law-like sound shift). It has also inspired \"Wessisc\", a hypothetical Germanic language influenced by contact with Old Celtic.\n\nBrithenig was granted the code BZT as part of .\n\nAndrew Smith was one of the conlangers featured in the exhibit \"Esperanto, Elvish, and Beyond: The World of Constructed Languages\" displayed at the Cleveland Public Library from May through August 2008. Smith's creation of Brithenig was cited as the reason for his inclusion in the exhibit (which also included the Babel Text in Smith's language).\n\nMost of Brithenig's vocabulary is distinctively Romance, even though it is disguised as Welsh. The following list of 30 words gives an impression of what Brithenig looks like in comparison to nine other Romance languages including Wenedyk, and to Welsh. The similarity of about one-quarter of the Welsh words to Brithenig words (indicated by not being bracketed) is due to their common Indo-European background, although a few others, such as \"ysgol\", were borrowings from Latin into Welsh.\n\nThe Lord's Prayer:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "964630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964630", "title": "CATH database", "text": "CATH database\n\nThe CATH Protein Structure Classification database is a free, publicly available online resource that provides information on the evolutionary relationships of protein domains. It was created in the mid-1990s by Professor Christine Orengo and colleagues including Janet Thornton and David Jones, and continues to be developed by the Orengo group at University College London. CATH shares many broad features with the SCOP resource, however there are also many areas in which the detailed classification differs greatly.\n\nExperimentally-determined protein three-dimensional structures are obtained from the Protein Data Bank and split into their consecutive polypeptide chains, where applicable. Protein domains are identified within these chains using a mixture of automatic methods and manual curation.\n\nThe domains are then classified within the CATH structural hierarchy: at the Class (C) level, domains are assigned according to their secondary structure content, i.e. all alpha, all beta, a mixture of alpha and beta, or little secondary structure; at the Architecture (A) level, information on the secondary structure arrangement in three-dimensional space is used for assignment; at the Topology/fold (T) level, information on how the secondary structure elements are connected and arranged is used; assignments are made to the Homologous superfamily (H) level if there is good evidence that the domains are related by evolution i.e. they are homologous.\n\nAdditional sequence data for domains with no experimentally determined structures are provided by CATH's sister resource, Gene3D, which are used to populate the homologous superfamilies. Protein sequences from UniProtKB and Ensembl are scanned against CATH HMMs to predict domain sequence boundaries and make homologous superfamily assignments.\n\nThe CATH team aim to provide official releases of the CATH classification every 12 months. This release process is important because is allows for the provision of internal validation, extra annotations and analysis. However, it can mean that there is a time delay between new structures appearing in the PDB and the latest official CATH release,\n\nIn order to address this issue: CATH-B provides a limited amount of information to the very latest domain annotations (e.g. domain boundaries and superfamily classifications).\n\nThe latest release of CATH-Gene3D (v4.1) was released in July 2016 and consists of:\n\n\nCATH is an open source software project, with developers developing and maintaining a number of open source tools. CATH maintains a todo list on GitHub to allow external users to create and keep track of issues relating to the CATH protein structure classification.\n"}
{"id": "1595873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595873", "title": "Cantor–Dedekind axiom", "text": "Cantor–Dedekind axiom\n\nIn mathematical logic, the Cantor–Dedekind axiom is the thesis that the real numbers are order-isomorphic to the linear continuum of geometry. In other words, the axiom states that there is a one-to-one correspondence between real numbers and points on a line.\n\nThis axiom is the cornerstone of analytic geometry. The Cartesian coordinate system developed by René Descartes implicitly assumes this axiom by blending the distinct concepts of real number system with the geometric line or plane into a conceptual metaphor. This is sometimes referred to as the \"real number line\" blend.\n\nA consequence of this axiom is that Alfred Tarski's proof of the decidability of the ordered real field could be seen as an algorithm to solve any problem in Euclidean geometry.\n\n"}
{"id": "9954363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954363", "title": "Communal violence", "text": "Communal violence\n\nCommunal violence is a form of violence that is perpetrated across ethnic or communal lines, the violent parties feel solidarity for their respective groups, and victims are chosen based upon group membership. The term includes conflicts, riots and other forms of violence between communities of different religious faith or ethnic origins.\n\nUnited Nations Office on Drugs and Crime includes any conflict and form of violence between communities of different religious group, different sects or tribes of same religious group, clans, ethnic origins or national origin as communal violence. However, this excludes conflict between two individuals or two families.\n\nCommunal violence is found in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nThe term was constructed by the British colonial authorities as it wrestled to manage violence between religious, ethnic and disparate groups in its colonies, particularly Africa and South Asia, in early 20th century.\n\nCommunal violence, in different parts of the world, is alternatively referred to as ethnic violence, non-State conflict, violent civil unrest, minorities unrest, mass racial violence, inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\nHuman history has experienced numerous episodes of communal violence. For example, in medieval Europe, Protestants clashed with Catholics, Christians clashed with Muslims while both perpetuated violence against Jews and Roma minorities. In 1561, Huguenots in Toulouse took out in a procession through the streets to express their solidarity for Protestant ideas. A few days later, the Catholics hunted down some of the leaders of the procession, beat them and burned them at the stake. In the French town of Pamiers, communal clashes were routine between Protestants and Catholics, such as during holy celebrations where the Catholics took out a procession with a statue of St. Anthony, sang and danced while they carried the statue around town. Local Protestants would year after year disrupt the festivities by throwing stones at the Catholics. In 1566, when the Catholic procession reached a Protestant neighborhood, the Protestants chanted \"kill, kill, kill !!\" and days of communal violence with numerous fatalities followed. In 1572, thousands of Protestants were killed by Catholics during communal violence in each of the following cities – Paris, Aix, Bordeaux, Bourges, Lyon, Meaux, Orleans, Rouen, Toulouse, and Troyes. In Switzerland, communal violence between the Reformation movement and Catholics marked the 16th century.\n\nThe Horn of Africa as well as West African regions have similar history of communal violence. Nigeria has seen centuries of communal violence between different ethnic groups particularly between Christian south and Islamic north. In 1964, after receiving independence from the British colonial rule, there were widespread communal violence in the ethnically diverse state of Zanzibar. The violent groups were Arabs and Africans, that expanded along religious lines, and the communal violence ultimately led to the overthrow of the Sultan of Zanzibar. Local radio announced the death of tens of thousands of \"stooges\", but later estimates for deaths from Zanzibar communal violence have varied from hundreds to 2,000-4,000 to as many as 20,000. In late 1960s and early 1970s, there were widespread communal violence against Kenyans and Asians in Uganda with waves of theft, physical and sexual violence, followed by expulsions by Idi Amin. Idi Amin mentioned his religion as justification for his actions and the violence. Coptic Christians have suffered communal violence in Egypt for decades, with frequency and magnitude increasing since 1920s.\n\n\nEast, South and Southeast Asia have recorded numerous instances of communal violence. For example, Singapore suffered a wave of communal violence in 20th century between Malays and Chinese. In Indian subcontinent, numerous 18th through 20th century records of the British colonial era mention communal violence between Hindus and Muslims, as well as Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, particularly during processions related to respective religious celebrations.\n\nThe frequency of communal violence in South Asia increased after the first partition of Bengal in 1905, where segregation, unequal political and economic rights were imposed on Hindus and Muslims by Lord Curzon, based on religion. The colonial rule was viewed by each side as favoring the other side, resulting in a wave of communal riots and 1911 reversal of Bengal partition and its re-unification. In 1919, after British General Dyer ordered his soldiers to fire on unarmed protestors inside a compound in Amritsar, killing 380 civilians, communal violence followed in India against British settlements. There were hundreds of incidents of communal violence between 1905 and 1947, many related to religious, political sovereignty questions including partition of India along religious lines into East Pakistan, West Pakistan and India. The 1946 to 1947 period saw some of the worst communal violence of 20th century, where waves of riots and violence killed between 100,000 and a million people, from Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Jain religions, particularly in cities and towns near the modern borders of India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh. Examples of these communal violence include the so-called Direct Action Day, Noakhali riots and the Partition riots in Rawalpindi.\n\nThe 20th century witnessed inter-religious, intra-religious and ethnic communal violence in the Middle East, South Russia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Indian law defines communal violence as, \"any act or series of acts, whether spontaneous or planned, resulting in injury or harm to the person and or property, knowingly directed against any person by virtue of his or her membership of any religious or linguistic minority, in any State in the Union of India, or Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes within the meaning of clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India\".\n\nIn Indonesia, communal violence is defined as that is driven by a sense of religious, ethnic or tribal solidarity. The equivalence of tribalism to ethnicity was referred locally as \"kesukuan\". Communal violence in Indonesia includes numerous localized conflicts between various social groups found on its islands.\n\nIn Kenya, communal violence is defined as that violence that occurs between different community who identify themselves based on religion, tribes, language, sect, race and others. Typically this sense of community identity comes from birth and is inherited. Similar definition has been applied for 47 African countries, where during 1990–2010, about 7,200 instances of communal violence and inter-ethnic conflicts has been seen.\n\nColm Campbell has proposed, after studying the empirical data and sequence of events during communal violence in South Africa, Palestinian Territories and Northern Ireland, that communal violence typically follows when there is degradation of rule of law, the state fails to or is widely seen as unable to provide order, security and equal justice, which then leads to mass mobilization, followed by radicalization of anger among one or more communities, and ultimately violent mobilization. Targeted mass violence by a few from one community against innocent members of other community, suppression of complaints, refusal to prosecute, killing peaceful demonstrators, imprisonment of people of a single community while refusal to arrest members of other community in conflict, perceived or actual prisoner abuse by the state are often the greatest mobilizers of communal violence.\n\nResearch suggests that ethnic segregation may also cause communal violence. Empirically estimating the effect of segregation on the incidence of violence across 700 localities in Rift Valley Province of Kenya after the contested 2007–2008 general election, Kimuli Kahara finds that local ethnic segregation increases communal violence by decreasing interethnic trust rather than by making it easier to organize violence. Even if a small minority of individuals prefer to live in ethnically homogenous settings due to fear of other ethnic groups or otherwise, it can result in high degrees of ethnic segregation. Kahara argues that such ethnic segregation decreases the possibility of positive contact across ethnic lines. Integration and the resultant positive interethnic contact reduces prejudice by allowing individuals to correct false beliefs about members of other ethnic groups, improving intergroup relations consequently. Thus, segregation is correlated with low levels of interethnic trust. This widespread mistrust along ethnic lines explains the severity of communal violence by implying that when underlying mistrust is high, it is easier for extremists and elites to mobilize support for violence, and that where violence against members of other ethnic groups is supported by the public, perpetrators of such violence are less likely to face social sanctions.\n\nIn China, the communal violence in Xinjiang province is called ethnic violence. Communal violence and riots have also been called non-State conflict, violent civil or minorities unrest, mass racial violence, social or inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52577251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52577251", "title": "Disability and religion", "text": "Disability and religion\n\nTopics on disability and religion may concentrate on the manner in which disabled people are treated within religious communities, the religious texts of those religions, or the general input from religious discourse on matters relating to the disabled. Studies on the relationship between religion and the disabled vary widely, with some postulating the existence of ableism and others viewing religion as a primary medium through which to assist the disabled. Religious exhortation often prompts adherents to treat the disabled with deference, however when the disability constitutes a mental illness such an approach may be slanted with an acknowledgement of the latter's naivete. In religions with an eschatological belief in divine judgment, there are often traditions promulgating an exemption from judgement in the afterlife for the mentally disabled, as well as for children who die before reaching maturity due to both lacking an understanding of their actions in a manner analogous to the mental disorder defense. Regarding the rationale behind God's creation of disabled people, some religions maintain that their contrast with the able-bodied permits the able-bodied to reflect and God to subsequently assess the level of gratitude shown by each individual for their health.\n\n"}
{"id": "4902101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4902101", "title": "Discrete choice", "text": "Discrete choice\n\nIn economics, discrete choice models, or qualitative choice models, describe, explain, and predict choices between two or more discrete alternatives, such as entering or not entering the labor market, or choosing between modes of transport. Such choices contrast with standard consumption models in which the quantity of each good consumed is assumed to be a continuous variable. In the continuous case, calculus methods (e.g. first-order conditions) can be used to determine the optimum amount chosen, and demand can be modeled empirically using regression analysis. On the other hand, discrete choice analysis examines situations in which the potential outcomes are discrete, such that the optimum is not characterized by standard first-order conditions. Thus, instead of examining “how much” as in problems with continuous choice variables, discrete choice analysis examines “which one.” However, discrete choice analysis can also be used to examine the chosen quantity when only a few distinct quantities must be chosen from, such as the number of vehicles a household chooses to own and the number of minutes of telecommunications service a customer decides to purchase. Techniques such as logistic regression and probit regression can be used for empirical analysis of discrete choice.\n\nEstimation of such models is usually done via parametric, semi-parametric and non-parametric maximum likelihood methods.\n\nDiscrete choice models theoretically or empirically model choices made by people among a finite set of alternatives. The models have been used to examine, e.g., the choice of which car to buy, where to go to college, which mode of transport (car, bus, rail) to take to work among numerous other applications. Discrete choice models are also used to examine choices by organizations, such as firms or government agencies. In the discussion below, the decision-making unit is assumed to be a person, though the concepts are applicable more generally. Daniel McFadden won the Nobel prize in 2000 for his pioneering work in developing the theoretical basis for discrete choice.\n\nDiscrete choice models statistically relate the choice made by each person to the attributes of the person and the attributes of the alternatives available to the person. For example, the choice of which car a person buys is statistically related to the person’s income and age as well as to price, fuel efficiency, size, and other attributes of each available car. The models estimate the probability that a person chooses a particular alternative. The models are often used to forecast how people’s choices will change under changes in demographics and/or attributes of the alternatives.\n\nDiscrete choice models specify the probability that an individual chooses an option among a set of alternatives. The probabilistic description of discrete choice behavior is used not to reflect individual behavior that is viewed as intrinsically probabilistic. Rather, it is the lack of information that leads us to describe choice in a probabilistic fashion. In practice, we cannot know all factors affecting individual choice decisions as their determinants are partially observed or imperfectly measured. Therefore, discrete choice models rely on stochastic assumptions and specifications to account for unobserved factors related to a) choice alternatives, b) taste variation over people (interpersonal heterogeneity) and over time (intra-individual choice dynamics), and c) heterogeneous choice sets. The different formulations have been summarized and classified into groups of models.\n\n\nDiscrete choice models take many forms, including: Binary Logit, Binary Probit, Multinomial Logit, Conditional Logit, Multinomial Probit, Nested Logit, Generalized Extreme Value Models, Mixed Logit, and Exploded Logit. All of these models have the features described below in common.\n\nThe choice set is the set of alternatives that are available to the person. For a discrete choice model, the choice set must meet three requirements:\n\n\nAs an example, the choice set for a person deciding which mode of transport to take to work includes driving alone, carpooling, taking bus, etc. The choice set is complicated by the fact that a person can use multiple modes for a given trip, such as driving a car to a train station and then taking train to work. In this case, the choice set can include each possible combination of modes. Alternatively, the choice can be defined as the choice of “primary” mode, with the set consisting of car, bus, rail, and other (e.g. walking, bicycles, etc.). Note that the alternative “other” is included in order to make the choice set exhaustive.\n\nDifferent people may have different choice sets, depending on their circumstances. For instance, the Scion automobile was not sold in Canada as of 2009, so new car buyers in Canada faced different choice sets from those of American consumers. Such considerations are taken into account in the formulation of discrete choice models.\n\nA discrete choice model specifies the probability that a person chooses a particular alternative, with the probability expressed as a function of observed variables that relate to the alternatives and the person. In its general form, the probability that person \"n\" chooses alternative \"i\" is expressed as:\n\nwhere\n\nIn the mode of transport example above, the attributes of modes (\"x\"), such as travel time and cost, and the characteristics of consumer (\"s\"), such as annual income, age, and gender, can be used to calculate choice probabilities. The attributes of the alternatives can differ over people; e.g., cost and time for travel to work by car, bus, and rail are different for each person depending on the location of home and work of that person.\n\nProperties:\n\nDifferent models (i.e., models using a different function G) have different properties. Prominent models are introduced below.\n\nDiscrete choice models can be derived from utility theory. This derivation is useful for three reasons:\n\n\n\"U\" is the utility (or net benefit or well-being) that person \"n\" obtains from choosing alternative \"i\". The behavior of the person is utility-maximizing: person n chooses the alternative that provides the highest utility. The choice of the person is designated by dummy variables, \"y\", for each alternative:\n\nConsider now the researcher who is examining the choice. The person’s choice depends on many factors, some of which the researcher observes and some of which the researcher does not. The utility that the person obtains from choosing an alternative is decomposed into a part that depends on variables that the researcher observes and a part that depends on variables that the researcher does not observe. In a linear form, this decomposition is expressed as\n\nwhere\n\n\nThe choice probability is then\n\nGiven \"β\", the choice probability is the probability that the random terms, (which are random from the researcher’s perspective, since the researcher does not observe them) are below the respective quantities formula_15 Different choice models (i.e. different specifications of G) arise from different distributions of \"ε\" for all \"i\" and different treatments of \"β\".\n\nThe probability that a person chooses a particular alternative is determined by comparing the utility of choosing that alternative to the utility of choosing other alternatives:\n\nAs the last term indicates, the choice probability depends only on the difference in utilities between alternatives, not on the absolute level of utilities. Equivalently, adding a constant to the utilities of all the alternatives does not change the choice probabilities.\n\nSince utility has no units, it is necessary to normalize the scale of utilities. The scale of utility is often defined by the variance of the error term in discrete choice models. This variance may differ depending on the characteristics of the dataset, such as when or where the data are collected. Normalization of the variance therefore affects the interpretation of parameters estimated across diverse datasets.\n\nDiscrete choice models can first be classified according to the number of available alternatives.\n\nMultinomial choice models can further be classified according to the model specification:\n\nIn addition, specific forms of the models are available for examining rankings of alternatives (i.e., first choice, second choice, third choice, etc.) and for ratings data.\n\nDetails for each model are provided in the following sections.\n\n\"U\" is the utility (or net benefit) that person n obtains from taking an action (as opposed to not taking the action). The utility the person obtains from taking the action depends on the characteristics of the person, some of which are observed by the researcher and some are not. The person takes the action, , if \"U\" > 0. The unobserved term, \"ε\", is assumed to have a logistic distribution. The specification is written succinctly as:\n\nThe description of the model is the same as model A, except the unobserved terms are distributed standard normal instead of logistic.\n\nwhere formula_19 is cumulative distribution function of standard normal.\n\n\"U\" is the utility person \"n\" obtains from choosing alternative \"i\". The utility of each alternative depends on the attributes of the alternatives interacted perhaps with the attributes of the person. The unobserved terms are assumed to have an extreme value distribution.\n\nWe can relate this specification to model A above, which is also binary logit. In particular, \"P\" can also be expressed as\n\nNote that if two error terms are iid extreme value, their difference is distributed logistic, which is the basis for the equivalence of the two specifications.\n\nThe description of the model is the same as model C, except the difference of the two unobserved terms are distributed standard normal instead of logistic.\n\nThen the probability of taking the action is\nwhere Φ is the cumulative distribution function of standard normal.\n\nEstimation of such models is usually done via parametric, semi-parametric and non-parametric maximum likelihood methods.\n\nThe utility for all alternatives depends on the same variables, \"s\", but the coefficients are different for different alternatives:\nThe choice probability takes the form\nwhere J is the total number of alternatives.\n\nThe utility for each alternative depends on attributes of that alternative, interacted perhaps with attributes of the person:\n\nwhere \"J\" is the total number of alternatives.\n\nNote that model E can be expressed in the same form as model F by appropriate respecification of variables. Define formula_27 where formula_28 is the Kronecker delta and \"s\" are from model E. Then, model F is obtained by using\n\nwhere \"J\" is the total number of alternatives.\n\nA standard logit model is not always suitable, since it assumes that there is no correlation in unobserved factors over alternatives. This lack of correlation translates into a particular pattern of substitution among alternatives that might not always be realistic in a given situation. This pattern of substitution is often called the Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives (IIA) property of standard logit models. See the Red Bus/Blue Bus example in which this pattern does not hold, or the path choice example. A number of models have been proposed to allow correlation over alternatives and more general substitution patterns:\n\n\nThe following sections describe Nested Logit, GEV, Probit, and Mixed Logit models in detail.\n\nThe model is the same as model F except that the unobserved component of utility is correlated over alternatives rather than being independent over alternatives.\n\nThe model is the same as model G except that the unobserved terms are distributed jointly normal, which allows any pattern of correlation and heteroscedasticity:\n\nwhere formula_31 is the joint normal density with mean zero and covariance formula_32.\n\nThe integral for this choice probability does not have a closed form, and so the probability is approximated by quadrature or simulation.\n\nWhen formula_32 is the identity matrix (such that there is no correlation or heteroscedasticity), the model is called independent probit.\n\nMixed Logit models have become increasingly popular in recent years for several reasons. First, the model allows \"β\" to be random in addition to \"ε\". The randomness in \"β\" accommodates random taste variation over people and correlation across alternatives that generates flexible substitution patterns. Second, the advent in simulation has made approximation of the model fairly easy. In addition, McFadden and Train have shown that any true choice model can be approximated, to any degree of accuracy by a mixed logit with appropriate specification of explanatory variables and distribution of coefficients.\nThe choice probability is\nwhere\nis logit probability evaluated at formula_39 with formula_40 the total number of alternatives.\n\nThe integral for this choice probability does not have a closed form, so the probability is approximated by simulation.\n\nThe models described above are adapted to accommodate rankings and ratings data.\n\nIn many situations, a person's ranking of alternatives is observed, rather than just their chosen alternative. For example, a person who has bought a new car might be asked what he/she would have bought if that car was not offered, which provides information on the person's second choice in addition to their first choice. Or, in a survey, a respondent might be asked:\n\nThe models described above can be adapted to account for rankings beyond the first choice. The most prominent model for rankings data is the exploded logit and its mixed version.\n\nUnder the same assumptions as for a standard logit (model F), the probability for a ranking of the alternatives is a product of standard logits. The model is called \"exploded logit\" because the choice situation that is usually represented as one logit formula for the chosen alternative is expanded (\"exploded\") to have a separate logit formula for each ranked alternative. The exploded logit model is the product of standard logit models with the choice set decreasing as each alternative is ranked and leaves the set of available choices in the subsequent choice.\n\nWithout loss of generality, the alternatives can be relabeled to represent the person's ranking, such that alternative 1 is the first choice, 2 the second choice, etc. The choice probability of ranking J alternatives as 1, 2, …, J is then\n\nAs with standard logit, the exploded logit model assumes no correlation in unobserved factors over alternatives. The exploded logit can be generalized, in the same way as the standard logit is generalized, to accommodate correlations among alternatives and random taste variation. The \"mixed exploded logit\" model is obtained by probability of the ranking, given above, for \"L\" in the mixed logit model (model I).\n\nThis model is also known in econometrics as the \"rank ordered logit model\" and it was introduced in that field by Beggs, Cardell and Hausman in 1981. One application is the Combes et al. paper explaining the ranking of candidates to become professor. It is also known as Plackett–Luce model in biomedical literature.\n\nIn surveys, respondents are often asked to give ratings, such as:\n\nOr,\n\nA multinomial discrete-choice model can examine the responses to these questions (model G, model H, model I). However, these models are derived under the concept that the respondent obtains some utility for each possible answer and gives the answer that provides the greatest utility. It might be more natural to think that the respondent has some latent measure or index associated with the question and answers in response to how high this measure is. Ordered logit and ordered probit models are derived under this concept.\n\nLet \"U\" represent the strength of survey respondent \"n\"’s feelings or opinion on the survey subject. Assume that there are cutoffs of the level of the opinion in choosing particular response. For instance, in the example of the helping people facing foreclosure, the person chooses\nfor some real numbers \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", \"d\".\n\nDefining formula_42 Logistic, then the probability of each possible response is:\n\nThe parameters of the model are the coefficients \"β\" and the cut-off points , one of which must be normalized for identification. When there are only two possible responses, the ordered logit is the same a binary logit (model A), with one cut-off point normalized to zero.\n\nThe description of the model is the same as model K, except the unobserved terms have normal distribution instead of logistic.\n\nThe choice probabilities are (formula_19 is the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution):\n\nDiscrete choice models of dynamic programming, more commonly called \"dynamic discrete choice (DDC) models\", generalize utility theory upon which discrete choice models are based. Rather than assuming observed choices are the result of static utility maximization, observed choices in DDC models are assumed to result from an agent's maximization of the present value of utility.\n\nThe goal of DDC models is to estimate the structural parameters of the agent's decision process. Once these parameters are known, the researcher can then use the estimates to simulate how the agent would behave in a counterfactual state of the world. (For example, how a prospective college student's enrollment decision would change in response to a tuition increase.)\n\nAgent formula_46's maximization problem can be written mathematically as follows:\n\nformula_47,\n\nwhere \n\nIt is standard to impose the following simplifying assumptions and notation of the dynamic decision problem:\n\n1. Flow utility is additively separable and linear in parameters\n\nThe flow utility can be written as an additive sum, consisting of deterministic and stochastic elements. The deterministic component can be written as a linear function of the structural parameters.\n\nformula_65\n\n2. The optimization problem can be written as a Bellman equation\n\nDefine by formula_66 the \"ex ante\" value function for individual formula_46 in period formula_57 just before formula_69 is revealed:\n\nformula_70\n\nwhere the expectation operator formula_71 is over the formula_72's, and where formula_73 represents the probability distribution over formula_74 conditional on formula_75. The expectation over state transitions is accomplished by taking the integral over this probability distribution.\n\nIt is possible to decompose formula_66 into deterministic and stochastic components:\n\nformula_77\n\nwhere formula_78 is the value to choosing alternative formula_56 at time formula_57 and is written as\n\nformula_81\n\nwhere now the expectation formula_71 is taken over the formula_83.\n3. The optimization problem follows a Markov decision process\n\nThe states formula_75 follow a Markov chain. That is, attainment of state formula_75 depends only on the state formula_86 and not formula_87 or any prior state.\nThe value function in the previous section is called the conditional value function, because it is the value function conditional on choosing alternative formula_56 in period formula_57. Writing the conditional value function in this way is useful in constructing formulas for the choice probabilities.\n\nTo write down the choice probabilities, the researcher must make an assumption about the distribution of the formula_59's. As in static discrete choice models, this distribution can be assumed to be iid extreme value, Generalized Extreme Value, Multinomial probit, or Mixed logit.\n\nFor the case where formula_59 is multinomial logit (i.e. drawn iid from the extreme value distribution), the formulas for the choice probabilities would be:\n\nformula_92\n\nEstimation of dynamic discrete choice models is particularly challenging, due to the fact that the researcher must solve the backwards recursion problem for each guess of the structural parameters.\n\nThe most common methods used to estimate the structural parameters are Maximum likelihood estimation and Method of simulated moments. \n\nAside from estimation methods, there are also solution methods. Different solution methods can be employed due to complexity of the problem. These can be divided into full-solution methods and non-solution methods.\n\nThe foremost example of a full-solution method is the Nested Fixed Point (NFXP) algorithm developed by John Rust in 1987.\nThe NFXP algorithm is described in great detail in its documentation manual.\n\nA recent work by Che-Lin Su and Kenneth Judd in 2012 implements another approach (dismissed as intractable by Rust in 1987), which uses constrained optimization of the likelihood function, and is referred to as mathematical programming with equilibrium constraints (MPEC).\nSpecifically, the likelihood function is maximized subject to the constrains imposed by the model, and expressed in terms of the additional variables that describe the model's structure. This approach requires powerful optimization software such as Artelys Knitro because of high dimensionality of the optimization problem.\nOnce it is solved, both the structural parameters that maximize the likelihood, and the solution of the model are found. \n\nIn the later article Rust and coauthors show that the speed advantage of the MPEC compared to NFXP is not significant. Yet, because the computations required by MPEC do not rely on the structure of the model, its implementation is much less labor intensive.\n\nAn alternative to full-solution methods is non-solution methods. In this case, the researcher can estimate the structural parameters without having to fully solve the backwards recursion problem for each parameter guess. Non-solution methods require more assumptions, but the additional assumptions are in many cases realistic and at the very least can save the researcher's time by not having to solve the model. \n\nThe leading non-solution method is conditional choice probabilities, developed by V. Joseph Hotz and Robert A. Miller.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844527", "title": "Exponential dichotomy", "text": "Exponential dichotomy\n\nIn the mathematical theory of dynamical systems, an exponential dichotomy is a property of an equilibrium point that extends the idea of hyperbolicity to non-autonomous systems.\n\nIf\n\nis a linear non-autonomous dynamical system in R with fundamental solution matrix Φ(\"t\"), Φ(0) = \"I\", then the equilibrium point 0 is said to have an \"exponential dichotomy\" if there exists a (constant) matrix \"P\" such that \"P\" = \"P\" and positive constants \"K\", \"L\", α, and β such that\n\nand\n\nIf furthermore, \"L\" = 1/\"K\" and β = α, then 0 is said to have a \"uniform exponential dichotomy\".\n\nThe constants α and β allow us to define the \"spectral window\" of the equilibrium point, (−α, β).\n\nThe matrix \"P\" is a projection onto the stable subspace and \"I\" − \"P\" is a projection onto the unstable subspace. What the exponential dichotomy says is that the norm of the projection onto the stable subspace of any orbit in the system decays exponentially as \"t\" → ∞ and the norm of the projection onto the unstable subspace of any orbit decays exponentially as \"t\" → −∞, and furthermore that the stable and unstable subspaces are conjugate (because formula_4).\n\nAn equilibrium point with an exponential dichotomy has many of the properties of a hyperbolic equilibrium point in autonomous systems. In fact, it can be shown that a hyperbolic point has an exponential dichotomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1691217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1691217", "title": "Fairtrade Town", "text": "Fairtrade Town\n\nThe Fair Trade Towns campaign is the result of a grass-roots citizens movement that started in the UK in 2001 (see below). It allows citizens to get together in order to self-proclaim their town (or other local geographical area) as a region that complies with a few general Fair Trade criteria, that can be adapted from country to country but which retain their main elements.\n\nIn some countries, the Fair Trade Town became a status awarded by a recognized Fair Trade certification body (i.e. the Fairtrade Foundation in the United Kingdom, TransFair Canada in Canada etc.) describing an area which is committed to the promotion of Fair Trade certified goods. By extension, the organizations also award the statuses of Fair Trade City, Fair Trade Village, Fair Trade Zone, Fair Trade Borough, Fair Trade Island, Fair Trade Country and Fair Trade University.\n\nThe Fair Trade Town campaign was first launched in 2001 in Garstang, Lancashire, under the initiative of Bruce Crowther, a local Oxfam supporter, and the Garstang Oxfam Group. The initiative, which aimed to promote Fair Trade certified goods in the town, was highly successful: within a couple of months, awareness of the Fairtrade Mark jumped to over 70% in the town while sales of Fairtrade certified goods increased significantly. Moreover, over the course of the campaign, Garstang developed links with Fair Trade cocoa farming communities in West Africa, which led to the twin town relationship with New Koforidua, Ghana. \n\nAs the activities at Garstang gained wider attention, the Fairtrade Foundation launched a set of Fair Trade Town Goals and an Action Guide to encourage others to follow in the town's success. During the 2001-2006 period, over 209 British towns were awarded the Fair Trade status by the Fairtrade Foundation. In October 2009 448 British towns and 312 towns worldwide awarded the Fair Trade status (in total 760). In November 2012, there were over 1200 worldwide.\n\nIn an attempt to replicate the success of the Fairtrade Foundation's Fairtrade Town program, a Europe-wide program called \"Fair Trade Towns in Europe\", part-funded by the European Commission, was launched jointly by several Fair Trade labelling initiatives.\n\nIn November 2006, the first ever European Fair Trade Towns conference was hosted at London Southbank University. The goals of the conference were to\n\nFollowing the success of the first event, a second Fair Trade towns conference was subsequently held in Brussels in January 2008. The sixth conference was held in Poznan (Poland) in November 2012, and the 2013 and 2014 international conferences are foreseen to take place in Oslo (Norway) and Kumamoto (Japan), respectively.\n\nThere are currently Fair Trade Towns in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Norway, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. The list of Fairtrade settlements is a more comprehensive current list.\n\nFormal guidelines have been produced jointly by several FLO member Fairtrade labelling initiatives. In order to be awarded Fair Trade status, an area must meet five criteria (exact numbers and proportions vary from country to country):\n\n\nIn 2002 The Wales Fair Trade Forum, a network of development NGOs and Fair Trade campaigners, began working to make Wales the world's first Fair Trade country. The idea was based upon the Fair Trade Town scheme run by the Fairtrade Foundation in the UK. In 2005 The Welsh Assembly Government agreed to back the idea and in 2006 Fair Trade groups from Scotland and Wales agreed the criteria for becoming a Fair Trade country.\n\nThe draft criteria for a \"Fair Trade Nation\" are:\n\nWales became the world's first Fair Trade nation in June 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "28784767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28784767", "title": "Fan chart (time series)", "text": "Fan chart (time series)\n\nIn time series analysis, a fan chart is a chart that joins a simple line chart for observed past data, by showing ranges for possible values of future data together with a line showing a central estimate or most likely value for the future outcomes. As predictions become increasingly uncertain the further into the future one goes, these forecast ranges spread out, creating distinctive wedge or \"fan\" shapes, hence the term. Alternative forms of the chart can also include uncertainty for past data, such as preliminary data that is subject to revision.\n\nThe term \"fan chart\" was coined by the Bank of England, which has been using these charts and this term since 1997 in its \"Inflation Report\" to describe its best prevision of future inflation to the general public. Fan charts have been used extensively in finance and monetary policy, for instance to represent forecasts of inflation.\nPredicted future values can be diagrammed in various ways; most simply, by a single predicted value, and an upper and lower range around that (three lines total), or by various future intervals, depicted by varying degrees of shading (darkest near the center of the range, fainter near the ends of the range).\n\nThere are several ways to represent the forecast density depending on the shape of the forecasting distribution.\n\nIn the Bank of England’s implementation it is assumed that the forecast distribution is a two piece normal or split normal density. This density results from joining the two halves of corresponding normal densities with the same mode but different variances. As a result, the split normal density is non-symmetric and uni-modal. In this case, inflation forecast fan charts are usually accompanied with the balance of risks, the probability that the future inflation falls below its modal forecast. In this way, central banks that employ inflation targeting report to the general public not only the more likely forecasts of the inflation rate \"but also its balance of risks\"!\n\nThe split normal density is completely characterized by three parameters, the mode, variance and skewness. Therefore, the fan chart ranges depend on these parameters only. and \n\nIn a central bank that employs inflation targeting, the three moments of the inflation forecast distribution are determined as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1200252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200252", "title": "First Red Scare", "text": "First Red Scare\n\nThe First Red Scare was a period during the early 20th-century history of the United States marked by a widespread fear of Bolshevism and anarchism, due to real and imagined events; real events included the Russian Revolution and anarchist bombings. At its height in 1919–1920, concerns over the effects of radical political agitation in American society and the alleged spread of communism and anarchism in the American labor movement fueled a general sense of concern.\n\nThe Scare had its origins in the hyper-nationalism of World War I as well as the Russian Revolution. At the war's end, following the October Revolution, American authorities saw the threat of Communist revolution in the actions of organized labor, including such disparate cases as the Seattle General Strike and the Boston Police Strike and then in the bombing campaign directed by anarchist groups at political and business leaders. Fueled by labor unrest and the anarchist bombings, and then spurred on by United States Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer's attempt to suppress radical organizations, it was characterized by exaggerated rhetoric, illegal search and seizures, unwarranted arrests and detentions, and the deportation of several hundred suspected radicals and anarchists. In addition, the growing anti-immigration nativism movement among Americans viewed increasing immigration from Southern Europe and Eastern Europe as a threat to American political and social stability.\n\nBolshevism and the threat of a Communist-inspired revolution in the U.S. became the overriding explanation for challenges to the social order, even such largely unrelated events as incidents of interracial violence. Fear of radicalism was used to explain the suppression of freedom of expression in form of display of certain flags and banners. The First Red Scare effectively ended in mid-1920, after Attorney General Palmer forecast a massive radical uprising on May Day and the day passed without incident.\n\nThe First Red Scare's immediate cause was the increase in subversive actions (both real and imagined) of foreign and leftist elements in the United States, especially militant followers of Luigi Galleani, and in the attempts of the U.S. government to quell protest and gain favorable public views of America's entering World War I. At the end of the 19th century and prior to the rise of the Galleanist anarchist movement, the Haymarket affair of 1886 had already heightened the American public's fear of foreign anarchist and radical socialist elements within the budding American workers' movement. In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson established the Committee on Public Information to circulate and distribute anti-German and pro-Allied propaganda and other news. To add to the effectiveness of the Committee, the Bureau of Investigation (the name for the Federal Bureau of Investigation until 1935) disrupted the work of German-American, union, and leftist organizations through the use of raids, arrests, agents provocateurs, and legal prosecution. Revolutionary and pacifist groups, such as the Socialist Party of America and the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW; its members are known as \"Wobblies\"), strongly opposed the war. Many leaders of these groups, most notably Eugene V. Debs, were prosecuted for giving speeches urging resistance to the draft. Members of the Ghadar Party were also put on trial in the Hindu–German Conspiracy Trial.\n\nThe effort was also helped by the United States Congress, with the passing of the Espionage Act in 1917, the Sedition Act of 1918, and the Immigration Act of 1918. The Espionage Act made it a crime to interfere with the operation or success of the military, and the Sedition Act forbade Americans to use \"disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language\" about the United States government, flag, or armed forces of the United States during war. The Immigration Act of 1918 targeted anarchists by name and was used to deport Emma Goldman and Luigi Galleani, among others.\n\nAfter the war officially ended, the government investigations abated for a few months but did not cease. They soon resumed in the context of the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War, and the Red Terror. To some Americans, this was a time of uncertainty and fear over the prospects of an anarchist, socialist or communist revolution in the United States.\n\nOn January 21, 1919, 35,000 shipyard workers in Seattle went on strike seeking wage increases. They appealed to the Seattle Central Labor Council for support from other unions and found widespread enthusiasm. Within two weeks, more than 100 local unions joined in a call on February 3 for general strike to begin on the morning of February 6. The 60,000 total strikers paralyzed the city's normal activities, like streetcar service, schools, and ordinary commerce, while their General Strike Committee maintained order and provided essential services, like trash collection and milk deliveries.\n\nEven before the strike began, the press begged the unions to reconsider. In part they were frightened by some of labor's rhetoric, like the labor newspaper editorial that proclaimed: \"We are undertaking the most tremendous move ever made by labor in this country  ... We are starting on a road that leads – NO ONE KNOWS WHERE!\" Daily newspapers saw the general strike as a foreign import: \"This is America – not Russia,\" one said when denouncing the general strike. The non-striking part of Seattle's population imagined the worst and stocked up on food. Hardware stores sold their stock of guns.\n\nSeattle Mayor Ole Hanson announced that he had 1500 police and 1500 federal troops on hand to put down any disturbances. He personally oversaw their deployment throughout the city. \"The time has come,\" he said, \"for the people in Seattle to show their Americanism  ... The anarchists in this community shall not rule its affairs.\" He promised to use them to replace striking workers, but never carried out that threat.\n\nMeanwhile the national leadership of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) and international leaders of some of the Seattle locals recognized how inflammatory the general strike was proving in the eyes of the American public and Seattle's middle class. Press and political reaction made the general strike untenable, and they feared Seattle labor would lose gains made during the war if it continued. The national press called the general strike \"Marxian\" and \"a revolutionary movement aimed at existing government.\" \"It is only a middling step,\" said the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"from Petrograd to Seattle.\"\n\nAs early as February 8 some unions began to return to work at the urging of their leaders. Some workers went back to work as individuals, perhaps fearful of losing their jobs if the Mayor acted on his threats or in reaction to the pressure of life under the general strike. The executive committee of the General Strike Committee first recommended ending the general strike on February 8 but lost that vote. Finally on February 10, the General Strike Committee voted to end the strike the next day. The original strike in the shipyards continued.\n\nThough the general strike collapsed because labor leadership viewed it as a misguided tactic from the start, Mayor Hanson took credit for ending the five-day strike and was hailed by the press. He resigned a few months later and toured the country giving lectures on the dangers of \"domestic bolshevism.\" He earned $38,000 in seven months, five times his annual salary as mayor. He published a pamphlet called \"Americanism versus Bolshevism\".\n\nThe Overman Committee was a special five-man subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary chaired by North Carolina Democrat Lee Slater Overman. First charged with investigating German subversion during World War I, its mandate was extended on February 4, 1919, just a day after the announcement of the Seattle General Strike, to study \"any efforts being made to propagate in this country the principles of any party exercising or claiming to exercise any authority in Russia\" and \"any effort to incite the overthrow of the Government of this country. The Committee's hearings into Bolshevik propaganda, conducted from February 11 to March 10, 1919, developed an alarming image of Bolshevism as an imminent threat to the U.S. government and American values. The Committee's final report appeared in June 1919.\n\nArchibald E. Stevenson, a New York attorney with ties to the Justice Department, probably as a \"volunteer spy\", testified on January 22, 1919, during the German phase of the subcommittee's work. He established that anti-war and anti-draft activism during World War I, which he described as pro-German activity, had now transformed itself into propaganda \"developing sympathy for the Bolshevik movement\". America's wartime enemy, though defeated, had exported an ideology that now ruled Russia and threatened America anew. \"The Bolsheviki movement is a branch of the revolutionary socialism of Germany. It had its origin in the philosophy of Marx and its leaders were Germans.\" He cited the propaganda efforts of John Reed and gave many examples from the foreign press. He told the Senators that \"We have found money coming into this country from Russia.\"\n\nThe Senators were particularly interested in how Bolshevism had united many disparate elements on the left, including anarchists and socialists of many types, \"providing a common platform for all these radical groups to stand on.\" Senator Knute Nelson, Republican of Minnesota, responded by enlarging Bolshevism's embrace to include an even larger segment of political opinion: \"Then they have really rendered a service to the various classes of progressives and reformers that we have here in this country.\" Other witnesses described the horrors of the revolution in Russia and the consequences of a comparable revolution in the United States: the imposition of atheism, the seizure of newspapers, assaults on banks, and the abolition of the insurance industry. The Senators heard various views of women in Russia, including claims that women were made the property of the state.\n\nThe press reveled in the investigation and the final report, referring to the Russians as \"assassins and madmen,\" \"human scum,\" \"crime mad,\" and \"beasts.\" The occasional testimony by some who viewed the Russian Revolution favorably lacked the punch of its critics. One extended headline in February read:\n\nOn the release of the final report, newspapers printed sensational articles with headlines in capital letters: \"Red Peril Here\", \"Plan Bloody Revolution\", and \"Want Washington Government Overturned.\"\n\nThere were several anarchist bombings in 1919.\n\nIn late April 1919, approximately 36 booby trap bombs were mailed to prominent politicians, including the Attorney General of the United States, judges, businessmen (including John D. Rockefeller), and a Bureau of Investigation field agent, R.W. Finch, who happened to be investigating the \"Galleanist\" organization.\n\nThe bombs were mailed in identical packages and were timed to arrive on May Day, the day of celebration of organized labor and the working class. A few of the packages went undelivered because they lacked sufficient postage. One bomb intended for Seattle Mayor Ole Hanson, who had opposed the Seattle General Strike, arrived early and failed to explode as intended. Seattle police in turn notified the Post Office and other police agencies. On April 29, a package sent to U.S. Senator Thomas W. Hardwick of Georgia, a sponsor of the Anarchist Exclusion Act, exploded injuring his wife and housekeeper. On April 30, a post office employee in New York City recognized 16 packages by their wrapping and interrupted their delivery. Another twelve bombs were recovered before reaching their targets.\n\nIn June 1919, eight bombs, far larger than those mailed in April, exploded almost simultaneously in several U.S. cities. These new bombs were believed to contain up to twenty-five pounds of dynamite, and all were wrapped or packaged with heavy metal slugs designed to act as shrapnel. All of the intended targets had participated in some way with the investigation of or the opposition to anarchist radicals. Along with Attorney General Palmer, who was targeted a second time, the intended victims included a Massachusetts state representative and a New Jersey silk manufacturer. Fatalities included a New York City night watchman, William Boehner, and one of the bombers, Carlo Valdinoci, a \"Galleanist\" radical who died in spectacular fashion when the bomb he placed at the home of Attorney General Palmer exploded in his face. Though not seriously injured, Attorney General Palmer and his family were thoroughly shaken by the blast, and their home was largely demolished.\n\nAll of the bombs were delivered with pink flyers bearing the title \"Plain Words\" that accused the intended victims of waging class war and promised: \"We will destroy to rid the world of your tyrannical institutions.\" Police and the Bureau of Investigation tracked the flyer to a print shop owned by an anarchist, Andrea Salcedo, but never obtained sufficient evidence for a prosecution. Evidence from Valdonoci's death, bomb components, and accounts from participants later tied both bomb attacks to the \"Galleanists\". Though some of the \"Galleanists\" were deported or left the country voluntarily, attacks by remaining members continued until 1932.\n\nThe American labor movement had been celebrating its May Day holiday since the 1890s and had seen none of the violence associated with the day's events in Europe. On May 1, 1919, the left mounted especially large demonstrations, and violence greeted the normally peaceful parades in Boston, New York, and Cleveland. In Boston, police tried to stop a march that lacked a permit. In the ensuing melee both sides fought for possession of the Socialists' red flags. One policeman was stabbed and killed. William Sidis was arrested. Later a mob attacked the Socialist headquarters. Police arrested 114, all from the Socialist side. Each side's newspapers provided uncritical support to their own the next day. In New York, soldiers in uniform burned printed materials at the Russian People's House and forced immigrants to sing the \"Star-Spangled Banner\".\n\nCleveland, Ohio saw the worst violence. Leftists protesting the imprisonment of Eugene V. Debs and promoting the campaign of Charles Ruthenberg, the Socialist candidate for mayor, planned to march through the center of the city. A group of Victory Loan workers, a nationalist organization whose members sold war bonds and thought themselves still at war against all forms of anti-Americanism, tried to block some of the marchers and a melee ensued. A mob ransacked Ruthenberg's headquarters. Mounted police, army trucks, and tanks restored order. Two people died, forty were injured, and 116 arrested. Local newspapers noted that only 8 of those arrested were born in the United States. The city government immediately passed laws to restrict parades and the display of red flags.\n\nWith few dissents, newspapers blamed the May Day marchers for provoking the nationalists' response. The Salt Lake City \"Tribune\" did not think anyone had a right to march. It said: \"Free speech has been carried to the point where it is an unrestrained menace.\" A few, however, thought the marches were harmless and that the marchers' enthusiasm would die down on its own if they were left unmolested.\n\nMore than two dozen American communities, mostly urban areas or industrial centers, saw racial violence in the summer and early fall of 1919. Unlike earlier race riots in U.S. history, the 1919 riots were among the first in which blacks responded with resistance to the white attacks. Martial law was imposed in Charleston, South Carolina, where men of the U.S. Navy led a race riot on May 10. Five white men and eighteen black men were injured in the riot. A Naval investigation found that four U.S. sailors and one civilian—all white men—were responsible for the outbreak of violence. On July 3, the 10th U.S. Cavalry, a segregated African-American unit founded in 1866, was attacked by local police in Bisbee, Arizona.\n\nTwo of the most violent episodes occurred in Washington, D.C. and Chicago. In Washington, D.C., white men, many in military uniforms, responded to the rumored arrest of a black man for rape with four days of mob violence, rioting and beatings of random black people on the street. When police refused to intervene, the black population fought back. When the violence ended, ten whites were dead, including two police officers, and 5 blacks. Some 150 people had been the victims of attacks. The rioting in Chicago started on July 27. Chicago's beaches along Lake Michigan were segregated in practice, if not by law. A black youth who drifted into the area customarily reserved for whites was stoned and drowned. Blacks responded violently when the police refused to take action. Violence between mobs and gangs lasted 13 days. The resulting 38 fatalities included 23 blacks and 15 whites. Injuries numbered 537 injured, and 1,000 black families were left homeless. Some 50 people were reported dead. Unofficial numbers were much higher. Hundreds of mostly black homes and businesses on the South Side were destroyed by mobs, and a militia force of several thousand was called in to restore order.\n\nIn mid-summer, in the middle of the Chicago riots, a \"federal official\" told the \"New York Times\" that the violence resulted from \"an agitation, which involves the I.W.W., Bolshevism and the worst features of other extreme radical movements.\" He supported that claim with copies of negro publications that called for alliances with leftist groups, praised the Soviet regime, and contrasted the courage of jailed Socialist Eugene V. Debs with the \"school boy rhetoric\" of traditional black leaders. The \"Times\" characterized the publications as \"vicious and apparently well financed,\" mentioned \"certain factions of the radical Socialist elements,\" and reported it all under the headline: \"Reds Try to Stir Negroes to Revolt.\"\n\nIn mid-October, government sources again provided the \"Times\" with evidence of Bolshevist propaganda targeting America's black communities that was \"paralleling the agitation that is being carried on in industrial centres of the North and West, where there are many alien laborers.\" Vehicles for this propaganda about the \"doctrines of Lenin and Trotzky\" included newspapers, magazines, and \"so-called 'negro betterment' organizations.\" Quotations from such publications contrasted the recent violence in Chicago and Washington, D.C. with \"Soviet Russia, a country in which dozens of racial and lingual types have settled their many differences and found a common meeting ground, a country which no longer oppresses colonies, a country from which the lynch rope is banished and in which racial tolerance and peace now exist.\" The \"Times\" cited one publication's call for unionization: \"Negroes must form cotton workers' unions. Southern white capitalists know that the negroes can bring the white bourbon South to its knees. So go to it.\"\n\nThe American Federation of Labor (AFL) began granting charters to police unions in June 1919 when pressed to do so by local groups, and in just 5 months had recognized affiliate police unions in 37 cities. The Boston police rank and file went out on strike on September 9, 1919 in order to achieve recognition for their union and improvements in wages and working conditions. Police Commissioner Edwin Upton Curtis denied that police officers had any right to form a union, much less one affiliated with a larger organization like the AFL. During the strike, Boston experienced two nights of lawlessness until several thousand members of the State Guard supported by volunteers restored order, though not without causing several deaths. The public, fed by lurid press accounts and hyperbolic political observers, viewed the strike with a degree of alarm out of proportion to the events, which ultimately produced only about $35,000 of property damage.\n\nThe strikers were called \"deserters\" and \"agents of Lenin.\" The Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\" viewed the Boston violence in the same light as many other of 1919's events: \"Bolshevism in the United States is no longer a specter. Boston in chaos reveals its sinister substance.\" President Woodrow Wilson, speaking from Montana, branded the walkout \"a crime against civilization\" that left the city \"at the mercy of an army of thugs.\" The timing of the strike also happened to present the police union in the worst light. September 10, the first full day of the strike, was also the day a huge New York City parade celebrated the return of Gen. John J. Pershing, the hero of the American Expeditionary Force.\n\nA report from Washington, D.C. included this headline: \"Senators Think Effort to Sovietize the Government Is Started.\" Senator Henry Cabot Lodge saw in the strike the dangers of the national labor movement: \"If the American Federation of Labor succeeds in getting hold of the police in Boston it will go all over the country, and we shall be in measurable distance of Soviet government by labor unions.\" The \"Ohio State Journal\" opposed any sympathetic treatment of the strikers: \"When a policeman strikes, he should be debarred not only from resuming his office, but from citizenship as well. He has committed the unpardonable sin; he has forfeited all his rights.\"\n\nSamuel Gompers of the AFL recognized that the strike was damaging labor in the public mind and advised the strikers to return to work. The Police Commissioner, however, remained adamant and refused to re-hire the striking policemen. He was supported by Massachusetts Governor Calvin Coolidge, whose rebuke of Gompers earned him a national reputation. Famous as a man of few words, he put the anti-union position simply: \"There is no right to strike against the public safety, anywhere, anytime.\"\n\nThe strike proved another setback for labor and the AFL immediately withdrew its recognition of police unions. Coolidge won the Republican nomination for Vice-President in the 1920 presidential election in part due to his actions during the Boston Police Strike.\n\nThough the leadership of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) opposed a strike in the steel industry, 98% of their union members voted to strike beginning on September 22, 1919. It shut down half the steel industry, including almost all mills in Pueblo, Colorado; Chicago, Illinois; Wheeling, West Virginia; Johnstown, Pennsylvania; Cleveland, Ohio; Lackawanna, New York; and Youngstown, Ohio.\n\nThe owners quickly turned public opinion against the AFL. As the strike began, they published information exposing AFL National Committee co-chairman William Z. Foster's radical past as a Wobbly and syndicalist, and claimed this was evidence that the steelworker strike was being masterminded by radicals and revolutionaries. The steel companies played on nativist fears by noting that a large number of steelworkers were immigrants. Public opinion quickly turned against the striking workers. State and local authorities backed the steel companies. They prohibited mass meetings, had their police attack pickets and jailed thousands. After strikebreakers and police clashed with unionists in Gary, Indiana, the U.S. Army took over the city on October 6, 1919, and martial law was declared. National guardsmen, leaving Gary after federal troops had taken over, turned their anger on strikers in nearby Indiana Harbor, Indiana.\n\nSteel companies also turned toward strikebreaking and rumor-mongering to demoralize the picketers. They brought in between 30,000 and 40,000 African-American and Mexican-American workers to work in the mills. Company spies also spread rumors that the strike had collapsed elsewhere, and they pointed to the operating steel mills as proof that the strike had been defeated.\n\nCongress conducted its own investigation, focused on radical influence upon union activity. In that context, U.S. Senator Kenneth McKellar, a member of the Senate committee investigating the strike, proposed making one of the Philippine Islands a penal colony to which those convicted of an attempt to overthrow the government could be deported.\n\nThe Chicago mills gave in at the end of October. By the end of November, workers were back at their jobs in Gary, Johnstown, Youngstown, and Wheeling. The strike collapsed on January 8, 1920, though it dragged on in isolated areas like Pueblo and Lackawanna.\n\nThe United Mine Workers under John L. Lewis announced a strike for November 1, 1919. They had agreed to a wage agreement to run until the end of World War I and now sought to capture some of their industry's wartime gains. Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer invoked the Lever Act, a wartime measure that made it a crime to interfere with the production or transportation of necessities. The law, meant to punish hoarding and profiteering, had never been used against a union. Certain of united political backing and almost universal public support, Palmer obtained an injunction on October 31 and 400,000 coal workers struck the next day. He claimed the President authorized the action, following a meeting with the severely ill President in the presence of his doctor. Palmer also asserted that the entire Cabinet had backed his request for an injunction. That infuriated Secretary of Labor Wilson who had opposed Palmer's plan and supported Gompers' view of the President's promises when the Act was under consideration. The rift between the Attorney General and the Secretary of Labor was never healed, which had consequences the next year when Palmer's attempts to deport radicals were frustrated by the Department of Labor.\n\nSamuel Gompers, President of the American Federation of Labor, protested that President Wilson and members of his Cabinet had provided assurances when the Act was passed that it would not be used to prevent strikes by labor unions. He provided detailed accounts of his negotiations with representatives of the administration, especially Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson. He also argued that the end of hostilities, even in the absence of a signed treaty, should have invalidated any attempts to enforce the Act's provisions. Nevertheless, he attempted to mediate between Palmer and Lewis, but after several days called the injunction \"so autocratic as to stagger the human mind.\" The coal operators smeared the strikers with charges that Lenin and Trotsky had ordered the strike and were financing it, and some of the press echoed that language. Others used words like \"insurrection\" and \"Bolshevik revolution.\" Eventually Lewis, facing criminal charges and sensitive to the propaganda campaign, withdrew his strike call, though many strikers ignored his action. As the strike dragged on into its third week, coal supplies were running low and public sentiment was calling for ever stronger government action. Final agreement came on December 10.\n\nDespite two attempts on his life in April and June 1919, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer moved slowly to find a way to attack the source of the violence. An initial raid in July 1919 against a small anarchist group in Buffalo failed when a federal judge tossed out his case. In August, he organized the General Intelligence Unit within the Department of Justice and recruited J. Edgar Hoover, a recent law school graduate, to head it. Hoover pored over arrest records, subscription records of radical newspapers, and party membership records to compile lists of resident aliens for deportation proceedings. On October 17, 1919, just a year after the Immigration Act of 1918 had expanded the definition of aliens that could be deported, the U.S. Senate demanded Palmer explain his failure to move against radicals.\n\nPalmer launched his campaign against radicalism with two sets of police actions known as the Palmer Raids in November 1919 and January 1920. Federal agents supported by local police rounded up large groups of suspected radicals, often based on membership in a political group rather than any action taken. Undercover informants and warrantless wiretaps (authorized under the Sedition Act) helped to identify several thousand suspected leftists and radicals to be arrested.\n\nOnly the dismissal of most of the cases by Acting United States Secretary of Labor Louis Freeland Post limited the number of deportations to 556. Fearful of extremist violence and revolution, the American public supported the raids. Civil libertarians, the radical left, and legal scholars raised protests. Officials at the Department of Labor, especially Post, asserted the rule of law in opposition to Palmer's anti-radical campaign. Post faced a Congressional threat to impeach or censure him. He successfully defended his actions in two days of testimony before the House Rules Committee in June 1919 and no action was ever taken against him. Palmer testified before the same committee, also for two days, and stood by the raids, arrests, and deportation program. Much of the press applauded Post's work at Labor, while Palmer, rather than President Wilson, was largely blamed for the negative aspects of the raids.\n\nOn December 21, the \"Buford\", a ship the press nicknamed the \"Soviet Ark\", left New York harbor with 249 deportees. Of those, 199 had been detained in the November Palmer Raids, with 184 of them deported because of their membership in the Union of Russian Workers, an anarchist group that was a primary target of the November raids. Others on board, including the well-known radical leaders Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, had not been taken in the Palmer Raids. Goldman had been convicted in 1893 of \"inciting to riot\" and arrested on many other occasions. Berkman had served 14 years in prison for the attempted murder of industrialist Henry Clay Frick in 1892. Both were convicted in 1917 of interfering with military recruitment. Some of the 249 were leftists or anarchists or at least fell within the legal definition of anarchist because they \"believed that no government would be better for human society than any kind of government.\" In beliefs they ranged from violent revolutionaries to pacifist advocates of non-resistance. Others belonged to radical organizations but disclaimed knowledge of the organization's political aims and had joined to take advantage of educational programs and social opportunities.\n\nThe U.S. War Department used the \"Buford\" as a transport ship in the Spanish–American War and in World War I and loaned it to the Department of Labor in 1919 for the deportation mission. A \"strong detachment of marines\" numbering 58 enlisted men and four officers made the journey and pistols were distributed to the crew. Its final destination was unknown as it sailed under sealed orders. Even the captain only learned his final destination while in Kiel harbor for repairs, since the State Department found it difficult to make arrangements to land in Latvia. Finland, though chosen, was not an obvious choice, since Finland and Russia were at war.\n\nThe notoriety of Goldman and Berkman as convicted anti-war agitators allowed the press and public to imagine that all the deportees had similar backgrounds. \"The New York Times\" called them all \"Russian Reds\". Most of the press approved enthusiastically. The Cleveland \"Plain Dealer\" wrote: \"It is hoped and expected that other vessels, larger, more commodious, carrying similar cargoes, will follow in her wake.\" The New York \"Evening Mail\" said: \"Just as the sailing of the Ark that Noah built was a pledge for the preservation of the human race, so the sailing of the Ark of the Soviet is a pledge for the preservation of America.\" Goldman later wrote a book about her experiences after being deported to Russia, called \"My Disillusionment in Russia\".\n\nOn January 7, 1920, at the first session of the New York State Assembly, Assembly Speaker Thaddeus C. Sweet attacked the Assembly's five Socialist members, declaring they had been \"elected on a platform that is absolutely inimical to the best interests of the state of New York and the United States.\" The Socialist Party, Sweet said, was \"not truly a political party,\" but was rather \"a membership organization admitting within its ranks aliens, enemy aliens, and minors.\" It had supported the revolutionaries in Germany, Austria, and Hungary, he continued, and consorted with international Socialist parties close to the Communist International. The Assembly suspended the five by a vote of 140 to 6, with just one Democrat supporting the Socialists. A trial in the Assembly, lasting from January 20 to March 11, resulted in a recommendation that the five be expelled and the Assembly voted overwhelmingly for expulsion on April 1, 1920.\n\nOpposition to the Assembly's actions was widespread and crossed party lines. From the start of the process, former Republican Governor, Supreme Court Justice, and presidential candidate Charles Evans Hughes defended the Socialist members: \"Nothing  ... is a more serious mistake at this critical time than to deprive Socialists or radicals of their opportunities for peaceful discussion and thus to convince them that the Reds are right and that violence and revolution are the only available means at their command.\" Democratic Governor Al Smith denounced the expulsions: \"To discard the method of representative government leads to the misdeeds of the very extremists we denounce and serves to increase the number of enemies of orderly free government.\" Hughes also led a group of leading New York attorneys in a protest that said: \"We have passed beyond the stage in political development when heresy-hunting is a permitted sport.\"\n\nAmerica's newspapers continually reinforced their readers' pro-American views and presented a negative attitude toward the Soviet Union and communism. They presented a threat of imminent conflict with the Soviet Union that would be justified by the clash with American ideals and goals.\n\nIn addition, when \"The New York Times\" reported positively about the Soviet Union, it received less attention from the public than when it reported antagonistically about it. This did not hold true when Soviet interests agreed with American ones. As a result of this, the \"Times\" had a tendency to use exaggerated headlines, weighted words, and questionable sources in order to create a negative slant against the Soviets and communism. The tendency was to be very pro-American and theatrical in their coverage.\n\nThe Red Scare led to the Western popularization of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". The text was purportedly brought to the United States by a Russian army officer in 1917; it was translated into English by Natalie de Bogory (personal assistant of Harris A. Houghton, an officer of the Department of War) in June 1918, and White Russian expatriate Boris Brasol soon circulated it in American government circles, specifically diplomatic and military, in typescript form, It also appeared in 1919 in the \"Public Ledger\" as a pair of serialized newspaper articles. But all references to \"Jews\" were replaced with references to \"Bolsheviki\" as an exposé by the journalist—and subsequently highly respected Columbia University School of Journalism dean—Carl W. Ackerman. Shortly thereafter it was adapted as \"The International Jew\" series in The Dearborn Independent, establishing the myth of Jewish Bolshevism. \n\nAmerica's film industry reflected and exploited every aspect of the public's fascination with and fear of Bolshevism. \"The German Curse in Russia\" dramatized the German instigation of Russia's October Revolution. The Soviet nationalization of women was central to the plot of \"The New Moon\", in which women between the ages of 23 and 32 are the property of the state and the heroine, Norma Talmadge, is a Russian princess posing as a peasant during the Russian Revolution. Similarly, in \"The World and Its Woman\" starring Geraldine Farrar, the daughter of an American engineer working in Russia becomes an opera star and has to fend off attempts to \"nationalize\" her.\n\nSeveral films used labor troubles as their setting, with an idealistic American hero and heroine struggling to outwit manipulative left-wing agitators. \"Dangerous Hours\" tells the story of an attempted Russian infiltration of American industry. College graduate John King is sympathetic to the left in a general way. Then he is seduced, both romantically and politically, by Sophia Guerni, a female agitator. Her superior is the Bolshevik Boris Blotchi, who has a \"wild dream of planting the scarlet seed of terrorism in American soil.\" Sofia and Boris turn their attention to the Weston shipyards that are managed by John's childhood sweetheart, May. The workers have valid grievances, but the Bolsheviks set out to manipulate the situation. They are \"the dangerous element following in the wake of labor as riffraff and ghouls follow an army.\" When they threaten May, John has an epiphany and renounces revolutionary doctrine.\n\nA reviewer in \"Picture Play\" protested the film's stew of radical beliefs and strategies: \"Please, oh please, look up the meaning of the words 'bolshevik' and 'soviet.' Neither of them mean [sic] 'anarchist,' 'scoundrel' or 'murderer' – really they don't!\"\n\nSome films just used Bolsheviks for comic relief, where they are easily seduced (\"The Perfect Woman\") or easily inebriated (\"Help Yourself\"). In \"Bullin the Bullsehviks\" an American named Lotta Nerve outwits Trotsky. New York State Senator Clayton R. Lusk spoke at the film's New York premiere in October 1919. Other films used one feature or another of radical philosophy as the key plot point: anarchist violence (\"The Burning Question\"), assassination and devotion to the red flag (\"The Volcano\"), utopian vision (\"Bolshevism on Trial\").\n\nThe advertising for \"Bolshevism on Trial\" called it \"the timeliest picture ever filmed\" and reviews were good. \"Powerful, well-knit with indubitably true and biting satire,\" said \"Photoplay\". As a promotion device, the April 15, 1919, issue of \"Moving Picture World\" suggested staging a mock radical demonstration by hanging red flags around town and then have actors in military uniforms storm in to tear them down. The promoter was then to distribute handbills to the confused and curious crowds to reassure them that \"Bolshevism on Trial\" takes a stand against Bolshevism and \"you will not only clean up but will profit by future business.\" When this publicity technique came to the attention of U.S. Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson, he expressed his dismay to the press: \"This publication proposes by deceptive methods of advertising to stir every community in the United States into riotous demonstrations for the purpose of making profits for the moving picture business  ...\" He hoped to ban movies treating Bolshevism and Socialism.\n\nIn 1919 Kansas enacted a law titled \"An act relating to the flag, standard or banner of Bolshevism, anarchy or radical socialism\" in an attempt to punish the display of the most common symbol of radicalism, the red flag. Only Massachusetts (1913) and Rhode Island (1914) passed such \"red flag laws\" earlier. By 1920 they were joined by 24 more states. Some banned certain colors (red or black), or certain expressions (\"indicating disloyalty or belief in anarchy\" or \"antagonistic to the existing government of the United States\"), or certain contexts (\"to overthrow the government by general strike\"), or insignia (\"flag or emblem or sign\"). The \"Yale Law Journal\" mocked the Connecticut law against symbols \"calculated to  ... incite people to disorder,\" anticipating its enforcement at the next Harvard-Yale football game. Ohio exempted college pennants and Wisconsin made an exception for historical museums. Minnesota allowed red flags for railroad and highway warnings. Setting patriotic standards, red flag laws regulated the proper display of the American flag: above all other flags, ahead of all other banners in any parade, or flown only in association with state flags or the flags of friendly nations. Punishment generally included fines from $1,000 to $5,000 and prison terms of 5 to 10 years, occasionally more.\n\nAt the federal level, the Espionage Act of 1917 and the amendments to it in the Sedition Act of 1918 prohibited interference with the war effort, including many expressions of opinion. With that legislation rendered inoperative by the end of World War I, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer, supported by President Wilson, waged a public campaign in favor of a peacetime version of the Sedition Act without success. He sent a circular outlining his rationale to newspaper editors in January 1919, citing the dangerous foreign-language press and radical attempts to create unrest in African American communities. At one point Congress had more than 70 versions of proposed language and amendments for such a bill, but it took no action on the controversial proposal during the campaign year of 1920.\n\nPalmer called for every state to enact its own version of the Sedition Act. Six states had laws of this sort before 1919 usually aimed at sabotage, but another 20 added them in 1919 and 1920. Usually called \"anti-syndicalist laws,\" they varied in their language, but generally made it a crime to \"destroy organized government\" by one method or another, including \"by the general cessation of industry,\" that is, through a general strike. Many cities had their own versions of these laws, including 20 in the state of Washington alone.\n\nWithin Attorney General Palmer's Justice Department, the General Intelligence Division (GID) headed by J. Edgar Hoover had become a storehouse of information about radicals in America. It had infiltrated many organizations and, following the raids of November 1919 and January 1920, it had interrogated thousands of those arrested and read through boxes of publications and records seized. Though agents in the GID knew there was a gap between what the radicals promised in their rhetoric and what they were capable of accomplishing, they nevertheless told Palmer they had evidence of plans for an attempted overthrow of the U.S. government on May Day 1920.\n\nWith Palmer's backing, Hoover warned the nation to expect the worst: assassinations, bombings, and general strikes. Palmer issued his own warning on April 29, 1920, claiming to have a \"list of marked men\" and said domestic radicals were \"in direct connection and unison\" with European counterparts with disruptions planned for the same day there. Newspapers headlined his words: \"Terror Reign by Radicals, says Palmer\" and \"Nation-wide Uprising on Saturday.\" Localities prepared their police forces and some states mobilized their militias. New York City's 11,000-man police force worked for 32 hours straight. Boston police mounted machine guns on automobiles and positioned them around the city.\n\nThe date came and went without incident. Newspaper reaction was almost uniform in its mockery of Palmer and his \"hallucinations.\" Clarence Darrow called it the \"May Day scare.\" The \"Rocky Mountain News\" asked the Attorney General to cease his alerts: \"We can never get to work if we keep jumping sideways in fear of the bewiskered Bolshevik.\" The \"Boston American\" assessed the Attorney General on May 4:\n\nEverybody is laughing at A. Mitchell Palmer's May Day \"revolution.\" The joke is certainly on A. Mitchell Palmer, but the matter is not wholly a joke. The spectacle of a Cabinet officer going around surrounded with armed guards because he is afraid of his own hand-made bogey is a sorry one, even though it appeals to the humor of Americans. Of course, the terrible \"revolution\" did not come off. Nobody with a grain of sense supposed that it would. Yet, in spite of universal laughter, the people are seriously disgusted with these official Red scares. They cost the taxpayers thousands of dollars spent in assembling soldiers and policemen and in paying wages and expenses to Mr. Palmer's agents. They help to frighten capital and demoralize business, and to make timid men and women jumpy and nervous.\n\nPalmer's embarrassment buttressed Louis Freeland Post's position in opposition to the Palmer raids when he testified before a Congressional Committee on May 7–8.\n\nOnce Palmer's warnings of a May Day attempt to overthrow the government proved false, the anti-Bolshevik hysteria wound down quickly. In testimony before Congress on May 7–8, Louis Freeland Post defended his release of hundreds seized in Palmer's raids so successfully that attempts to impeach or censure him ended. Later in the month, a dozen prominent lawyers including Felix Frankfurter and Roscoe Pound endorsed a report that condemned Palmer's Justice Department for the \"utterly illegal acts committed by those charged with the highest duty of enforcing the laws\" including entrapment, police brutality, prolonged incommunicado detention, and violations of due process in court.\n\nIn June, Massachusetts Federal District Court Judge George Anderson ordered the discharge of twenty more arrested aliens and effectively ended the possibility of additional raids. The conservative \"Christian Science Monitor\" found itself unable to support Palmer any longer, writing on June 25, 1920: \"What appeared to be an excess of radicalism  ... was certainly met with  ... an excess of suppression.\" Leaders of industry voiced similar sentiments, including Charles M. Schwab of Bethlehem Steel, who thought Palmer's activities created more radicals than they suppressed, and T. Coleman du Pont who called the Justice Department's work evidence of \"sheer Red hysteria.\"\n\nAt the Democratic National Convention in July, Palmer never had a chance at winning the nomination. Coolidge, famous for his opposition to the right of police to strike, won a place on the Republican ticket, but the party's nominee, and the eventual winner of the 1920 election, was the U.S. Senator from Ohio, Warren G. Harding. He sounded a very different note in mid-August. An interviewer wrote that \"his jaws fairly snapped\" when he said that \"too much has been said about Bolshevism in America. It is quite true that there are enemies of Government within our borders. However, I believe their number has been greatly magnified. The American workman is not a Bolshevik; neither is the American employer an autocrat.\"\n\nWhen another anarchist bomb exploded on Wall Street in September 1920, newspaper response was comparatively restrained. \"More bombs may be exploded,\" wrote the \"New York Times\", \"Other lives may be taken. But these are only hazards of a war which  ... must be faced calmly.\" If anarchists sought to make people fearful, \"By keeping cool and firm we begin their defeat.\"\n\nNevertheless, the after-effects of the First Red Scare were a major factor in the passage of the Immigration Act of 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5273260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5273260", "title": "Four stages of enlightenment", "text": "Four stages of enlightenment\n\nThe four stages of enlightenment in Theravada Buddhism are the four progressive stages culminating in full enlightenment as an Arahant.\n\nThese four stages are Sotāpanna, Sakadāgāmi, Anāgāmi, and Arahant. The Buddha referred to people who are at one of these four stages as noble people (\"ariya-puggala\") and the community of such persons as the noble sangha (\"ariya-sangha\").\n\nThe teaching of the four stages of enlightenment is a central element of the early Buddhist schools, including the Theravada school of Buddhism, which still survives.\n\nIn the Sutta Pitaka several types of Buddhist practitioners are described, according to their level of attainment. The standard is four, but there are also longer descriptions with more types. The four are the Stream-enterer, Once-returner, Non-returner and the Arahant.\n\nIn the Visuddhimagga the four stages are the culmination of the seven purifications. The descriptions are elaborated and harmonized, giving the same sequence of purifications before attaining each of the four paths and fruits.\n\nThe Visuddhimagga stresses the importance of prajna, insight into anatta and the Buddhist teachings, as the main means to liberation. Vipassana has a central role in this. Insight is emphasized by the contemporary Vipassana movement.\n\nA Stream-enterer (Sotapanna) is free from:\n\nA Once-returner (Sakadagami) has greatly attenuated:\n\nA Non-returner (Anāgāmi) is free from:\n\nAn Arahant is free from all of the five lower fetters and the five higher fetters, which are:\n\nThe Sutta Pitaka classifies the four levels according to the levels' attainments. In the Sthaviravada and Theravada traditions, which teach that progress in understanding comes all at once, and that 'insight' (\"abhisamaya\") does not come 'gradually' (successively - \"anapurva\"),\" this classification is further elaborated, with each of the four levels described as a path to be attained suddenly, followed by the realisation of the fruit of the path.\n\nThe process of becoming an Arahat is therefore characterized by four distinct and sudden changes, although in the sutras it says that the path has a gradual development, with gnosis only after a long stretch, just as the ocean has a gradual shelf, a gradual inclination with a sudden drop only after a long stretch. The Mahasanghika had the doctrine of \"ekaksana-citt\", \"according to which a Buddha knows everything in a single thought-instant\" (Gomez 1991, p. 69). The same stance is taken in Chan Buddhism, although the Chán school harmonized this point of view with the need for gradual training after the initial insight. This \"gradual training\" is expressed in teachings as the Five ranks of enlightenment, Ten Ox-Herding Pictures which detail the steps on the Path, The Three mysterious Gates of Linji, and the Four Ways of Knowing of Hakuin. The same stance is taken in the contemporary Vipassana movement, especially the so-called \"New Burmese Method\".\n\nAn ordinary person or \"puthujjana\" (Pali; Sanskrit: i.e. pritha : without, and jnana : knowledge) is trapped in the endless cycling of . One is reborn, lives, and dies in endless rebirths, either as a deva, human, animal, male, female, neuter, ghost, asura, hell being, or various other entities on different categories of existence.\n\nAn ordinary entity has never seen and experienced the ultimate truth of Dharma and therefore has no way of finding an end to the predicament. It is only when suffering becomes acute, or seemingly unending, that an entity looks for a \"solution\" to and, if fortunate, finds the Dharma.\n\nThe Sangha of the Tathagata's disciples (Ariya Sangha) can be described as including four or eight kinds of individuals. There are four [groups of noble disciples] when path and fruit are taken as pairs, and eight groups of individuals, when each path and fruit are taken separately:\n\nThe first stage is that of Sotāpanna (Pali; Sanskrit: ), literally meaning \"one who enters () the stream (sotas),\" with the stream being the supermundane Noble Eightfold Path regarded as the highest Dharma. The stream-enterer is also said to have \"opened the eye of the Dharma\" (dhammacakkhu, Sanskrit: ).\n\nA stream-enterer reaches arahantship within seven rebirths upon opening the eye of the Dharma.\n\nBecause the stream-enterer has attained an intuitive grasp of Buddhist doctrine ( or , \"right view\") and has complete confidence or Saddha in the Three Jewels: Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, and has removed the sankharas that force rebirth in lower planes, that individual will not be reborn in any plane lower than the human (animal, preta, or in hell).\n\nThe second stage is that of the (Sanskrit: ), literally meaning \"one who once () comes ()\". The once-returner will at most return to the realm of the senses (the lowest being human and the highest being the devas wielding power over the creations of others) one more time. Both the stream-enterer and the once-returner have abandoned the first three fetters. The stream-enterer and once-returner are distinguished by the fact that the once-returner has weakened lust, hate, and delusion to a greater degree. The once-returner therefore has fewer than seven rebirths. Once-returners do not have only one more rebirth, as the name suggests, for that may not even be said with certainty about the non-returner who can take multiple rebirths in the five \"Pure Abodes\". They do, however, only have one more rebirth in the realm of the senses, excluding, of course, the planes of hell, animals and hungry ghosts.\n\nThe third stage is that of the (Sanskrit: ), literally meaning \"one who does not (an-) come ()\". The non-returner, having overcome sensuality, does not return to the human world, or any unfortunate world lower than that, after death. Instead, non-returners are reborn in one of the five special worlds in Rūpadhātu called the worlds, or \"Pure Abodes\", and there attain ; Pāli: Nibbana; some of them are reborn a second time in a higher world of the Pure Abodes.\n\nAn has abandoned the five lower fetters, out of ten total fetters, that bind beings to the cycle of rebirth. An is well-advanced.\n\nThe fourth stage is that of Arahant (Sanskrit: \"Arhat\"), a fully awakened person. They have abandoned all ten fetters and, upon death (Sanskrit: , Pāli: ) will never be reborn in any plane or world, having wholly escaped . An Arahant has attained awakening by following the path given by the Buddha. In Theravada Buddhism the term \"Buddha\" is reserved for ones who \"self-enlighten\" such as Siddhartha Gautama Buddha, who discovered the path by himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "5516877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5516877", "title": "Gentleness", "text": "Gentleness\n\nGentleness is the value and quality of one's character. Being gentle has a long history in many, but not all cultures. Gentleness is considered to play a very important role in life.\n\nThe quality of gentleness is colloquially understood to be that of kindness, consideration and amiability. Aristotle used it in a technical sense as the virtue that strikes the mean with regard to anger: being too quick to anger is a vice, but so is being detached in a situation where anger is appropriate; justified and properly focused anger is named mildness or gentleness. \n\nGentleness is a strong hand with a soft touch. It is a tender, compassionate approach toward others' weaknesses and limitations. A gentle person still speaks truth, sometimes even painful truth, but in doing so guards their tone so the truth can be well received. \"When my daughter was young, she used to love to squeeze my hand as hard as she could, trying to make it hurt. She could squeeze with all her might, but it never hurt. She didn't need to be gentle because she lacked the power to cause me any pain. Then, just for fun, I'd give her hand a tight little squeeze until she yelped.\nIt's the strong hand, not the weak one, that must learn to be gentle.\"\n\nA second important usage was common in medieval times, associated with higher social classes: hence the derivation of the terms gentleman, gentlewoman and gentry. The broadening of gentle behavior from a literal sense of the gentry to the metaphorical \"like a gentleman\" applicable to any person was a later development.\n"}
{"id": "15799006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15799006", "title": "Human rights in Dubai", "text": "Human rights in Dubai\n\nHuman rights in Dubai are based on the Constitution and enacted law, which supposedly promise equitable treatment of all people, regardless of race, nationality or social status, per Article 25 of the Constitution of the United Arab Emirates. Despite this, Freedom House has stated: \"Extreme forms of self-censorship are widely practiced, particularly regarding issues such as local politics, culture, religion, or any other subject the government deems politically or culturally sensitive. The Dubai Media Free Zone (DMFZ), an area in which foreign media outlets produce print and broadcast material intended for foreign audiences, is the only arena in which the press operates with relative freedom.\"\n\nHuman rights organizations have complained about violations of human rights in Dubai. Most notably, some of the 250,000 foreign laborers in the city have been alleged to live in conditions described by Human Rights Watch as being \"less than humane\". The mistreatment of foreign workers was a subject of the disputed 2009 documentary, \"Slaves of Dubai\".\n\nArticle 25 of the Constitution of the UAE provides for the equitable treatment of persons with regard to race, nationality, religious beliefs or social status. However, in reality there are very few anti-discrimination laws in relation to labour issues, with full UAE locals being given preferential treatment when it comes to employment, even though they generally show minimal interest in working. Foreign laborers in Dubai often live in conditions described by Human Rights Watch as being \"less than humane\", and was the subject of the documentary, \"Slaves of Dubai\". A 2006 NPR report quoted Baya Sayid Mubarak, the Indian consul for labor and welfare in Dubai, as saying \"the city's economic miracle would not be possible without armies of poorly paid construction workers from the Indian sub-continent\". The NPR report stated that foreign construction workers lived \"eight and ten to a room in labor camps\" and that \"many are trapped in a cycle of poverty and debt, which amounts to little more than indentured servitude.\"\n\nLabour injustices in Dubai have attracted the attention of various human rights groups, which have tried to persuade the government to become a signatory to two of the International Labour Organization's eight core conventions, which allows for the formation of labour unions. The Dubai government, however, denied any kind of labour injustices and stated that the watchdog's accusations were misguided. Towards the end of March 2006, the government announced steps to allow construction unions. UAE labour minister Ali al-Kaabi said: \"Labourers will be allowed to form unions\".\n\nThe BBC has reported that \"local newspapers often carry stories of construction workers allegedly not being paid for months on end. They are not allowed to move jobs and if they leave the country to go home they will almost certainly lose the money they say they are owed.\" Additionally, some of the workers have allegedly been forced to give up their passports upon entering Dubai, making it difficult to return home. In September 2005, the Minister of Labour ordered one company to pay unpaid salaries within 24 hours after workers protested, and published the name of the offending company.\n\nIn December 2005, the Indian consulate in Dubai submitted a report to the Government of India detailing labor problems faced by Indian expatriates in the emirate. The report highlighted delayed payment of wages, substitution of employment contracts, premature termination of services and excessive working hours as being some of the challenges faced by Indian workers in the city.\n\nOn 21 March 2006, workers at the construction site of Burj Khalifa, upset over bus timings and working conditions, rioted, damaging cars, offices, computers, and construction tools. The global financial crisis has caused the working class of Dubai to be affected especially badly, with many workers not being paid but also being unable to leave the country.\n\nThe city's discriminatory legal system and unequal treatment of foreigners has been brought to light by its attempts to cover up information on the 2007 rape of Alexandre Robert, a 15-year-old French-Swiss national, by three locals, one of whose HIV-positive status was hidden by the authorities for several months and by the recent mass imprisonment of migrant laborers, most of whom were from Asia, on account of their protests against poor wages and living conditions.\nDespite protests by Human Rights Watch and several governments, companies allegedly continue to take the passports of workers and refuse to pay promised salaries. These practices have been labeled as \"modern slavery\" by some organizations. In 2013, a European national by the name of Marte Dalelv, was arrested and jailed on trumped up charges.\n\nThe labour injustices in Dubai - and wider UAE - have attracted the attention of various foreign governments and Human Rights groups, which have tried to persuade the local government to become a signatory to two of the International Labour Organization's 7 core conventions, which allows for the formation of labour unions. The Dubai government has denied any kind of labour injustices and has stated that the watchdog's (Human Rights Watch) accusations were misguided. Towards the end of March 2006, the government announced steps to allow construction unions. UAE labour minister Ali al-Kaabi said: \"Labourers will be allowed to form unions.\"\n\nPrior to the mid 2000s, camel owners made use of child jockeys, most of whom were kids kidnapped from other parts of the world. After international outcry, the country decided to slowly put an end to this practice. There are still, however, some violations of this ban.\n\nThere are various examples of local folk ill-treating people, just on the basis of nationality or race. In one instance, a local taxi passenger caused a serious injury to a foreign driver. The passenger told the driver that he was an Emirati and did not listen to the drivers instructions. \n\nThe problem of stateless people (known as Bidoon) has been around for so many years. Many have languished without proper care, even though many of them are natives of the land. These people have not been able to complete their education, secure jobs and have found it hard to marry. A small number of them have been able to acquire UAE nationality or that of Comoros Island.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal. The death penalty is one of the punishments for homosexuality although in practice this has never been enforced. Kissing in some public places is illegal and can result in deportation. Expats in Dubai have been deported for kissing in public.\n\nDubai has a modest dress code. The dress code is part of Dubai's criminal law. Sleeveless tops and short dresses are not allowed at Dubai's malls. Clothes must be in appropriate lengths. Expats and tourists are not allowed to consume alcohol outside of licensed venues.\n\nApostasy is a crime punishable by death in the UAE; in practice this has never been applied. UAE incorporates hudud crimes of Sharia law into its Penal Code - apostasy being one of them. Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty, therefore apostasy is punishable by death in the UAE.\n\nNon-Muslim expatriates can be liable to Sharia rulings on marriage, divorce and child custody. Emirati women must receive permission from male guardian to marry and remarry. The requirement is derived from Sharia, and has been federal law since 2005. In all emirates, it is illegal for Muslim women to marry non-Muslims. In the UAE, a marriage union between a Muslim woman and non-Muslim man is punishable by law, since it is considered a form of \"fornication\".\n\nDuring the month of Ramadan, it is illegal to publicly eat, drink, or smoke between sunrise and sunset. Exceptions are made for pregnant women and children. The law applies to both Muslims and non-Muslims, and failure to comply may result in arrest. In 2008 a Russian woman was put on trial for drinking juice in public during the month of Ramadan.\n\nIslam is the official religion in Dubai. A policy of religious toleration allows foreigners to practice their faith in a private residence or official place of worship, or they can petition the government for a land grant and permission to build a religious institution to hold religious services, which may be a slow process.\n\nThirteen Christian Churches exist, along with facilities for Hindus, Sikhs, and Bahá'ís. Non-Muslim groups are generally allowed to meet and advertise their events, but the law prohibits and punishes proselytizing.\n\nHuman rights groups have expressed concerns about freedom of expression in Dubai, which is often limited by enacted laws or Ministerial edicts in the name of protecting traditional Islamic morality or the image and reputation of Dubai and its leaders.\n\nIn 2007, the Dubai government shut down two Pakistani television channels, Geo News and ARY One. Their entertainment, but not news and political programming, were eventually permitted to broadcast in Dubai. The Dubai Ministry of Culture and Media banned the exhibition of a play, \"Kholkhal\", just hours before it was scheduled to be performed at the 8th annual Gulf Theater Festival. While journalists can no longer be jailed for doing their job, other legal actions can be taken against them. Several members of the Dubai press remain on a government list as being banned from being published within the Emirate. There is also reportedly a degree of self-censorship that occurs, for fear of governmental sanctions, of certain topics that are critical of government policy, the royal family, or may offend traditional Islamic morality.\n\nIn July 2013, a video was uploaded onto YouTube, which depicted a local driver hitting an expatriate worker, following a road related incident. Using part of his local head gear, the local driver whips the expatriate and also pushes him around, before other passers-by intervene. A few days later, Dubai Police announced that both the local driver and the person who filmed the video have been arrested. It was also revealed that the local driver was a senior UAE government official. The video once again brings into question the way that lower classes of foreign workers are treated. Police in November 2013 also arrested a US citizen and some UAE citizens, in connection with a YouTube parody video which allegedly portrayed Dubai and its youth in a bad light. The video was shot in areas of Satwa, Dubai and featured gangs learning how to fight each other using simple weapons, including shoes, the aghal, etc. Eventually, the US citizen was released; in a later interview with the BBC, the Sheikh of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammad mentioned that his treatment was unfair.\n\nUAE has escaped the Arab Spring; however, more than 100 Emirati activists were jailed and tortured because they sought reforms. Since 2011, the UAE government has increasingly carried out forced disappearances. Many foreign nationals and Emirati citizens have been arrested and abducted by the state, the UAE government denies these people are being held (to conceal their whereabouts), placing these people outside the protection of the law. According to Human Rights Watch, the reports of forced disappearance and torture in the UAE are of grave concern.\n\nThe Arab Organisation of Human Rights has obtained testimonies from many defendants, for its report on \"Forced Disappearance and Torture in the UAE\", who reported that they had been kidnapped, tortured and abused in detention centres. The report included 16 different methods of torture including severe beatings, threats with electrocution and denying access to medical care.\n\nIn 2013, 94 Emirati activists were held in secret detention centres and put on trial for allegedly attempting to overthrow the government. Human rights organizations have spoken out against the secrecy of the trial. An Emirati, whose father is among the defendants, was arrested for tweeting about the trial. In April 2013, he was sentenced to 10 months in jail.\n\nRepressive measures were also used against people in order to justify the UAE government's claim that there is an \"international plot\" in which UAE citizens and foreigners were working together to destabilize the country. Foreign nationals were also subjected to a campaign of deportations. There are many documented cases of Egyptians and other foreign nationals who had spent years working in the UAE and were then given only a few days to leave the country.\n\nForeign nationals subjected to forced disappearance include two Libyans and two Qataris. Amnesty reported that the Qatari men have been abducted by the UAE government and the UAE government has withheld information about the men's fate from their families. Amongst the foreign nationals detained, imprisoned and expelled is Iyad El-Baghdadi, a popular blogger and Twitter personality. He was arrested by UAE authorities, detained, imprisoned and then expelled from the country. Despite his lifetime residence in the UAE, as a Palestinian citizen, El-Baghdadi had no recourse to contest this order. He could not be deported back to the Palestinian territories, therefore he was deported to Malaysia.\n\nIn 2012, Dubai police subjected three British citizens to beatings and electric shocks after arresting them on drugs charges. The British Prime Minister, David Cameron, expressed \"concern\" over the case and raised it with the UAE President, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, during his 2013 state visit to the UK. The three men were pardoned and released in July 2013.\n\nIn April 2009, a video tape of torture smuggled out of the UAE showed Sheikh Issa bin Zayed Al Nahyan torturing a man with whips, electric cattle prods, wooden planks with protruding nails and running him over repeatedly with a car. In December 2009 Issa appeared in court and proclaimed his innocence. The trial ended on 10 January 2010, when Issa was cleared of the torture of Mohammed Shah Poor. Human Rights Watch criticised the trial and called on the government to establish an independent body to investigate allegations of abuse by UAE security personnel and other persons of authority. The US State Department has expressed concern over the verdict and said all members of Emirati society \"must stand equal before the law\" and called for a careful review of the decision to ensure that the demands of justice are fully met in this case.\n\nIn 2006, less than 20% of Emirati women were part of the national labor force. UAE has the second lowest percentage of local women working in the GCC. In 2008-2009, only 21% of Emirati women were part of the labor force. UAE has the highest percentage of total female labor participation in the GCC (including expatriate women). However, Kuwait has the highest percentage of local female labor participation in the GCC because more than 45% of Kuwaiti women are part of the national labor force. 80% of women in UAE are classified as household workers (maids).\n\nThe UAE's judicial system is derived from the civil law system and Sharia law. The court system consists of civil courts and Sharia courts. According to Human Rights Watch, UAE's civil and criminal courts apply elements of Sharia law, codified into its criminal code and family law, in a way which discriminates against women.\n\nRape victims are not immune for punishment for other crimes they have committed in Dubai. In a small number of cases, the courts of the UAE have jailed women after they reported being raped and it was proven that the accusations were false. A British woman, after she reported being gang raped by three men, was fined AED 1000 after confessing to consuming alcohol without a license; her attackers are currently serving ten years in prison. Another British woman was charged with public intoxication and extramarital sex (with her fiancé, not the accused) after she reported being raped; in one final case, an 18-year-old Emirati woman withdrew her complaint of gang rape inside a car by 6 men when faced with a long jail term when it was found there was no evidence that rape occurred. The woman served one year in jail for having consensual sex outside marriage with one of the men on a separate occasion.\n\nIn July 2013, a Norwegian woman, Marte Dalelv, reported rape to the police and received a prison sentence for \"illicit sex and alcohol consumption\" after she confessed lying about the rape. She later changed her mind and claimed she lied following advice from her manager, so her case was dismissed and she was pardoned. The Emirates Center for Human Rights expressed concern over Dubai's treatment of rape victims.\n\nIn keeping with traditional Islamic morality, both Federal and Emirate law prohibit homosexuality and cross-dressing with punishment ranging from long prison sentences, deportation for foreigners, and the death penalty. No nightclub exists for LGBT explicitly, but spots exist in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, with the details spreading only by word-of-mouth. No political organization is allowed to advocate for LGBT rights.\n\nProstitution, although illegal, exists in Dubai. Research conducted by the American Center for International Policy Studies (AMCIPS) found that Russian and Ethiopian women are the most common prostitutes, as well as women from other African countries, while Indian prostitutes are part of a well-organised trans-Oceanic prostitution network. A 2007 PBS documentary entitled \"Dubai: Night Secrets\" reported that prostitution in clubs is tolerated by authorities and many foreign women work there by choice.\n\nDrugs found in urine or blood testing count as \"possession\" under UAE law. Raymond Bingham, BBC's DJ Grooverider, was sentenced to four years in prison after a pair of jeans in his luggage was found to contain just over 2 grams of marijuana. The Dubai authorities have been known to stop tourists on layovers at the airport and are now using extremely sensitive electronic detection equipment, including urine and blood screening, to search for traces of illegal substances. Keith Brown, a British national, was arrested on September 17, 2007 after authorities claim to have discovered a speck of cannabis on the bottom of one of his shoes. According to an article in the \"Daily Mail\", the alleged illegal substance was smaller than a grain of sugar - weighing approximately .003 grams. He has also been sentenced to four years in prison. Other tourists and residents have been sentenced to execution for selling cannabis. However, there are no reports of anyone being executed in the UAE for solely drug offences, unlike neighboring Saudi Arabia. Another UK citizen, Tracy Wilkinson, was arrested and accused of being a \"drugs baroness\" in 2005 after authorities found codeine in her blood. Wilkinson has a bad back and received an injection of codeine at a Dubai hospital. She ended up spending two months in a cell where she contracted dysentery, head lice and an infestation of fleas before she was eventually released on bail. German television producer Cat Le-Huy was arrested in January 2008 for possessing a bottle of the over-the-counter hormone sleep aid Melatonin. Authorities claimed that some dirt in Mr. Le-Huy's luggage was hashish. A Vancouver resident named Bert Tatham was arrested at Dubai International Airport returning home from Afghanistan (where he was working with farmers to try to convince them not to grow poppies). The anti-narcotics officer was found to have two dead poppy bulbs and a tiny amount of hashish melted into the seams of one of his trouser pockets. After spending more than 10 months in prison, he was eventually pardoned by U.A.E. President H.H. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan.\n\nOn 16 November 2007 Tecom stopped broadcast of two major Pakistani satellite news channels, uplinked from Dubai Media City, which was initially marketed by Tecom under the tagline \"Freedom to Create.\" The Dubai government had ordered Tecom to shut down the popular independent Pakistani news channels Geo News and ARY One World on the demand of Pakistan's military regime led by General Pervez Musharraf. This was implemented by du Samacom disabling their SDI & ASI streams. Later, policy makers in Dubai permitted these channels to air their entertainment programs, but news, current affairs and political analysis were forbidden. Although subsequently the conditions were removed, marked differences have since been observed in their coverage. This incident has had a serious impact on all organizations in the media city with Geo TV and ARY OneWorld considering relocation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34989921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34989921", "title": "Illusion of external agency", "text": "Illusion of external agency\n\nThe illusion of external agency is a set of attributional biases consisting of illusions of influence, insight and benevolence, proposed by Daniel Gilbert, Timothy D. Wilson, Ryan Brown and Elizabeth Pinel.\n\nIn a series of experiments, experimenters induced participants to rationalize a choice or experience (called the \"optimizing\" condition) after which they were more likely to make certain attributions of an external agent, as follows:\n\nGilbert \"et al.\" argued that \"participants confused their own optimization of subjective reality with an external agents' optimizing of objective reality. Simply speaking, participants mistook 'the magic in here' for 'the magic out there.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14906", "title": "Interwiki links", "text": "Interwiki links\n\nInterwiki linking (\"W-link\") is a facility for creating links to the many wikis on the World Wide Web. Users avoid pasting in entire URLs (as they would for regular web pages) and instead use a shorthand similar to links within the same wiki (intrawiki links).\n\nUnlike domain names on the Internet, there is no globally defined list of interwiki prefixes, so owners of a wiki must define an interwiki map (InterMap) appropriate to their needs. Users generally have to create separate accounts for each wiki they intend to use (unless they intend to edit anonymously). Variations in text formatting and layout can also hinder a seamless transition from one wiki to the next.\n\nBy making wiki links simpler to type for the members of a particular community, these features help bring the different wikis closer together. Furthering that goal, interwiki \"bus tours\" (similar to webrings) have been created to explain the purposes and highlights of different wikis. Such examples on Wikipedia include and .\n\nInterwiki link notation varies, depending largely on the syntax a wiki uses for markup. The two most common link patterns in wikis are CamelCase and free links (arbitrary phrases surrounded by some set delimiter, such as <nowiki>double square brackets</nowiki>). CURIE syntax—an emerging W3C standard—uses a single set of square brackets.\n\nInterwiki links on a CamelCase-based wiki frequently take the form of \"Code:PageName\", where \"Code\" is the defined InterMap prefix for another wiki. Thus, a link \"WikiPedia:InterWiki\" could be rendered in HTML as a link to an article on Wikipedia: for example, . Linking from a CamelCase-wiki to a page that contains spaces in its title typically requires replacing the spaces with underscores (e.g. WikiPedia:Main_Page).\n\nInterwiki links on wikis based on free links, such as Wikipedia, typically follow the same principle, but using the delimiters that would be used for internal links. These links can then be parsed and escaped as they would be if they were internal, allowing easier typing of spaces but potentially causing problems with other special characters. For example, on Wikipedia, codice_1 appears as , and codice_1 (former syntax: codice_1) appears as .\n\nThe MediaWiki software has an additional feature which uses similar notation to create automatic interlanguage links—for instance, the link codice_1 (with no leading colon) automatically creates a reference labeled \"Other languages: | ...\" at the top and bottom of, or in a sidebar next to, the article display. Various other wiki software systems have features for \"semi-internal\" links of this kind, such as support for namespaces or multiple sub-communities.\n\nMost InterMap implementations simply replace the interwiki prefix with a full URL prefix, so many non-wiki websites can also be referred to using the system. A reference to a definition on the Free On-line Dictionary of Computing, for instance, could take the form codice_1 which would tell the system to append and display the link as Foldoc:foo. This makes it very easy to link to commonly referenced resources from within a wiki page, without the need to even know the form of the URL in question.\n\nThe interwiki concept can equally be applied to links \"from\" non-wiki websites. Advogato, for instance, offers a syntax for creating shorthand links based on a MeatBall-derived InterMap.\n\nWordPress offers a similar \"shortcode\" shorthand notation for embedding images, videos, LaTeX formulas and equations, maps, etc. hosted on other websites.\n\nInternally, a wiki that uses interwiki links needs to have a mapping from wiki-code links to full URLs. For example, codice_1 might appear as , but link to codice_7.\n\nSince most wiki systems use URLs for individual pages where the page's title appears at the end of an otherwise unchanging address, the simplest way of defining such mappings is by substituting the interwiki prefix for the unchanging part of the URL. So in the example above, the codice_8 has simply been replaced by codice_9 in creating the target of the HTML rendered link.\n\nRather than creating a new list from scratch for every wiki, it is often useful to obtain a copy of that from another site. Sites such as MeatballWiki and the UseModWiki site contain comprehensive lists which are often used for this purpose - the former being publicly editable in the same way as any other wiki page, and the latter being verified as usable but potentially out of date. MediaWiki's default list of interwiki links is derived from an old version of MeatballWiki's list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12343260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12343260", "title": "Janadesh 2007", "text": "Janadesh 2007\n\nJanadesh is the name of a national campaign on land rights in India launched by the movement Ekta Parishad. The word \"Janadesh\" means \"The Verdict of the People\" in Hindi. The campaign was launched in 2005 and culminated in 2007, in the form of a 350 km foot march involving 25,000 people. According to the organizers, the majority of the marchers were landless Adivasi and Dalit.\n\nAccording to Ekta Parishad the lack of secure land rights is a major contributor to rural poverty in India, and the government of India needs to undertake major land reforms to address this issue. The aim of the Janadesh campaign is to put pressure on the Indian government to undertake specific land reforms aimed at securing land rights for the poorest groups in India.\n\nAccording to a recent World Bank report poverty remains a significant problem in India, with India’s progress in reducing poverty compared with some of its Asian neighbors described as ‘modest’. According to the same report, poverty in India is most widespread in rural areas (where almost three out of four Indians live), and the highest incidence of poverty of all is found among the rural landless, 68% of whom are classed as living below the poverty line.\nThese findings are echoed in other reports on the subject. For example, Sundaram and Tendulkar found in a 2003 study of poverty in India that the highest levels of poverty were found among assetless (i.e. landless) rural households dependent on agricultural wage labor. Levels of poverty were found to be even higher among members of this group if they also belonged to either a Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste.\nFurthermore, although at an overall percentage level rural poverty is decreasing in India, due to population growth the absolute number of people in rural areas below the poverty line is not decreasing.\n\nObviously there are differing viewpoints on what measures would be most effective to alleviate poverty among these groups. According to Ekta Parishad, the single most important measure that could be taken to reduce these levels of poverty would be to grant secure land rights to small pieces of land to landless peasants, reducing their dependence on casual wage labor and providing a measure of food security.\n\nThese views are supported by research in the area. For example, Hanstad, Brown, and Prosterman suggest based on research in Karnataka and West Bengal that providing amply-sized plots of land (these can be as small as 0.05-0.15 acres in size) gives substantial benefits to landless families at relatively low costs. These benefits include increased income, increased access to credit, and increased social status. They also note that based on the land costs in their Karnataka study, the cost of a program to distribute packages of land like this to the ten million poorest families in India would be approximately 3,330 million rupees spread over ten years. By contrast, the central government’s rural housing scheme has cost 15,360 million rupees per year over the past five years, whilst producing housing viewed as being of very low quality by the participants in this study. Hanstad, Brown and Prosterman also cite numerous other studies from around the world which have shown results similar to their own.\n\nIn Ekta Parishad's experience of campaigning across eight states in India they found that even having a land entitlement did not necessarily equate to possessing land. In fact they found that in around 50% of cases having a land entitlement had not led to possession of the land itself.\n\nThere are a number factors involved in creating this situation.\n\nFirstly, land records, which provide the basis for land ownership, are out of date in India. The Indian government is currently working to computerize land records to improve efficiency. However, a recent report by the Asian Development Bank pointed out that, more than computerizing records, correcting them should be the priority. They note that: \"It is a common observation in villages that the person in whose name land is recorded is either deceased or does not possess the land\".\n\nSecondly, according to a recent discussion paper produced by PACS, even if land records are up to date, they do not ensure security of possession. If the poor are dispossessed of their land the record of their possession itself is of little use – instead they have to go to court to establish their title. The process for establishing title is such that a wealthy opponent is able to prolong the process for years through higher courts of appeal, which the poor can ill afford. Thus the land record system is fundamentally anti-poor, and provides little protection against land grabs by wealthier land-owners. These land grabs take a variety of forms, from simple violent expulsion through to bribery of government or bank officials. It is often more than a simple question of the economic value of the land. R Srivastava argues that the landed are often not in favor of giving land to the landless since it increases their autonomy and ability to demand better wages. He also notes the wealthy landed often have substantial influence over politician and administrators at the state level.\n\nFinally, the national government has reserved for itself substantial powers of land acquisition through the ‘Land Acquisition Act’ of 1984. This permits the central government to acquire any area of land that it chooses if is in the ‘public interest’ to do so. However, the term ‘public interest’ is left undefined in this legislation, giving the government exceptionally broad powers to acquire land as and when it chooses.\n\nTaken all together, these factors combine to create a system of land ownership which provides little security for the rural poor.\n\nBased on this view of current land legislation Ekta Parishad argue that it is only through legislative action at a national level that lasting change can be achieved. Although campaigns at state level have resulted in a number of successes in terms of distributing land to the landless, there need to be major changes at the national level to create a system of land rights that protects the rights of the poor and ensures that they can actually benefit from their land.\n\nThe Janadesh campaign is seen as a means of connecting the numerous local campaigns which they are involved in into a single national campaign large enough to pressure the government into taking action.\n\nThe Janadesh 2007 campaign will culminate with a foot march by 25,000 people, mainly landless Adivasis and Dalits. The route of the march will be from Gwalior to Delhi in northern India, following the main highway (a distance of approximately 350 km). The march will set out from Gwalior on 2 October 2007 and will arrive in Delhi on 28 October 2007. This will be an act of mass non-violent civil disobedience in the tradition of Gandhi. According to Ekta Parishad, it will be the largest such action since the struggle for Indian independence.\n\nThe campaign has three specific demands around land reform. These are:\n\n\nThe Janadesh 2007 campaign is being organized by Ekta Parishad, an organization that was formally established in 1990. According to its founder, Puthan Veetil Rajagopal, Ekta Parishad is not an NGO or a political party. It is instead a people’s movement, which works at the grass-roots level to mobilize people to challenge corruption and exploitation.\nQuoted in the book \"Truth Force\" Rajagopal states this aim: \"What I am trying to do, through Ekta Parishad, is to help people to understand that they can be leaders of the country\". Ekta Parishad are particularly focused on land and livelihood issues amongst marginalized communities (such as Dalits and Adivasis) in rural India and are active in eight Indian states (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala), and in direct contact with around 4000 villages.\n\nThere are two main components to Ekta Parishad’s work – the struggle component and constructive work.\n\nThe struggle component involves mobilizing people to take part in various forms of non-violent resistance such as Padyatras (foot marches), Dharnas (sit-ins), Gheraos (preventing unjust incidents from taking place by encircling people who wield power), and Chakka jam (road blockades) to press for their land rights. This is based on the Gandhian tradition of non-violent resistance.\n\nThe constructive work focuses on running economic and development activities alongside the land rights struggle, with the intention of allowing villages that have gained land to become economically self-sufficient. These activities include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313384", "title": "Long division", "text": "Long division\n\nIn arithmetic, long division is a standard division algorithm suitable for dividing multidigit numbers that is simple enough to perform by hand. It breaks down a division problem into a series of easier steps. As in all division problems, one number, called the dividend, is divided by another, called the divisor, producing a result called the quotient. It enables computations involving arbitrarily large numbers to be performed by following a series of simple steps. The abbreviated form of long division is called short division, which is almost always used instead of long division when the divisor has only one digit. Chunking (also known as the partial quotients method or the hangman method) is a less-efficient form of long division which may be easier to understand.\n\nWhile related algorithms have existed since the 12th century AD, the specific algorithm in modern use was introduced by Henry Briggs 1600 AD.\n\nInexpensive calculators and computers have become the most common way to solve division problems, eliminating a traditional mathematical exercise, and decreasing the educational opportunity to show how to do so by paper and pencil techniques. (Internally, those devices use one of a variety of division algorithms). In the United States, long division has been especially targeted for de-emphasis, or even elimination from the school curriculum, by reform mathematics, though traditionally introduced in the 4th or 5th grades.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, long division does not use the division slash or obelus signs but instead constructs a tableau. The divisor is separated from the dividend by a right parenthesis or vertical bar ; the dividend is separated from the quotient by a vinculum (i.e., overbar). The combination of these two symbols is sometimes known as a long division symbol or division bracket. It developed in the 18th century from an earlier single-line notation separating the dividend from the quotient by a left parenthesis.\n\nThe process is begun by dividing the left-most digit of the dividend by the divisor. The quotient (rounded down to an integer) becomes the first digit of the result, and the remainder is calculated (this step is notated as a subtraction). This remainder carries forward when the process is repeated on the following digit of the dividend (notated as 'bringing down' the next digit to the remainder). When all digits have been processed and no remainder is left, the process is complete.\n\nAn example is shown below, representing the division of 500 by 4 (with a result of 125).\nIn the above example, the first step is to find the shortest sequence of digits starting from the left end of the dividend, 500, that the divisor 4 goes into at least once; this shortest sequence in this example is simply the first digit, 5. The largest number that the divisor 4 can be multiplied by without exceeding 5 is 1, so the digit 1 is put above the 5 to start constructing the quotient. Next, the 1 is multiplied by the divisor 4, to obtain the largest whole number (4 in this case) that is a multiple of the divisor 4 without exceeding the 5; this product of 1 times 4 is 4, so 4 is placed underneath the 5. Next the 4 under the 5 is subtracted from the 5 to get the remainder, 1, which is placed under the 4 under the 5. This remainder 1 is necessarily smaller than the divisor 4. Next the first as-yet unused digit in the dividend, in this case the first digit 0 after the 5, is copied directly underneath itself and next to the remainder 1, to form the number 10. At this point the process is repeated enough times to reach a stopping point: The largest number by which the divisor 4 can be multiplied without exceeding 10 is 2, so 2 is written above the 0 that is next to the 5 – that is, directly above the last digit in the 10. Then the latest entry to the quotient, 2, is multiplied by the divisor 4 to get 8, which is the largest multiple of 4 that does not exceed 10; so 8 is written below 10, and the subtraction 10 minus 8 is performed to get the remainder 2, which is placed below the 8. This remainder 2 is necessarily smaller than the divisor 4. The next digit of the dividend (the last 0 in 500) is copied directly below itself and next to the remainder 2, to form 20. Then the largest number by which the divisor 4 can be multiplied without exceeding 20 is ascertained; this number is 5, so 5 is placed above the last dividend digit that was brought down (i.e., above the rightmost 0 in 500). Then this new quotient digit 5 is multiplied by the divisor 4 to get 20, which is written at the bottom below the existing 20. Then 20 is subtracted from 20, yielding 0, which is written below the 20. We know we are done now because two things are true: there are no more digits to bring down from the dividend, and the last subtraction result was 0.\n\nIf the last remainder when we ran out of dividend digits had been something other than 0, there would have been two possible courses of action. (1) We could just stop there and say that the dividend divided by the divisor is the quotient written at the top with the remainder written at the bottom; equivalently we could write the answer as the quotient followed by a fraction that is the remainder divided by the divisor. Or, (2) we could extend the dividend by writing it as, say, 500.000... and continue the process (using a decimal point in the quotient directly above the decimal point in the dividend), in order to get a decimal answer, as in the following example.\n\nIn this example, the decimal part of the result is calculated by continuing the process beyond the units digit, \"bringing down\" zeros as being the decimal part of the dividend.\n\nThis example also illustrates that, at the beginning of the process, a step that produces a zero can be omitted. Since the first digit 1 is less than the divisor 4, the first step is instead performed on the first two digits 12. Similarly, if the divisor were 13, one would perform the first step on 127 rather than 12 or 1.\n\n\nA divisor of any number of digits can be used. In this example, 1260257 is to be divided by 37. First the problem is set up as follows:\n\nDigits of the number 1260257 are taken until a number greater than or equal to 37 occurs. So 1 and 12 are less than 37, but 126 is greater. Next, the greatest multiple of 37 less than or equal to 126 is computed. So 3 × 37 = 111 < 126, but 4 × 37 > 126. The multiple 111 is written underneath the 126 and the 3 is written on the top where the solution will appear:\n\nNote carefully which place-value column these digits are written into. The 3 in the quotient goes in the same column (ten-thousands place) as the 6 in the dividend 1260257, which is the same column as the last digit of 111.\n\nThe 111 is then subtracted from the line above, ignoring all digits to the right:\n\nNow the digit from the next smaller place value of the dividend is copied down appended to the result 15:\n\nThe process repeats: the greatest multiple of 37 less than or equal to 150 is subtracted. This is 148 = 4 × 37, so a 4 is added to the solution line. Then the result of the subtraction is extended by another digit taken from the dividend:\n\nThe greatest multiple of 37 less than or equal to 22 is 0 × 37 = 0. Subtracting 0 from 22 gives 22, we often don't write the subtraction step. Instead, we simply take another digit from the dividend:\n\nThe process is repeated until 37 divides the last line exactly:\n\nFor non-decimal currencies (such as the British £sd system before 1971) and measures (such as avoirdupois) mixed mode division must be used. Consider dividing 50 miles 600 yards into 37 pieces:\n\nEach of the four columns is worked in turn. Starting with the miles: 50/37 = 1 remainder 13. No further division is\npossible, so perform a long multiplication by 1,760 to convert miles to yards, the result is 22,880 yards. Carry this to the top of the yards column and add it to the 600 yards in the dividend giving 23,480. Long division of 23,480 / 37 now proceeds as normal yielding 634 with remainder 22. The remainder is multiplied by 3 to get feet and carried up to the feet column. Long division of the feet gives 1 remainder 29 which is then multiplied by twelve to get 348 inches. Long division continues with the final remainder of 15 inches being shown on the result line.\n\nThe same method and layout can be used for, e.g., binary, octal and hexadecimal numeral systems. For example, a hexadecimal address range of 0xf412df divided into 0x12 parts is:\n\nCalculation within the binary number system is more immediate, because each digit in the course can only be 1 or 0:\n\nWhen the quotient is not an integer and the division process is extended beyond the decimal point, one of two things can happen. (1) The process can terminate, which means that a remainder of 0 is reached; or (2) a remainder could be reached that is identical to a previous remainder that occurred after the decimal points were written. In the latter case, continuing the process would be pointless, because from that point onward the same sequence of digits would appear in the quotient over and over. So a bar is drawn over the repeating sequence to indicate that it repeats forever.\n\nChina, Japan, Korea use the same notation as English-speaking nations including India. Elsewhere, the same general principles are used, but the figures are often arranged differently.\n\nIn Latin America (except Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico, Colombia, Paraguay, Venezuela, Uruguay and Brazil), the calculation is almost exactly the same, but is written down differently as shown below with the same two examples used above. Usually the quotient is written under a bar drawn under the divisor. A long vertical line is sometimes drawn to the right of the calculations.\n\nand\n\nIn Mexico, the US notation is used, except that only the result of the subtraction is annotated and the calculation is done mentally, as shown below:\n\nIn Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Venezuela, Uruguay, Quebec, Colombia, and Peru, the European notation (see below) is used, except that the quotient is not separated by a vertical line, as shown below:\n\nSame procedure applies in Mexico and Argentina, only the result of the subtraction is annotated and the calculation is done mentally.\n\nIn Spain, Italy, France, Portugal, Lithuania, Romania, Turkey, Greece, Belgium, Belarus, Ukraine, and Russia, the divisor is to the right of the dividend, and separated by a vertical bar. The division also occurs in the column, but the quotient (result) is written below the divider, and separated by the horizontal line. The same method is used in Iran and Mongolia.\n\nIn Cyprus, as well as in France, a long vertical bar separates the dividend and subsequent subtractions from the quotient and divisor, as in the below of 6359 divided by 17, which is 374 with a remainder of 1.\n\nDecimal numbers are not divided directly, the dividend and divisor are multiplied by a power of ten so that the division involves two whole numbers. Therefore, if one were dividing 12,7 by 0,4 (commas being used instead of decimal points), the dividend and divisor would first be changed to 127 and 4, and then the division would proceed as above.\n\nIn Austria, Germany and Switzerland, the notational form of a normal equation is used. <dividend> : <divisor> = <quotient>, with the colon \":\" denoting a binary infix symbol for the division operator (analogous to \"/\" or \"÷\"). In these regions the decimal separator is written as a comma. (cf. first section of Latin American countries above, where it's done virtually the same way):\n\nThe same notation is adopted in Denmark, Norway, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Poland, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Vietnam and in Serbia.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the following notation is used:\n\nLong division of integers can easily be extended to include non-integer dividends, as long as they are rational. This is because every rational number has a recurring decimal expansion. The procedure can also be extended to include divisors which have a finite or terminating decimal expansion (i.e. decimal fractions). In this case the procedure involves multiplying the divisor and dividend by the appropriate power of ten so that the new divisor is an integer – taking advantage of the fact that \"a\" ÷ \"b\" = (\"ca\") ÷ (\"cb\") – and then proceeding as above.\n\nA generalised version of this method called polynomial long division is also used for dividing polynomials (sometimes using a shorthand version called synthetic division).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4754923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4754923", "title": "Metaphysical solipsism", "text": "Metaphysical solipsism\n\nMetaphysical solipsism is the variety of idealism which asserts that nothing exists externally to \"this one mind\", and since \"this mind\" is the whole of reality then the \"external world\" was never anything more than an \"idea\". It can also be expressed by the assertion \"there is nothing external to these present experiences\", in other words, no reality exists beyond whatever is presently being sensed. The aforementioned definition of solipsism entails the non-existence of anything presently unperceived including the external world, causation, other minds (including God's mind or a subconscious mind), the past or future, and a subject of experience. Despite their ontological non-existence, these entities may nonetheless be said to \"exist\" as \"useful descriptions\" of the various experiences and thoughts that constitute 'this' mind. The solipsistic self is described by Wittgenstein in the Tractatus: \"The self of solipsism shrinks to a point without extension and there remains the reality co-ordinated with it\" (\"TLP\" 5.64).\n\nThere are weaker versions of metaphysical solipsism, such as Caspar Hare's egocentric presentism (or perspectival realism), in which other persons are conscious but their experiences are simply not \"present\". Similarly, J. J. Valberg develops a concept of one's personal horizon and discusses how it is in a sense \"the\" (preeminent) horizon, stating that \"we are all solipsists\" in his sense of solipsism.\n\nThe argument in favor of solipsism:\n\n\nThe basic form of the argument:\n\nSimilar philosophy is found in Hindu religion, namely drishti-srishti-vada.\nIn teachings of Ramana Maharshi there are two cues on solipsism:\n\n\"Jiva is called so because he sees the world. A dreamer sees many jivas in a dream, but all of them are not real. The dreamer alone exists and he sees all. So it is with the individual and the world. There is the creed of only one Self, which is also called the creed of only one jiva. It says that the jiva is the only one who sees the whole world and the lives therein.\"\n\nOne reason for the lack of support of this philosophical position is how strange it would be for a solipsist to preach solipsism – as if to convince everyone around them that they are purely a figment of the author's own imagination. The very idea of communicating philosophical ideas would be arbitrary to a true solipsist, as according to them, there is no other mind with whom they would communicate their beliefs.\n\nRussell commented, on the same theme:\n\"As against solipsism, it is to be said, in the first place, that it is psychologically impossible to believe, and is rejected in fact even by those who mean to accept it. I once received a letter from an eminent logician, Mrs. Christine Ladd-Franklin,\nsaying that she was a solipsist, and was surprised that there were no others. Coming from a logician, this surprised me. The fact that I cannot believe something does not prove that it is false, but it does prove that I am insincere and frivolous if I pretend to believe it.\" (Russell, p. 180).\nThe basic argument for solipsism suffers a logical error as well. It is argued that, because the mind can not conclude the existence of anything external, therefore nothing external exists. But this conclusion does not follow, only that the existence of externalities cannot be known. It is just as logically consistent that there are external realities/minds/etc. as there are not when experience cannot be verified either true or false.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19325", "title": "Monism", "text": "Monism\n\nMonism attributes oneness or singleness (Greek: μόνος) to a concept e.g., existence. Various kinds of monism can be distinguished:\n\nThere are two sorts of definitions for monism:\n\nAlthough the term \"monism\" is derived from Western philosophy to typify positions in the mind–body problem, it has also been used to typify religious traditions. In modern Hinduism, the term \"absolute monism\" is being used for Advaita Vedanta.\n\nThe term \"monism\" was introduced in the 18th century by Christian von Wolff in his work \"Logic\" (1728), to designate types of philosophical thought in which the attempt was made to eliminate the dichotomy of body and mind and explain all phenomena by one unifying principle, or as manifestations of a single substance.\n\nThe mind–body problem in philosophy examines the relationship between mind and matter, and in particular the relationship between consciousness and the brain. The problem was addressed by René Descartes in the 17th century, resulting in Cartesian dualism, and by pre-Aristotelian philosophers, in Avicennian philosophy, and in earlier Asian and more specifically Indian traditions.\n\nIt was later also applied to the theory of absolute identity set forth by Hegel and Schelling. Thereafter the term was more broadly used, for any theory postulating a unifying principle. The opponent thesis of dualism also was broadened, to include pluralism. According to Urmson, as a result of this extended use, the term is \"systematically ambiguous\".\n\nAccording to Jonathan Schaffer, monism lost popularity due to the emergence of Analytic philosophy in the early twentieth century, which revolted against the neo-Hegelians. Carnap and Ayer, who were strong proponents of positivism, \"ridiculed the whole question as incoherent mysticism\".\n\nThe mind–body problem has reemerged in social psychology and related fields, with the interest in mind–body interaction and the rejection of Cartesian mind–body dualism in the \"identity thesis\", a modern form of monism. Monism is also still relevant to the philosophy of mind, where various positions are defended.\n\nDifferent types of monism include:\n\nViews contrasting with monism are:\n\nMonism in modern philosophy of mind can be divided into three broad categories:\n\nCertain positions do not fit easily into the above categories, such as functionalism, anomalous monism, and reflexive monism. Moreover, they do not define the meaning of \"real\".\n\nWhile the lack of information makes it difficult in some cases to be sure of the details, the following pre-Socratic philosophers thought in monistic terms:\n\n\n\nPantheism is the belief that everything composes an all-encompassing, immanent God, or that the universe (or nature) is identical with divinity. Pantheists thus do not believe in a personal or anthropomorphic god, but believe that interpretations of the term differ.\n\nPantheism was popularized in the modern era as both a theology and philosophy based on the work of the 17th century philosopher Baruch Spinoza, whose \"Ethics\" was an answer to Descartes' famous dualist theory that the body and spirit are separate. Spinoza held that the two are the same, and this monism is a fundamental quality of his philosophy. He was described as a \"God-intoxicated man,\" and used the word God to describe the unity of all substance. Although the term pantheism was not coined until after his death, Spinoza is regarded as its most celebrated advocate.\n\nH. P. Owen claimed that\nPantheism is closely related to monism, as pantheists too believe all of reality is one substance, called Universe, God or Nature. Panentheism, a slightly different concept (explained below), however is dualistic. Some of the most famous pantheists are the Stoics, Giordano Bruno and Spinoza.\n\nPanentheism (from Greek (pân) \"all\"; (en) \"in\"; and (theós) \"God\"; \"all-in-God\") is a belief system that posits that the divine (be it a monotheistic God, polytheistic gods, or an eternal cosmic animating force) interpenetrates every part of nature, but is not one with nature. Panentheism differentiates itself from pantheism, which holds that the divine is synonymous with the universe.\n\nIn panentheism, there are two types of substance, \"pan\" the universe and God. The universe and the divine are not ontologically equivalent. God is viewed as the eternal animating force within the universe. In some forms of panentheism, the cosmos exists within God, who in turn \"transcends\", \"pervades\" or is \"in\" the cosmos.\n\nWhile pantheism asserts that 'All is God', panentheism claims that God animates all of the universe, and also transcends the universe. In addition, some forms indicate that the universe is contained within God, like in the concept of Tzimtzum. Much Hindu thought is highly characterized by panentheism and pantheism. Hasidic Judaism merges the elite ideal of nullification to paradoxical transcendent Divine Panentheism, through intellectual articulation of inner dimensions of Kabbalah, with the populist emphasis on the panentheistic Divine immanence in everything and deeds of kindness.\n\nPaul Tillich has argued for such a concept within Christian theology, as has liberal biblical scholar Marcus Borg and mystical theologian Matthew Fox, an Episcopal priest.\n\nPandeism or pan-deism (from and meaning \"god\" in the sense of deism), is a term describing beliefs coherently incorporating or mixing logically reconcilable elements of pantheism (that \"God\", or a metaphysically equivalent creator deity, is identical to Nature) and classical deism (that the creator-god who designed the universe no longer exists in a status where it can be reached, and can instead be confirmed only by reason). It is therefore most particularly the belief that the creator of the universe actually became the universe, and so ceased to exist as a separate entity.\n\nThrough this synergy pandeism claims to answer primary objections to deism (why would God create and then not interact with the universe?) and to pantheism (how did the universe originate and what is its purpose?).\n\nThe central problem in Asian (religious) philosophy is not the body-mind problem, but the search for an unchanging Real or Absolute beyond the world of appearances and changing phenomena, and the search for liberation from dukkha and the liberation from the cycle of rebirth. In Hinduism, substance-ontology prevails, seeing Brahman as the unchanging real beyond the world of appearances. In Buddhism process ontology is prevalent, seeing reality as empty of an unchanging essence.\n\nCharacteristic for various Asian religions is the discernment of levels of truth, an emphasis on intuitive-experiential understanding of the Absolute such as jnana, bodhi and kensho, and an emphasis on the integration of these levels of truth and its understanding.\n\nVedanta is the inquiry into and systematisation of the Vedas and Upanishads, to harmonise the various and contrasting ideas that can be found in those texts. Within Vedanta, different schools exist: \n\nMonism is most clearly identified in Advaita Vedanta, though Renard points out that this may be a western interpretation, bypassing the intuitive understanding of a nondual reality.\n\nIn Advaita Vedanta, Brahman is the eternal, unchanging, infinite, immanent, and transcendent reality which is the Divine Ground of all matter, energy, time, space, being, and everything beyond in this Universe. The nature of Brahman is described as transpersonal, personal and impersonal by different philosophical schools.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta gives an elaborate path to attain moksha. It entails more than self-inquiry or bare insight into one's real nature. Practice, especially Jnana Yoga, is needed to \"destroy one’s tendencies (vAasanA-s)\" before real insight can be attained.\n\nAdvaita took over from the Madhyamika the idea of levels of reality. Usually two levels are being mentioned, but Shankara uses sublation as the criterion to postulate an ontological hierarchy of three levels:\n\nAll Vaishnava schools are panentheistic and view the universe as part of Krishna or Narayana, but see a plurality of souls and substances within Brahman. Monistic theism, which includes the concept of a personal god as a universal, omnipotent Supreme Being who is both immanent and transcendent, is prevalent within many other schools of Hinduism as well.\n\nTantra sees the Divine as both immanent and transcendent. The Divine can be found in the concrete world. Practices are aimed at transforming the passions, instead of transcending them.\n\nThe colonisation of India by the British had a major impact on Hindu society. In response, leading Hindu intellectuals started to study western culture and philosophy, integrating several western notions into Hinduism. This modernised Hinduism, at its turn, has gained popularity in the west.\n\nA major role was played in the 19th century by Swami Vivekananda in the revival of Hinduism, and the spread of Advaita Vedanta to the west via the Ramakrishna Mission. His interpretation of Advaita Vedanta has been called Neo-Vedanta. In Advaita, Shankara suggests meditation and Nirvikalpa Samadhi are means to gain knowledge of the already existing unity of \"Brahman\" and \"Atman\", not the highest goal itself:\nVivekananda, according to Gavin Flood, was \"a figure of great importance in the development of a modern Hindu self-understanding and in formulating the West's view of Hinduism.\" Central to his philosophy is the idea that the divine exists in all beings, that all human beings can achieve union with this \"innate divinity\", and that seeing this divine as the essence of others will further love and social harmony. According to Vivekananda, there is an essential unity to Hinduism, which underlies the diversity of its many forms. According to Flood, Vivekananda's view of Hinduism is the most common among Hindus today. This monism, according to Flood, is at the foundation of earlier Upanishads, to theosophy in the later Vedanta tradition and in modern Neo-Hinduism.\n\nAccording to the Pāli Canon, both pluralism (\"nānatta\") and monism (\"ēkatta\") are speculative views. A Theravada commentary notes that the former is similar to or associated with nihilism (\"ucchēdavāda\"), and the latter is similar to or associated with eternalism (\"sassatavada\"). See middle way.\n\nIn the Madhyamaka school of Mahayana Buddhism, the ultimate nature of the world is described as \"Śūnyatā\" or \"emptiness\", which is inseparable from sensorial objects or anything else. That appears to be a monist position, but the Madhyamaka views - including variations like \"rangtong\" and \"shentong\" - will refrain from asserting any ultimately existent entity. They instead deconstruct any detailed or conceptual assertions about ultimate existence as resulting in absurd consequences. The Yogacara view, a minority school now only found among the Mahayana, also rejects monism.\n\nWithin Buddhism, a rich variety of philosophical and pedagogical models can be found. Various schools of Buddhism discern levels of truth:\n\nThe Prajnaparamita-sutras and Madhyamaka emphasize the non-duality of form and emptiness: \"form is emptiness, emptiness is form\", as the heart sutra says. In Chinese Buddhism this was understood to mean that ultimate reality is not a transcendental realm, but equal to the daily world of relative reality. This idea fitted into the Chinese culture, which emphasized the mundane world and society. But this does not tell how the absolute is present in the relative world:\n\nThis question is answered in such schemata as the Five Ranks of Tozan, the Oxherding Pictures, and Hakuin's Four ways of knowing.\n\nSikhism complies with the concept of Priority Monism. Sikh philosophy advocates that all that our senses comprehend is an illusion; God is the sole reality. Forms being subject to time shall pass away. God's Reality alone is eternal and abiding. The thought is that Atma (soul) is born from, and a reflection of, ParamAtma (Supreme Soul), and \"will again merge into it\", in the words of the Tenth guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh, \"just as water merges back into the water.\"\n\nGod and Soul are fundamentally the same; identical in the same way as Fire and its sparks. \"Atam meh Ram, Ram meh Atam\" which means \"The Ultimate Eternal reality resides in the Soul and the Soul is contained in Him\". As from one stream, millions of waves arise and yet the waves, made of water, again become water; in the same way all souls have sprung from the Universal Being and would blend again into it.\n\nJewish thought considers God as separate from all physical, created things (transcendent) and as existing outside of time (eternal).\n\nAccording to Chasidic Thought (particularly as propounded by the 18th century, early 19th century founder of Chabad, Shneur Zalman of Liadi), God is held to be immanent within creation for two interrelated reasons:\n\nThe Vilna Gaon was very much against this philosophy, for he felt that it would lead to pantheism and heresy. According to some this is the main reason for the Gaon's ban on Chasidism.\n\nAccording to Maimonides, God is an incorporeal being that caused all other existence. In fact, God is defined as the necessary existent that caused all other existence. According to Maimonides, to admit corporeality to God is tantamount to admitting complexity to God, which is a contradiction to God as the First Cause and constitutes heresy. While Hasidic mystics considered the existence of the physical world a contradiction to God's simpleness, Maimonides saw no contradiction.\n\nChristianity strongly maintains the creator–creature distinction as fundamental. Christians maintain that God created the universe \"ex nihilo\" and not from his own substance, so that the creator is not to be confused with creation, but rather transcends it (metaphysical dualism) (cf. Genesis). Although, there is growing movement to have a \"Christian Panentheism\". Even more immanent concepts and theologies are to be defined together with God's omnipotence, omnipresence and omniscience, due to God's desire for intimate contact with his own creation (cf. Acts 17:27). Another use of the term \"monism\" is in Christian anthropology to refer to the innate nature of humankind as being holistic, as usually opposed to bipartite and tripartite views.\n\nIn \"On Free Choice of the Will\", Augustine argued, in the context of the problem of evil, that evil is not the opposite of good, but rather merely the absence of good, something that does not have existence in itself. Likewise, C. S. Lewis described evil as a \"parasite\" in \"Mere Christianity\", as he viewed evil as something that cannot exist without good to provide it with existence. Lewis went on to argue against dualism from the basis of moral absolutism, and rejected the dualistic notion that God and Satan are opposites, arguing instead that God has no equal, hence no opposite. Lewis rather viewed Satan as the opposite of Michael the archangel. Due to this, Lewis instead argued for a more limited type of dualism. Other theologians, such as Greg Boyd, have argued in more depth that the Biblical authors held a \"limited dualism\", meaning that God and Satan do engage in real battle, but only due to free will given by God, for the duration God allows.\n\nIsaiah 45:5-7\n5 I am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:\n6 That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else.\n7 I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do all these things.\n\nIn Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, while human beings are not ontologically identical with the Creator, they are nonetheless capable with uniting with his Divine Nature via theosis, and especially, through the devout reception of the Holy Eucharist. This is a supernatural union, over and above that natural union, of which St. John of the Cross says, \"it must be known that God dwells and is present substantially in every soul, even in that of the greatest sinner in the world, and this union is natural.\" Julian of Norwich, while maintaining the orthodox duality of Creator and creature, nonetheless speaks of God as \"the true Father and true Mother\" of all natures; thus, he indwells them substantially and thus preserves them from annihilation, as without this sustaining indwelling everything would cease to exist.\n\nHowever, in Eastern Orthodoxy creation is united to God by grace and not by nature. This is what is known as the Essence-Energies distinction, while in union with God, Orthodox Christians believe, the human person retains its individuality and is not swallowed up by the Monad.\n\nSome Christian theologians are avowed monists, such as Paul Tillich. Since God is he \"in whom we live and move and have our being\" (Book of Acts 17.28), it follows that everything that has being partakes in God.\n\nVincent Cornell argues that the Quran provides a monist image of God by describing reality as a unified whole, with God being a single concept that would describe or ascribe all existing things. But most argue that Semitic religious scriptures, especially the Quran, see creation and God as two separate existences. It explains that everything has been created by God and is under his control, but at the same time distinguishes creation as being dependent on the existence of God.\n\nSufi mystics advocate monism. One of the most notable being the 13th-century Persian poet Rumi (1207–73) in his didactic poem \"Masnavi\" espoused monism. Rumi says in the Masnavi,\nThe most influential of the Islamic monists was the Sufi philosopher Ibn Arabi (1165–1240). He developed the concept of 'unity of being' (Arabic: \"waḥdat al-wujūd\"), a pantheistic monoist philosophy. Born in al-Andalus, he made an enormous impact on the Muslim world, where he was crowned \"the great Master\". In the centuries following his death, his ideas became increasingly controversial.\n\nAlthough the Bahá'í teachings have a strong emphasis on social and ethical issues, there exist a number of foundational texts that have been described as mystical. Some of these include statements of a monist nature (e.g., \"The Seven Valleys\" and the \"Hidden Words\"). The differences between dualist and monist views are reconciled by the teaching that these opposing viewpoints are caused by differences in the observers themselves, not in that which is observed. This is not a 'higher truth/lower truth' position. God is unknowable. For man it is impossible to acquire any direct knowledge of God or the Absolute, because any knowledge that one has, is relative.\n\nAccording to nondualism, many forms of religion are based on an experiential or intuitive understanding of \"the Real\". Nondualism, a modern reinterpretation of these religions, prefers the term \"nondualism\", instead of monism, because this understanding is \"nonconceptual\", \"not graspable in an idea\".\n\nTo these nondual traditions belong Hinduism (including Vedanta, some forms of Yoga, and certain schools of Shaivism), Taoism, Pantheism, Rastafari and similar systems of thought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30909817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30909817", "title": "Multilinear subspace learning", "text": "Multilinear subspace learning\n\nMultilinear subspace learning is an approach to dimensionality reduction. \nDimensionality reduction can be performed on a data tensor whose observations have been vectorized and organized into a data tensor, or whose observations are matrices that are concatenated into a data tensor. Here are some examples of data tensors whose observations are vectorized or whose observations are matrices concatenated into data tensor images (2D/3D), video sequences (3D/4D), and hyperspectral cubes (3D/4D).\n\nThe mapping from a high-dimensional vector space to a set of lower dimensional vector spaces is a multilinear projection.\n\nMultilinear subspace learning algorithms are higher-order generalizations of linear subspace learning methods such as principal component analysis (PCA), independent component analysis (ICA), linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and canonical correlation analysis (CCA).\n\nWith the advances in data acquisition and storage technology, big data (or massive data sets) are being generated on a daily basis in a wide range of emerging applications. Most of these big data are multidimensional. Moreover, they are usually very-high-dimensional, with a large amount of redundancy, and only occupying a part of the input space. Therefore, dimensionality reduction is frequently employed to map high-dimensional data to a low-dimensional space while retaining as much information as possible.\n\nLinear subspace learning algorithms are traditional dimensionality reduction techniques that represent input data as vectors and solve for an optimal linear mapping to a lower-dimensional space. Unfortunately, they often become inadequate when dealing with massive multidimensional data. They result in very-high-dimensional vectors, lead to the estimation of a large number of parameters.\n\nMultilinear Subspace Learning employ different types of data tensor analysis tools for dimensionality reduction. Multilinear Subspace learning can be applied to observations whose measurements were vectorized and organized into a data tensor, or whose measurements are treated as a matrix and concatenated into a tensor.\n\nHistorically, multilinear principal component analysis has been referred to as \"M-mode PCA\", a terminology which was coined by Peter Kroonenberg. In 2005, Vasilescu and Terzopoulos introduced the Multilinear PCA terminology as a way to better differentiate between linear tensor decompositions and multilinear tensor decomposition, as well as, to better differentiate between analysis approaches that computed 2nd order statistics associated with each data tensor mode(axis)s, and subsequent work on Multilinear Independent Component Analysis that computed higher order statistics associated with each tensor mode/axis. MPCA is an extension of PCA.\n\nMultilinear independent component analysis is an extension of ICA.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are \"N\" sets of parameters to be solved, one in each mode. The solution to one set often depends on the other sets (except when \"N=1\", the linear case). Therefore, the suboptimal iterative procedure in is followed.\n\n\nThis is originated from the alternating least square method for multi-way data analysis.\n\nThe advantages of MSL over traditional linear subspace modeling, in common domains where the representation is naturally somewhat tensorial, are:\n\n\nHowever, MSL algorithms are iterative and are not guaranteed to converge; where an MSL algorithm does converge, it may do so at a local optimum. (In contrast, traditional linear subspace modeling techniques often produce an exact closed-form solution.) MSL convergence problems can often be mitigated by choosing an appropriate subspace dimensionality, and by appropriate strategies for initialization, for termination, and for choosing the order in which projections are solved.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27374402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27374402", "title": "N170", "text": "N170\n\nThe N170 is a component of the event-related potential (ERP) that reflects the neural processing of faces.\n\nWhen potentials evoked by images of faces are compared to those elicited by other visual stimuli, the former show increased negativity 130-200 ms after stimulus presentation. This response is maximal over occipito-temporal electrode sites, which is consistent with a source located at the fusiform and inferior-temporal gyri, confirmed by electrocorticography. The N170 generally displays right-hemisphere lateralization and has been linked with the structural encoding of faces. A study, employing transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with EEG, found that N170 can be modulated by top-down influences from prefrontal cortex.\n\nThe N170 was first described by Shlomo Bentin and colleagues in 1996, who measured ERPs from participants viewing faces and other objects. They found that human faces and face parts (such as eyes) elicited different responses than other stimuli, including animal faces, body parts, and cars.\n\nEarlier work performed by Botzel and Grusser and first reported in 1989 also attempted to find a component of the ERP that corresponded to the processing of human faces. They showed observers line drawings (in one experiment) and black-and-white photographs (in two additional experiments) of faces, trees, and chairs. They found that, compared to the other stimulus classes, faces elicited a larger positive component approximately 150 ms after onset, which was maximal at central electrode sites (at the top of the head). The topography of this effect and lack of lateralization led to the conclusion that this face-specific potential did not arise in face-selective areas in the occipital-temporal region, but instead in the limbic system. Subsequent work referred to this component as the vertex positive potential (VPP).\n\nIn an attempt to rectify these two apparently conflicting results, Joyce and Rossion recorded ERPs from 53 scalp electrodes while participants viewed faces and other visual stimuli. After recording, they re-referenced the data to several commonly used reference electrode sites, including the nose and mastoid process. They found that the N170 and VPP can be accounted for by the same dipole arrangement arising from the same neural generators, and therefore reflect the same process.\n\nThree of the most studied attributes of the N170 include manipulations of face inversion, facial race, and emotional expressions.\n\nIt has been established that inverted faces (i.e., those presented upside-down) are more difficult to perceive (the Thatcher effect is a good illustration of this). In their landmark study, Bentin et al. found that inverted faces increased the latency of the N170 component. Jacques and colleagues further studied the timecourse of the face inversion effect (FIE) using an adaptation paradigm. When the same stimulus is presented multiple times, the neuronal response decreases over time; when a different stimulus is presented, the response recovers. The conditions under which a \"release from adaptation\" occurs therefore provides a way to measure stimulus similarity. In their experiment, Jacques et al. found that the release from adaptation is smaller and occurs 30 ms later for inverted faces, indicating that the neuronal population encoding face identity require additional processing time to detect the identity of inverted faces.\n\nIn an experiment examining the effects of race on the N170's amplitude, it was found that an \"Other-Race Effect\" was elicited in conjunction with face inversions. Vizioli and colleagues examined the effect of face recognition impairment while subjects process same race (SR) or other race (OR) pictures. The research team devised a N170 experiment based on the premise that visual expertise plays a critical role in inversion, hypothesizing that viewers' greater level of expertise with SR faces (holistic processing) should elicit a stronger FIE compared to OR face stimuli. The authors recorded EEGs from Western Caucasian and East Asian subjects (two separate groups) who were presented with pictures of Western Caucasian, East Asian and African America faces in upright and inverted orientations. All the facial stimuli were cropped to remove external features (i.e. hair, beards, hats, etc.). Both groups displayed a later N170 with larger amplitude (over the right hemisphere) for inverted than upright same-race (SR) faces, but showed no inversion effect for OR and AA photo stimuli. Moreover, no race effects were observed in regard to the peak amplitude of the N170 for upright faces in both groups of participants. The results also found no significant latency differences among the races of stimuli, but facial inversion did increase and delay the N170 amplitude and onset respectively. They conclude that the subjects' lack of experience with inverted faces makes processing such stimuli more difficult than pictures shown in their canonical orientation, regardless of what race the stimulus is.\n\nBesides modulation by inversion and race, emotional expressions have also been a focus of N170 face research. In an experiment conducted by Righart and de Gelder, ERP results show that the early stages of face processing may be affected by emotional scenes when categorizations of fearful and happy facial expressions are made by subjects. In this paradigm subjects had to view color pictures of happy or fearful faces that were centrally overlaid on pictures of natural scenes. And in order to control for low level features, such as color and other items that could care meaning, all the scene pictures were scrambled by randomizing the position of pixels across the image. The final results of the experiment show that emotion effects were associated with the N170 in which there was a larger (negative) amplitude for faces when they appeared in a fearful context then when placed in happy or neutral scenes. In fact, left occipito-temporal distributed N170 amplitudes were dramatically increased for intact fearful faces when they appeared in a fearful scene, though levels were not as high when a fearful face was presented in a happy or neutral scene. Similar results did occur in regard to intact happy faces, but the amplitudes were not as high as those related to fearful scenes or expressions. Righart and de Gelder conclude that information from task-irrelevant scenes is rapidly combined with the information from facial expressions, and that subjects use context information in the early stage of processing when they need to discriminate/categorize facial expressions.\n\nResults from a study conducted by Ghuman and colleagues using direct neural recordings from the fusiform face area using electrocorticography showed that while the N170 displays a very strong response to faces when compared to other visual images, the N170 is not sensitive to the identity of the face. Instead, they showed that which face a person is viewing can be decoded from the activity between 250–500 ms, consistent with the hypothesis that identity processing begins with the N250. These results suggest that the N170 is important for gist-level processing of faces and face detection, processes which may set the stage for later face individuation.\n\nGiven the ease and rapidity with which humans can recognize faces, a great deal of neuroscientific research has endeavored to understand how and where the brain processes them. Early research on prosopagnosia, or \"face blindness\", found that damage to the occipito-temporal region led to an impaired or complete inability for people to recognize faces. Convergent evidence for the importance of this region in face processing came through the use of fMRI, which found that a region of the fusiform gyrus, the \"fusiform face area\", responded selectively to images of faces.\n\nIntracranial recordings in humans using electrocorticography provide very strong evidence that the fusiform face area is one of the generators of the N170, though other regions of the face processing network may also contribute to the N170.\n\nAn investigation of the N170 undertaken used ERP source-localization techniques to estimate the location of the neural generator of the N170. They concluded that the N170 arose from the posterior superior temporal sulcus. However, it should be noted that these techniques are fraught with potential sources of error, and there is disagreement on the validity of inferences drawn from such findings.\n\nIn 2007, Guillaume Thierry and colleagues presented evidence that called into question the face-specificity of the N170. Most earlier experiments found an N170 when the response to frontal views of faces was compared to those of other objects that could appear in more variable poses and configurations. In their study, they introduced a new factor: stimuli could be faces or non-faces, and either class could have high or low similarity. Similarity was measured by calculating the correlation between pixel values in pairs of same-category stimuli. When ERPs were compared for these conditions, they found a typical N170 effect in the low-similarity non-face vs. high-similarity face comparison. However, high-similarity non-faces showed a significant N170, while low-similarity faces did not. These results led the authors to conclude that the N170 is actually a measure of stimulus similarity, and not face processing per se.\n\nIn response to this, Rossion and Jacques measured similarity as above for several object categories used in a previous study of the N170. They found that faces elicited a larger N170 than other classes of objects that had similar or higher similarity values, such as houses, cars, and shoes. While it remains uncertain why Thierry et al. observed an effect of similarity on the N170, Rossion and Jacques speculate that lower similarity leads to more variance in the latency of the response. Since ERP components are measured by averaging the results from many individual trials, high latency variance effectively “smears” the response, reducing the amplitude of the average. Rossion and Jacques also offer criticism of the methodology used by Thierry and colleagues, arguing that their failure to find a difference between high-similarity faces and high-similarity non-faces was due to a poor choice of electrode sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "31628234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31628234", "title": "Narcissistic defences", "text": "Narcissistic defences\n\nNarcissistic defenses are those processes whereby the idealized aspects of the self are preserved, and its limitations denied. They tend to be rigid and totalistic. They are often driven by feelings of shame and guilt, conscious or unconscious.\n\nNarcissistic defenses are among the earliest defense mechanisms to emerge, and include denial, distortion, and projection. Splitting is another defense mechanism prevalent among individuals with narcissistic personality disorder—seeing people and situations in black and white terms, either as all bad or all good.\n\nA narcissistic defense, with the disorder's typical over-valuation of the self, can appear at any stage of development.\n\nThe narcissist typically runs through a sequence of defenses to discharge painful feelings until he or she finds one that works: \n\nSigmund Freud did not focus specifically on narcissistic defenses, but did note in \"On Narcissism\" how \"even great criminals and humorists, as they are represented in literature, compel our interest by the narcissistic consistency with which they manage to keep away from their ego anything that would diminish it\". Freud saw narcissistic regression as a defensive answer to object loss – denying the loss of an important object by way of a substitutive identification with it.\n\nFreud also considered social narcissism as a defence mechanism, apparent when communal identifications produce irrational panics at perceived threats to 'Throne and Altar' or 'Free Markets', or in English over-reaction to any questioning of the status and identity of William Shakespeare.\n\nOtto Fenichel considered that \"identification, performed by means of introjection, is the most primitive form of relationship to objects\" a primitive mechanism only used \"if the ego's function of reality testing is severely damaged by a narcissistic regression.\" \n\nFenichel also highlighted \"eccentrics who have more or less succeeded in regaining the security of primary narcissism and who feel 'Nothing can happen to me'...[failing] to give up the archaic stages of repudiating displeasure and to turn toward reality\".\n\nJacques Lacan, following out Freud's view of the ego as the result of identifications, came to consider the ego itself as a narcissistic defence, driven by what he called \"the 'narcissistic passion' ...in the coming-into-being (\"devenir\") of the subject\".\n\nMelanie Klein, emphasised projective identification in narcissism, and the manic defence against becoming aware of the damage done to objects in this way. For Kleinians, at the core of manic defences in narcissism stood what Hanna Segal called \"a triad of feelings—control, triumph and contempt\".\n\nHerbert Rosenfeld looked at the role of omnipotence, combined with projective identification, as a narcissistic means of defending against awareness of separation between ego and object.\n\nIn the wake of Klein, object relations theory, including particularly the American schools of Otto Kernberg and Heinz Kohut has explored narcissistic defences through analysis of such mechanisms as denial, projective identification, and extreme idealization.\n\nKernberg emphasised the role of the splitting apart introjections, and identifications of opposing qualities, as a cause of ego weakness. Kohut too stressed the fact in narcissism \"vertical splits are between self-structures (among others)—'I am grand' and 'I am wretched'—with very little communication between them\".\n\nNeville Symington however placed greater weight on the way \"a person dominated by narcissistic currents...survives through being able to sense the emotional tone of the other...wearing the cloaks of others\"; while for Spotnitz the key element is that the narcissist turns feelings in upon the self in narcissistic defense.\n\nKernberg emphasised the positive side to narcissistic defenses, while Kohut also stressed the necessity in early life for narcissistic positions to succeed each other in orderly maturational sequences.\n\nOthers like Symington would maintain that \"it is a mistake to split narcissism into positive and negative...we do not get positive narcissism without self-hatred\".\n\nArikan found that a stigmatising attitude to psychiatric patients is associated with narcissistic defences.\n\nThe twenty-first century has seen a distinction drawn between cerebral and somatic narcissists – the former building up their self-sense through intellectualism, the latter through an obsession with their bodies, as with the woman who, in bad faith, invests her sense of freedom only in being an object of beauty for others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5506241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5506241", "title": "Nazi eugenics", "text": "Nazi eugenics\n\nNazi eugenics (, \"National Socialist racial hygiene\") were Nazi Germany's racially based social policies that placed the biological improvement of the Aryan race or Germanic \"Übermenschen\" master race through eugenics at the center of Nazi ideology. In Germany, eugenics were mostly known under the synonymous term racial hygiene. Following the Second World War, both terms effectively vanished and were replaced by \"Humangenetik\" (human genetics).\n\nEugenics research in Germany before and during the Nazi period was similar to that in the United States (particularly California), by which it had been partly inspired. However, its prominence rose sharply under Adolf Hitler's leadership when wealthy Nazi supporters started heavily investing in it. The programs were subsequently shaped to complement Nazi racial policies.\n\nThose humans targeted for destruction under Nazi eugenics policies were largely living in private and state-operated institutions, identified as \"life unworthy of life\" (), including prisoners, \"degenerates\", dissidents, people with congenital cognitive and physical disabilities (including people who were \"feebleminded\", epileptic, schizophrenic, manic-depressive, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, deaf, blind) (), homosexual, idle, insane, and the weak, for elimination from the chain of heredity. More than 400,000 people were sterilized against their will, while more than 70,000 were killed under Action T4, a euthanasia program. In June 1935, Hitler and his cabinet made a list of seven new decrees, number 5 was to speed up the investigations of sterilization.\n\nThe early German eugenics movement was led by Wilhelm Schallmayer and Alfred Ploetz. Henry Friedlander wrote that although the German and American eugenics movements were similar, the German movement was more centralized and did not contain as many diverse ideas as the American movement. Unlike the American movement, one publication and one society, the German Society for Racial Hygiene, represented all eugenicists.\n\nEdwin Black wrote that after the eugenics movement was well established in the United States, it was spread to Germany. California eugenicists began producing literature promoting eugenics and sterilization and sending it overseas to German scientists and medical professionals. By 1933, California had subjected more people to forceful sterilization than all other U.S. states combined. The forced sterilization program engineered by the Nazis was partly inspired by California's.\n\nIn 1927, the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Anthropology (KWIA), an organization which concentrated on physical and social anthropology as well as human genetics, was founded in Berlin with significant financial support from the American philanthropic group, the Rockefeller Foundation. German professor of medicine, anthropology and eugenics Eugen Fischer was the director of this organization, a man whose work helped provide the scientific basis for the Nazis' eugenics policies. The Rockefeller Foundation even funded some of the research conducted by Josef Mengele before he went to Auschwitz.\n\nUpon returning from Germany in 1934, where more than 5,000 people per month were being forcibly sterilized, the California eugenics leader C. M. Goethe bragged to a colleague:\n\nEugenics researcher Harry H. Laughlin often bragged that his Model Eugenic Sterilization laws had been implemented in the 1935 Nuremberg racial hygiene laws. In 1936, Laughlin was invited to an award ceremony at Heidelberg University in Germany (scheduled on the anniversary of Hitler's 1934 purge of Jews from the Heidelberg faculty), to receive an honorary doctorate for his work on the \"science of racial cleansing\". Due to financial limitations, Laughlin was unable to attend the ceremony and had to pick it up from the Rockefeller Institute. Afterwards, he proudly shared the award with his colleagues, remarking that he felt that it symbolized the \"common understanding of German and American scientists of the nature of eugenics.\"\n\nAdolf Hitler read about racial hygiene during his imprisonment in Landsberg Prison.\n\nHitler believed the nation had become weak, corrupted by dysgenics, the infusion of degenerate elements into its bloodstream.\n\nThe racialism and idea of competition, termed social Darwinism in 1944, were discussed by European scientists and also in the Vienna press during the 1920s. Where Hitler picked up the ideas is uncertain. The theory of evolution had been generally accepted in Germany at the time, but this sort of extremism was rare.\n\nIn his \"Second Book\", which was unpublished during the Nazi era, Hitler praised Sparta, (using ideas perhaps borrowed from Ernst Haeckel), adding that he considered Sparta to be the first \"Völkisch State\". He endorsed what he perceived to be an early eugenics treatment of deformed children:\n\nSparta must be regarded as the first Völkisch State. The exposure of the sick, weak, deformed children, in short, their destruction, was more decent and in truth a thousand times more humane than the wretched insanity of our day which preserves the most pathological subject, and indeed at any price, and yet takes the life of a hundred thousand healthy children in consequence of birth control or through abortions, in order subsequently to breed a race of degenerates burdened with illnesses.\n\nIn organizing their eugenics program the Nazis were inspired by the United States' programs of forced sterilization, especially on the eugenics laws that had been enacted in California.\n\nThe Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring, enacted on July 14, 1933, allowed the compulsory sterilisation of any citizen who according to the opinion of a \"Genetic Health Court\" suffered from a list of alleged genetic disorders and required physicians to register every case of hereditary illness known to them, except in women over 45 years of age. Physicians could be fined for failing to comply.\n\nIn 1934, the first year of the Law's operation, nearly 4,000 persons appealed against the decisions of sterilization authorities. A total of 3,559 of the appeals failed. By the end of the Nazi regime, over 200 Hereditary Health Courts () were created, and under their rulings over 400,000 persons were sterilized against their will.\n\nThe Hadamar Clinic was a mental hospital in the German town of Hadamar used by the Nazi-controlled German government as the site of Action T4. The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics was founded in 1927. Hartheim Euthanasia Centre was also part of the euthanasia programme where the Nazis killed individuals they deemed disabled. The first method used involved transporting patients by buses in which the engine exhaust gases were passed into the interior of the buses, and so killed the passengers. Gas chambers were developed later and used pure carbon monoxide gas to kill the patients.\nIn its early years, and during the Nazi era, the Clinic was strongly associated with theories of eugenics and racial hygiene advocated by its leading theorists Fritz Lenz and Eugen Fischer, and by its director Otmar von Verschuer. Under Fischer, the sterilization of so-called Rhineland Bastards was undertaken. Grafeneck Castle was one of Nazi Germany's killing centers, and today it is a memorial place dedicated to the victims of the Action T4.\n\nThe Law for Simplification of the Health System of July 1934 created Information Centers for Genetic and Racial Hygiene, as well as Health Offices. The law also described procedures for 'denunciation' and 'evaluation' of persons, who were then sent to a Genetic Health Court where sterilization was decided.\n\nInformation to determine who was considered 'genetically sick' was gathered from routine information supplied by people to doctor's offices and welfare departments. Standardized questionnaires had been designed by Nazi officials with the help of Dehomag (a subsidiary of IBM in the 1930s), so that the information could be encoded easily onto Hollerith punch cards for fast sorting and counting.\n\nIn Hamburg, doctors gave information into a Central Health Passport Archive (circa 1934), under something called the 'Health-Related Total Observation of Life'. This file was to contain reports from doctors, but also courts, insurance companies, sports clubs, the Hitler Youth, the military, the labor service, colleges, etc. Any institution that gave information would get information back in return. In 1940, the Reich Interior Ministry tried to impose a Hamburg-style system on the whole Reich.\n\nAfter the Nazis passed the Nuremberg Laws in 1935, it became compulsory for both marriage partners to be tested for hereditary diseases in order to preserve the perceived racial purity of the Aryan race. Everyone was encouraged to carefully evaluate his or her prospective marriage partner eugenically during courtship. Members of the SS were cautioned to carefully interview prospective marriage partners to make sure they had no family history of hereditary disease or insanity, but to do this carefully so as not to hurt the feelings of the prospective fiancee and, if it became necessary to reject her for eugenic reasons, to do it tactfully and not cause her any offense.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n\n\nGeneral reference\n\nUnited States Holocaust Memorial Museum\n"}
{"id": "739262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739262", "title": "Neural correlate", "text": "Neural correlate\n\nA neural correlate of a content of experience is any bodily component, such as an electro-neuro-biological state or the state assumed by some biophysical subsystem of the brain, whose presence necessarily and regularly correlates with such a specific content of experience.\n\nWhen the full ontological consistence or build-up of the reality variably called mind, soul, psyche, or existentiality is called \"consciousness\" and deemed to exclusively consist in mental contents associated with and at least partly generated by the brain organ, the notion of neural correlate of consciousness is commonly employed. When it is only the sensations that are held to be produced by brain states, whether exclusively or not (\"e.g.\", when sensations are also deemed capable of being generated by the mind reacting against itself), then the notion of neural correlate of a content of experience is commonly utilized. A mid-way concept, not always clarified, is that of a neural correlate encompassing the production of every mental content but not of consciousness itself.\n\nThe notion of a neural correlate of a mental state is an important concept for materialists, those philosophers of mind and researchers who believe that all mental states are equivalent to brain states. According to strict materialists, all properties credited to the mind, including consciousness, emotion, beliefs, and desires have direct neural correlates. This is also a pragmatic view adopted by a number of scholars. This view frequently depends on considering minds exclusively as sentient knots in nature's causal net.\n\nInstead, other neuroscientists find minds inaugurating causal actions in nature, rather than solely being able of merely continuing previously initiated causal sequences. These neuroscientists thus describe minds as percipient agencies, the mind's very agency or causal aptitude being deemed extraneous to any neural correlate.\n\nStill, some neurobiologists consider reasons to further assume that rememberings are not engraved in brain tissue but retained by the very mind, which thereby transforms itself in a way different from the time changes underwent by non-minds. These later neuroscientists consider that there is no neural correlate for episodal and some other memories, but that the mind moves the brain state (like as it may also inaugurate a finger movement) in such a way as to produce a brain state which the mind then reacts to by fleshing its selected memory again (Husserl's \"Einfüllung\"), re-imagining it. This view develops a notion by Aristotle and, again, makes no use of the notion of neural correlate for certain experiences, namely in regard to complex mental contents. It only admits neural correlates for the mind's elementary sensational reactions, which are called \"intonations\" (following neurobiologist Christfried Jakob, 1866-1956).\n\nThe concept of a neural correlate only encompassing the production of intonations occurs in a variety of researchers on different neurobiological traditions, including Scholasticism (see \"References\"). Rather, the concept of a neural correlate encompassing the production of every mental content occurs only in a specific conceptual line of theoretical neuroscience, characterized by the following features:\n\n\nIn the conceptual line characterized by these four features, and in recent years, papers have been published on the neural correlates of awareness, emotions, and decision making. Francis Crick wrote a popular book \"The Astonishing Hypothesis\" whose thesis is that the neural correlate for consciousness lies in our nerve cells and their associated molecules. Crick and his collaborator Christof Koch have sought to avoid philosophical debates that are associated with the study of consciousness, by emphasizing the search for \"correlation\" and not \"causation\".\n\nThere is much room for disagreement about the nature of this correlation (\"e.g.\", does it require synchronous spikes of neurons in different regions of the brain? Is the co-activation of frontal or parietal areas necessary?). The philosopher David Chalmers maintains that a neural correlate of consciousness, unlike other correlates such as for memory, will fail to offer a satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon.\n\nNeurophysiological studies in animals provided some insights on the neural correlates of conscious behavior. Vernon Mountcastle, in the early 1960s, set up to study this set of problems, which he termed \"the Mind/Brain problem\", by studying the neural basis of perception in the somatic sensory system. His labs at Johns Hopkins were among the first, along with Edward V.Evarts at NIH, to record neural activity from behaving monkeys. Struck with the elegance of SS Stevens approach of magnitude estimation, Mountcastle's group discovered three different modalities of somatic sensation shared one cognitive attribute: in all cases the firing rate of peripheral neurons was linearly related to the strength of the percept elicited. More recently, Ken H. Britten, William T. Newsome, and C. Daniel Salzman have shown that in area MT of monkeys, neurons respond with variability that suggests they are the basis of decision making about direction of motion. They first showed that neuronal rates are predictive of decisions using signal detection theory, and then that stimulation of these neurons could predictably bias the decision. Such studies were followed by Ranulfo Romo in the somatic sensory system, to confirm, using a different percept and brain area, that a small number of neurons in one brain area underlie perceptual decisions.\n\nOther lab groups have followed Mountcastle's seminal work relating cognitive variables to neuronal activity with more complex cognitive tasks. Although monkeys cannot talk about their perceptions, behavioral tasks have been created in which animals made nonverbal reports, for example by producing hand movements. Many of these studies employ perceptual illusions as a way to dissociate sensations (\"i.e.\", the sensory information that the brain receives) from perceptions (\"i.e.\", how the consciousness interprets them). Neuronal patterns that represent perceptions rather than merely sensory input are interpreted as reflecting the neuronal correlate of consciousness.\n\nUsing such design, Nikos Logothetis and colleagues discovered perception-reflecting neurons in the temporal lobe. They created an experimental situation in which conflicting images were presented to different eyes (\"i.e.\", binocular rivalry). Under such conditions, human subjects report bistable percepts: they perceive alternatively one or the other image. Logothetis and colleagues trained the monkeys to report with their arm movements which image they perceived. Temporal lobe neurons in Logothetis experiments often reflected what the monkeys' perceived. Neurons with such properties were less frequently observed in the primary visual cortex that corresponds to relatively early stages of visual processing. Another set of experiments using binocular rivalry in humans showed that certain layers of the cortex can be excluded as candidates of the neural correlate of consciousness. Logothetis and colleagues switched the images between eyes during the percept of one of the images. Surprisingly the percept stayed stable. This means that the conscious percept stayed stable and at the same time the primary input to layer 4, which is the input layer, in the visual cortex changed. Therefore layer 4 can not be a part of the neural correlate of consciousness. Mikhail Lebedev and their colleagues observed a similar phenomenon in monkey prefrontal cortex. In their experiments monkeys reported the perceived direction of visual stimulus movement (which could be an illusion) by making eye movements. Some prefrontal cortex neurons represented actual and some represented perceived displacements of the stimulus. Observation of perception related neurons in prefrontal cortex is consistent with the theory of Christof Koch and Francis Crick who postulated that neural correlate of consciousness resides in prefrontal cortex. Proponents of distributed neuronal processing may likely dispute the view that consciousness has a precise localization in the brain.\n\nIn addition to neural correlate of consciousness in general, much progress has been made in elucidating neural correlates of specific cognitive variables. Thus, Earl Miller and colleagues discovered prefrontal cortex neurons that represent perceptual categories (cats versus dogs in their experiments). The work of Richard Andersen, Steven Wise, Carl Olson, Jun Tanji, Apostolos Georgopoulos and other neuroscientists has illuminated neuronal correlates of motor planning, selective visual attention, motor sequences and spatial reference frames in which these entities are represented by brain cells. The progress in understanding neuronal correlates of motor planning has led to the creation of brain-machine interface so, the devices that translate neuronal activity into purposeful commands to artificial actuators.\n\nA large number of studies have addressed the problem of neural correlates of mental representations in human subjects. For example, functional neuroimaging have shown that parts of the cortex are still active in vegetative patients that are presumed to be unconscious (Laureys, Trends Cogn Sci, 2005, 9:556-559). However, these areas appear to be functionally disconnected from associative cortical areas whose activity is needed for awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56739900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56739900", "title": "Parable of the Polygons", "text": "Parable of the Polygons\n\nParable of the Polygons is a 2014 interactive blog post created by Vi Hart and game developer Nicky Case. The article focuses on a society of blue squares and yellow triangles which have slight personal biases against diversity, which leads to social segregation. It is based on game theorist Thomas Schelling's papers about residential segregation. The article was well-received, especially its visual and playable aspects, and was called a useful educational tool for topics like racial segregation.\n\nThe article is an interactive blog post, \"part story and part game\". It has a model consisting of a society of blue squares and yellow triangles, presented in a grid. At the top of the article, a crowd of triangles and squares are wiggling. Just under, it says, \"This is a story of how harmless choices can make a harmful world.\" The article first demonstrates step-by-step how institutional bias can occur even when there is little personal bias against diversity, and individuals are well-intentioned. The article describes the squares and triangles as \"slightly shapist\". In the first example, a square or triangle is happy only if at least a third of its neighbors are of the same shape as it is. The shapes merely adopt a meh face in a homogeneous neighborhood. \n\nAt this point, the article lets the reader interact with the model. The reader's goal is to make all residents happy with where they live, by moving only unhappy shapes. At first, the bias is easily managed; however, as the population grows, the shapes' bias quickly leads to visually segregated areas. The article reads: \"Sometimes a neighborhood just becomes square, and it's not their fault if no triangles wanna stick around. And a triangular neighborhood would welcome a square, but they can't help it if squares ain't interested.\" \n\nThe reader can later execute automated simulations, and increase and decrease the shapes' bias. When the bias is increased, the segregation is more prominent. A subsequent iteration of the game shows that decreasing bias does not make a difference if the population started out segregated. Shapes then have to reject the default scenario of segregation in favor of seeking out the other shapes. Finally, the reader can generate new models using a sandbox. \n\nThe article departs from Schelling's work by discussing a demand for \"even the smallest bit of diversity\" which reverses residential segregation; Case said that the article teaches that such segregation is \"easily offset\" with a \"small amount of anti-bias\", even if bias is still present. The article also departs from Schelling by concluding with encouraging words on how to enact change. The article concludes with: \"If you're all triangles, you're missing out on some amazing squares in your life – that's unfair to everyone. Reach out, beyond your immediate neighbors.\"\n\nVi Hart and Nicky Case, creator of \"Coming Out Simulator 2014\", teamed up following a talk on the lack of tech event diversity and women in STEM delivered by Hart, which convinced Case \"of the necessity of active measures\". The article applies ideas from game theorist and economist Thomas Schelling's 1978 paper \"Micromotives and Macrobehaviour\" which describes how small personal bias against diversity leads to greater segregation in the general population. It is also based on Schelling's 1971 paper \"Dynamic Models of Segregation\". \n\nCase described Schelling's model as \"perfect – simple and fun to play\"; Schelling played his own model on a chess board or graph paper with nickels and dimes, moving them one by one. Case said that he was \"fascinated with taking models/systems from the arts [and] humanities, and translating them into game models/systems\". The second part of the article was based on a \"new surprising aspect of Schelling's model\", which introduced a nonconformity bias. Case said that by playing around with variables, they found that \"just as a \"small\" bias can turn a society segregated, a \"small\" anti-bias can reverse that\". Hart said they knew that nonconformity would mix up the population, but that they were \"pleasantly surprised to see it work even [at a] very minimum level\". Case said that the article ends on an \"optimistic note\" that \"small local changes really can change institutions from the bottom-up\". Development of the article began in September 2014.\n\nThe goal of \"Parable of the Polygons\" was for readers to \"learn to demand diversity\". People are represented by abstract shapes because marking their races and genders would be \"really weird\" and \"have the unfortunate implication that [the races and genders] are binary and immutable\". A triangle was chosen because it appears in Hart's videos. The article contains few words, and the ability to move shapes is introduced \"slowly and deliberately\". Hart said that they felt that \"it was important to start with moving the shapes by hand, so that later when shapes move automatically [the reader would know] there's nothing going on behind [their] back\". The article provides readers with interactive sections governed by simple rules to help them prove the counter-intuitive results to themselves. Case said that there was \"an effort made to keep players from being scared off by the big stuff\"; thus, the article includes jokes, slang, and \"cute and friendly shapes\". Hart said that they wanted to make sure to explain systemic bias without changing the readers' \"minds\". Case said that a main message was \"[not to] take it personally\" because \"large collective bias can exist even with small individual bias\".\n\nThe article was released in December 2014; Hart noted that \"matters of systematic bias [were] even more topical [at the moment]\", and Case said, \"There's a huge gap between the racial proportions of the police force and the neighborhoods they're policing, that both reinforces and results from racial tensions.\" Case said that Schelling's models could be identified in that \"a black officer [had led] the police force one night\" amidst the Ferguson unrest. A remixed version which includes a green pentagon was made the same year and is featured at the bottom of the article. Hart described the reaction to the article as \"more positive than anything [Hart's] ever done\" and \"almost disturbingly eerie\". Case said: \"It's been surprisingly positive and polite, especially for something that touches on a touchy subject!\" Hart said that they planned to \"tweak some stuff after release\", but did not because the reception was \"so overwhelmingly positive\". Case said that the article was doing \"shockingly well\", so any fixes \"might weaken or confuse the message\" when applied.\n\nThe critical reception for the article was overwhelmingly positive. Joanna Rothkopf of \"Salon\" called the article \"an adorable and eloquent primer on issues of segregation\". \"Columbia Journalism Review\" Chava Gourarie described the article as \"a cute, engaging, playable explanation\". Aatish Bhatia of \"Wired\" described the design and characters as \"charming\" and \"delightfully animated\".\n\nThe playable aspect of the article received praise. \"Kill Screen\" Jess Joho wrote, \"\"Parable of the Polygons\" asks you to tackle Schelling's concepts in a way only a game could.\"\nBhatia called the article \"a truly interactive way of communicating an idea\".\nJesse Singal of \"The Cut\" called the article \"a really well-done use of the web\".\n\nSingal noted the article's parallels to human behavior.\nBhatia said that the article delivers an \"effective, lucid and very relevant\" lesson on real-world segregation, race and equality.\nLaura Moss of \"Mother Nature Network\" said that it \"accurately illustrates racially segregated neighborhoods\", and noted that the article illustrates \"Schelling's three major findings\": the effect of slight individual bias, the starting game state and the reluctancy to become more diverse, and the necessity of intervention \"in creating and maintaining diversity\".\nJoho said that \"demonstrating a difficult reality while still maintaining a sense of actionable hope\" was the article's \"greatest achievement by far\".\n\n\"Gamasutra\" Phill Cameron praised the article for using triangles and squares and effectively dissociating itself from \"the prejudices of real life\".\nBhatia said that the article does not get \"embroiled in a heated political debate\".\nJoho wrote that the article is \"careful not to throw blame around\", and that it constantly emphasizes that personal biases might be \"unexamined, unintentional, or even unconscious\".\n\"The Washington Post\" Ana Swanson said that the call to action is a \"powerful\" message.\n\"Polygon\" Megan Farokhmanesh wrote, \"Half game, half informational post, \"Parable of the Polygons\" wants to encourage people to talk about topics like racism and sexism in healthy, constructive ways.\"\n\nAmanda Montañez wrote in a \"Scientific American\" blog that the shapes assume that \"their individual preference for diversity is sufficient to propel their society toward integration\", but that \"the social system in which they operate prohibits it\". Montañez said that \"true progress requires a more active, dramatic shift than expected\" and that, in the article, \"the complacent squares and triangles must abandon their preconceptions about the nature of 'shapism' and adopt a new, activist stance on integration\". Montañez compared the idea of using two-dimensional geometric shapes to represent people to the 1884 illustrated novella \"Flatland\" by Edwin Abbott Abbott.\n\n"}
{"id": "3944846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944846", "title": "Philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard", "text": "Philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard\n\nThe philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard has been a major influence in the development of 20th-century philosophy, especially existentialism and postmodernism. Kierkegaard was a 19th-century Danish philosopher who has been called the \"Father of Existentialism\". His philosophy also influenced the development of existential psychology.\n\nKierkegaard criticized aspects of the philosophical systems that were brought on by philosophers such as Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel before him and the Danish Hegelians. He was also indirectly influenced by the philosophy of Immanuel Kant. He measured himself against the model of philosophy which he found in Socrates, which aims to draw one's attention not to explanatory systems, but rather to the issue of how one exists.\n\nOne of Kierkegaard's recurrent themes is the importance of subjectivity, which has to do with the way people relate themselves to (objective) truths. In \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments\", he argues that \"subjectivity is truth\" and \"truth is subjectivity.\" What he means by this is that most essentially, truth is not just a matter of discovering objective facts. While objective facts are important, there is a second and more crucial element of truth, which involves how one relates oneself to those matters of fact. Since how one acts is, from the ethical perspective, more important than any matter of fact, truth is to be found in subjectivity rather than objectivity.\n\nMany of Kierkegaard's earlier writings from 1843 to 1846 were written pseudonymously. In the non-pseudonymous \"The Point of View of My Work as an Author\", he explained that the pseudonymous works are written from perspectives which are not his own: while Kierkegaard himself was a religious author, the pseudonymous authors wrote from points of view that were aesthetic or speculative. One exception to this is \"Anti-Climacus\", a pseudonymous author developed after the writing of \"The Point of View\": Anti-Climacus is a religious author who writes from a Christian perspective so ideal that Kierkegaard did not wish it to be attributed to himself.\n\nBecause the pseudonymous authors write from perspectives which are not Kierkegaard's own, some of the philosophy mentioned in this article may or may not necessarily reflect Kierkegaard's own beliefs. Just as other philosophers bring up viewpoints in their essays to discuss and criticize them, Kierkegaard assigns pseudonyms to explore a particular viewpoint in-depth, which may take up a whole book or two in some instances, and Kierkegaard, or another pseudonym, critiques that position. For example, the author, \"Johannes Climacus\" is not a Christian and he argues from a non-Christian viewpoint. \"Anti-Climacus\", as mentioned earlier, is a Christian to a high degree and he argues from a devout Christian viewpoint. Kierkegaard places his beliefs in-between these two authors.\n\nMost of Kierkegaard's later philosophical and religious writings from 1846 to 1855 were written and authored by himself, and he assigned no pseudonyms to these works. Subsequently, these works are considered by most scholars to reflect Kierkegaard's own beliefs. Where appropriate, this article will mention the respective author, pseudonymous or not.\n\nAlienation is a term philosophers apply to a wide variety of phenomena, including any feeling of separation from, and discontent with, society; feeling that there is a moral breakdown in society; feelings of powerlessness in the face of the solidity of social institutions; the impersonal, dehumanised nature of large-scale and bureaucratic social organisations. Kierkegaard recognizes and accepts the notion of alienation, although he phrases it and understands it in his own distinctly original terms. For Kierkegaard, the present age is a reflective age—one that values objectivity and thought over action, lip-service to ideals rather than action, discussion over action, publicity and advertising over reality, and fantasy over the real world. For Kierkegaard, the meaning of values has been removed from life, by lack of finding any true and legitimate authority. Instead of falling into any claimed authority, any \"literal\" sacred book or any other great and lasting voice, self-aware humans must confront an existential uncertainty.\n\nHumanity has lost meaning because the accepted criterion of reality and truth is ambiguous and subjective thought—that which cannot be proven with logic, historical research, or scientific analysis. Humans cannot think out choices in life, we must live them; and even those choices that we often think about become different once life itself enters into the picture. For Kierkegaard, the type of objectivity that a scientist or historian might use misses the point—humans are not motivated and do not find meaning in life through pure objectivity. Instead, they find it through passion, desire, and moral and religious commitment. These phenomena are not objectively provable—nor do they come about through any form of analysis of the external world; they come about through a direct relationship between one and the external world. Here Kierkegaard's emphasis is on relationship rather than analysis. This relationship is a way of looking at one’s life that evades objective scrutiny. \n\nKierkegaard's analysis of the present age uses terms that resemble but are not exactly coincident with Hegel and Marx's theory of alienation. However Kierkegaard expressly means that human beings are alienated from God because they are living too much in the world. Individuals need to gain their souls from the world because it actually belongs to God. Kierkegaard has no interest in external battles as Karl Marx does. His concern is about the inner fight for faith.\n\nAlbert Camus wrote about the idea of being a stranger in the world but reversed Kierkegaard's meaning. A stranger for Camus was someone living in the world who is forced to exist in a Christian way even though the individual does not want to be a Christian. But Kierkegaard was discussing the Christian who wants to be a Christian living in a world that has abandoned Christianity. Both Camus and Kierkegaard had in common an equal distaste for a Christian Democracy where all are forced to take a positive part in Christianity because freedom of choice would be lacking and in a non-Christian Democracy where none are allowed to take an active part in Christianity. Kierkegaard was against voting about Christianity, for him, Christ was the only authority. Camus called \"the existential attitude philosophical suicide.\" This is how he put it in \"The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Writings\" \n\nKierkegaard put it this way in \"Three Edifying Discourses\" 1843 and \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\" (1846). \n\nAn element of Kierkegaard's critique of modernity in his socio-political work, \"Two Ages\", is the mention of money — which he calls an abstraction. An abstraction is something that only has a reality in an ersatz reality. It is not tangible, and only has meaning within an artificial context, which ultimately serves devious and deceptive purposes. It is a figment of thought that has no concrete reality, neither now nor in the future.\n\nHow is money an abstraction? Money gives the illusion that it has a direct relationship to the work that is done. That is, the work one does is worth so much, equals so much money. In reality, however, the work one does is an expression of who one is as a person; it expresses one's goals in life and associated meaning. As a person, the work one performs is supposed to be an external realization of one's relationship to others and to the world. It is one's way of making the world a better place for oneself and for others. What reducing work to a monetary value does is to replace the concrete reality of one's everyday struggles with the world —to give it shape, form and meaning— with an abstraction. Kierkegaard lamented that \"a young man today would scarcely envy another his capacities or skill or the love of a beautiful girl or his fame, no, but he would envy him his money. Give me money, the young man will say, and I will be all right.\" But Kierkegaard thinks this emphasis on money leads to a denial of the gifts of the spirit to those who are poor and in misery. \n\nBelow are three quotes concerning Kierkegaard's idea of abstraction which cannot be thought about without thinking about concretion. He moves from the world historical, the general, to the single individual, the specific. The first from the esthete and the second from the ethicist in \"Either/Or\" and the third from the book that explained all his previous works; \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\". \n\nDeath is inevitable and temporally unpredictable. Kierkegaard believed that individuals needed to sincerely and intensely come to realize the truth of that fact in order to live passionately. Kierkegaard accuses society of being in death-denial. Even though people see death all around them and grasp as an objective fact that everyone dies, few people truly understand, subjectively and inwardly, that they will die someday. For example, in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\", Kierkegaard notes that people never think to say, \"I shall certainly attend your party, but I must make an exception for the contingency that a roof tile happens to blow down and kill me; for in that case, I cannot attend.\" This is jest as far as Kierkegaard is concerned. But there is also earnestness involved in the thought of death. Kierkegaard said the following about death in his Three Upbuilding Discourses, 1844. We shall not decide which life fights the good fight most easily, but we all agree that every human being ought to fight the good fight, from which no one is shut out, and yet this is so glorious that if it were granted only once to a past generation under exceptional circumstances-yes, what a description envy and discouragement would then know how to give! The difference is about the same as that in connection with the thought of death. As soon as a human being is born, he begins to die. But the difference is that there are some people for whom the thought of death comes into existence with birth and is present to them in the quiet peacefulness of childhood and the buoyancy of youth; whereas others have a period in which this thought is not present to them until, when the years run out, the years of vigor and vitality, the thought of death meets them on their way. Who, now, is going to decide which life was easier, whether it was the life of those who continually lived with a certain reserve because the thought of death was present to them or the life of those who so abandoned themselves to life that they almost forgot the existence of death?\n\nFor Kierkegaard's author, \"Vigilius Haufniensis\", anxiety/dread/angst (depending on the translation and context) is unfocused fear. Haufniensis uses the example of a man standing on the edge of a tall building or cliff. From this height he can see all the possibilities of life. He's reflecting on what he could become if he only threw himself into the power of his own choice. As long as he stands there he stands at the crossroads of life, unable to make a decision and live within its boundaries. The mere fact that one has the possibility and freedom to do something, even the most terrifying of possibilities, triggers immense feelings of dread. Haufniensis called this our \"dizziness of freedom.\"Anxiety may be compared with dizziness. He whose eye happens to look down into the yawning abyss becomes dizzy. But what is the reason for this? It is just as much in his own eye as in the abyss, for suppose he had not looked down. Hence, anxiety is the dizziness of freedom, which emerges when the spirit wants to posit the synthesis and freedom looks down into its own possibility, laying hold of finiteness to support itself. Freedom succumbs to dizziness. Further than this, psychology cannot and will not go. In that very moment everything is changed, and freedom, when it again rises, sees that it is guilty. Between these two moments lies the leap, which no science has explained and which no science can explain. He who becomes guilty in anxiety becomes as ambiguously guilty as it is possible to become. Vigilius Haufniensis, \"The Concept of Anxiety\" p. 61.\n\nIn \"The Concept of Anxiety\", Haufniensis focuses on the first anxiety experienced by man: Adam's choice to eat from God's forbidden tree of knowledge or not. Since the concepts of good and evil did not come into existence before Adam ate the fruit, which is now dubbed original sin, Adam had no concept of good and evil, and did not know that eating from the tree was evil. What he did know was that God told him not to eat from the tree. The anxiety comes from the fact that God's prohibition itself implies that Adam is free and that he could choose to obey God or not. After Adam ate from the tree, sin was born. So, according to Kierkegaard, anxiety precedes sin, and it is anxiety that leads Adam to sin. Haufniensis mentions that anxiety is the presupposition for hereditary sin.\n\nHowever, Haufniensis mentions that anxiety is a way for humanity to be saved as well. Anxiety informs us of our choices, our self-awareness and personal responsibility, and brings us from a state of un-self-conscious immediacy to self-conscious reflection. (Jean-Paul Sartre calls these terms pre-reflexive consciousness and reflexive consciousness.) An individual becomes truly aware of their potential through the experience of dread. So, anxiety may be a possibility for sin, but anxiety can also be a recognition or realization of one's true identity and freedoms.\n\nMost emphatically in \"The Sickness Unto Death\", Kierkegaard's author argues that the human self is a composition of various aspects that must be brought into conscious balance: the finite, the infinite, a consciousness of the \"relationship of the two to itself,\" and a consciousness of \"the power that posited\" the self. The finite (limitations such as those imposed by one's body or one's concrete circumstances) and the infinite (those capacities that free us from limitations such as imagination) always exist in a state of tension. That tension between two aspects of the \"self\" that must be brought into balance. When the self is out of balance, i.e., has the wrong understanding of who it is because it conceives itself too much in terms of its own limiting circumstances (and thus fails to recognize its own freedom to determine what it will be) or too much in terms of what it would like to be, (thus ignoring its own circumstances), the person is in a state of despair. Notably, Anti-Climacus says one can be in despair even if one feels perfectly happy. Despair is not just an emotion, in a deeper sense it is the loss of self, i.e., it describes the state when one has the wrong conception of oneself.\nIn \"Either/Or\", \"A\" and \"Judge William\" each has one epistolary novel in two volumes. The \"A\" is an aesthete well aware that he can use the power of interpretation to define who he is and what he takes to be valuable. He knows he can shape and reshape his own self-identity. Nothing binds him to his relationships. Nothing binds him to his past actions. In the end though, he also knows he lacks a consistent understanding of who he is. He lacks a self that resists his own power of reinterpretation. His older friend \"Judge William,\" argues that a deeper concept of selfhood is discovered as one commits to one's actions, and takes ownership of the past and present. A concept of oneself, as this particular human being, begins to take form in one's own consciousness.\nAnother perspective, one in which an individual can find some measure of freedom from despair, is available for the person with religious \"faith.\" This attunes the individual so that he or she can recognize what has always been there: a self to be realized within the circumstances it finds itself right now, i.e., this inner attunement brings about a sort of synthesis between the infinite and the finite.\nIn \"Fear and Trembling\", \"Johannes de Silentio\" argues that the choice of Abraham to obey the private, unethical, commandment of God to sacrifice his son reveals what faith entails: he directs his consciousness absolutely toward \"the absolute\" rather than the merely ethical, i.e., he practices an inner spirituality that seeks to be \"before god\" rather than seeking to understand himself as an ethically upright person. His God requires more than being good, he demands that he seek out an inner commitment to him. If Abraham were to blithely obey, his actions would have no meaning. It is only when he acts \"with fear and trembling\" that he demonstrates a full awareness that murdering a son is absolutely wrong, ethically speaking.\n\nDespair has several specific levels that a person can find themselves, each one further in despair than the last as laid out in \"The Sickness Unto Death\".\n\nThe first level is \"The despair that is ignorant of being despair or the despairing ignorance of having a self and an eternal self.\" Essentially this level is one which has the wrong conception of what a self is, i.e., is ignorant of how to realize the self one already potentially is. In this sense, the person does not recognize his own despair because he often measures the success of his life based on whether he himself judges himself to be happy. Regardless of whether you know you are in despair or not, Kierkegaard asserts, you can still be in that state. He notes that this is the most common in the world.\n\nThe next level of despair is \"The despair that is conscious of being despair and therefore is conscious of having a self in which there is something eternal and then either in despair does not will to be itself or in despair wills to be itself.\" This becomes further subdivided into three categories: the despair not to will or want to be oneself, the despair not to will to be a self, and lowest, the despair to wish for a new self. These three divisions are mostly the self-worth the person has and the amount to which they understand their own despair. The despair to not be oneself is pretty straightforward. A person sees themself as unworthy and as such does not see themself as worthy before something they do not understand. The despair not to be a self is deeper, because to not wish to be a self is to wish to not have a relation to God or at the very least see one's relation to God as unworthy, and thus shrink from it. The lowest form of this group, however, is the desire to be a new self. This is logically the deepest form as it assumes the deepest understanding of one's despair. Once in despair, without a complete relation to God one will always be in despair, so to be in this level one understands the permanence of the despair. The despair in this group arises from the nature of sensate things and physical desires. These three sub groups are also grouped under the heading \"Despair over the earthly.\"\n\nThe second level of conscious despair under the heading \"Despair over the eternal.\" Someone in this level views themself in light of their own weakness. Unlike in the upper level, this weakness is understood and as such, instead of turning to faith and humbling oneself before God, they despair in their own weakness and unworthiness. In this sense, they despair over the eternal and refuse to be comforted by the light of God.\n\nThe last and lowest form of despair is the desire \"In despair to will to be oneself.\" This last form of despair is also referred to by Kierkegaard as \"demonic despair\" (Note that the term demonic is used in the Classical Greek Sense, not the modern sense). In this form of despair, the individual finds him or herself in despair, understands they are in despair, seeks some way to alleviate it, and yet no help is forthcoming. As a result, the self becomes hardened against any form of help and \"Even if God in heaven and all the angels offered him aid, he would not want it.\" At this level of despair the individual revels in their own despair and sees their own pain as lifting them up above the base nature of other humans who do not find themselves in this state. This is the least common form of despair and Kierkegaard claims it is mostly found in true poets. This despair can also be called the despair of defiance, as it is the despair that strikes out against all that is eternal. One last note is that as one travels further down the forms of despair, the number of people in each group becomes fewer.\n\nMany philosophers who initially read Kierkegaard, especially Kierkegaard's (written under the pseudonym of \"Johannes de Silentio\") \"Fear and Trembling\", often come to the conclusion that Kierkegaard supports a divine command law of ethics. The divine command theory is a metaethical theory which claims moral values are whatever is commanded by a god or gods. However, Kierkegaard is not arguing that morality is created by God; instead, he would argue that a divine command from God \"transcends\" ethics. This distinction means that God does not necessarily create human morality: it is up to us as individuals to create our own morals and values. But any religious person must be prepared for the event of a divine command from God that would take precedence over all moral and rational obligations. Kierkegaard called this event the \"teleological suspension of the ethical\". Abraham, the knight of faith, chose to obey God unconditionally, and was rewarded with his son, his faith, and the title of \"Father of Faith\". Abraham transcended ethics and leaped into faith.\n\nBut there is no valid logical argument one can make to claim that morality ought to be or can be suspended in any given circumstance, or ever. Thus, Silentio believes ethics and faith are separate stages of consciousness. The choice to obey God unconditionally is a true existential 'either/or' decision faced by the individual. Either one chooses to live in faith (the religious stage) or to live ethically (the ethical stage).\n\nIn \"Either/Or\", Kierkegaard insists that the single individual has ethical responsibility of his life. However, everyone wants to enjoy themselves and ethics gets in the way of a person's enjoyment of life if taken to extremes. This results in a battle between those who want to live for pleasure and those who demand an ethical existence. But Kierkegaard always points toward the religious goal, an \"eternal happiness\", or the salvation of the soul as the highest good. He says, be whatever you want, but remember that your soul belongs to God, not to the world. \n\nIn \"Works of Love\" and \"Purity of Heart\", Kierkegaard skillfully examines Christian ethics and the maxim, \"Love Thy Neighbour\". Kierkegaard stressed that it was Christianity that \"discovered the neighbor\". \n\nFor Kierkegaard, true individuality is called selfhood. Becoming aware of our true self is our true task and endeavor in life—it is an ethical imperative, as well as preparatory to a true religious understanding. Individuals can exist at a level that is less than true selfhood. We can live, for example, simply in terms of our pleasures—our immediate satisfaction of desires, propensities, or distractions. In this way, we glide through life without direction or purpose. To have a direction, we must have a purpose that defines for us the meaning of our lives. Kierkegaard puts it this way in \"Either/Or\", Here, then, I have your view of life, and, believe me, much of your life will become clear to you if you will consider it along with me as thought-despair. You are a hater of activity in life-quite appropriately, because if there is to be meaning in it life must have continuity, and this your life does not have. You keep busy with your studies, to be sure; you are even diligent; but it is only for your sake, and it is done with as little teleology as possible. Moreover, you are unoccupied; like the laborers in the Gospel standing idle in the marketplace, you stick your hands in your pocket and contemplate life. Now you rest in despair. Nothing concerns you; you step aside for nothing; “If someone threw a roof tile down I would still not step aside.” You are like a dying person. You die daily, not in the profound, earnest sense in which one usually understands these words, but life has lost its reality and you “Always count the days of your life from one termination-notice to the next.” You let everything pass you by; nothing makes any impact. But then something suddenly comes along that grips you, an idea, a situation, a young girl’s smile, and now you are “involved,” for just on certain occasions you are not “involved,” so at other times you are “at your service” in every way. Wherever there is something going on you join in. You behave in life as you usually do in a crowd. “You work yourself into the tightest group, see to it, if possible, to get yourself shoved up over the others so that you come to be above them, and as soon as you are up there you make yourself as comfortable as possible, and in this way you let yourself be carried through life.” But when the crowd is gone, when the event is over, you again stand on the street corner and look at the world. \"Either/Or Part II\" p. 195-196, 272ff\n\nIn \"Sickness Unto Death\" specifically Kierkegaard deals with the self as a product of relations. In this sense, a human results from a relation between the Infinite (Noumena, spirit, eternal) and Finite (Phenomena, body, temporal). This does not create a true self, as a human can live without a \"self\" as he defines it. Instead, the Self or ability for the self to be created from a relation to the Absolute or God (the Self can only be realized through a relation to God) arises as a relation between the relation of the Finite and Infinite relating back to the human. This would be a positive relation.\n\nAn individual person, for Kierkegaard, is a particular that no abstract formula or definition can ever capture. Including the individual in \"the public\" (or \"the crowd\" or \"the herd\") or subsuming a human being as simply a member of a species is a reduction of the true meaning of life for individuals. What philosophy or politics try to do is to categorize and pigeonhole individuals by group characteristics, each with their own individual differences. In Four Upbuilding Discourses, 1843 Kierkegaard says the differences aren't important, the likeness with God is what brings equality. In the hallowed places, in every upbuilding view of life, the thought arises in a person’s soul that help him to fight the good fight with flesh and blood, with principalities and powers, and in the fight to free himself for equality before God, whether this battle is more a war of aggression against the differences that want to encumber him with worldly favoritism or a defensive war against the differences that want to make him anxious in worldly perdition. Only in this way is equality the divine law, only in this way is the struggle the truth, only in this way does the victory have validity- only when the single individual fights for himself with himself within himself and does not unseasonably presume to help the whole world to obtain external equality, which is of very little benefit, all the less so because it never existed, if for no other reason than that everyone would come to thank him and become unequal before him, only in this way is equality the divine law. \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\", by Soren Kiekegaard Hong, p. 143\n\nKierkegaard's critique of the modern age, therefore, is about the loss of what it means to be an individual. Modern society contributes to this dissolution of what it means to be an individual. Through its production of the false idol of \"the public\", it diverts attention away from individuals to a mass public that loses itself in abstractions, communal dreams, and fantasies. It is helped in this task by the media and the mass production of products to keep it distracted. Even the fight for temporal equality is a distraction. In Works of Love he writes, \n\nAlthough Kierkegaard attacked \"the public\", he is supportive of communities:\nFor Kierkegaard, in order to apprehend the absolute, the mind must radically empty itself of objective content. What supports this radical emptying, however, is the desire for the absolute. Kierkegaard names this desire \"Passion\".\n\nIn line with this philosophy, some scholars have drawn similarities between the Stoics concept of Apatheia and Subjective Truth as the highest form of Wisdom. For the Stoics, Pathos (Passion) is a Perturbation which man has to overcome in a similar manner to Kierkegaard's concept of Objective Truth.\n\nAccording to Kierkegaard, the human self desires that which is beyond reason. Desire itself appears to be a desire for the infinite, as Plato once wrote. Even the desire to propagate, according to Plato, is a kind of desire for immortality—that is, we wish to live on in time through our children and their children. Erotic love itself appears as an example of this desire for something beyond the purely finite. It is a taste of what could be, if only it could continue beyond the boundaries of time and space. As the analogy implies, humans seek something beyond the here and now. The question remains, however, why is it that human pathos or passion is the most precious thing? In some ways, it might have to do with our status as existential beings. It is not thought that gets us through life—it is action; and what motivates and sustains action is passion, the desire to overcome hardships, pain, and suffering. It is also passion that enables us to die for ideals in the name of a higher reality. While a scientist might see this as plain emotion or simple animal desire, Kierkegaard sees it as that which binds to the source of life itself. The desire to live, and to live in the right way, for the right reasons, and with the right desires, is a holy and sacred force. For Kierkegaard all Christian action should have its ground in love, which is a passion. \n\nOne can also look at this from the perspective of what the meaning of our existence is. Why suffer what humans have suffered, the pain and despair—what meaning can all of this have? For Kierkegaard, there is no meaning unless passion, the emotions and will of humans, has a divine source.\n\nPassion is closely aligned with faith in Kierkegaard's thought. Faith as a passion is what drives humans to seek reality and truth in a transcendent world, even though everything we can know intellectually speaks against it. To live and die for a belief, to stake everything one has and is in the belief in something that has a higher meaning than anything in the world—this is belief and passion at their highest.\n\nKierkegaard wrote of the subjective thinker's task in his \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\". Intellectual reason had been deified by Hegel in his theology and Kierkegaard felt this would lead to the objectification of religion.\n\n\"Johannes Climacus\", in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments\", writes the following cryptic line: \"Subjectivity is Truth\". To understand Climacus's concept of the individual, it is important to look at what he says regarding subjectivity. What is subjectivity? In very rough terms, subjectivity refers to what is personal to the individual—what makes the individual \"who he is in distinction from others\". It is what is inside—what the individual can see, feel, think, imagine, dream, etc. It is often opposed to objectivity—that which is outside the individual, which the individual and others around can feel, see, measure, and think about. Another way to interpret subjectivity is the \"unique\" relationship between the subject and object.\n\nJohann Fichte wrote similarly about subjectivity in his 1799 book \"The Vocation of Man\". I must, however, remind my reader that the \"I\" who speaks in the book is not the author himself, but it is his earnest wish that the reader should himself assume this character, and that he should not rest contented with a mere historical apprehension of what is here said, but really and truly, during reading, hold converse with himself, deliberate, draw conclusions, and form resolutions, like his representative in the book, and, by his own labour and reflection, developed out of his own soul, and build up within himself, that mode of thought the mere picture of which is laid before him in the work. Preface\n\nScientists and historians, for example, study the objective world, hoping to elicit the truth of nature—or perhaps the truth of history. In this way, they hope to predict how the future will unfold in accordance with these laws. In terms of history, by studying the past, the individual can perhaps elicit the laws that determine how events will unfold—in this way the individual can predict the future with more exactness and perhaps take control of events that in the past appeared to fall outside the control of humans.\n\nIn most respects, Climacus did not have problems with science or the scientific endeavor. He would not disregard the importance of objective knowledge. Where the scientist or historian finds certainty, however, Climacus noted very accurately that results in science change as the tools of observation change. But Climacus's special interest was in history. His most vehement attacks came against those who believed that they had understood history and its laws—and by doing so could ascertain what a human’s true self is. That is, the assumption is that by studying history someone can come to know who he really is as a person. Kierkegaard especially accused Hegel's philosophy of falling prey to this assumption. He explained this in, \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\": \n\nHegel wanted to philosophize about Christianity but had no intention to ever become a Christian. For Climacus, the individual comes to know who he is by an intensely personal and passionate pursuit of what will give meaning to his life. As an existing individual, who must come to terms with everyday life, overcome its obstacles and setbacks, who must live and die, the single individual has a life that no one else will ever live. In dealing with what life brings his way, the individual must encounter them with all his psycho-physical resources.\n\nSubjectivity is that which the individual—and no one else—has. But what does it mean to have something like this? It cannot be understood in the same way as having a car or a bank account. It means to be someone who is becoming someone—it means being a person with a past, a present, and a future. No one can have an individual's past, present or future. Different people experience these in various ways—these experiences are unique, not anyone else's. Having a past, present, and future means that a person is an existing individual—that a person can find meaning in time and by existing. Individuals do not think themselves into existence, they are born. But once born and past a certain age, the individual begins to make choices in life; now those choices can be his, his parents', society's, etc. The important point is that to exist, the individual must make choices—the individual must decide what to do the next moment and on into the future. What the individual chooses and how he chooses will define who and what he is—to himself and to others. Kierkegaard put it this way in Works of Love, 1847: \n\nThe goal of life, according to Socrates, is to know thyself. Knowing oneself means being aware of who one is, what one can be and what one cannot be. Kierkegaard uses the same idea that Socrates used in his own writings. He asks the one who wants to be a single individual the following questions in his 1847 book, \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\" \n\nSubjectivity comes with consciousness of myself as a self. It encompasses the emotional and intellectual resources that the individual is born with. Subjectivity is what the individual is as a human being. Now the problem of subjectivity is to decide how to choose—what rules or models is the individual going to use to make the right choices? What are the right choices? Who defines right? To be truly an individual, to be true to himself, his actions should in some way be expressed so that they describe who and what he is to himself and to others. The problem, according to Kierkegaard, is that we must choose who and what we will be based on subjective interests—the individual must make choices that will mean something to him as a reasoning, feeling being.\n\nKierkegaard decided to step up to the Tree of the knowledge of good and evil for himself, replacing Adam, and make his choice in the presence of God, where no one was there to accuse or judge him but his Creator. This is what he had Abraham do in \"Fear and Trembling\". This is how Kierkegaard thought learning about oneself takes place. Here is where the single individual learns about guilt and innocence. His book, \"The Concept of Anxiety\", makes clear that Adam did have knowledge when he made his choice and that was the knowledge of freedom. The prohibition was there but so was freedom and Eve and Adam decided to use it.\n\nIn Kierkegaard's meaning, purely theological assertions are subjective truths and they cannot be either verified or invalidated by science, i.e. through objective knowledge. For him, choosing if one is for or against a certain subjective truth is a purely arbitrary choice. He calls the jump from objective knowledge to religious faith a leap of faith, since it means subjectively accepting statements which cannot be rationally justified. For him the Christian faith is the result of the trajectory initiated by such choices, which don't have and cannot have a rational ground (meaning that reason is neither for or against making such choices). Objectively regarded, purely theological assertions are neither true nor false.\n\nEarly American Kierkegaard scholars tried to reduce the complexity of Kierkegaard's authorship by focusing on three levels of individual existence, which are named in passing by one of Kierkegaard's pseudonyms, Johannes Climacus, who wrote \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\". Though the stages represent only one way of interpreting Kierkegaard's thought, it has become a popular way of introducing his authorship. In continental European circles, stage theory never took hold in the same way. This typifies what Kierkegaard was talking about throughout his writing career. \"Early American scholars\" and \"European circles\" denote partitions of thought concerning the writings of his works. He was against \"reflecting oneself out of reality\" and partitioning the \"world of the spirit\" because the world of the spirit cannot be objectively divided. He wrote about Hegel's stages in his book, \"Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion\": \n\nIn one popular interpretation of stage theory, each of the so-called levels of existence envelops those below it: an ethical person is still capable of aesthetic enjoyment, for example, and a religious person is still capable of aesthetic enjoyment and ethical duty. The difference between these ways of living are internal, not external, and thus there are no external signs one can point to determine at what level a person is living. This inner and outer relationship is commonly determined by an individual by looking to others to gauge one's action, Kierkegaard believed one should look to oneself and in that relationship look to Christ as the example instead of looking at others because the more you look at others the less you see of yourself. This makes it easier to degrade your neighbor instead of loving your neighbor. But one must love the person one sees not the person one wishes to see. Either love the person you see as that person is the person he is or stop talking about loving everyone. \n\nKierkegaard was interested in aesthetics, and is sometimes referred to as the \"poet-philosopher\" because of the passionate way in which he approached philosophy. But he is often said to be interested in showing the inadequacy of a life lived entirely in the aesthetic level. Aesthetic life is defined in numerous different ways in Kierkegaard's authorship, including a life defined by intellectual enjoyment, sensuous desire, and an inclination to interpret oneself as if one were \"on stage.\" There are many degrees of this aesthetic existence and a single definition is thus difficult to offer. At bottom, one might see the purely unreflective lifestyle. At the top, we might find those lives which are lived in a reflective, independent, critical and socially apathetic way. But many interpreters of Kierkegaard believe that most people live in the least reflective sort of aesthetic stage, their lives and activities guided by everyday tasks and concerns. Fewer aesthetically guided people are the reflective sort. Whether such people know it or not, their lives will inevitably lead to complete despair. Kierkegaard's author \"A\" is an example of an individual living the aesthetic life. \n\nThe second level of existence is the ethical. This is where an individual begins to take on a true direction in life, becoming aware of and personally responsible for good and evil and forming a commitment to oneself and others. One's actions at this level of existence have a consistency and coherence that they lacked in the previous sphere of existence. For many readers of Kierkegaard, the ethical is central. It calls each individual to take account of their lives and to scrutinize their actions in terms of absolute responsibility, which is what Kierkegaard calls repentance. If we compare Kierkegaard's idea of ethics with Vedic system of four aims of life, this Ethical system probably correlates most with Dharma - following this or that religion,set of rules, laws etc. (Hindus would call any religion as \"dharma\", though dharma is also a law). \"He repents himself back into himself, back into the family, back into the race, until he finds himself in God. Only on this condition can he choose himself. And this is the only condition he wants, for only in this way can he choose himself absolutely.\" ... “I repent myself out of the whole existence. Repentance specifically expresses that evil essentially belongs to me and at the same time expresses that it does not essentially belong to me. If the evil in me did not essentially belong to me, I could not choose it; but if there were something in me that I could not choose absolutely, then I would not be choosing myself absolutely at all, then I myself would not be the absolute but only a product.\" ... \"It is a sign of a well brought up child to be inclined to say it is sorry without too much pondering whether it is in the right or not, and it is likewise a sign of a high-minded person and a deep soul if he is inclined to repent, if he does not take God to court but repents and loves God in his repentance. Without this, his life is nothing, only like foam.\" ... \"The Either/Or I erected between living esthetically and living ethically is not an unqualified dilemma, because it actually is a matter of only one choice. Through this choice, I actually choose between good and evil, but I choose the good, I choose \"eo ipso\" the choice between good and evil. The original choice is forever present in every succeeding choice.\" Søren Kierkegaard, Either/Or Part II, Hong, p. 216-217, 224, 237-238, 219\n\n\"Judge Wilhelm,\" a pseudonymous author of \"Either/Or\" and the voice who defines the ethical consciousness, argues that the commitment to take responsibility for one's own choices must be made individually. To take responsibility for the various relationships in which an individual finds him- or herself is a possibility open to every human being, but it does not follow that every human being chooses to do so as a matter of course. The meaning of a person's life for Wilhelm depends on how he takes responsibility for his current and future choices, and how he takes ownership of those choices already made. For Wilhelm, the ethically governed person takes responsibility for past actions, some good and some bad, seeks consistency, and takes seriously the obligation to live in a passionate and devoted way. \nThe ethical and the religious are intimately connected: a person can be ethically serious without being religious, but the religious stage includes the ethical. Whereas living in the ethical sphere involves a commitment to some moral absolute, living in the religious sphere involves a commitment and relation to the Christian God. Kierkegaard explained this in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\" like this: \n\nThe Kierkegaardian pseudonyms who speak of stage theory consider religion to be the highest stage in human existence. In one discussion of religious life, one of Kierkegaard's pseudonyms, Johannes Climacus, distinguishes two types within this stage, which have been called \"Religiousness A\" and \"Religiousness B\". One type is symbolized by the Greek philosopher Socrates, whose passionate pursuit of the truth and individual conscience came into conflict with his society. Another type of religiousness is one characterized by the realization that the individual is sinful and is the source of untruth. In time, through revelation and in direct relationship with the paradox that is Jesus, the individual begins to see that his or her eternal salvation rests on a paradox—God, the transcendent, coming into time in human form to redeem human beings. For Kierkegaard, the very notion of this occurring was scandalous to human reason—indeed, it must be, and if it is not then one does not truly understand the Incarnation nor the meaning of human sinfulness. For Kierkegaard, the impulse towards an awareness of a transcendent power in the universe is what religion is. Religion has a social and an individual (not just personal) dimension. But it begins with the individual and his or her awareness of sinfulness. Here are several quotes from Kierkegaard's where he discusses his concept of sin. The sin/faith opposition is the Christian one which transforms all ethical concepts in a Christian way and distils one more decoction from them. At the root of the opposition lies the crucial Christian specification: before God; and that in turn has the crucial Christian characteristic: the absurd, the paradox, the possibility of offense. And it is of the utmost importance that this is demonstrated in every specification of the Christian, since offense is the Christian protection against all speculative philosophy. In what, then, do we find the possibility of offense here? In the fact that a person should have the reality of his being, as a particular human being, directly before God, and accordingly, again, and by the same token, that man’s sin should be of concern of God. This notion of the single human being before God never occurs to speculative thought; it only universalizes particular human phantastically into the human race. It is exactly for this reason that a disbelieving Christianity came up with the idea that sin is sin, that it is neither here nor there whether it is before God. In other words, it wanted to get rid of the specification ‘before God’, and to that end invented a new wisdom, which nevertheless, curiously enough, was neither more nor less than what the higher wisdom generally is-old paganism. \"The Sickness Unto Death\", Hannay, 1989 p. 115 Admittance is only through the consciousness of sin; to want to enter by any other road is high treason against Christianity. … The simple soul who humbly acknowledges himself to be a sinner, himself personally (the single individual), has no need at all to learn about all the difficulties that come when one is neither simple or humble. … To the extent Christianity, terrifying, will rise up against him and transform itself into madness or horror until he either learns to give up Christianity or-by means of what is anything but scholarly propaedeutics, apologetics, etc., by means of the anguish of a contrite conscience, all in proportion to his need-learns to enter into Christianity by the narrow way, through the consciousness of sin. \"Practice in Christianity\", Hong, 1991, p. 67-68\n\n Kierkegaard wrote much about Johann Gottlieb Fichte in his thesis \"The Concept of Irony\" as well as in his first book \"De omnibus dubitandum est\", written under the pseudonym Johannes Climacus, and his Journals. Fichte wrote the book \"The Vocation of Man\" (1800) which called for a progression in the life of the human being from doubt to knowledge and then to faith. \"De omnibus dubitandum est\" is from Descartes and means everything must be doubted. Both Kierkegaard and Fichte were interested in this idea of beginning with doubt as well as subjectivity. Kierkegaard wrote: \"In Fichte, subjectivity became free, infinite, negative. But in order for subjectivity to get out of this movement of emptiness in which it moved in infinite abstraction, it had to be negated; in order for thought to become actual, it had to become concrete.\"\n\nMany philosophers think that one of Kierkegaard's greatest contributions to philosophy is his critique of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Indeed, many of Kierkegaard's works are written in response to or as a critique of Hegel. Although Kierkegaard strongly criticized some aspects of Hegelian philosophy, his work also shows that he was also positively influenced by Hegel, and had respect for Hegel himself.\nIn a journal entry made in 1844, Kierkegaard wrote:\nWhile Kierkegaard was a student of theology at the University of Copenhagen, Hegelianism had become increasingly popular. Johan Ludvig Heiberg and Hans Lassen Martensen were key figures in Danish Hegelianism. Kierkegaard remarked in his journal on 17 May 1843 that Heiberg's writings were \"borrowed\" from Hegel, implying Heiberg would have been a nobody without Hegel.\n\nKierkegaard objected to Hegel's claim that he had devised a system of thought that could explain the whole of reality, with a dialectical analysis of history leading the way to this whole. Hegel claimed that the doctrines and history of Christianity could be explained as a part of the rational unfolding and development of our understanding of the natural world and our place within it. Kierkegaard considered Hegel's explanation of Christianity as a necessary part of world history to be a distortion of the Christian message and a misunderstanding of the limits of human reason. He attempted to refute this aspect of Hegel's thought by suggesting that many doctrines of Christianity - including the doctrine of Incarnation, a God who is also human - cannot be explained rationally but remain a logical paradox. However, he was in favor of youthful striving after truth. \n\nTo refute Hegel's claim that Christianity should be understood as a part of the necessary evolution of thought, or in Hegelians terms, Spirit, in \"Fear and Trembling\", Kierkegaard attempts to use the story of Abraham to show that there is a goal higher than that of ethics (questioning the Hegelian claim that doing one's ethical duty is the highest that can be said of a human being) and that faith cannot be explained by Hegelian ethics, (disproving Hegel's claim that Christianity can be rationally explained by philosophy). Either way, this work can be read as a challenge to the Hegelian notion that a human being's ultimate purpose is to fulfill ethical demands.\nBy doing this, Hegelian critics accuse Kierkegaard of using the dialectic to disprove the dialectic, which seems somewhat contradictory and hypocritical. However, Kierkegaard would not claim the dialectic itself is bad, only the Hegelian premise that the dialectic \"would lead to a harmonious reconciliation of everything\", which Hegel called the Absolute. Kierkegaard stated this most clearly in his book \"The Concept of Anxiety\", Dogmatics must not explain hereditary sin but rather explain it by presupposing it, like that vortex about which Greek speculation concerning nature had so much to say, a moving something that no science can grasp. That such is the case with dogmatics will readily be granted if once again time is taken to understand Schleiermacher’s immortal service to this science. He was left behind long ago when men chose Hegel. Yet Schleiermacher was a thinker in the beautiful Greek sense, a thinker who spoke only of what he knew. Hegel, on the contrary, despite all his outstanding ability and stupendous learning, reminds us again and again by his performance that he was in the German sense a professor of philosophy on a large scale, because he \"a tout prix\" [at any price] must explain all things. \"The Concept of Anxiety\", by Reidar Thomte Princeton University Press 1980 P. 20\n\nKierkegaardian scholars have made several interpretations of how Kierkegaard proceeds with parodying Hegel's dialectic. One of the more popular interpretations argues the aesthetic-ethical-religious stages are the triadic process Kierkegaard was talking about. See section \"Spheres of existence\" for more information. Another interpretation argues for the world-individual-will triadic process. The dialectic here is either to assert an individual's own desire to be independent and the desire to be part of a community. Instead of reconciliation of the world and the individual where problems between the individual and society are neatly resolved in the Hegelian system, Kierkegaard argues that there's a delicate bond holding the interaction between them together, which needs to be constantly reaffirmed. Jean-Paul Sartre takes this latter view and says the individual is in a constant state of reaffirming his or her own identity, else one falls into bad faith.\n\nThis process of reconciliation leads to a \"both/and\" view of life, where both thesis and antithesis are resolved into a synthesis, which negates the importance of personal responsibility and the human choice of either/or. The work \"Either/Or\" is a response to this aspect of Hegel's philosophy. A passage from that work exemplifies Kierkegaard's contempt for Hegel's philosophy. Note the comparison between \"A\" and \"B\" (Judge Vilhelm) in \"Either/Or\" and \"Stages on Life's Way\". \n\nHere are two more from 1846\n\nThe whole idea of one generation spending all its time studying past generations and then the next generation spending their time studying past generations and making moral and social comments about preceding generations was called, \"The Hegelian cud-chewing process with three-stomachs - first immediacy - then regurgitation - then down again.\" He said, \"Maybe a succeeding master-mind could continue this with four stomachs, etc., down once more and up again. I don't know if the master-mind grasps what I mean.\"\n\nIn 1841–1842, Kierkegaard attended the Berlin lectures of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling. Schelling was a critic of Georg Hegel and a professor at the University of Berlin. The university started a lecture series given by Schelling in order to espouse a type of positive philosophy which would be diametrically opposed to Hegelianism. Kierkegaard was initially delighted with Schelling. Before he left Copenhagen to attend Schelling's lectures in Berlin, he wrote to his friend Peter Johannes Sprang:\nAt Berlin, Kierkegaard gave high praises to Schelling. In a journal entry made sometime around October or November 1841, Kierkegaard wrote this piece about Schelling's second lecture:\nAs time went on, however, Kierkegaard, as well as many in Schelling's audience, began to become disillusioned with Schelling. In a particularly insulting letter about Schelling, Kierkegaard wrote to his brother, Peter Kierkegaard:\n\nKierkegaard became disillusioned with Schelling partly because Schelling shifted his focus on actuality, including a discussion on \"quid sit\" [what is] and \"quod sit\" [that is], to a more mythological, psychic-type pseudo-philosophy. Kierkegaard's last writing about Schelling's lectures was on 4 February 1842. He wrote the following in 1844, \n\nAlthough Schelling had little influence on Kierkegaard's subsequent writings, Kierkegaard's trip to Berlin provided him ample time to work on his masterpiece, \"Either/Or\". In a reflection about Schelling in 1849, Kierkegaard remarked that Schelling was \"like the Rhine at its mouth where it became stagnant water - he was degenerating into a Prussian \"Excellency\". (Journals, January 1849)\"\n\nKierkegaard became acquainted with Arthur Schopenhauer's writings quite late in his life. Kierkegaard felt Schopenhauer was an important writer, but disagreed on almost every point Schopenhauer made. In several journal entries made in 1854, a year before he died, Kierkegaard spoke highly of Schopenhauer:\nHowever, Kierkegaard also considered him, \"a most dangerous sign\" of things to come:\nKierkegaard believes Schopenhauer's ethical point of view is that the individual succeeds in seeing through the wretchedness of existence and then decides to deaden or mortify the joy of life. As a result of this complete asceticism, one reaches contemplation: the individual does this out of sympathy. He sympathizes with all the misery and the misery of others, which is to exist. Kierkegaard here is probably referring to the pessimistic nature of Schopenhauer's philosophy. One of Kierkegaard's main concerns is a suspicion of his whole philosophy:\nLittle else is known about Kierkegaard's attitude to Schopenhauer. On Schopenhauer himself, Kierkegaard felt that Schopenhauer would have been patronizing. \"Schopenhauer interests me very much, as does his fate in Germany. If I could talk to him I am sure he would shudder or laugh if I were to show him [my philosophy].\" \"(Journals, 1854)\"\n\nBecause Kierkegaard read Schopenhauer, and because Schopenhauer was heavily influenced by Eastern philosophy, it would seem that Kierkegaard would have shown an awareness of Eastern philosophy. There is, however, little direct reference to Asian thought in Kierkegaard's writings. Anyone who is familiar with such Asian traditions as Buddhist, Taoist, or Shinto philosophy, will quickly see the philosophical similarities that Kierkegaard shares with these traditions. These similarities perhaps explain the Japanese reception of Kierkegaard and the fact that Japanese awareness and translations of Kierkegaard were appearing at least 30 years before any English translations. There is also extensive Japanese scholarship on Kierkegaard, a scholarship that interprets Kierkegaard's philosophy in terms of Asian thought. This interpretation is understandable when one sees that Kierkegaard's central concerns of subjectivity, anxiety, freedom, despair, and self-deception, are also of central concern to Buddhism and, consequently, that there is nothing exclusively Christian about such concerns. Both Kierkegaard and Zen Buddhism, for example, have seen the predicaments of existence in very similar ways. A specific example of the similarities here can be seen in \"Purity of Heart\" where Kierkegaard describes the state of awareness that one must enter in order to partake of confession. Kierkegaard's description of this state is similar to the state of meditation described by Buddhist philosophers. It is distinct, however, in that the aim of confession, for Kierkegaard, is \"to center itself upon this relation to itself as an individual who is responsible to God\" (cf. Kierkegaard, \"Purity of Heart\"). Kierkegaard aims to claim back the subject from the \"crowd\" mentality of Christendom (cf. Kierkegaard, \"On the Dedication to 'That Single Individual' \") and reaffirm the absolute responsibility to God, which is our telos (cf. Kierkegaard, \"Fear and Trembling\").\n\nHarald Hoffding (1843-1931) helped introduce Kierkegaard to Western Europe in the early years of the 20th century. He compared Kierkegaard to Eastern philosophy in his 1914 book \"The Philosophy Of Religion\" in this way: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "248256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248256", "title": "Principle of double effect", "text": "Principle of double effect\n\nThe principle of double effect—also known as the rule of double effect; the doctrine of double effect, often abbreviated as DDE or PDE, double-effect reasoning; or simply double effect—is a set of ethical criteria which Christian philosophers, and some others, have advocated for evaluating the permissibility of acting when one's otherwise legitimate act (for example, relieving a terminally ill patient's pain) may also cause an effect one would otherwise be obliged to avoid (sedation and a slightly shortened life). The first known example of double-effect reasoning is Thomas Aquinas' treatment of homicidal self-defense, in his work \"Summa Theologica\".\n\nThis set of criteria states that an action having foreseen harmful effects practically inseparable from the good effect is justifiable if the following are true:\n\nThe principle of double effect is based on the idea that there is a morally relevant difference between an \"intended\" consequence of an act and one that is foreseen by the actor but not calculated to achieve his motive. So, for example, the principle is invoked to consider the terror bombing of non-combatants having as its goal victory in a legitimate war morally out of bounds, while holding as ethically in bounds an act of strategic bombing that similarly harms non-combatants with foresight as a side effect of destroying a legitimate military target. Because advocates of double effect propose that consequentially similar acts can be morally different, double effect is most often criticized by consequentialists who consider the consequences of actions entirely determinative of the action's morality.\n\nIn their use of the distinction between intent and foresight without intent, advocates of double effect make three arguments. First, that intent differs from foresight, even in cases in which one foresees an effect as inevitable. Second, that one can apply the distinction to specific sets of cases found in military ethics (terror bombing/strategic bombing), medical ethics (craniotomy/hysterectomy), and social ethics (euthanasia). Third, that the distinction has moral relevance, importance, or significance.\n\nThe doctrine consists of four conditions that must be satisfied before an act is morally permissible:\n\n\nThe second of these four conditions is an application of the more general principle that good ends do not justify evil means.\n\nThe principle of double effect is frequently cited in cases of pregnancy and abortion. A doctor who believes abortion is always morally wrong may still remove the uterus or fallopian tubes of a pregnant woman, knowing the procedure will cause the death of the embryo or fetus, in cases in which the woman is certain to die without the procedure (examples cited include aggressive uterine cancer and ectopic pregnancy). In these cases, the intended effect is to save the woman's life, not to terminate the pregnancy, and the effect of not performing the procedure would result in the greater evil of the death of both the mother and the foetus.\n\nIn cases of terminally ill patients who would hasten their deaths because of unbearable pain, or whose caregivers would do so for them (euthanasia, medical aid in dying, etc.), a principle of \"double effect death\" could be applied to justify the deliberate administration of a pain-killer in potentially unsafe doses—not in an attempt to end life but the pain suffered is considered harmful to the patient. The U.S. Supreme Court has voiced support for this principle in its deliberations over the constitutionality of medical aid in dying.\n\nConsequentialists, in particular, reject the notion that two acts can differ in their moral permissibility if both have exactly the same consequences, or expected consequences. John Stuart Mill, a nineteenth-century advocate of the utilitarian version of consequentialism, argues that it is a mistake to confuse the standards for right action with a consideration of our motives to perform a right action: \"He who saves a fellow creature from drowning does what is morally right, whether his motive be duty, or the hope of being paid for his trouble; he who betrays the friend that trusts him, is guilty of a crime, even if his object be to serve another friend to whom he is under greater obligations.\" According to Mill, scrutiny of motives will show that almost all good behavior proceeds from questionable intentions. Therefore, Mill argues, our moral analysis should ignore matters of motivation, and so we should reject DDE, which appeals to a distinction between intended and unintended consequences. Mill further claims that scrutiny of motives will reveal a man's character, but utilitarianism does not judge character, only the rightness or wrongness of actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "887751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887751", "title": "Red Rose of Lancaster", "text": "Red Rose of Lancaster\n\nThe Red Rose of Lancaster (a rose gules) is the county flower of Lancashire.\n\nThe exact species or cultivar which the red rose relates to is uncertain, but it is thought to be \"Rosa gallica officinalis\".\n\nThe rose was first adopted as an heraldic device by the first Earl of Lancaster. It was one of the badges of Henry IV of England, the first king of the House of Lancaster. Following the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485, it became the emblem of Lancashire.\n\nLancaster's Red Rose (also known as Apothecary's Rose, Old Red Damask and Rose of Provins) is an official variety and is possibly the first cultivated rose. The rose grew wild throughout Central Asia and was discovered by the ancient Persians and Egyptians. Later adopted by the Romans, who introduced it to Gaul (France) where it assumed the name \"Rosa gallica\". It is documented that Charlemagne's court exploited the rose as a perfume. The rose was also appreciated for its medical value and was utilized in countless medical remedies.\n\n The Red Rose of Lancaster derives from the gold rose badge of Edward I of England. Other members of his family used variants of the royal badge, with the king's brother, the Earl of Lancaster, using a red rose. It is believed that the Red Rose of Lancaster was the House of Lancaster's badge during the Wars of the Roses. Evidence for this \"wearing of the rose\" includes land tenure records requiring service of a red rose yearly for a manor held directly from Henry VI of England. There are, however, doubts as to whether the red rose was actually an emblem taken up by the Lancastrians during the Wars of the Roses. Adrian Ailes has noted that the red rose “probably owes its popular usage to Henry VII quickly responding to the pre-existing Yorkist white rose in an age when signs and symbols could speak louder than words.\" \nIt also allowed Henry to invent and exploit his most famous heraldic device, the Tudor Rose, combining the so-called Lancastrian red rose and the White Rose of York. This floral union neatly symbolised the restoration of peace and harmony and his marriage in January 1486 to Elizabeth of York. It was a brilliant piece of simple heraldic propaganda.” The Tudor Rose is used as the plant badge of England (Scotland uses the thistle, Ireland uses the shamrock, and Wales uses the leek).\n\nThe rose does not form any part of the insignia of the Duchy of Lancaster, but came to be seen as an emblem of the county of Lancashire, and as such was incorporated in the coats of arms of numerous Lancashire local authorities including the county council. Since 1974 a number of metropolitan boroughs in Greater Manchester and Merseyside have included red roses in their armorial bearings to show their formation from parts of Lancashire. It is also present in the crest of the coat of arms of the London Borough of Enfield.\n\nThe traditional Lancashire flag, a red rose on a white field, was never officially registered with the Flag Institute and when this was attempted it was found that this flag had been registered by the town of Montrose, Scotland. As two flags of the same design can not be registered, Lancashire’s official flag is now registered as a red rose on a yellow field.\n\nToday the Red Rose is still widely used, and not necessarily on a yellow background. Lancashire County Cricket Club still use the rose as an emblem. The Trafford Centre also features Red Roses in its architecture, most noticeably on all of the glass panes in the shopping centre. Lancashire GAA features a red rose on its emblem. Manchester City Football Club featured the red rose on the club badge from 1972 to 1997 and reinstated it in 2015, reflecting Manchester's history as part of Lancashire. It also features on the badge of Blackburn Rovers and Bolton Wanderers.\nEdge Hill University in Ormskirk uses the Red Rose on a yellow background on its crest along with a Liver bird which signifies its current location (Lancashire) and origins in Liverpool. \n\nThe shield of Lancashire County Council's coat of arms, however, displays not one but three red roses, on gold piles on a red background. The arms have been official since 1903.\n\nFrom the nineteenth century the red rose was part of the badge of a number of units of the British Army recruiting in the county. In World War I the rose was worn by British 55th (West Lancashire) Division during their campaign in Belgium; their motto was \"They win or die, who wear the Rose of Lancaster\". The cap badge of the Duke of Lancaster's Regiment, formed in 2006, features the rose.\n\nThe Saskatoon Light Infantry of the Canadian Army also incorporated the red rose into the design of their cap badge and regimental buttons, due to an alliance with the York and Lancaster Regiment of the British Army.\n\nThe Canadian city of Montreal has a Lancastrian rose in the top right hand corner of its flag, representing the city's historical English community. \n\nThe U.S. City of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, known as \"Red Rose City\", uses the Lancastrian rose as its seal, and in its flag.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3317535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3317535", "title": "Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project", "text": "Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project\n\nThe Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project, one of the Pacific Northwest Labor and Civil Rights History Projects, is dedicated to social movements and labor history in the Pacific Northwest. It is directed by Professor James N. Gregory of the University of Washington. The project represents a unique collaboration between community organizations and University faculty, as well as undergraduate and graduate students. It has become a model of public history across the US and has been credited with changing the discussion of race and civil rights in the Seattle area.\n\nThe site provides over 70 oral history interviews with short video excerpts and brief biographies, as well as a listing of historic Civil Rights organizations, a page on Seattle's ethnic press, a resource with lesson plans for teachers, films and slidewhows, and a page with in-depth historical essays that explore various issues, incidents and people. Each fully illustrated with photos and newspaper articles.\n\nAlso in the project is a special sections area featuring nine different sections which showcase comprehensive reports, oral histories, photo collections, and documents about many of the prominent movements and organizations involved in Seattle's rich history of Civil Rights and Labor activism. The sections detail farm workers in Washington State, the Ku Klux Klan in Washington, the Seattle Black Panther Party, Filipino Cannery Unions, the Washington Chicano movement, the 1907 Bellingham anti-Asian riots, the Congress of Racial Equality in Seattle, the Black Student Union at the University of Washington, and the United Construction Workers Association. A section on the history of housing segregation in Seattle attracted media attention and spurred changes in State law that allowed neighborhood associations to remove racially restrictive clauses from their covenants with greater ease.\n\nThe Project includes nine full lesson plans for middle school and high school students, ranging from single class periods to longer units, created by Washington educators. The lesson plans are designed to encourage critical thinking and fulfill State requirements. Examples include ‘Martin Luther King’s Controversial Visit to Seattle’ and ‘Document Based Question: School Segregation in Seattle.’\n\nThe Chicano/a Movement in Washington State History Project is a multimedia resource on the history of Chicano activism that includes first-hand oral histories, primary documents and academic research. It traces the development of the movement in the Yakima Valley and the University of Washington in Seattle. The Project is an initiative of the Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project at the University of Washington, alongside the Farm Workers in Washington State History Project.\n\nThe Project focuses on several organizations including United Mexican American Students (UMAS), the Brown Berets, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicana/o de Aztlan (MEChA), United Farmworker Cooperative, El Teatro del Piojo, El Centro de la Raza, the Concilio for Spanish Speaking, SEAMAR Community Health Centers, and radio station KDNA. The histories of these organizations are bolstered by video oral histories, photographs from several personal collections and digitized copies of pamphlets and other documents. An in-depth timeline covers the years 1960-1985, and an illustrated essay details the period from the coalescing of the movement in 1967 to the 2006 immigration mobilizations. In addition, the site contains a database of more than 300 digitized newspaper articles that originally appeared between 1968 and 1979. Like other sections of the Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project, the site contains model lesson plans for middle school and high school teachers using the available materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51182010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51182010", "title": "Sebastian Bieniek", "text": "Sebastian Bieniek\n\nSebastian Bieniek (born 24 April 1975) is a German conceptual artist, painter, photographer, performer, author and movie director. According to \"Global Thought Leader Ranking\" he was ranked worldwide as the no. 171 of the most influentional \"Thought Leaders\" in 2018. \n\nIn 2015 the \"theculturetrip.com\" website choosed him as one of the \"Top 5 Influential Contemporary Berlin-Based Artists\"\n\nBieniek was born in Czarnowąsy, Upper Silesia/Poland, and until the age of 14 he grew up in the Upper Silesian village of Kup. In 1989 he left Poland as a late repatriate (ger. Spätaussiedler, which means: \"people with German origins that came mainly in the 80's and 90's from Poland and Russia to Germany\").\n\nIn 1996 he started to study art at the HbK Braunschweig under the Serbian performance artist Marina Abramović and the Swiss conceptual artist John Armleder. In 1998 he changed to UdK Berlin and continued to study art in the class of the German photographer Katharina Sieverding, where he made his first short movie \"Zero\".\n\nIn 2001 he got a grand (residency) of the DFJW in Rennes/France where he spent a half year and took part in a group exhibition called \"Aux voyageurs\", curated by Bettina Klein. In the same year he graduated at the UdK Berlin.\n\nIn 2002 he started to study movie directing at the DFFB Berlin, where he made several movies. His 2007 made full lengh movie \"The Gamblers\" was part of the official competition of the 10th Shanghai International Film Festival. His 2008 made movie \"Silvester Home Run\" was part of the international short-film competition of the Festival Internacional de Cine de Mar del Plata and also shown at the Montreal World Film Festival.\n\nBieniek's early works were radical performances, like \"Hand Without a Body\" (1999) where he made daily for 16 days a cut into his own arm, or \"Born to be Boulette\" (1999) where he was laying for three days in 500 kg. of raw meat, or \"Robbery\" (1998) where he made a robbery in a Deutsche Bank as an art performance. Later his work become more and more minimalist and conceptual like the textworks (ger. Textarbeiten) from 2001.\n\nIn 2009 (after a break of seven years) he restarted with \"Homeland Security\", a serial of realistic conceptual paintings and others serials where he combined a painted image with a text.\n\nIn 2013 he continued with photography. His 2013 started photo-serial \"Doublefaced\" became one of the best-known internet memes. It was published by many magazines and widely in social media. Later Bieniek created his own oeuvre around this Painted-Faces where he continued to combine different media, for example painting and drawing and photography and drawing as in the \"Facination\" series.\n\nSimultaneously Bieniek continued to work on his minimalist textworks, performances and paintings. The \"Perfect-Circles\" and \"Multiplications\" serial are around 70 paintings with text made between 2013 and 2016. Also in 2008 he made a performance at the Art Forum in Berlin, 2011 in Georgia, 2013 at the Deutsche Bank KunstHalle opening and 2016 in the University Church of Marburg.\n\nIn 2013 Bieniek collaborated with the German INTRO music magazine for a photo shoot. In 2015 he made a photo shoot for the Süddeutsche Zeitung Magazine. In 2015 he collaborated with the French fashion designer Simon Porte Jacquemus at the Paris Fashion Week. In 2016 he cooperated with the \"Institute for church building and contemporary art\" at the University of Marburg when being a part of the \"Liturgy Specific Art\" art-performance serial. In 2016 he also cooperated with the director and Head Curator of the MONA Museum (Australia), Olivier Varenne for his online exhibition project at collectionair.com.\n\nIn 1999 Sebastian Bieniek had his first solo exhibition, named \"Natural Born Sugareaters\", in the Kunsthaus Tacheles (Berlin). In 2000 he participated in the \"Festival of Vision\" exhibition in the Hong Kong Arts Centre (Hong Kong), and in 2002 he participated in the HICETNUNC exhibition in the Villa Manin (Italy). In 2014 he had a solo exhibition in the Nicola von Senger Gallery (Zürich) and the Ho Gallery in Vienna. In 2016 he had a solo exhibition in the Potemka Contemporary Art Gallery (Leipzig) called \"The Imitation of the Imitation\", the Fotogalerie Friedrichshain called \"The Melancholy of the Elephants\" and the \"Views\" group show by the Bahrain Arts Society in Manama (Bahrain).\n\nIn 2018 Sebastian Bieniek was ranked as the no. 171 in the \"Global Thought Leader Ranking\".\n\n2017-2018 the italien dancers Federica Aloisio and Sabrina Vicari created a \"dance-show\" called EIOKA inspired by Sebastian Bieniek's artwork which was shown across Italy and became the winner of the \"Premio Strabismi 2017\"\".\"\n\nIn 2015 \"theculturetrip.com\" website choose Sebastian Bieniek as one of the \"Top 5 Influential Contemporary Berlin-Based Artists\". \n\nDuring the Paris Fashion Week 2015, the FASHION magazine mentioned Sebastian Bieniek's work as \"Best Face Art\" at the Paris Fashion Week 2015.\n\nIn 2015–2016 the Vogue wrote about two internatianal fashion designers who said that their work was inspired by Sebstian Bieniek (Simon Porte Jaquemus and Inês Marques). Also the Caribbean fashion designer Cecilia Devana said that her collection is inspired by the artist.\n\n2014 several international magazines wrote that a scene in the \"Marilyn Monroe\" video of Pharrell Williams is inspired by Sebastian Bieniek's artwork.\n\nIn 2013 his artwork became one of the \"\"Top 10 Body Art Stories of 2013\" by the designboom magazine. In the same year the designcollector.net magazine selected him as one of \"The Best Photographers of 2013\"\".\n\nIn 2011 Bieniek made a performance in the ARD TV-show \"ES GEHT UM MEIN LEBEN\". 2015 Japanese and Hong Kong TV made a documentation and interview with him. 2016 he was documented and interviewed by the Franco-German arte TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "9246613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9246613", "title": "Selfism", "text": "Selfism\n\nSelfism refers to any philosophy, theory, doctrine, or tendency that upholds explicitly selfish principles as being desirable. It is usually used pejoratively.\n\nThe term \"selfism\" was used by Paul Vitz in his 1977 book \"Psychology as Religion: The Cult of Self-Worship\". Vitz deconstructs the selfist movement(s) and tries to uphold God-centered altruism, and claims that all of modern-day liberalism and leftism are essentially selfist at their core. He lays the blame predominantly at the feet of Erik Erikson, Erich Fromm, and other prominent psychologists of the third quarter of the 20th century (c. 1950–1975 CE).\n\nExplicit selfishness as a desirable end and moral good had diverse manifestations during that period, for example, in the writings of David Seabury, Ayn Rand, and even among some of Rand's near-opposites, such as Erikson and Fromm. Rand called her philosophy Objectivism. Later popularizers of similar positions include Nathaniel Branden, Paul Lepanto, Robert Ringer, Harry Browne, and David Kelley, among others. None of these named the system they espoused \"selfism\" or characterized it as \"selfist\", although both Seabury and Rand included the word \"selfishness\" in the titles of books presenting their views. Many of these figures were pro-capitalist secularists (\"atheist capitalists\"), but Seabury was a Christian, while Erickson and Fromm were prominent leftists.\n\nAnton LaVey, founder of the Church of Satan and author of The Satanic Bible, acknowledges Ayn Rand and Objectivism as a source of inspiration for LaVeyan Satanism. This form of Satanism holds the self above all else in similar fashion to Objectivism. Despite some similarities, they remain separate entities, as there are clear differences between the two concepts.\n\nSome early examples of \"selfist\" thinking are the egoistic philosophies of Yangism in ancient China and of Cyrenaic hedonism in ancient Greece. Yangists followed the teachings of Yang Zhu and might have been influenced by Taoism. Cyrenaics, founded by Aristippus of Cyrene, were skeptics and materialists (but perhaps nominally Greek pagans). Thomas Hobbes, who could also be viewed as \"selfist\", was a materialist but also advocated loyalty to a strong government and state church. Joseph Butler, whose philosophy is unmistakably selfist, was generally regarded as an orthodox Christian and was canonized an Anglican saint. The views of Friedrich Nietzsche and Max Stirner provide a more proximate link to the modern selfists.\n\n"}
{"id": "5117928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5117928", "title": "Speckled kingsnake", "text": "Speckled kingsnake\n\nThe speckled kingsnake (\"Lampropeltis holbrooki\") is a nonvenomous species of kingsnake, which is endemic to the United States.\n\nThe speckled kingsnake usually grows up to in total length (including tail), but the record total length is . The common name is derived from the pattern, which is black, with small yellow-white specks, one speck in the center of almost every dorsal scale. It is also known as the \"salt-and-pepper snake\".\n\nThe speckled kingsnake is found in the central to southern United States from southern Iowa to the Gulf of Mexico. Its range overlaps that of the desert kingsnake, \"Lampropeltis getula splendida\", and it is known to intergrade with that subspecies.\n\nThe speckled kingsnake prefers wetter habitats than other kingsnakes, like swamps and rivers, but it does commonly venture to dry areas like woodlands and grassy fields.\n\nThe diet of the speckled kingsnake consists of mammals, birds, rodents, frogs, lizards, and other snakes. It kills by constriction.\n\nWhen threatened, the speckled kingsnake will shake its tail like a rattlesnake to deter predators. It frequently will expel musk and feces or bite when threatened.\n\nIt is usually docile, often striking only one or two times after capture, and is frequently kept as a pet. It is commonly captive bred.\n\nThis snake was first described by American herpetologist John Edwards Holbrook in 1842. At that time he called it \"Coronella sayi\" under the mistaken impression that it was the species previously described by Schlegel as \"Coluber sayi\". In 1902 Stejneger pointed out that because \"Coluber sayi\" is a different snake, \"Pituophis catenifer sayi\", the name \"sayi\" could not be applied to this snake. Therefore, he proposed the name \"Lampropeltis holbrooki\", honoring Holbrook. It was for many years considered a subspecies of \"L. getula\", but has been elevated to full species status as \"L. holbrooki\". See synonymy in speciesbox.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310959", "title": "Subcategory", "text": "Subcategory\n\nIn mathematics, a subcategory of a category \"C\" is a category \"S\" whose objects are objects in \"C\" and whose morphisms are morphisms in \"C\" with the same identities and composition of morphisms. Intuitively, a subcategory of \"C\" is a category obtained from \"C\" by \"removing\" some of its objects and arrows.\n\nLet \"C\" be a category. A subcategory \"S\" of \"C\" is given by\nsuch that\n\nThese conditions ensure that \"S\" is a category in its own right: the collection of objects is ob(\"S\"), the collection of morphisms is hom(\"S\"), and the identities and composition are as in \"C\". There is an obvious faithful functor \"I\" : \"S\" → \"C\", called the inclusion functor which takes objects and morphisms to themselves.\n\nLet \"S\" be a subcategory of a category \"C\". We say that \"S\" is a full subcategory of \"C\" if for each pair of objects \"X\" and \"Y\" of \"S\"\nA full subcategory is one that includes \"all\" morphisms between objects of \"S\". For any collection of objects \"A\" in \"C\", there is a unique full subcategory of \"C\" whose objects are those in \"A\".\n\n\nGiven a subcategory \"S\" of \"C\" the inclusion functor \"I\" : \"S\" → \"C\" is both a faithful functor and injective on objects. It is full if and only if \"S\" is a full subcategory.\n\nSome authors define an embedding to be a full and faithful functor. Such a functor is necessarily injective on objects up-to-isomorphism. For instance, the Yoneda embedding is an embedding in this sense.\n\nSome authors define an embedding to be a full and faithful functor that is injective on objects.\n\nOther authors define a functor to be an embedding if it is\nfaithful and\ninjective on objects.\nEquivalently, \"F\" is an embedding if it is injective on morphisms. A functor \"F\" is then called a full embedding if it is a full functor and an embedding.\n\nWith the definitions of the previous paragraph, for any (full) embedding \"F\" : \"B\" → \"C\" the image of \"F\" is a (full) subcategory \"S\" of \"C\" and \"F\" induces an isomorphism of categories between \"B\" and \"S\". If \"F\" is not injective on objects, the image of \"F\" is equivalent to \"B\".\n\nIn some categories, one can also speak of morphisms of the category being embeddings.\n\nA subcategory \"S\" of \"C\" is said to be isomorphism-closed or replete if every isomorphism \"k\" : \"X\" → \"Y\" in \"C\" such that \"Y\" is in \"S\" also belongs to \"S\". An isomorphism-closed full subcategory is said to be strictly full.\n\nA subcategory of \"C\" is wide or lluf (a term first posed by Peter Freyd) if it contains all the objects of \"C\". A wide subcategory is typically not full: the only wide full subcategory of a category is that category itself.\n\nA Serre subcategory is a non-empty full subcategory \"S\" of an abelian category \"C\" such that for all short exact sequences\n\nin \"C\", \"M\" belongs to \"S\" if and only if both formula_3 and formula_4 do. This notion arises from Serre's C-theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2236341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236341", "title": "Systematic desensitization", "text": "Systematic desensitization\n\nSystematic desensitization, also known as graduated exposure therapy, is a type of cognitive behavior therapy developed by South African psychiatrist, Joseph Wolpe. It is used in the field of clinical psychology to help many people effectively overcome phobias and other anxiety disorders that are based on classical conditioning, and shares the same elements of both cognitive psychology and applied behavior analysis. When used by the behavior analysts, it is based on radical behaviorism and functional analysis, as it incorporates counterconditioning principles, such as meditation (a private behavior/covert conditioning) and breathing (which is a public behavior/overt conditioning). From the cognitive psychology perspective, however, cognitions and feelings trigger motor actions.\n\nThe process of systematic desensitization occurs in three steps. The first step of systematic desensitization is the identification of an anxiety inducing stimulus hierarchy. The second step is the learning of relaxation or coping techniques. When the individual has been taught these skills, he or she must use them in the third step to react towards and overcome situations in the established hierarchy of fears. The goal of this process is for the individual to learn how to cope with, and overcome the fear in each step of the hierarchy.\n\nThere are three main steps that Wolpe identified to successfully desensitize an individual.\n\nA client may approach a therapist due to their great phobia of snakes. This is how the therapist would help the client using the three steps of systematic desensitization:\n\nSpecific phobias are one class of mental disorder often treated via systematic desensitization. When persons experience such phobias (for example fears of heights, dogs, snakes, closed spaces, etc.), they tend to avoid the feared stimuli; this avoidance, in turn, can temporarily reduce anxiety but is not necessarily an adaptive way of coping with it. In this regard, patients' avoidance behaviors can become reinforced – a concept defined by the tenets of operant conditioning. Thus, the goal of systematic desensitization is to overcome avoidance by gradually exposing patients to the phobic stimulus, until that stimulus can be tolerated. Wolpe found that systematic desensitization was successful 90% of the time when treating phobias.\n\nIn 1947, Wolpe discovered that the cats of Wits University could overcome their fears through gradual and systematic exposure. Wolpe studied Ivan Pavlov's work on artificial neuroses and the research done on elimination of children's fears by Watson and Jones. In 1958, Wolpe did a series of experiments on the artificial induction of neurotic disturbance in cats. He found that gradually deconditioning the neurotic animals was the best way to treat them of their neurotic disturbances. Wolpe deconditioned the neurotic cats through different feeding environments. Wolpe knew that this treatment of feeding would not generalize to humans and he instead substituted relaxation as a treatment to relieve the anxiety symptoms.\n\nWolpe found that if he presented a client with the actual anxiety inducing stimulus, the relaxation techniques did not work. It was difficult to bring all of the objects into his office because not all anxiety inducing stimuli are physical objects, but instead are concepts. Wolpe instead began to have his clients imagine the anxiety inducing stimulus or look at pictures of the anxiety inducing stimulus, much like the process that is done today.\n\nDesensitization is widely known as one of the most effective therapy techniques. In recent decades, systematic desensitization has been used less and less as a treatment of choice for anxiety disorders. Since 1970 academic research on systematic desensitization has declined, and the current focus has been on other therapies. In addition, the number of clinicians using systematic desensitization has also declined since 1980. Those clinicians that continue to regularly use systematic desensitization were trained before 1986. It is believed that the decrease of systematic desensitization by practicing psychologist is due to the increase in other techniques such as flooding, implosive therapy, and participant modeling.\n\nBetween 25 and 40 percent of students experience test anxiety. Children can suffer from low self-esteem and stress induced symptoms as a result of test anxiety. The principles of systematic desensitization can be used by children to help reduce their test anxiety. Children can practice the muscle relaxation techniques by tensing and relaxing different muscle groups. With older children and college students, an explanation of desensitization can help to increase the effectiveness of the process. After these students learn the relaxation techniques, they can create an anxiety inducing hierarchy. For test anxiety these items could include not understanding directions, finishing on time or marking the answers properly. Teachers, school counselors or school psychologists could instruct children on the methods of systematic desensitization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "113055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113055", "title": "Temperament", "text": "Temperament\n\nIn psychology, temperament broadly refers to consistent individual differences in behavior that are biologically based and are relatively independent of learning, system of values and attitudes. Some researchers point to association of temperament with formal dynamical features of behavior, such as energetic aspects, plasticity, sensitivity to specific reinforcers and emotionality. Temperament traits (such as Neuroticism, Sociability, Impulsivity, etc.) remain its distinct patterns in behavior throughout adulthood but they are most noticeable and most studied in children. Babies are typically described by temperament, but longitudinal research in the 1920s began to establish temperament as something which is stable across the lifespan.\n\nAlthough a broad definition of temperament is agreed upon, many classification schemes for temperament have been developed, and there is no consensus.\n\nHistorically, the concept of temperament (originally \"temperamentums\" in Latin means \"mixtures\") was a part of the theory of the four humors, with their corresponding four temperaments.\n\nThis historical concept was explored by philosophers, psychologists, psychiatrists and psycho-physiologists from very early times of psychological science, with theories proposed by Immanuel Kant, Hermann Lotze, Ivan Pavlov, Carl Jung, Gerardus Heymans among others.\n\nMore recently, scientists seeking evidence of a biological basis of personality have further examined the relationship between temperament and neurotransmitter systems and character (defined in this context as developmental aspects of personality). However, biological correlations have proven hard to confirm.\n\nTemperament is determined through specific behavioral profiles, usually focusing on those that are both easily measurable and testable early in childhood. Commonly tested factors include traits related to energetic capacities (named as \"Activity\", \"Endurance\", \"Extraversion\"), traits related to emotionality (such as irritability, frequency of smiling), and approach or avoidance of unfamiliar events. There is generally a low correlation between descriptions by teachers and behavioral observations by scientists of features used in determining temperament. Temperament is hypothesized to be associated with biological factors, but these have proven to be complex and diverse.\n\nHistorically, in the second century A.D., the physician Galen described four temperaments (melancholic, phlegmatic, sanguine and choleric) based upon the four humours or bodily fluids. These became known as the four classical temperaments. In more recent history, Rudolf Steiner had emphasized the importance of the four classical temperaments in elementary education, the time when he believed the influence of temperament on the personality to be at its strongest. Neither Galen nor Steiner are generally applied to the contemporary study of temperament in the approaches of modern medicine or contemporary psychology.\n\nThis model is based on the longest tradition of neurophysiological experiments started within the investigations of types and properties of nervous systems by Ivan Pavlov's school. This experimental tradition started on studies with animals in 1910-20s but expanded its methodology to humans since 1930s and especially since 1960s, including EEG, caffeine tests, evoked potentials, behavioral tasks and other psychophysiological methods.\n\nThe latest version of this model is based on the \"Activity-specific approach in temperament research, on Alexander Luria's research in clinical neurophysiology and on the neurochemical model Functional Ensemble of Temperament. At the present time the model is associated with the Structure of Temperament Questionnaire and has 12 scales:\n\n\n\n\nJerome Kagan and his colleagues have concentrated empirical research on a temperamental category termed \"reactivity.\" Four-month-old infants who became \"motorically aroused and distressed\" to presentations of novel stimuli were termed \"highly reactive\". Those who remained \"motorically relaxed and did not cry or fret to the same set of unfamiliar events\" were termed \"low reactive\". These high and low reactive infants were tested again at 14 and 21 months \"in a variety of unfamiliar laboratory situations.\" Highly reactive infants were predominantly characterized by a profile of high fear to unfamiliar events, which Kagan termed inhibited. Contrastingly, low reactive children were minimally fearful to novel situations, and were characterized by an uninhibited profile (Kagan). However, when observed again at age 4.5, only a modest proportion of children maintained their expected profile due to mediating factors such as intervening family experiences. Those who remained highly inhibited or uninhibited after age 4.5 were at higher risk for developing anxiety and conduct disorders, respectively.\n\nKagan also used two additional classifications, one for infants who were inactive but cried frequently (distressed) and one for those who showed vigorous activity but little crying (aroused). Followed to age 14–17 years, these groups of children showed differing outcomes, including some differences in central nervous system activity. Teenagers who had been classed as high reactives when they were babies were more likely to be \"subdued in unfamiliar situations, to report a dour mood and anxiety over the future, [and] to be more religious.\"\n\nAlexander Thomas, Stella Chess, Herbert G. Birch, Margaret Hertzig and Sam Korn began the classic New York Longitudinal study in the early 1950s regarding infant temperament (Thomas, Chess & Birch, 1968). The study focused on how temperamental qualities influence adjustment throughout life. Chess, Thomas et al. rated young infants on nine temperament characteristics, each of which, by itself, or with connection to another, affects how well a child fits in at school, with their friends, and at home. Behaviors for each one of these traits are on a continuum. If a child leans towards the high or low end of the scale, it could be a cause for concern. The specific behaviors are: activity level, regularity of sleeping and eating patterns, initial reaction, adaptability, intensity of emotion, mood, distractibility, persistence and attention span, and sensory sensitivity. Redundancies between the categories have been found and a reduced list is normally used by psychologists today.\n\nResearch by Thomas and Chess used the following nine temperament traits in children based on a classification scheme developed by Dr. Herbert Birch: Thomas, Chess, Birch, Hertzig and Korn found that many babies could be categorized into one of three groups: \"easy\", \"difficult\", and \"slow-to-warm-up\" (Thomas & Chess 1977). Not all children can be placed in one of these groups. Approximately 65% of children fit one of the patterns. Of the 65%, 40% fit the easy pattern, 10% fell into the difficult pattern, and 15% were slow to warm up. Each category has its own strength and weakness and one is not superior to another.\n\nThomas, Chess, Birch, Hertzig and Korn showed that \"easy\" babies readily adapt to new experiences, generally display positive moods and emotions and also have normal eating and sleeping patterns. \"Difficult\" babies tend to be very emotional, irritable and fussy, and cry a lot. They also tend to have irregular eating and sleeping patterns. \"Slow-to-warm-up\" babies have a low activity level, and tend to withdraw from new situations and people. They are slow to adapt to new experiences, but accept them after repeated exposure.\n\nThomas, Chess, Birch, Hertzig and Korn found that these broad patterns of temperamental qualities are remarkably stable through childhood. These traits are also found in children across all cultures.\n\nThomas and Chess also studied temperament and environment. One sample consisted of white middle-class families with high educational status and the other was of Puerto Rican working-class families. They found several differences. Among those were:\n\n- Parents of middle class children were more likely to report behavior problems before the age of nine and the children had sleep problems. This may be because children start preschool between the ages of three and four. Puerto Rican children under the age of five showed rare signs of sleep problems, however, sleep problems became more common at the age of six.\n- Middle class parents also placed great stress on the child’s early development, believing that problems in early ages were indicative of later problems in psychological development, whereas Puerto Rican parents felt their children would outgrow any problems.\n- At the age of nine, the report of new problems dropped for middle class children but they rose in Puerto Rican children, possibly due to the demands of school.\n\nObserved traits:\n\n\nMary K. Rothbart views temperament as the individual personality differences in infants and young children that are present prior to the development of higher cognitive and social aspects of personality. Rothbart further defines temperament as individual differences in reactivity and self-regulation that manifest in the domains of emotion, activity and attention. Moving away from classifying infants into categories, Mary Rothbart identified three underlying dimensions of temperament. Using factor analysis on data from 3 -12 month old children, three broad factors emerged and were labelled surgency/extraversion, negative affect, and effortful control.\n\nSurgency/extraversion includes positive anticipation, impulsivity, increased levels of activity and a desire for sensation seeking. This factor reflects the degree to which a child is generally happy, active, and enjoys vocalizing and seeking stimulation. Increased levels of smiling and laughter are observed in babies high in surgency/extraversion. 10- to 11-year-olds with higher levels of surgency/extraversion are more likely to develop externalizing problems like acting out; however, they are less likely to develop internalizing problems such as shyness and low self-esteem.\n\nNegative affect includes fear, frustration, sadness, discomfort, and anger. This factor reflects the degree to which a child is shy and not easily calmed. Anger and frustration is seen as early as 2 to 3 months of age. Anger and frustration, together, predict externalizing and internalizing difficulties. Anger, alone, is later related to externalizing problems, while fear is associated with internalizing difficulties. Fear as evidenced by behavioural inhibition is seen as early as 7–10 months of age, and later predicts children's fearfulness and lower levels of aggression.\n\nEffortful control includes the focusing and shifting of attention, inhibitory control, perceptual sensitivity, and a low threshold for pleasure. This factor reflects the degree to which a child can focus attention, is not easily distracted, can restrain a dominant response in order to execute a non-dominant response, and employ planning. When high in effortful control, six- to seven-year-olds tend to be more empathetic and lower in aggressiveness. Higher levels of effortful control at age seven also predict lower externalizing problems at age 11 years. Children high on negative affect show decreased internalizing and externalizing problems when they are also high on effortful control. Rothbart suggests that effortful control is dependent on the development of executive attention skills in the early years. In turn, executive attention skills allows greater self-control over reactive tendencies. Effortful control shows stability from infancy into the school years and also predicts conscience.\n\nSolomon Diamond described temperaments based upon characteristics found in the animal world: fearfulness, aggressiveness, affiliativeness, and impulsiveness. His work has been carried forward by Arnold Buss and Robert Plomin, who developed two measures of temperament: The Colorado Child Temperament Inventory, which includes aspects of Thomas and Chess's schema, and the EAS Survey for Children.\n\nH. Hill Goldsmith and Joseph Campos used emotional characteristics to define temperament, originally analyzing five emotional qualities: motor activity, anger, fearfulness, pleasure/joy, and interest/persistence, but later expanding to include other emotions. They developed several measures of temperament: Lab-TAB and TBAQ.\n\nOther temperament systems include those based upon theories of adult temperament (e.g. Gray and Martin's Temperament Assessment Battery for Children), or adult personality (e.g.the Big Five personality traits).\n\nSeveral psychiatrists and differential psychologists have suggested that temperament and mental illness represent varying degrees along the same continuum of neurotransmitter imbalances in neurophysiological systems of behavioural regulation.\n\nIn fact, the original four types of temperament (choleric, melancholic, phlegmatic and sanguine) suggested by Hippocrates and Galen resemble mild forms of types of psychiatric disorders described in modern classifications. Moreover, Hippocrates-Galen hypothesis of chemical imbalances as factors of consistent individual differences has also been validated by research in neurochemistry and psychopharmacology, though modern studies attribute this to different compounds. Many studies have examined the relationships between temperament traits (such as impulsivity, sensation seeking, neuroticism, endurance, plasticity, sociability or extraversion) and various neurotransmitter and hormonal systems, (i.e. the very same systems implicated in mental disorders)\n\nEven though temperament and psychiatric disorders can be presented as, correspondingly, weak and strong imbalances within the same regulatory systems, it is incorrect to say that temperament is a weak degree of these disorders. Temperament might be a disposition to develop a mental disorder, but it should not be treated as a guaranteed marker for disorders.\n\nMost experts agree that temperament has a genetic and biological basis, although environmental factors and maturation modify the ways a child's personality is expressed. The term “goodness of fit” refers to the match or mismatch between temperament and other personal characteristics and the specific features of the environment. Differences of temperament or behavior styles between individuals are important in family life. They affect the interactions among family members. While some children can adapt quickly and easily to family routines and get along with siblings, others who are more active or intense may have a difficult time adjusting. The interactions between these children and their parents or siblings are among a number of factors that can lead to stress and friction within the family.\n\nThe temperament mix between parents and children also affects family life. For example, a slow-paced parent may be irritated by a highly active child; or if both parent and child are highly active and intense, conflict could result. This knowledge can help parents figure out how temperaments affect family relationships. What may appear to be a behavioral problem may actually be a mismatch between the parent’s temperament and their child’s. By taking a closer look at the nine traits that Thomas and Chess revealed from their study, parents can gain a better understanding of their child’s temperament and their own. Parents may also notice that situational factors cause a child's temperament to seem problematic; for example, a child with low rhythmicity can cause difficulties for a family with a highly scheduled life, and a child with a high activity level may be difficult to cope with if the family lives in a crowded apartment upstairs from sensitive neighbors.\n\nParents can encourage new behaviors in their children, and with enough support a \"slow-to-warm-up\" child can become less shy, or a \"difficult\" baby can become easier to handle. More recently infants and children with temperament issues have been called \"spirited\" to avoid negative connotations of \"\"difficult\" and \"slow to warm up\"\". Numerous books have been written advising parents how to raise their spirited youngsters.\n\nUnderstanding a child’s temperament can help reframe how parents interpret children’s behavior and the way parents think about the reasons for behaviors. By parents having access to this knowledge now helps them to guide their child in ways that respect the child’s individual differences. By understanding children’s temperaments and our own helps adults to work with them rather than try to change them. It is an opportunity to anticipate and understand a child’s reaction. It is also important to know that temperament does not excuse a child’s unacceptable behavior, but it does provide direction to how parents can respond to it. Making small and reasonable accommodations to routines can reduce tension. For example, a child who is slow-paced in the mornings may need an extra half-hour to get ready. Knowing who or what may affect the child’s behavior can help to alleviate potential problems. Although children obtain their temperament behaviors innately, a large part that helps determine a child's ability to develop and act in certain ways is determined by the parents. When a parent takes the time to identify and more importantly respond to the temperaments they are faced with in a positive way it will help them guide their child in trying to figure out the world.\n\nRecognizing the child’s temperament and helping them to understand how it impacts his/her life as well as others is important. It is just as important for parents to recognize their own temperaments. Recognizing each individual’s temperament, will help to prevent and manage problems that may arise from the differences among family members.\n\nTemperament continues into adulthood, and later studies by Chess and Thomas have shown that these characteristics continue to influence behavior and adjustment throughout the life-span.\n\nIn addition to the initial clinical studies, academic psychologists have developed an interest in the field and researchers such as Bates, Buss & Plomin, Kagan, Rusalov, Cloninger, Trofimova and Rothbart have generated large bodies of research in the areas of personality, neuroscience, and behavioral genetics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7030501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7030501", "title": "Threefold Training", "text": "Threefold Training\n\nThe Buddha identified the threefold training (\"sikkhā\") as training in:\n\nAccording to Theravada canonical texts, pursuing this training leads to the abandonment of lust, hatred, and delusion. One who is fully accomplished in this training attains Nibbana.\n\nIn the Anguttara Nikaya, training in \"higher virtue\" includes following the Patimokkha, training in \"higher mind\" (sometimes simply referred to as \"concentration\") includes entering and dwelling in the four jhanas, and training in \"higher wisdom\" includes directly perceiving the Four Noble Truths or knowledge of destruction of the taints. \n\nIn several canonical discourses, a more \"gradual\" instruction (\"anupubbikathā\") is provided to receptive lay people (see also, gradual training). This latter instruction culminates in the teaching of the Four Noble Truths which in itself concludes with the Noble Eightfold Path, the constituents of which can be mapped to this threefold training (see below).\n\nThe Buddha's threefold training is similar to the threefold grouping of the Noble Eightfold Path articulated by Bhikkhuni Dhammadinna in Culavedalla Sutta (\"The Shorter Set of Questions-And-Answers Discourse,\" MN 44): virtue (\"sīlakkhandha\"), concentration (\"samādhikkhandha\"), wisdom (\"paññākkhandha \"). These three-part schemes simplify and organize the Eightfold Path as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42039996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42039996", "title": "Transformer utilization factor", "text": "Transformer utilization factor\n\nThe transformer utilization factor (TUF) of a rectifier circuit is defined as the ratio of the DC power available at the load resistor to the AC rating of the secondary coil of a transformer.\n\nformula_1\n\nThe formula_2 rating of the transformer can be defined as:\nformula_3\n"}
{"id": "455403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455403", "title": "Video game art", "text": "Video game art\n\nVideo game art is a specialized form of computer art employing video games as the artistic medium. Video game art often involves the use of patched or modified video games or the repurposing of existing games or game structures, however it relies on a broader range of artistic techniques and outcomes than artistic modification and it may also include painting, sculpture, appropriation, in-game intervention and performance, sampling, etc. It may also include the creation of art games either from scratch or by modifying existing games. Notable examples of video game art include Cory Arcangel's \"Super Mario Clouds\" and \"I Shot Andy Warhol,\" Joseph Delappe's projects including \"Dead in Iraq\" and the \"Salt Satyagraha Online: Gandhi's March to Dandi in Second Life,\" the 2004-2005 Rhizome Commissions \"relating to the theme of games,\" Paolo Pedercini's Molleindustria games such as \"Unmanned\" and \"Every Day the Same Dream\", and Ian Bogost's \"Cowclicker.\"\n\nArtistic modifications are frequently made possible through the use of level editors, though other techniques exist. Some artists make use of machinima applications to produce non-interactive animated artworks, however artistic modification is not synonymous with machinima as these form only a small proportion of artistic modifications. Machinima is distinct from art mods as it relies on different tools, though there are many similarities with some art mods.\n\nLike video games, artistic game modifications are often interactive and may allow for single-player or multiplayer experience. Multiplayer works make use of networked environments to develop new kinds of interaction and collaborative art production.\n\nMachinima is the use of real-time three-dimensional (3-D) graphics rendering engines to generate computer animation. The term also refers to works that incorporate this animation technique.\n\nArtists may intervene in online games in a non-play manner, often disrupting games in progress in order to challenge or expose underlying conventions and functions of game play. Examples of this include Anne Marie Schleiner's \"Velvet-Strike\" (a project designed to allow players of realistic first person shooter games to use anti-war graffiti within the game to make an artistic statement) and \"Dead in Iraq\" (an art project created by Joseph DeLappe in which the player character purposely allows himself to be shot and then recites the names of US soldiers who have died in the Iraq War).\n\nSite-specific installations and site-relative gaming modifications (\"mods\"), replicate real-world places (often the art gallery in which they are displayed) to explore similarities and differences between real and virtual worlds. An example is \"What It Is Without the Hand That Wields It\", where blood from kills in Counterstrike manifests and spills into a real life gallery.\n\nVideo games can be incorporated into live audio and visual performance using a variety of instruments and computers such as keyboards embedded with music chips. See also chiptune and the Fijuu project.\n\nGenerative art mods exploit the real-time capabilities of game technologies to produce ever-renewing autonomous artworks. Examples include Julian Oliver's \"ioq3apaint\", a generative painting system that uses the actions of software agents in combat to drive the painting process, Alison Mealy's \"UnrealArt\" which takes the movements of game entities and uses them to control a drawing process in an external program, Kent Sheely's \"Cities in Flux,\" a mod that glitches and distorts the game's world in real-time, and RetroYou's \"R/C Racer\" a modification of the graphic elements of a racing game which results in rich fields of colour and shape.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "444673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444673", "title": "Vitruvian Man", "text": "Vitruvian Man\n\nThe Vitruvian Man (, which is translated to \"The proportions of the human body according to Vitruvius\"), or simply L'Uomo Vitruviano (), is a drawing made by the Italian polymath Leonardo da Vinci around 1490. It is accompanied by notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius. The drawing, which is in ink on paper, depicts a man in two superimposed positions with his arms and legs apart and inscribed in a circle and square. The drawing and text are sometimes called the \"Canon of Proportions\" or, less often, \"Proportions of Man\". It is kept in the Gabinetto dei disegni e stampe of the Gallerie dell'Accademia, in Venice, Italy, under reference 228. Like most works on paper, it is displayed to the public only occasionally, so it is not part of the normal exhibition of the museum.\n\nThe drawing is based on the correlations of ideal human body proportions with geometry described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius in Book III of his treatise \"De architectura\". Vitruvius described the human figure as being the principal source of proportion among the classical orders of architecture. Vitruvius determined that the ideal body should be eight heads high. Leonardo's drawing is traditionally named in honor of the architect.\n\nThis image demonstrates the blend of mathematics and art during the Renaissance and demonstrates Leonardo's deep understanding of proportion. In addition, this picture represents a cornerstone of Leonardo's attempts to relate man to nature. \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" online states, \"Leonardo envisaged the great picture chart of the human body he had produced through his anatomical drawings and \"Vitruvian Man\" as a \"cosmografia del minor mondo\" (cosmography of the microcosm). He believed the workings of the human body to be an analogy for the workings of the universe.\"\n\nAccording to Leonardo's preview in the accompanying text, written in mirror writing, it was made as a study of the proportions of the (male) human body as described in Vitruvius' \"De architectura\" 3.1.2–3, which reads:\nLeonardo's drawing combines a careful reading of the ancient text with his own observation of actual human bodies. In drawing the circle and square he observes that the square cannot have the same centre as the circle, but is centered at the groin. This adjustment is the innovative part of Leonardo's drawing and what distinguishes it from earlier illustrations. He also departs from Vitruvius by drawing the arms raised to a position in which the fingertips are level with the top of the head, rather than Vitruvius's much lower angle, in which the arms form lines passing through the navel.\n\nThe drawing itself is often used as an implied symbol of the essential symmetry of the human body, and by extension, the symmetry of the universe as a whole.\n\nIt may be noticed by examining the drawing that the combination of arm and leg positions creates sixteen different poses. The pose with the arms straight out and the feet together is seen to be inscribed in the superimposed square. On the other hand, the \"spread-eagle\" pose is seen to be inscribed in the superimposed circle.\n\nThe drawing was purchased from Gaudenzio de' Pagave by Giuseppe Bossi, who described, discussed and illustrated it in his monograph on Leonardo's \"The Last Supper\", \"Del Cenacolo di Leonardo da Vinci libri quattro\" (1810). The following year he excerpted the section of his monograph concerned with the \"Vitruvian Man\" and published it as \"Delle opinioni di Leonardo da Vinci intorno alla simmetria de'Corpi Umani\" (1811), with a dedication to his friend Antonio Canova.\n\nAfter Bossi's death in 1815 the \"Vitruvian Man\" was acquired in 1822, along with a number of his drawings, by the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, Italy, and has remained there since.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci's collaboration with the author of \"De divina proportione\" (\"On the Divine Proportion\") have led some to speculate that he incorporated the golden ratio in \"Vitruvian Man\", but this is not supported by any of Leonardo's writings. The proportions of \"Vitruvian Man\" do not match the golden ratio precisely.\n\nMany artists attempted to design figures which would satisfy Vitruvius' claim that a human could fit into both a circle and a square. Leonardo may have been influenced by the work of his friend Giacomo Andrea de Ferrara, a Renaissance architect and an expert on Vitruvius. Andrea's drawing features erasure marks indicating its unique creation. As with Leonardo's \"Vitruvian Man\", Andrea's circle is centered on the naval, but only one pose is included. Leonardo's design includes two sets of arms and legs to touch both the circle and the square.\n\nThe text is in two parts, above and below the image. The upper part paraphrases Vitruvius:\nThe lower section of text gives these proportions:\nThe points determining these proportions are marked with lines on the drawing. Below the drawing is a single line equal to a side of the square and divided into four cubits, of which the outer two are divided into six palms each, two of which have the mirror-text annotation \"palmi\"; the outermost two palms are divided into four fingers each, and are each annotated \"diti\".\n\n\"Vitruvian Man\" has stimulated artists including:\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\nWorks cited\n\n"}
{"id": "225474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225474", "title": "White Anglo-Saxon Protestant", "text": "White Anglo-Saxon Protestant\n\nWhite Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs) are a social group of wealthy and well-connected white Americans, of Protestant and predominantly British ancestry, who trace their ancestry to the American colonial period.\n\nUntil at least the 1960s, this group has dominated American society and culture and dominated in the leadership of the Whig and Republican parties. They usually are very well placed in major financial, business, legal and academic institutions and had close to a monopoly of elite society due to intermarriage and nepotism.\n\nDuring the latter half of the twentieth century, outsider ethnic and racial groups grew in influence and WASP dominance weakened. Americans are increasingly criticizing the WASP hegemony and disparaging WASPs as the epitome of \"the Establishment\". The \"Random House Unabridged Dictionary\" (1998) says the term is \"Sometimes Disparaging and Offensive\". The term \"WASP\" is often used as a pejorative to classify their historical dominance over the financial, cultural, academic, and legal institutions of the United States. \n\nSociologists sometimes use the term very broadly to include all Protestant Americans of Northern European or Northwestern European ancestry regardless of their class or power. The term is also used in Australia, New Zealand and Canada for similar elites.\n\nHistorically, \"Anglo-Saxon\" referred to the language of indigenous inhabitants of England before 1066, especially in contrast to Norman French influence after that. Since the 19th century it has been in common use in the English-speaking world, but not in Britain itself (in this context), to refer to Protestants of principally English descent. The \"W\" and \"P\" were added in the 1950s to form a humorous epithet with an undertone of \"waspishness\" (which means a person who is easily irritated and quick to take offense).\n\nThe first published mention of the term \"WASP\" was provided by political scientist Andrew Hacker in 1957, referring to the class of Americans that held \"national power in its economic, political, and social aspects\"; here the \"W\" stands for \"wealthy\" rather than \"white\":\n\nThe term was popularized by sociologist and University of Pennsylvania professor E. Digby Baltzell, himself a WASP, in his 1964 book \"The Protestant Establishment: Aristocracy and Caste in America.\" Baltzell stressed the closed or caste-like characteristic of the group by arguing that \"There is a crisis in American leadership in the middle of the twentieth century that is partly due, I think, to the declining authority of an establishment which is now based on an increasingly castelike White-Anglo Saxon-Protestant (WASP) upper class.\" The term is also used in Australia and Canada for similar elites.\n\nThe concept of \"Anglo Saxon\" and especially \"Anglo Saxon Protestantism\" evolved in the late 19th century, especially among American Protestant missionaries eager to transform the world. Historian Richard Kyle says:\nProtestantism had not yet split into two mutually hostile camps – the liberals and fundamentalists. Of great importance, evangelical Protestantism still dominated the cultural scene. American values bore the stamp of this Anglo-Saxon Protestant ascendancy. The political, cultural, religious, and intellectual leaders of the nation were largely of a Northern European Protestant stock, and they propagated public morals compatible with their background.\n\nBefore WASP came into use in the 1960s the term \"Anglo Saxon\" filled some of the same purposes. \"Anglo-Saxons\" by 1900 was often used as a synonym for all people of English descent and sometimes more generally, for all the English-speaking peoples of the world. It was often used in claims for the superiority of the Anglo-Saxon race, much to the annoyance of outsiders. For example, Josiah Strong boasted in 1890:\nIn 1700 this race numbered less than 6,000,000 souls. In 1800, Anglo-Saxons (I use the term somewhat broadly to include all English-speaking peoples) had increased to about 20,500,000, and now, in 1890, they number more than 120,000,000.\n\nIn 1893 Strong envisioned a future \"new era\" of triumphant Anglo-Saxonism:\nIs it not reasonable to believe that this race is destined to dispossess many weaker ones, assimilate others, and mould the remainder until... it has Anglo-Saxonized mankind?\n\nLike the newer term \"WASP,\" the old term \"Anglo-Saxon\" was used derisively by writers hostile to an informal alliance between Britain and the U.S. The negative use was especially common among Irish Americans and writers in France. \"Anglo-Saxon\", meaning in effect the whole Anglosphere, remains a term favored by the French, used disapprovingly in contexts such as criticism of the Special Relationship of close diplomatic relations between the US and Britain and complaints about perceived \"Anglo-Saxon\" cultural or political dominance. It also remains in use in Ireland as a term for the British or English, and sometimes in Scottish Nationalist discourse. Irish-American humorist Finley Peter Dunne popularized the ridicule of \"Anglo Saxon\", even calling President Theodore Roosevelt one. Roosevelt insisted he was Dutch. \"To be genuinely Irish is to challenge WASP dominance,\" argues California politician Tom Hayden. The depiction of the Irish in the films of John Ford was a counterpoint to WASP standards of rectitude. \"The procession of rambunctious and feckless Celts through Ford's films, Irish and otherwise, was meant to cock a snoot at WASP or 'lace-curtain Irish' ideas of respectability.\"\n\nIn Australia, \"Anglo\" or \"Anglo-Saxon\" refers to people of English descent, while \"Anglo-Celtic\" expands to include people of Irish, Welsh and Scottish descent.\n\nIn France, \"Anglo-Saxon\" refers to the combined impact of Britain and the United States on European affairs. Charles de Gaulle repeatedly sought to \"rid France of Anglo-Saxon influence.\" The term has had more nuanced uses in discussions by French writers on French decline, especially as an alternative model to which France should aspire, how France should adjust to its two most prominent global competitors, and how it should deal with social and economic modernization.\n\nOutside of Anglophone countries the term \"Anglo-Saxon\" and its translations are used to refer to the Anglophone peoples and societies of Britain, the United States, and other countries such as Australia, Canada and New Zealand. Variations include the German: \"Angelsachsen\", French: \"le modèle anglo-saxon,\" Spanish: \"anglosajón\", Dutch: \"Angelsaksisch model\", and Italian: \"Paesi anglosassoni.\"\n\nWASPs vary in exact Protestant denomination; they traditionally have been associated with Episcopal (or Anglican), Presbyterian, United Methodist, Congregationalist, and other mainline Protestant denominations, but the term has expanded to include various Protestant denominations. The popular usage of the term has sometimes expanded to include not just Anglo-Saxon or English-American elites but also people of other Protestant Northwestern European origin, including Protestant Dutch Americans, Anglo-Scottish Americans, German Americans, and Scandinavian Americans. The sociologist Charles H. Anderson writes, \"Scandinavians are second-class WASPs\" but know it is \"better to be a second-class WASP than a non-WASP\"\n\nSociologists William Thompson and Joseph Hickey noted the expansion of the term's coverage beyond the academic community:\nThe term \"WASP\" has many meanings. In sociology it reflects that segment of the U.S. population that founded the nation and traced their heritages to...Northwestern Europe. The term...has become more inclusive. To many people, WASP now includes most 'white' people who are not ... members of any minority group.\n\nApart from Protestant English, German, Dutch, and Scandinavian Americans, other ethnic groups frequently included under the label of WASP include Americans of French Huguenot descent, Scotch-Irish American or Ulster Scots Americans, Scottish Americans, Americans of Germanic Northwestern European descent in general, and established Protestant American families of \"vague\" or \"mixed\" Northwestern European heritage.\n\nThe WASP elite dominated much of politics and the economy, as well as the high culture, well into the 20th century. Anthony Smith argues that nations tend to be formed on the basis of a pre-modern ethnic core that provides the myths, symbols, and memories for the modern nation and that WASPs were indeed that core. WASPs are still prominent at prep schools (expensive private high schools, primarily in the Northeast), Ivy League universities, and prestigious liberal arts colleges, such as the Little Ivies or Seven Sisters.\n\nIn the Midwest, WASPs favored the University of Michigan, Northwestern University, and University of Chicago. In the Detroit area, WASPs dominated the wealth that came from the huge industrial capacity of the automotive industry. After the 1967 Detroit riot, they tended to congregate in the Grosse Pointe suburbs. In Chicago, they are present in the North Shore suburbs, the Barrington area in the northwest suburbs, and Oak Park and DuPage County in the western suburbs.\n\nSome of the WASPs Protestant denominations have the highest proportion of graduate and post-graduate degrees of any other denomination in the United States, such as the Episcopal Church (76%), the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) (64%), and the United Church of Christ (46%), as well as the most of the American upper class. Episcopalians and Presbyterians also tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated than most other religious groups, and they are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business and law. From 1854 until at least 1964 they were heavily Republican. In recent decades, Republicans slightly outnumber Democrats.\n\nAccording to \"Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United State\" by Harriet Zuckerman, a review of American Nobel prizes winners awarded between 1901 and 1972, 72% of American Nobel Prize Laureates, have identified from Protestant background, compared to about 67% of the general population during that time period. Overall, 84.2% of all the Nobel Prizes awarded to Americans in Chemistry, 60% in Medicine, and 58.6% in Physics between 1901 and 1972 were won by Protestants.\n\nLike other ethnic groups, WASPs tend live in proximity to each other in close social circles. Neighborhoods and cities with large populations of WASPs are often the most sought after neighborhoods of the city. These areas are largely exclusive and upper class with top private and public schools, high family incomes, well established Christian church communities, and with high real estate values.\n\nDavid Brooks, a columnist for \"The New York Times\" who attended an Episcopal prep school, writes that WASPs took pride in \"good posture, genteel manners, personal hygiene, pointless discipline, the ability to sit still for long periods of time.\" According to the essayist Joseph Epstein, WASPs developed a style of understated quiet leadership.\n\nEpiscopalian and Presbyterian WASPs tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated than most other religious groups in America, and are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business, law and politics, and for many years were especially dominant in the Republican Party. A number of the wealthiest and most affluent American families (\"Old Money\"), such as the Vanderbilts, Astors, Rockefellers, Du Pont, Roosevelts, Forbes, Whitneys, the Morgans and Harrimans are mostly Mainline Protestant families in the Episcopalian, Presbyterian, or other similar traditions.\n\nA common practice of WASP families is presenting their daughters of marriagable age (traditionally at the age of 17 or 18 years old) at a débutante ball, such as The International Debutante Ball at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City.\n\nThe Ivy League universities and Seven Sisters colleges have strong WASP historical ties, and their influence continues today. Until about World War II, Ivy League universities were composed largely of WASP students. As some of the nation's top colleges and universities, they still continue to be the university of choice for WASP families today. The Big Three (Harvard, Yale and Princeton universities) have traditionally been the top three universities of choice for WASP families.\n\nAdmission to these colleges and universities is based on academic merit, but there is nonetheless a certain preference for \"legacy\" alumni. Students can form connections which carry over to the influential spheres of finance, culture, and politics. Many alumni from these schools go on to successful careers, continuing the WASP cultural and economic influence.\n\nThe social elite was a small, closed group. The leadership was well known to the readers of society pages, but in larger cities it was impossible to remember everyone, or to keep track of marriages and the new debutantes. The solution was the \"Social Register,\" which listed the names and addresses of about 1 percent of the population. Most were WASPs, and they included the families who mingled in the same private clubs, attended the right teas and cotillions, worshipped together at prestige churches, funded the proper charities, lived in exclusive neighborhoods, and sent their daughters to finishing schools and their sons away to prep schools. In the heyday of WASP dominance, the \"Social Register\" delineated high society. Its day has passed. The \"New York Times\" stated in 1997:\nOnce, the Social Register was a juggernaut in New York social circles...Nowadays, however, with the waning of the WASP elite as a social and political force, the register's role as an arbiter of who counts and who doesn't is almost an anachronism. In Manhattan, where charity galas are at the center of the social season, the organizing committees are studded with luminaries from publishing, Hollywood and Wall Street and family lineage is almost irrelevant.\n\nThe \"Social Registers\" were designed as directories of the social elite in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Portland (Oregon), Providence, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, D.C., as well as ones for \"Southern Cities\".\n\nIn 2007, the \"New York Times\" reported that there was a rising interest in the WASP culture. In their review of Susanna Salk's \"A Privileged Life: Celebrating WASP Style\", they stated that Salk \"is serious about defending the virtues of WASP values, and their contribution to American culture.\"\n\nBy the 1980s, brands such as Lacoste, Ralph Lauren and Vineyard Vines and their logos became associated with the preppy fashion style which was associated with WASP culture.\n\nThe Founding Fathers represented a cross-section of 18th-century Patriot leadership. According to a study of the biographies of signers of the Declaration of Independence by Caroline Robbins: \n\nA famous confrontation was the 1952 Senate election in Massachusetts where John F. Kennedy, a Catholic of Irish descent, defeated WASP Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.. However the 1964 challenge by Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater, an Episcopalian whose father was Jewish, to Rockefeller and the Eastern Republican establishment helped undermine the WASP dominance. Goldwater himself had solid WASP credentials through his mother, but was instead seen as part of the Jewish community (despite having little association with it). By the 1980s, the liberal Rockefeller Republican wing of the party was marginalized, overwhelmed by the dominance of the Southern and Western conservative Republicans. Asking \"Is the WASP leader a dying breed?\" journalist Nina Strochlic in 2012 pointed to eleven WASP top politicians ending with Republicans G.H.W. Bush elected in 1988, his son George W. Bush elected in 2000 and 2004, and John McCain, who was nominated but defeated in 2008. \n\nCatholics in the Northeast and the Midwest, usually Irish-American, dominated Democratic Party politics in big cities through the ward boss system. Catholic (or \"white ethnic\") politicians were often the target of WASP political hostility.\n\nEric Kaufmann argues that \"the 1920s marked the high tide of WASP control\". In 1965 Canadian sociologist John Porter, in \"The Vertical Mosaic,\" argued that British origins were disproportionately represented in the higher echelons of Canadian class, income, political power, the clergy, the media etc. However, more recently Canadian scholars have traced the decline of the WASP elite.\n\nIn 1939, the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) denied prominent black singer Marian Anderson permission to sing in Constitution Hall. In the ensuing furor, the president's wife Eleanor Roosevelt publicly resigned from the DAR and arranged for Anderson to sing at the Lincoln Memorial before a cheering crowd of 75,000.\n\nAccording to Richard Schaeffer:\nA number of analysts have suggested that WASP dominance of the institutional order has become a thing of the past. The accepted wisdom is that after World War II, the selection of individuals for leadership positions was increasingly based on factors such as motivation and training rather than ethnicity and social lineage.\n\nIt was not until after World War II that the general power of old Protestant establishments began to decline. Many reasons have been given for the decline of WASP power, and books have been written detailing it. Self-imposed diversity incentives opened the country's most elite schools. The GI Bill brought higher education to new ethnic arrivals, who found middle class jobs in the postwar economic expansion. Nevertheless, white Protestants remain influential in the country's cultural, political, and economic elite. Scholars supporting this idea agree that the group's influence has waned since the end of World War II in 1945, with the growing influence of other ethnic groups.\n\nA notable event within this decline was the election of John F. Kennedy as President of the United States in 1960, the only Catholic President of the United States. John F. Kennedy's election was the result of his father Joseph P. Kennedy Sr's tireless lifelong campaign to break the WASP hold on American society due in particular to their non acceptance of Irish Catholic Americans. John F. Kennedy's election was one of the closest presidential elections in US history and it is likely that Joseph P. Kennedy's great wealth which was funding the campaign was a decisive and essential factor.\n\nIn the federal civil service, once dominated by those from a Protestant denomination (WASPs), especially in the Department of State, Catholics and Jews made strong inroads after 1945. Georgetown University, a Catholic school, made a systematic effort to place graduates in diplomatic career tracks. By the 1990s there were “roughly the same proportion of WASPs, Catholics, and Jews at the elite levels of the federal civil service, and a greater proportion of Jewish and Catholic elites among corporate lawyers.” The political scientist Theodore P. Wright, Jr. argues that while the Anglo ethnicity of the U.S. presidents from Richard Nixon through George W. Bush is evidence for the continued cultural dominance of WASPs, assimilation and social mobility along with the ambiguity of the term has led the WASP class to survive only by \"incorporating other groups that it is no longer the same group\" that existed in the mid-20th century.\n\nPrior to the late 20th century, all U.S. Supreme Court justices were of WASP or Protestant Germanic heritage (with the exception of Jewish-American Louis Brandeis, appointed in 1916, and Benjamin N. Cardozo, of Iberian Jewish descent, appointed in 1932.) Since the 1960s, an increasing number of non-WASP justices have been appointed to the Court. For the first time in U.S. history, after the 2010 retirement of John Paul Stevens (appointed 1975), the U.S. Supreme Court had no Protestant members until the appointment of Neil Gorsuch in 2017.\n\nThe University of California, Berkeley, once a WASP stronghold, has changed radically: only 30% of its undergraduates in 2007 were of European origin (including WASPs and all other Europeans), and 63% of undergraduates at the University were from immigrant families (where at least one parent was an immigrant), especially Asian.\n\nA significant shift of American economic activity toward the Sun Belt during the latter part of the 20th century, and an increasingly globalized economy have also contributed to the decline in power held by Northeastern WASPs. While WASPs are no longer solitary among the American elite, members of the Patrician class remain markedly prevalent within the current power structure.\n\nOther analysts have argued that the extent of the decrease in WASP dominance has been overstated. In response to increasing claims of fading WASP dominance, James D. Davidson, using data on American elites in political and economic spheres, concludes that, while the WASP and Protestant Establishment has lost some of its earlier prominence, WASPs and Protestants are still vastly overrepresented among America's elite.\n\nIn the 21st century, \"WASP\" is often a derogatory criticism based on snobbishness and exclusivity associated with social privilege, such as restrictive membership in private social clubs. A number of popular jokes exist ridiculing this stereotype. Occasionally a writer praises the WASP contribution, as conservative historian Richard Brookhiser did in 1991 when he said the \"uptight, bland, and elitist\" stereotype obscures the \"classic WASP ideals of industry, public service, family duty, and conscience to revitalize the nation.\"\n\nAmerican films including \"Annie Hall\" and \"Meet the Parents\" have used the conflicts between WASP families and urban Jewish families for potential comedic effect.\n\nThe 1939 Broadway play \"Arsenic and Old Lace\", later adapted into a Hollywood film released in 1944, ridiculed the old American elite. The play and film depict \"old-stock British Americans\" a decade before they were tagged as WASPS.\n\nThe playwright A. R. Gurney (1930-2017), himself of WASP heritage, has written a series of plays that have been called \"penetratingly witty studies of the WASP ascendancy in retreat.\" Gurney told the \"Washington Post\" in 1982:\n\nIn Gurney's play \"The Cocktail Hour\" (1988), a lead character tells her playwright son that theater critics \"don't like us... They resent us. They think we're all Republicans, all superficial and all alcoholics. Only the latter is true.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44246601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44246601", "title": "Who Speaks for the Negro?", "text": "Who Speaks for the Negro?\n\nWho Speaks for the Negro? is a 1965 book of interviews by Robert Penn Warren conducted with Civil Rights Movement activists. The book was reissued by Yale University Press in 2014. The Robert Penn Warren Center for the Humanities at Vanderbilt University created the \"\"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" Digital Archive,\" featuring digitized versions of the original reel-to-reel recordings that Warren compiled for each of his interviewees as well as print materials related to the project, including the transcripts of those recordings, letters written between Warren and the interviewees, and contemporary reviews of the book.\n\nIn preparation for Random House's 1965 publication of his book \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\", Warren traveled throughout the United States in early 1964 and spoke with large numbers of men and women who were involved in the Civil Rights Movement. He interviewed nationally-known figures as well as people working in the trenches of the movement whose names might otherwise be lost to history. In each case, he recorded their conversations on a reel-to-reel tape recorder.\n\nOften, Warren would begin by asking about the speakers' backgrounds, which often prompted them to talk about the inequalities that they had experienced that led to their participation in the Civil Rights Movement. Warren would also often ask the interviewees to respond to works from other writers, mainly W. E. B. Dubois's \"The Souls of Black Folk\", Kenneth Clark's essays about the detrimental effects of segregation on children, Gunnar Myrdal's \"The American Dilemma\", and James Baldwin's \"Nobody Knows My Name\". As well, Warren would ask his interviewees their opinion on a number of key historical American figures, including Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, William Lloyd Garrison, John Brown, and Robert E. Lee. While Warren was able to interview an impressive number of people, there are very few women in the collection, as well as some notable figures missing from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (Ralph Abernathy, James Bevel, Dorothy Cotton, and Fred Shuttlesworth), the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (John Lewis, Diane Nash, Bernard Lafayette, and Julian Bond), and others.\n\nThe published volume contains sections of transcripts from the conversations as well as Warren’s reflections on the individuals he interviewed and his thoughts on the state of the Civil Rights Movement. In the foreword to the volume, Warren insists on the book being a record of his desire to find out more about the Civil Rights Movement rather than an unbiased or comprehensive volume. Warren states in the foreword, \n\nAs an oral history of the Civil Rights Movement, \"Who Speaks\" may be compared to, among others, \"The New World of Negro Americans\" by Harold Isaacs, \"My Soul is Rested: Movement Days in the Deep South Remembered\" by Howell Raines, and \"My Soul Looks Back in Wonder: Voices of the Civil Rights Experience\" by Juan Williams.\n\n\"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" was reviewed widely by newspapers, cultural critics, and the general public. The tenor of the reviews varied greatly. Many news reviews—including those from the \"New York Herald Tribune\", the \"Atlantic Monthly\", the \"Chicago Tribune\", and the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\"—gave the book very positive reviews. Charles Poore, in the \"New York Times,\" wrote that \"a boon this book confers is to remind us that a main thrust in civilization can never cease to be toward decency and courtesy and justice for all.\" On the other hand, Warren received hate-mail from writers accusing him of \"Communist 'propaganda' [and] advocacy of 'racial mixing.'\" A \"Newsweek\" article called Warren \"paternalistic.\" More moderately, Albert Murray called \"Who Speaks\" the \"very best inside report on the Negro Civil Rights Movement by anyone so far\" while still acknowledging Warren's segregationist past.\n\nThough widely and for the most part positively reviewed, \"Who Speaks\" was not a commercial success, which disappointed Warren greatly. The book was out of print for decades until Yale University Press republished it in 2014 based largely on the traffic generated by the \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" Digital Archive.\n\nMuch of the original material related to the book is still in existence, held at the University of Kentucky and Yale University Libraries. The Louie B. Nunn Center for Oral History at the University of Kentucky digitized their portion of the archival collection and provides searchable and streaming access to the online interviews using OHMS (Oral History Metadata Synchronizer). The Robert Penn Warren Civil Rights Oral History Collection can be accessed via SPOKEdb, the Nunn Center's online repository. \n\nWarren grouped his interviews partly by geography and partly by theme. Each of the chapters consists of both narrativized and transcripted interviews and Warren's descriptions of setting, as well as deeper reflections inspired by the intervewees.\n\nChapter 1: The Cleft Stick\n\n\nChapter 2: A Mississippi Journal\n\n\nChapter 3: The Big Brass\n\n\nChapter 4: Leadership from the Periphery\n\n\nChapter 5: The Young\n\n\nNot all of the interviews made it directly into Warren's book. The original audiotapes and materials for \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" also contained interviews with the following people. The audio and transcripts for these, as well as full interviews from the persons in the book mentioned above, are available at the \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" Digital Archive of the Robert Penn Warren Center for the Humanities and the Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries at Vanderbilt University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16363305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16363305", "title": "Woman's Peace Party", "text": "Woman's Peace Party\n\nThe Woman's Peace Party (WPP) was an American pacifist and feminist organization formally established in January 1915 in response to World War I. The organization is remembered as the first American peace organization to make use of direct action tactics such as public demonstration. The Woman's Peace Party became the American section of an international organization known as the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace later in 1915, a group which later changed its name to the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Woman's Peace Party, the three leading American pacifist organizations of national stature were essentially conservative enterprises, viewing the peace movement's mission as one of extending stability, order, and the expansion of venerable American institutions.\n\nThe American Peace Society (BBC), established in 1828, was the oldest of the previously existing pacifist organizations and suffered from what one historian has called \"over seven decades of accumulated Victorianism. Typified by the detached conservative nobility of corporate attorney Elihu Root, the APS was dedicated to demonstrating the incompatibility between war and Christianity and throughout its existence had remained small, impoverished, and ineffectual. By the time of World War I, it had been reduced in status to that of a veritable subsidiary of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment was launched by industrialist Andrew Carnegie in 1910 with a $10 million endowment. The Endowment became effectively a university publishing house for the peace movement, concentrating on academic research and the printed word rather than oratory.\n\nThe third of the primary American peace organizations of the first decade of the 20th Century was the World Peace Foundation (WPF), a group established in 1909 by millionaire Boston publisher Edwin Ginn as \"Edwin Ginn's International School for Peace.\" This organization was launched with a $1 million endowment and carried on publishing activities, changing its name to the WPF in 1911. As with the Carnegie Foundation, the WPF limited its activities largely to research and publication, attempting to influence political decision-makers with ideas rather than to stir the fires of popular sentiment.\n\nMuch like the trustified world of big business of the day, the peace movement was characterized by interlocking directorates of the various organizations, with a very few men and no women wielding decisive influence over the movement by virtue of the power of the pocketbook. The American peace movement was, in short, part of the political establishment, with dinner meetings of the New York Peace Society likened by one contemporary to \"a banquet of the Chamber of Commerce.\"\n\nAlthough the establishment of a permanent organization did not follow for more than four months, the roots of the Woman's Peace Party lay in a protest march of 1500 women in New York City on August 29, 1914. This \"Woman's Peace Parade\" was organized less than a month after the outbreak of hostilities in World War I and featured a silent procession down Fifth Avenue behind a white banner bearing a dove in front of somber crowds lining the streets.\n\nThe chair of the Woman's Peace Parade committee was Fanny Garrison Villard, a 70-year-old veteran of the peace movement. Her son, Oswald Garrison Villard, later recalled the scene:\n\"There were no bands; there was dead silence and the crowds watched the parade in the spirit of the marchers, with sympathy and approval. The President had also approved, for the organizers, in complete sympathy with his public statements of the early days of the conflict, had courteously asked him for his consent. He was especially pleased by the decision of the paraders to carry no flags except the peace flag and to have no set speeches at the conclusion of the parade, but brief informal addresses were made to all who would listed...\n\"The silence, the dignity, the black dresses of the marchers — those who did not have black dresses wore black arm bands — the solemnity of the crowds, all of these produced a profound effect on the beholders.\"\n\nThe Woman's Peace Parade marked a change of methods of the peace movement. Older American peace organizations limited themselves to working behind the scenes, attempting to influence policy through regular political channels. The Peace Parade, on the other hand, made use of direct action, attempting to build popular support for peace through public demonstration in the same way that labor organizations had historically fought for policies and settlements which were important to them. With this tactical shift, the Woman's Peace Parade and the organization which emerged from it, the Woman's Peace Party, effectively marked the beginning of the modern peace movement.\n\nIn the aftermath of the march, Fanny Garrison Villard sought to transform the temporary organization constructed to coordinate the march into a permanent group. Villard called upon one of her old rivals in the women's movement, Carrie Chapman Catt, President of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance to help in this regard. Catt, a former associate of Susan B. Anthony, was fixated upon the struggle for women's right to vote and did not see the peace march as a likely vehicle for a change of public sentiment or national policy. Still, Catt was won over to the idea that the American suffrage movement stood to gain in support and stature if women could gain a prominent role in the noble struggle for an end to the European bloodbath.\n\nIn the middle of December 1914, Catt was finally persuaded to give full effort for the launch of a national women's peace organization. She wrote to settlement worker Jane Addams of Hull House in Chicago, attempting to bring her into the forthcoming organization as its leader. Addams had long believed in a close interrelationship between international peace, domestic humanitarian reform, and women's right to vote and was won over to the idea of a national women's peace movement. The stage was set for a formal launch of the new organization — a group to be called the Woman's Peace Party.\n\nThe Woman's Peace Party was established at an organizational convention held in Washington, DC on January 9–10, 1915. The gathering was attended by more than 100 delegates representing women's organizations from around the United States.\n\nJane Addams was elected President of the new organization by the convention and given the power to select a Secretary and Treasurer for the group, which was to be headquartered in Addams' home city of Chicago. Membership in the new organization was open to all groups willing to repurpose themselves also as a \"peace circle\" and to any woman paying a $1 annual membership fee. Officers ultimately included Lucia Ames Mead as National Secretary, Harriet P. Thomas as Executive Secretary, Sophonisba P. Breckinridge as Treasurer, and Elizabeth Glendower Evans as National Organizer.\n\nThe convention approved a platform calling for the immediate convocation of \"a convention of neutral nations in the interest of an early peace,\" the limitation of armaments, organized opposition to militarism (or military intervention) in America, democratization of foreign policy, removal of the economic motivation for war, and the expansion of the electoral franchise for women. The right of women to vote was seen by the female participants in the organization as part-and-parcel of the cause for peace, based on the presumption that women were inclined by nature to be oriented towards the nurturing of human life.\n\nThe founding convention also approved a supplemental \"Program for Constructive Peace\" which demanded that the American government to call a conference of neutral nations and declared that, failing that, \"the party itself will call an unofficial conference of pacifists from the world over\" to determine a course of action. To ensure that the current war was not merely a prelude for another, the program called for a peace based upon no transfers of territory without the will of the involved people, no indemnities to be assessed outside those in accordance with international law, and no treaties between nations to be established without ratification of representatives of the people.\n\nActivities concluded with a mass meeting held in the ballroom of the New Willard Hotel on Sunday, January 10, which was filled to capacity. An additional overflow meeting was held in another room but still some 500 interested people had to be turned away for lack of space. Speeches were delivered to this gathering by Jane Addams, and feminist activists Emmeline Pethick-Lawrence of England, Rosika Schwimmer of Hungary, among others.\n\nThe ongoing war in Europe forced the cancellation of the scheduled biennial convention of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance, which had been slated for Berlin in 1915. The cancellation of the German gathering provided an opportunity for the women's peace movement to hold an international gathering of their own, and a call was issued for a convention to be held in the neutral Netherlands. Jane Addams, President of the Woman's Peace Party and arguably the most respected and influential woman in America was invited to preside over the conclave.\n\nIn April 1915, 47 women, including many members of the Woman's Peace Party along with representatives of other organizations, boarded the Dutch cruise ship the \"MS Noordam\" for the dangerous journey to The Hague. Among those making the trip through mine-strewn waters were social worker Grace Abbott, epidemiologist Alice Hamilton, radical trade unionist Leonora O'Reilly, and academic and future Nobel Peace Prize winner Emily Balch.\n\nThe trip was not without controversy, despite America's formally neutral status, with former President Theodore Roosevelt declaring the women's mission \"silly and base\"\" and calling the women cowards who sought peace \"without regard to righteousness.\" The American women were not dissuaded, sailing into danger with a homemade blue and white banner that bore the single word, \"PEACE.\"\n\nThe \"Noordam\" was held up for four days in the English Channel by the Royal Navy but was ultimately allowed to proceed to The Hague, which it arrived barely in time for the start of the three-day congress on the evening of April 28, 1915. Despite the decision of some combatant nations, such as Great Britain, to deny its citizens passports which would have allowed them to participate in the Congress, the gathering still proved to be a massive event, bringing together 1,136 delegates and more than 2,000 visitors.\n\nThe congress drafted a series of resolutions detailing plans for a just peace, calling for general disarmament and the removal of the profit motive through nationalizing the production of armaments, and asserting the benefits of free trade and freedom of navigation on the high seas. A resolution calling for continuous mediation of disputes by a conference of neutral nations was passed, but ultimately failed to come to fruition. A delegation headed by Addams was dispatched to the capitals of the belligerent powers but it, too, proved ineffectual.\n\nBefore adjourning, the congress established a new international organization called the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace. The Woman's Peace Party came to regard itself as the American section of this organization.\n\nIn 1921 the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace formally changed its name to the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.\n\nAn archive of the records of the Woman's Peace Party from 1915 to 1920 resides at Swarthmore College in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania as part of its Peace Collection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
