{"id": "10586440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10586440", "title": "AWQAF Africa Muslim Open College", "text": "AWQAF Africa Muslim Open College\n\nAWQAF Africa Muslim Open College is an institution of AWQAF Africa's educational department. It was launched in London 2005 to cater for educational needs of the Africans (including the North Africans) and for people of African origin (e.g. the Caribbeans).\n\nThe Muslim Open College was founded while studying postgraduate degrees in Damascus early 1990s by founder of Awqaf Africa Sheikh Abu-Abdullah Adelabu (Ph.D. Damas), a West African Muslim scholar and cleric of Nigerian origin who is the international organization's first al Amir (president). He also lectures and supervises on dissertations and publications of his students and followers, including the African Muslim Portals such as EsinIslam.Com, Muxlima.com, and IslamAfrica.Com. Day-to-day activities and management of the College, its lectures, seminals, and administration are run mainly by volunteers and associates of Awqaf Africa in London, United Kingdom, Damascus, Syria, Lagos, Nigeria and Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nLike its umbrella organization Awqaf Africa, the Muslim Open College is an international organization which is incorporated in its structure with African Hajj and 'Umrah Commission and the African Union Muslim working to relieve human suffering amongst the Muslims of Africa - in particular and as a primary objective - and around the world - as necessary. It shares the same aims and objectives as Awqaf Africa, especially for Muslim societies where each national society effectuates programmes of Awqaf Africa. Relief, human dignity, and spiritual uplift remain main goals of the international body.\n\nThrough education, Awqaf Africa's Open College seeks the causes of suffering, poverty, and Islamophobia and tries to eliminate them under the banner of Islamic teachings.\n\nThe Open College is also projected to provide, in particular, the African Muslims with studies and qualifications that enable them to serve themselves and their Muslim communities, offering them maximum flexibility, so that they can build a program of studies that fits both their personal and community needs and adapt accordingly. Awqaf Africa gives priority to those who serve or intend to serve the Muslim communities through teachings and preachings or administration and career development.\n\nStudies at Awqaf Africa Muslim Open College are free, especially for the Africans (including the North Africans) and for people of African Origins (e.g. the Caribbeans) in an effort to help people develop their spiritual uplifts, to become a teacher, to foster their career development for the Muslims, or to serve as a Da^’i, offering them a true learning experience, supporting them as they study their first course with Awqaf Africa and appealing they intend to serve the Muslims and their interests - appreciating that a prospect of studying with Awqaf Africa could be so exciting that students overlook the sacred needs to be devoted to the amiable values of Islam.\n\nThe college coordinates a number of educational and training programmes for several Muslim portals including EsinIslam.com and IslamAfrica.com.\n\n(for the beginners with no or less awareness and/or no previous courses in Islamic Studies) in\n\n(for the intermediaries with good awareness and/or previous short or light courses in Islamic Studies) in\n\n(for the well-informed with better awareness or previous qualifications in Islamic Studies) in\n\n(for the well established and specialized \"Students Of Islamic Knowledge\" or/and recognized Du'a^t with good knowledge in Islamic Studies) in\n\nStudies towards each award as above take a minimum of two years with each academic year lasting nine months, opening two weeks after (the pilgrimage or) 'I^d ul kabi^r and closing a week before (the fasting month of) Ramadan.\n"}
{"id": "5795655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795655", "title": "Academic study of new religious movements", "text": "Academic study of new religious movements\n\nThe academic study of new religious movements is known as new religions studies' (NRS).\nThe study draws from the disciplines of anthropology, psychiatry, history, psychology, sociology, religious studies, and theology. Eileen Barker noted that there five sources of information on new religious movements (NRMs): the information provided by such groups themselves, that provided by ex-members as well as the friends and relatives of members, organisations that collect information on NRMs, the mainstream media, and academics studying such phenomena.\n\nThe study of new religions is unified by its topic of interest, rather than by its methodology, and is therefore interdisciplinary in nature. A sizeable body of scholarly literature on new religions has been published, most of it produced by social scientists. Among the disciplines that NRS uses are anthropology, history, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Of these approaches, sociology played a particularly prominent role in the development of the field, resulting in it being initially confined largely to a narrow array of sociological questions. This came to change in later scholarship, which began to apply theories and methods initially developed for examining more mainstream religions to the study of new ones.\n\nThe majority of research has been directed toward those new religions which have attracted a greater deal of public controversy; less controversial NRMs have tended to be the subject of less scholarly research. It has also been noted that scholars of new religions have often avoided researching certain movements which tend instead to be studied by scholars from other backgrounds; the feminist spirituality movement is usually examined by scholars of women's studies, African-American new religions by scholars of Africana studies, and Native American new religions by scholars of Native American studies.\n\nIn Japan, the academic study of new religions appeared in the years following the Second World War. In the 1960s American sociologist John Lofland lived with Unification Church missionary Young Oon Kim and a small group of American church members in California and studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win new members. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled: 'The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes', and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \"\". It is considered to be one of the most important and widely cited studies of the process of religious conversion, as well as one of the first sociological studies of a new religious movement.\n\nIn Western nations the study of new religions became a distinct field in the 1970s; prior to this, new religions had been examined from varying perspectives, with Pentecostalism for instance being studied by church historians and cargo cults by anthropologists. This Western academic study of new religions emerged in response to growing public concerns regarding the emergence of various NRMs during the 1970s. By the latter part of that decade, increasing numbers of papers on new religions were being presented at the annual conferences of the American Academy of Religion, Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, and the Association for the Sociology of Religion. The manner in which the scholarly study of new religions rose to prominence due to the public perception that these movements were social threats bore similarities with the manner in which Islamic studies grew in Western nations following the September 11 attacks in 2001. The study of new religions would only be fully embraced by the Western religious studies establishment in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1988, the charity INFORM (Information Network Focus on Religious Movements) was established by Barker, who was then a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics. The organisation was supported by the UK Home Office and the British established churches and was designed to conduct research and disseminate accurate information about new religions.\nBarker established INFORM due to her \"conviction that a great deal of unnecessary suffering has resulted from ignorance of the nature and characteristics of the current wave of [NRMs] in the West.\"\nAlso in 1988, the Italian scholar Massimo Introvigne established CESNUR (Centre for Studies on New Religions) in Turin; it brought together academics studying NRMs in both Europe and North America. In the United States, CESNUR gained representation through the Institute for the Study of American Religion in Santa Barbara, California, which was directed by J. Gordon Melton.\n\nScholars of new religion often operate in a politicised environment given that their research can be cited in legal briefs and judicial decisions regarding NRMs. In Barker's view, academic research into NRMs had practical applications in dealing with the problems that people experience with regard to NRMs. It can, for example, provide accurate information about a particular religious movement that can help guide an individual's reactions to the group; \"an awareness of the complexity of a situation might help people to avoid precipitous actions that would later have been regretted.\" However, given that scholars of new religions often reject the stereotypes about \"cults\" promoted by the anti-cultist movements, they have often been criticised by proponents of the latter. Anti-cult groups have sometimes criticised scholarly groups such as these, claiming that they uncritically believe what NRMs tell them, that they are pro-NRM, or that they ignore the issues raised by ex-members. They sometimes have accused academic researchers of being \"cult apologists\".\n\nInclusion in this list assumes having both the requisite training as well as actually conducting at least one research study on cults and/or new religious movements (using accepted methodological standards common in the research community), published in a peer-reviewed journal or academic book.\n"}
{"id": "3435563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3435563", "title": "Al-Fadl ibn Sahl", "text": "Al-Fadl ibn Sahl\n\nAbu l-Abbas al-Fadl ibn Sahl ibn Zadhanfarukh al-Sarakhsi (; \"Abu ’l-ʿAbbās al-Faḍl b. Sahl b. Zādānfarrūḫ as-Saraḫsī\", died 818), titled Dhu 'l-Ri'āsatayn (\"the man of the two commands\"), was a famous Persian vizier of the Abbasid era in Khurasan, who served under Caliph al-Ma'mun (r. 813–832). He played a crucial role in the civil war between al-Ma'mun and his brother al-Amin (r. 809–813), and was the \"de facto\" ruler of the Caliphate until 817.\n\nFadl's father Sahl was a Zoroastrian from Kufa, who later converted to Islam and joined the Barmakids. At the urging of Barmakid Yahya ibn Khalid, Fadl also converted to Islam, probably in 806, and entered the service of the Caliph Harun al-Rashid and his son al-Ma'mun.\n\nFadl realized very early on that after Harun al-Rashid's death, his throne was disputed between his sons, and urged al-Ma'mun, the son of a Persian concubine, to accompany his father on his expedition to Khurasan, to secure a power-base in Iranian lands. When the arrived events as accurately as Fadl had predicted it, al-Ma'mun made him his chief adviser, and his right hand during the civil war with his brother al-Amin.\n\nAfter defeating al-Amin, al-Ma'mun became the new Caliph throughout the eastern Islamic world, primarily the Iranian lands, and Fadl was appointed vizier and Emir of these areas. Because of his local role as civil and military leader he received the honorary title of ذو الرئاستين, meaning \"the dual leadership of violence\". In addition, he was rewarded with immense riches and an inheritable estate. Fadl's brother, al-Hasan ibn Sahl was also appointed Minister of Finance.\n\nEven though he emerged victorious during the Fourth Fitna, al-Ma'mun continued to face several revolts and a considerable resistance from the Arab aristocracy, especially in Baghdad and Syria. According to the historian al-Azraqi and Ibn Babuya, Fadl led several campaigns in Khurasan and the neighboring areas, and there the local rulers faced decisive defeats, including the Karluk Turks (whose leaders had to flee) and the Kabul Shahi. The significance of this victory can hardly be underestimated, since Fadl not only secured the eastern flank of the empire, but also for the influx of new mercenaries and military slaves made for al-Ma'mun's army.\n\nA significant turning point in history of the Abbasid Caliphate was the nomination of a Shiite Imam named Ali al-Ridha as al-Ma'mun's successor. The appointment of Ali al-Ridha as his successor, the general pro-Shiite attitude of the Caliph and the fact that al-Ma'mun continued reside in the Merv, a prominent city populated by Persians, and not in the Arab heartland of the Caliphate in Iraq, allowed the enemies of the Caliph, he and his consultants were seen as Persophiles and branded as \"anti-Arab\". Fadl was accused of secretly a Shiite takeover of the caliphate and trying to restore the Sasanian Empire. According to the some sources, Fadl later rejected a large sum of money from the Caliph and resigned from his office to live a quiet and ascetic life.\n\nOn 13 February 818, Fadl was mysteriously found dead in a bathroom in Sarakhs, in northern Khurasan. According to various reports, he was circa 41–60 years old when he died. According to some rumors, the caliph himself had ordered his assassination. Within a short time later Ali Al-Ridha was also murdered. Most modern historians agree that it was al-Ma'mun who ordered the death of both men, despite his deep friendship and solidarity to them (with whom he was related by marriage), politics and the unity of the caliphate.\n\nFadl was seen as a dynamic, sometimes violent and authoritarian politician, but was not selfish or greedy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36061718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36061718", "title": "Bašmu", "text": "Bašmu\n\nBašmu or Bashmu (cuneiform: or ,  \"Venomous Snake\") was an ancient Mesopotamian mythological creature, a horned snake with two forelegs and wings. It was also the Akkadian name of the Babylonian constellation () equivalent to the Greek Hydra. The Sumerian terms \"ušum\" (portrayed with feet, see Ninurta's Dragon) and \"muš-šà-tùr\" (\"birth goddess snake\", portrayed without feet) may represent differing iconographic types or different demons. It is first attested by a 22nd-century  cylinder inscription at Gudea.\n\nIn the Angim, or \"Ninurta's return to Nippur\", it was identified as one of the eleven \"warriors\" (\"ur-sag\") defeated by Ninurta. Bašmu was created in the sea and was \"sixty double-miles long\", according to a fragmentary Assyrian myth which recounts that it devoured fish, birds, wild asses, and men, securing the disapproval of the gods who sent Nergal or Palil (\"snake charmer\") to vanquish it. It was one of the eleven monsters created by Tiamat in the \"Enuma Elish\" creation myth. It had \"six mouths, seven tongues and seven ...-s on its belly\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35899716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35899716", "title": "Beit El Faqs", "text": "Beit El Faqs\n\nBeit El Faqs () is a Sunni Muslim Lebanese village located in the Miniyeh-Danniyeh District in the region of North Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072460", "title": "Boy bishop", "text": "Boy bishop\n\nBoy bishop was a name given to a custom very widespread in the Middle Ages, whereby a boy was chosen, for example among cathedral choristers, to parody the real bishop, commonly on the feast of Holy Innocents. This custom was linked with others, such as that of the Feast of Fools and the Feast of Asses.\n\nIn England the boy bishop was elected on 6 December, the feast of Saint Nicholas, the patron of children, and his authority lasted till Holy Innocents' day (28 December). The real Bishop would, symbolically, step down at the \"deposuit potentes de sede\" of the Magnificat (\"he hath put down the mighty from their seat\"), and the boy would take his seat at \"et exaltavit humiles\" (\"and hath exalted the humble and meek\").\n\nAfter the election, the boy was dressed in full bishop's robes with mitre and crozier and, attended by comrades dressed as priests, made a circuit of the town blessing the people. Typically the chosen boy and his colleagues took possession of the cathedral and performed all the ceremonies and offices, except Mass. Originally, it seems, confined to the cathedrals, the custom spread to many parishes.\n\nNotwithstanding the intervention of various Church authorities (see Feast of Fools), the popularity of the custom made it resilient. In England it was abolished by Henry VIII in 1542, revived by Mary I in 1552 and finally abolished by Elizabeth I. On the continent of Europe it survived longest in Germany, in the so-called , said to have been founded by Gregory IV. The custom has given rise to some popular misconceptions, however, one of which is the traditional misidentification of a miniature episcopal tomb effigy at Salisbury as a boy bishop: this is more likely to commemorate a secondary burial (heart or viscera) of a real bishop.\n\nThere have been some recent revivals both in the English-speaking world and on the continent. Most famous perhaps is that of Hereford, revived in 1973 for a special children's service, with full and traditional ceremonies following annually since 1982. The Boy Bishop preaches a sermon and leads prayers at various Diocesan Advent services. A single revival took place in 1959 at St. George's Parish Church, Stockport. Such ceremonies are now also found at Westminster Cathedral, Salisbury Cathedral, and a number of parish churches throughout England, including All Saints' Church, Northampton, Claines, Worcestershire, and also St Christopher's Parish Church, Bournemouth, (early 1950s), where the Boy Bishop was installed on St Christopher's Day, (July 25), and 'reigned' for one year, preaching and 'presiding' at youth events. The market town of Alcester, Warwickshire has its very own St Nicholas night complete with the Boy Bishop on 6 December each year. \n\nThe custom was likewise revived in Burgos, Spain, where the boy-bishop feast had been extremely popular before the cathedral choir was closed in the 1930s. After its re-establishment, the boy bishop was revived in 1987, and has since been celebrated every year. Other Spanish cities such as Palencia also hold the ceremony, and that carried on in the Monastery of Montserrat by L'Escolania is especially renowned. The festival was also revived in Chavagnes International College, a Catholic boarding school in France.\n\nIn the United States, one of the first adoptions of the custom took place in 1979 at the Cathedral of All Saints (Episcopal) in Albany, New York, as part of an annual medieval fair held in the great Gothic-revival style church.\n\nIn December 2009, a teenage girl from Wellingborough England was appointed Britain's first girl bishop at All Saints Church in the town.\n\nIn July 2016 the festival will be revived in Durham, which uniquely used to appoint two boy bishops who officiated in spring rather than winter. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647630", "title": "Byzantine art", "text": "Byzantine art\n\nByzantine art refers to the body of Christian Greek artistic products of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire, as well as the nations and states that inherited culturally from the empire. Though the empire itself emerged from Rome's decline and lasted until the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, the start date of the Byzantine period is rather clearer in art history than in political history, if still imprecise. Many Eastern Orthodox states in Eastern Europe, as well as to some degree the Muslim states of the eastern Mediterranean, preserved many aspects of the empire's culture and art for centuries afterward.\n\nA number of states contemporary with the Byzantine Empire were culturally influenced by it, without actually being part of it (the \"Byzantine commonwealth\"). These included the Rus, as well as some non-Orthodox states like the Republic of Venice, which separated from the Byzantine empire in the 10th century, and the Kingdom of Sicily, which had close ties to the Byzantine Empire and had also been a Byzantine possession until the 10th century with a large Greek-speaking population persisting into the 12th century. Other states having a Byzantine artistic tradition had oscillated throughout the Middle Ages between being part of the Byzantine empire and having periods of independence, such as Serbia and Bulgaria. After the fall of the Byzantine capital of Constantinople in 1453, art produced by Eastern Orthodox Christians living in the Ottoman Empire was often called \"post-Byzantine.\" Certain artistic traditions that originated in the Byzantine Empire, particularly in regard to icon painting and church architecture, are maintained in Greece, Cyprus, Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Russia and other Eastern Orthodox countries to the present day.\n\nByzantine art originated and evolved from the Christianized Greek culture of the Eastern Roman Empire; content from both Christianity and classical Greek mythology were artistically expressed through Hellenistic modes of style and iconography. The art of Byzantium never lost sight of its classical heritage; the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, was adorned with a large number of classical sculptures, although they eventually became an object of some puzzlement for its inhabitants (however, Byzantine beholders showed no signs of puzzlement towards other forms of classical media such as wall paintings). The basis of Byzantine art is a fundamental artistic attitude held by the Byzantine Greeks who, like their ancient Greek predecessors, \"were never satisfied with a play of forms alone, but stimulated by an innate rationalism, endowed forms with life by associating them with a meaningful content.\" Although the art produced in the Byzantine Empire was marked by periodic revivals of a classical aesthetic, it was above all marked by the development of a new aesthetic defined by its salient \"abstract\", or anti-naturalistic character. If classical art was marked by the attempt to create representations that mimicked reality as closely as possible, Byzantine art seems to have abandoned this attempt in favor of a more symbolic approach.\n\nThe nature and causes of this transformation, which largely took place during late antiquity, have been a subject of scholarly debate for centuries. Giorgio Vasari attributed it to a decline in artistic skills and standards, which had in turn been revived by his contemporaries in the Italian Renaissance. Although this point of view has been occasionally revived, most notably by Bernard Berenson, modern scholars tend to take a more positive view of the Byzantine aesthetic. Alois Riegl and Josef Strzygowski, writing in the early 20th century, were above all responsible for the revaluation of late antique art. Riegl saw it as a natural development of pre-existing tendencies in Roman art, whereas Strzygowski viewed it as a product of \"oriental\" influences. Notable recent contributions to the debate include those of Ernst Kitzinger, who traced a \"dialectic\" between \"abstract\" and \"Hellenistic\" tendencies in late antiquity, and John Onians, who saw an \"increase in visual response\" in late antiquity, through which a viewer \"could look at something which was in twentieth-century terms purely abstract and find it representational.\"\n\nIn any case, the debate is purely modern: it is clear that most Byzantine viewers did not consider their art to be abstract or unnaturalistic. As Cyril Mango has observed, \"our own appreciation of Byzantine art stems largely from the fact that this art is not naturalistic; yet the Byzantines themselves, judging by their extant statements, regarded it as being highly naturalistic and as being directly in the tradition of Phidias, Apelles, and Zeuxis.\"\n\nThe subject matter of monumental Byzantine art was primarily religious and imperial: the two themes are often combined, as in the portraits of later Byzantine emperors that decorated the interior of the sixth-century church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople. These preoccupations are partly a result of the pious and autocratic nature of Byzantine society, and partly a result of its economic structure: the wealth of the empire was concentrated in the hands of the church and the imperial office, which had the greatest opportunity to undertake monumental artistic commissions.\n\nReligious art was not, however, limited to the monumental decoration of church interiors. One of the most important genres of Byzantine art was the icon, an image of Christ, the Virgin, or a saint, used as an object of veneration in Orthodox churches and private homes alike. Icons were more religious than aesthetic in nature: especially after the end of iconoclasm, they were understood to manifest the unique \"presence\" of the figure depicted by means of a \"likeness\" to that figure maintained through carefully maintained canons of representation.\n\nThe illumination of manuscripts was another major genre of Byzantine art. The most commonly illustrated texts were religious, both scripture itself (particularly the Psalms) and devotional or theological texts (such as the \"Ladder of Divine Ascent\" of John Climacus or the homilies of Gregory of Nazianzus). Secular texts were also illuminated: important examples include the Alexander Romance and the history of John Skylitzes.\n\nThe Byzantines inherited the Early Christian distrust of monumental sculpture in religious art, and produced only reliefs, of which very few survivals are anything like life-size, in sharp contrast to the medieval art of the West, where monumental sculpture revived from Carolingian art onwards. Small ivories were also mostly in relief.\n\nThe so-called \"minor arts\" were very important in Byzantine art and luxury items, including ivories carved in relief as formal presentation Consular diptychs or caskets such as the Veroli casket, hardstone carvings, enamels, glass, jewelry, metalwork, and figured silks were produced in large quantities throughout the Byzantine era. Many of these were religious in nature, although a large number of objects with secular or non-representational decoration were produced: for example, ivories representing themes from classical mythology. Byzantine ceramics were relatively crude, as pottery was never used at the tables of the rich, who ate off Byzantine silver.\n\nByzantine art and architecture is divided into four periods by convention: the Early period, commencing with the Edict of Milan (when Christian worship was legitimized) and the transfer of the imperial seat to Constantinople, extends to AD 842, with the conclusion of Iconoclasm; the Middle, or high period, begins with the restoration of the icons in 843 and culminates in the Fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders in 1204; the Late period includes the eclectic osmosis between Western European and traditional Byzantine elements in art and architecture, and ends with the Fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453. The term post-Byzantine is then used for later years, whereas \"Neo-Byzantine\" is used for art and architecture from the 19th century onwards, when the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire prompted a renewed appreciation of Byzantium by artists and historians alike.\n\nTwo events were of fundamental importance to the development of a unique, Byzantine art. First, the Edict of Milan, issued by the emperors Constantine I and Licinius in 313, allowed for public Christian worship, and led to the development of a monumental, Christian art. Second, the dedication of Constantinople in 330 created a great new artistic centre for the eastern half of the Empire, and a specifically Christian one. Other artistic traditions flourished in rival cities such as Alexandria, Antioch, and Rome, but it was not until all of these cities had fallen - the first two to the Arabs and Rome to the Goths - that Constantinople established its supremacy.\n\nConstantine devoted great effort to the decoration of Constantinople, adorning its public spaces with ancient statuary, and building a forum dominated by a porphyry column that carried a statue of himself. Major Constantinopolitan churches built under Constantine and his son, Constantius II, included the original foundations of Hagia Sophia and the Church of the Holy Apostles.\n\nThe next major building campaign in Constantinople was sponsored by Theodosius I. The most important surviving monument of this period is the obelisk and base erected by Theodosius in the Hippodrome which, with the large silver dish called the Missorium of Theodosius I, represents the classic examples of what is sometimes called the \"Theodosian Renaissance\". The earliest surviving church in Constantinople is the Basilica of St. John at the Stoudios Monastery, built in the fifth century.\n\nDue to subsequent rebuilding and destruction, relatively few Constantinopolitan monuments of this early period survive. However, the development of monumental early Byzantine art can still be traced through surviving structures in other cities. For example, important early churches are found in Rome (including Santa Sabina and Santa Maria Maggiore), and in Thessaloniki (the Rotunda and the Acheiropoietos Basilica).\n\nA number of important illuminated manuscripts, both sacred and secular, survive from this early period. Classical authors, including Virgil (represented by the Vergilius Vaticanus and the Vergilius Romanus) and Homer (represented by the Ambrosian Iliad), were illustrated with narrative paintings. Illuminated biblical manuscripts of this period survive only in fragments: for example, the Quedlinburg Itala fragment is a small portion of what must have been a lavishly illustrated copy of 1 Kings.\n\nEarly Byzantine art was also marked by the cultivation of ivory carving. Ivory diptychs, often elaborately decorated, were issued as gifts by newly appointed consuls. Silver plates were another important form of luxury art: among the most lavish from this period is the Missorium of Theodosius I. Sarcophagi continued to be produced in great numbers.\n\nSignificant changes in Byzantine art coincided with the reign of Justinian I (527–565). Justinian devoted much of his reign to reconquering Italy, North Africa and Spain. He also laid the foundations of the imperial absolutism of the Byzantine state, codifying its laws and imposing his religious views on all his subjects by law.\n\nA significant component of Justinian's project of imperial renovation was a massive building program, which was described in a book, the \"Buildings\", written by Justinian's court historian, Procopius. Justinian renovated, rebuilt, or founded anew countless churches within Constantinople, including Hagia Sophia, which had been destroyed during the Nika riots, the Church of the Holy Apostles, and the Church of Saints Sergius and Bacchus. Justinian also built a number of churches and fortifications outside of the imperial capital, including Saint Catherine's Monastery on Mount Sinai in Egypt, and the Basilica of St. John in Ephesus.\n\nSeveral major churches of this period were built in the provinces by local bishops in imitation of the new Constantinopolitan foundations. The Basilica of San Vitale in Ravenna, was built by Bishop Maximianus. The decoration of San Vitale includes important mosaics of Justinian and his empress, Theodora, although neither ever visited the church. Also of note is the Euphrasian Basilica in Poreč.\n\nArcheological discoveries in the 19th and 20th centuries unearthed a large group of Early Byzantine mosaics in the Middle East. The eastern provinces of the Eastern Roman and later the Byzantine Empires inherited a strong artistic tradition from the Late Antiquity. Christian mosaic art flourished in this area from the 4th century onwards. The tradition of making mosaics was carried on in the Umayyad era until the end of the 8th century. The most important surviving examples are the Madaba Map, the mosaics of Mount Nebo, Saint Catherine's Monastery and the Church of St Stephen in ancient Kastron Mefaa (now Umm ar-Rasas).\n\nThe first fully preserved illuminated biblical manuscripts date to the first half of the sixth century, most notably the Vienna Genesis, the Rossano Gospels, and the Sinope Gospels. The Vienna Dioscurides is a lavishly illustrated botanical treatise, presented as a gift to the Byzantine aristocrat Julia Anicia.\n\nImportant ivory sculptures of this period include the Barberini ivory, which probably depicts Justinian himself, and the Archangel ivory in the British Museum. Silver plate continued to be decorated with scenes drawn from classical mythology; for example, a preserved in the Cabinet des Médailles, Paris, depicts Hercules wrestling the Nemean lion.\n\nThe Age of Justinian was followed by a political decline, since most of Justinian's conquests were lost and the Empire faced acute crisis with the invasions of the Avars, Slavs, Persians and Arabs in the 7th century. Constantinople was also wracked by religious and political conflict.\n\nThe most significant surviving monumental projects of this period were undertaken outside of the imperial capital. The church of Hagios Demetrios in Thessaloniki was rebuilt after a fire in the mid-seventh century. The new sections include mosaics executed in a remarkably abstract style. The church of the Koimesis in Nicaea (present-day Iznik), destroyed in the early 20th century but documented through photographs, demonstrates the simultaneous survival of a more classical style of church decoration. The churches of Rome, still a Byzantine territory in this period, also include important surviving decorative programs, especially Santa Maria Antiqua, Sant'Agnese fuori le mura, and the Chapel of San Venanzio in San Giovanni in Laterano. Byzantine mosaicists probably also contributed to the decoration of the early Umayyad monuments, including the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem and the Great Mosque of Damascus.\n\nImportant works of luxury art from this period include the silver David Plates, produced during the reign of Emperor Heraclius, and depicting scenes from the life of the Hebrew king David. The most notable surviving manuscripts are Syriac gospel books, such as the so-called Syriac Bible of Paris. However, the London Canon Tables bear witness to the continuing production of lavish gospel books in Greek.\n\nThe period between Justinian and iconoclasm saw major changes in the social and religious roles of images within Byzantium. The veneration of acheiropoieta, or holy images \"not made by human hands,\" became a significant phenomenon, and in some instances these images were credited with saving cities from military assault. By the end of the seventh century, certain images of saints had come to be viewed as \"windows\" through which one could communicate with the figure depicted. Proskynesis before images is also attested in texts from the late seventh century. These developments mark the beginnings of a theology of icons.\n\nAt the same time, the debate over the proper role of art in the decoration of churches intensified. Three canons of the Quinisext Council of 692 addressed controversies in this area: prohibition of the representation of the cross on church pavements (Canon 73), prohibition of the representation of Christ as a lamb (Canon 82), and a general injunction against \"pictures, whether they are in paintings or in what way so ever, which attract the eye and corrupt the mind, and incite it to the enkindling of base pleasures\" (Canon 100).\n\nIntense debate over the role of art in worship led eventually to the period of \"Byzantine iconoclasm.\" Sporadic outbreaks of iconoclasm on the part of local bishops are attested in Asia Minor during the 720s. In 726, an underwater earthquake between the islands of Thera and Therasia was interpreted by Emperor Leo III as a sign of God's anger, and may have led Leo to remove a famous icon of Christ from the Chalke Gate outside the imperial palace. However, iconoclasm probably did not become imperial policy until the reign of Leo's son, Constantine V. The Council of Hieria, convened under Constantine in 754, proscribed the manufacture of icons of Christ. This inaugurated the Iconoclastic period, which lasted, with interruptions, until 843.\n\nWhile iconoclasm severely restricted the role of religious art, and led to the removal of some earlier apse mosaics and (possibly) the sporadic destruction of portable icons, it never constituted a total ban on the production of figural art. Ample literary sources indicate that secular art (i.e. hunting scenes and depictions of the games in the hippodrome) continued to be produced, and the few monuments that can be securely dated to the period (most notably the manuscript of Ptolemy's \"Handy Tables\" today held by the Vatican) demonstrate that metropolitan artists maintained a high quality of production.\n\nMajor churches dating to this period include Hagia Eirene in Constantinople, which was rebuilt in the 760s following its destruction by an earthquake in 740. The interior of Hagia Eirene, which is dominated by a large mosaic cross in the apse, is one of the best-preserved examples of iconoclastic church decoration. The church of Hagia Sophia in Thessaloniki was also rebuilt in the late 8th century.\n\nCertain churches built outside of the empire during this period, but decorated in a figural, \"Byzantine,\" style, may also bear witness to the continuing activities of Byzantine artists. Particularly important in this regard are the original mosaics of the Palatine Chapel in Aachen (since either destroyed or heavily restored) and the frescoes in the Church of Maria foris portas in Castelseprio.\n\nThe rulings of the Council of Hieria were reversed by a new church council in 843, celebrated to this day in the Eastern Orthodox Church as the \"Triumph of Orthodoxy.\" In 867, the installation of a new apse mosaic in Hagia Sophia depicting the Virgin and Child was celebrated by the Patriarch Photios in a famous homily as a victory over the evils of iconoclasm. Later in the same year, the Emperor Basil I, called \"the Macedonian,\" acceded to the throne; as a result the following period of Byzantine art has sometimes been called the \"Macedonian Renaissance\", although the term is doubly problematic (it was neither \"Macedonian\", nor, strictly speaking, a \"Renaissance\").\n\nIn the 9th and 10th centuries, the Empire's military situation improved, and patronage of art and architecture increased. New churches were commissioned, and the standard architectural form (the \"cross-in-square\") and decorative scheme of the Middle Byzantine church were standardised. Major surviving examples include Hosios Loukas in Boeotia, the Daphni Monastery near Athens and Nea Moni on Chios.\n\nThere was a revival of interest in the depiction of subjects from classical mythology (as on the Veroli Casket) and in the use of a \"classical\" style to depict religious, and particularly Old Testament, subjects (of which the Paris Psalter and the Joshua Roll are important examples).\n\nThe Macedonian period also saw a revival of the late antique technique of ivory carving. Many ornate ivory triptychs and diptychs survive, such as the Harbaville Triptych and a triptych at Luton Hoo, dating from the reign of Nicephorus Phocas.\n\nThe Macedonian emperors were followed by the Komnenian dynasty, beginning with the reign of Alexios I Komnenos in 1081. Byzantium had recently suffered a period of severe dislocation following the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 and the subsequent loss of Asia Minor to the Turks. However, the Komnenoi brought stability to the empire (1081–1185) and during the course of the twelfth century their energetic campaigning did much to restore the fortunes of the empire. The Komnenoi were great patrons of the arts, and with their support Byzantine artists continued to move in the direction of greater humanism and emotion, of which the Theotokos of Vladimir, the cycle of mosaics at Daphni, and the murals at Nerezi yield important examples. Ivory sculpture and other expensive mediums of art gradually gave way to frescoes and icons, which for the first time gained widespread popularity across the Empire. Apart from painted icons, there were other varieties - notably the mosaic and ceramic ones.\n\nSome of the finest Byzantine work of this period may be found outside the Empire: in the mosaics of Gelati, Kiev, Torcello, Venice, Monreale, Cefalù and Palermo. For instance, Venice's Basilica of St Mark, begun in 1063, was based on the great Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople, now destroyed, and is thus an echo of the age of Justinian. The acquisitive habits of the Venetians mean that the basilica is also a great museum of Byzantine artworks of all kinds (e.g., Pala d'Oro).\n\nCenturies of continuous Roman political tradition and Hellenistic civilization underwent a crisis in 1204 with the sacking of Constantinople by the Venetian and French knights of the Fourth Crusade, a disaster from which the Empire recovered in 1261 albeit in a severely weakened state. Steven Runciman, a noted 20th-century historian of the Crusades, would write in 1954: \"There was never a greater crime against humanity than the Fourth Crusade.\" The destruction by sack or subsequent neglect of the city's secular architecture in particular has left us with an imperfect understanding of Byzantine art.\n\nAlthough the Byzantines regained the city in 1261, the Empire was thereafter a small and weak state confined to the Greek peninsula and the islands of the Aegean. During their half-century of exile, however, the last great flowing of Anatolian Hellenism began. As Nicaea emerged as the center of opposition under the Laskaris emperors, it spawned a renaissance, attracting scholars, poets, and artists from across the Byzantine world. A glittering court emerged as the dispossessed intelligentsia found in the Hellenic side of their traditions a pride and identity unsullied by association with the hated \"latin\" enemy. With the recapture of the capital under the new Palaeologan Dynasty, Byzantine artists developed a new interest in landscapes and pastoral scenes, and the traditional mosaic-work (of which the Chora Church in Constantinople is the finest extant example) gradually gave way to detailed cycles of narrative frescoes (as evidenced in a large group of Mystras churches). The icons, which became a favoured medium for artistic expression, were characterized by a less austere attitude, new appreciation for purely decorative qualities of painting and meticulous attention to details, earning the popular name of the Paleologan Mannerism for the period in general.\n\nVenice came to control Byzantine Crete by 1212, and Byzantine artistic traditions continued long after the Ottoman conquest of the last Byzantine successor state in 1461. The Cretan school, as it is today known, gradually introduced Western elements into its style, and exported large numbers of icons to the West. The tradition's most famous artist was El Greco.\n\nThe splendour of Byzantine art was always in the mind of early medieval Western artists and patrons, and many of the most important movements in the period were conscious attempts to produce art fit to stand next to both classical Roman and contemporary Byzantine art. This was especially the case for the imperial Carolingian art and Ottonian art. Luxury products from the Empire were highly valued, and reached for example the royal Anglo-Saxon Sutton Hoo burial in Suffolk of the 620s, which contains several pieces of silver. Byzantine silks were especially valued and large quantities were distributed as diplomatic gifts from Constantinople. There are records of Byzantine artists working in the West, especially during the period of iconoclasm, and some works, like the frescos at Castelseprio and miniatures in the Vienna Coronation Gospels, seem to have been produced by such figures.\n\nIn particular, teams of mosaic artists were dispatched as diplomatic gestures by emperors to Italy, where they often trained locals to continue their work in a style heavily influenced by Byzantium. Venice and Norman Sicily were particular centres of Byzantine influence. The earliest surviving panel paintings in the West were in a style heavily influenced by contemporary Byzantine icons, until a distinctive Western style began to develop in Italy in the Trecento; the traditional and still influential narrative of Vasari and others has the story of Western painting begin as a breakaway by Cimabue and then Giotto from the shackles of the Byzantine tradition. In general, Byzantine artistic influence on Europe was in steep decline by the 14th century if not earlier, despite the continued importance of migrated Byzantine scholars in the Renaissance in other areas.\n\nIslamic art began with artists and craftsmen mostly trained in Byzantine styles, and though figurative content was greatly reduced, Byzantine decorative styles remained a great influence on Islamic art, and Byzantine artists continued to be imported for important works for some time, especially for mosaics.\n\nThe Byzantine era properly defined came to an end with the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453, but by this time the Byzantine cultural heritage had been widely diffused, carried by the spread of Orthodox Christianity, to Bulgaria, Serbia, Romania and, most importantly, to Russia, which became the centre of the Orthodox world following the Ottoman conquest of the Balkans. Even under Ottoman rule, Byzantine traditions in icon-painting and other small-scale arts survived, especially in the Venetian-ruled Crete and Rhodes, where a \"post-Byzantine\" style under increasing Western influence survived for a further two centuries, producing artists including El Greco whose training was in the Cretan School which was the most vigorous post-Byzantine school, exporting great numbers of icons to Europe. The willingness of the Cretan School to accept Western influence was atypical; in most of the post-Byzantine world \"as an instrument of ethnic cohesiveness, art became assertively conservative during the \"Turcocratia\"\" (period of Ottoman rule).\n\nRussian icon painting began by entirely adopting and imitating Byzantine art, as did the art of other Orthodox nations, and has remained extremely conservative in iconography, although its painting style has developed distinct characteristics, including influences from post-Renaissance Western art. All the Eastern Orthodox churches have retained highly protective of their traditions in terms of the form and content of images and, for example, modern Orthodox depictions of the Nativity of Christ vary little in content from those developed in the 6th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2310898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310898", "title": "Cayetano Ripoll", "text": "Cayetano Ripoll\n\nCayetano Ripoll (allegedly from Solsona 1778 – Valencia 26 July 1826) was a schoolmaster in Valencia, Spain, who was executed for allegedly teaching deist principles.\n\nRipoll was a soldier in the Spanish army during the Peninsular War (1807–1814). He was captured by French forces and was a prisoner of war. While being held by the French he was taken to France and there he became aware of deism. He soon became a deist.\n\nUpon returning to Spain, he used his position as a school master to teach others about deism. There he was soon accused by the Spanish Inquisition of being a deist and of teaching his students about deism. He was later arrested for heresy and held in jail for close to two years.\n\nThe Chairman of the Board of Faith from the Diocese of Valencia, Miguel Toranzo, an inquisitor, sent to the nuncio Archbishop of Valencia a report that said Ripoll did not believe in Jesus Christ, in the mystery of the Trinity, in the Incarnation of God the Son, in the Holy Eucharist, in the Virgin Mary, in the Holy Gospels, in the infallibility of the Holy Catholic Church, or in the Apostolic Roman Congregation. Ripoll did not fulfill his Easter duty, he discouraged children from reciting the 'Ave Maria Purisima' and suggested they need not bother making the sign of the cross. It was alleged that, according to Ripoll, it was not necessary to hear Mass in order to save one's soul from damnation, and he failed to instruct them to give due reverence to the Sacraments of the Catholic Church, even the \"Viaticum\" administered for the comfort of the sick and to pardon the dying that they might be resurrected into heaven.\n\nFor these grievous sins and his denial of the Catechism of the Catholic Church the clergymen of the Spanish Inquisition demanded Ripoll be burned at the stake for his religious offenses in order that he might recant in his agony and thus go to heaven. However, the civil authority chose to hang him instead.\n\nAllegedly, the Church authorities, upset that Ripoll had not been burned at the stake, placed his body into a barrel, painted flames on the barrel and buried it in unconsecrated ground. Other reports state that the Church authorities placed his body into a barrel and burned the barrel, throwing the ashes into a river. Ripoll is recorded as being the last known person to have been executed under sentence from a Church authority for having committed the act of heresy.\n\nRipoll's famous last words were, \"I die reconciled to God and to man.\"\n"}
{"id": "39426236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39426236", "title": "Emancipation of Labour", "text": "Emancipation of Labour\n\nEmancipation of Labour group (Освобождение труда) was the first Russian Marxist group. Founded by Georgi Plekhanov, Vasily Ignatov, Vera Zasulich, Leo Deutsch, and Pavel Axelrod in Geneva (Switzerland) in 1883. Leo Deutsch left the group in 1884 when he was arrested and sent to Siberia. Sergey Ingerman joined the group at 1888. The group did a great deal to translate Marxist works into Russian and distribute them, and later became the major adversary to the ideology of Narodism. \n\nTwo drafts (1883 and 1885) of a program for the Russian Social Democrats were written by Plekhanov and published by the group, marking an important step to what would become the building of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP). From the first congress of the Second International in Paris (1889) onwards, the group represented Russian Social-Democrats. \n\nThe Emancipation of Labour group announced its dissolution during the second congress of the RSDLP, on August 1903.\n\nLenin later wrote that the group \"laid the theoretical foundations for the Social-Democratic movement and took the first step towards the working-class movement in Russia.\" The group was later followed by the League of Struggle for the Emancipation of the Working Class (Союз борьбы за освобождение рабочего класса). \n\n"}
{"id": "21293095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21293095", "title": "Franek Kluski", "text": "Franek Kluski\n\nFranek Kluski, real name Teofil Modrzejewski (1873-1943), was a Polish medium.\n\nKluski was born in Warsaw. According to French psychical researcher Gustav Geley, Kluski's claimed psychic powers manifested themselves during childhood and after undergoing a psychological change he became \"Franek Kluski\". Kluski's powers during séances were said to include physical manifestation of human limbs and various animals.\n\nBetween 8 November and 31 December 1920, Geley of the Institute Metapsychique International attended fourteen séances with Kluski in Paris. A bowl of hot paraffin was placed in the room and according to Kluski spirits dipped their limbs into the paraffin and then into a bath of water to materialize. Three other series of séances were held in Warsaw in Kluski's own apartment, these took place over a period of three years. Kluski was not searched in any of the séances. Photographs of the moulds were obtained during the four series of experiments and were published by Geley in 1924. Skeptics have pointed out that the experiments were not conducted in fraud proof conditions and the moulds could have easily been produced by fraudulent techniques. \n\nGeley has been described as an unreliable investigator. Physician Antônio da Silva Mello noted that Geley \"published many writings on ectoplasms and teleplastic phenomena, things which today are quite out of date and totally discredited.\" Magicians have been able to easily replicate the \"materialization\" moulds. The magician Carlos María de Heredia revealed how fake materialization hands could be made by using a rubber glove, paraffin and a jar of cold water.\n\nGeley and Arthur Conan Doyle objected to the medium having used a rubber glove. In response, Harry Houdini demonstrated that a glove was not needed as he replicated the Kluski materialization moulds by using his hands and a bowl of hot paraffin.\n\nHarry Price wrote regarding Kluski \"His mediumship is unsatisfactory from the point of view that no scientific body has investigated the alleged miracles. On each of my two visits to Warsaw I attempted to obtain sittings with Kluski, without results.\" Researchers have compared Kluski's mediumship to the medium Eva Carrière and have speculated that he introduced items in the séance room by fraud. A psychical researcher sent a letter to Hereward Carrington claiming Kluski had been detected in fraud.\n\nMassimo Polidoro and Luigi Garlaschelli have produced wax-moulds directly from one's hand which were exactly the same copies as Geley obtained from Kluski, which are kept at the Institute Metapsychique International.\n\nIn a notable incident during a séance that Paul Heuze attended the medium was requested to produce a face impression. However, a large-sized buttocks impression was found in the wax. It was alleged by a séance sitter that \"Kluski dropped... his pants and placed his buttocks in the paraffin\". \n\nHeuze believed the impression was Kluski's. This was later confirmed as it was discovered that Kluski had suffered from a burnt buttocks for many days after the incident.\n\nSome later authors have written about an alleged confession from Kluski. In his book \"Sixty Years of Psychical Research\" (1950), magician Joseph Rinn claimed that Kluski had confessed to fraud.\n\nIn 1978, researcher Melvin Harris also noted that Kluski had confessed to fraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16144181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144181", "title": "Freedom of religion in Turkmenistan", "text": "Freedom of religion in Turkmenistan\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion and does not establish a state religion; however, in practice the Government imposes legal restrictions on all forms of religious expression. All groups must register in order to gain legal status; unregistered religious activity is illegal and may be punished by administrative fines. While the 2003 law on religion and subsequent 2004 amendments had effectively restricted registration to only the two largest groups, Sunni Muslim and Russian Orthodox, and criminalized unregistered religious activity, presidential decrees issued in 2004 dramatically reduced the numerical thresholds for registration and abolished criminal penalties for unregistered religious activity; civil penalties remain. As a result, nine minority religious groups were able to register, and the Turkmenistan government has permitted some other groups to meet quietly with reduced scrutiny.\n\nThere was no substantial change in the degree of religious tolerance by the Turkmenistan government during the period covered by this report, and there were troubling developments in the treatment of some unregistered groups. Following a sharp decrease in harassment of both registered and unregistered groups in late 2006, mistreatment of some registered and many unregistered religious minority group members, similar to that in previous reporting periods, resumed in February 2007. On December 21, 2006, President Saparmurat Niyazov died. The State Security Council appointed Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers and Minister of Health Gurbanguly Berdimuhammedov Acting President; Berdimuhammedov was elected President in February, 2007. During the reporting period there were no indications the Turkmenistan government planned to rescind or modify previous policies regarding religious freedom. The Turkmenistan government threatened members of minority religious groups with fines, loss of employment and housing, and imprisonment because of their beliefs.\n\nThere were no reports of societal abuses or violence based on religious beliefs or practice. The overwhelming majority of citizens identify themselves as Sunni Muslim; ethnic Turkmen identity is linked to Islam. Ethnic Turkmen who choose to convert to other religious groups, especially the lesser-known Protestant groups, are viewed with suspicion and sometimes ostracized, but Turkmenistan society historically has been tolerant and inclusive of different religious beliefs.\n\nThe Turkmen of Turkmenistan, like their neighbors in Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, and Iran are Muslim. As a whole, Turkmenistan is 89% Muslim and 9% Eastern Orthodox. Most ethnic Russians are Orthodox Christians. The remaining 2% is unknown.\n\nThe great majority of Turkmen readily identify themselves as Muslims and acknowledge Islam as an integral part of their cultural heritage. However, there are some who only support a revival of the religion's status merely as an element of national revival.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, in practice the Government restricts these rights. The criminal code outlaws violations of religious freedom or persecution by private actors; in practice it is not enforced. In 2004 the Government published amendments to the 2003 law on religion that reduced numerical thresholds for registration from 500 members to 5, and made all minority groups eligible to register. The amendments established two categories of religious assemblies: religious groups (comprising at least 5 and fewer than 50 members of legal age) and religious organizations (comprising at least 50 members). The amendments leave significant gray areas in the law.\n\nThe 2003 law requires all religious organizations to register, made operation of unregistered religious organizations a criminal offense, further restricted religious education, and monitored financial and material assistance to religious groups from foreign sources. In response to international pressure, a 2004 presidential decree lifted criminal penalties. The remaining civil law continues to allow the Government to control religious life and to restrict the activities of all religious groups. The 2003 law did not codify religious activities in localities other than where a group was registered. In October 2005 the Government announced a temporary procedure for the registration of religious groups' regional branches by issuing powers of attorney. Ministry of Justice (MOJ) representatives also stated that amendments would be made to the 2003 law on religion that would codify the branch registration issue, but this did not happen during the reporting period.\n\nFormer President Niyazov signed a decree in 2004 that strengthened the 2003 law on religious practice and religious organizations and increased registration fees for religious organizations to $100 (2.5 million manat at the unofficial rate). In addition the decree relieved the MOJ of the obligation to publish in the local media a list of registered religious organizations for transparency. Without a published list, legally registered groups were more isolated and the public was less able to respond when authorities harassed registered groups. The law also gave the MOJ the right to cancel a group's registration based on vaguely defined charges.\n\nThe government-appointed Council on Religious Affairs (CRA) reports to the president and ostensibly acts as an intermediary between the government bureaucracy and registered religious organizations. It includes Sunni Muslim imams and the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, as well as government representatives, but no representatives of minority religious groups. In practice the CRA acts as an arm of the state, exercising direct control over the hiring, promotion, and firing of both Sunni Muslim and Russian Orthodox clergy as well as helping to control all religious publications and activities. Its writ is enforced by security forces, specifically the Sixth Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and it has no role in promoting interfaith dialogue. Although the Government does not officially favor any religion, it has provided financial and other support to the CRA for the construction of new mosques. The Government also pays most Muslim clerics' salaries, approves all senior cleric appointments, and requires the latter to report regularly to the CRA.\n\nUntil June 2004 government entities at all levels, including the courts, had interpreted the laws in such a way as to discriminate against those practicing any faith other than Sunni Islam or Russian Orthodox Christianity, whose congregations represented the only two registered religious groups. A 2004 decree reduced the minimum required number of adherents for registration, however, and in the year following the decree, nine additional religious groups registered: the Evangelical Christian Baptist Church of Turkmenistan, Seventh-day Adventist Church of Turkmenistan, Baha'i Community of Turkmenistan, Society for Krishna Consciousness (Hare Krishnas), Full Gospel Christian Church of Turkmenistan (Pentecostals), Light of the East Church (Dashoguz Pentecostal Church), Greater Grace Church of Turkmenistan, International Church of Christ, and the New Apostolic Church of Turkmenistan. Each of these groups comprised fewer than 50 members.\n\nShi'a Muslims remained unregistered, and there were no reports that they tried to register since the March 2004 decree, although they remained in contact with the CRA.\n\nIn practice government policies, including those at the city level such as zoning regulations on the use of private residences, have created difficulties for some groups in finding places to hold worship services. According to the national residential code, no religious activity is allowed in private homes or in public halls located in residential areas. However, two registered religious groups, the Baha'i community and the Krishna Consciousness Society, were permitted to conduct worship meetings in homes.\n\nUnregistered religious groups and unregistered branches of religious groups are forbidden to conduct religious activities, including gathering, disseminating religious materials, and proselytizing. Government authorities have disrupted meetings of unregistered religious groups. Participants in those groups are subject to fines and administrative (not criminal) arrest under the administrative code. The Government prohibits foreign missionary activity and foreign religious organizations; however, the law does not restrict the worship choices of foreigners.\n\nThe Government has incorporated some aspects of Islamic tradition in its effort to redefine a national identity. For example, the Government has built large, monumental mosques, such as the ones in Ashgabat, Gokdepe, and Gypjak. Despite its embrace of certain aspects of Islamic culture, the Government is concerned about foreign Islamic influence and the interpretation of Islam by local believers. The Government promotes a moderate understanding of Islam based on Turkmen religious and national traditions. In April 2007, President Berdimuhammedov visited Saudi Arabia and performed umrah (minor pilgrimage) rituals in Mecca, recalling former President Niyazov's 1992 umrah.\n\nThe CRA has urged imams to accord greater attention to President Niyazov's spiritual-social books on culture and heritage, Ruhnama and Ruhnama II, by teaching them as holy texts and placing them next to the Qur'an in some mosques. Although the country elected a new president in February 2007, this policy did not change. Phrases from the Ruhnama are inscribed on the large mosque in former President Niyazov's home village of Gypjak.\n\nIn 2003 the widely respected former mufti of the country, Nasrullah Ibn Ibadullah, was replaced, secretly tried, and sentenced in 2004 to 22 years in prison. Ibn Ibadullah's replacement, Kakageldi Wepayev, was subsequently placed under house arrest for \"misbehavior\"-allegedly including drinking and womanizing-and replaced in 2004 by then 27-year-old recent seminary graduate Rowshen Allaberdiyev.\n\nMosques and Muslim clergy are state-sponsored and financed. The Russian Orthodox Church and other religious groups are independently financed. The Government recognizes only Sunni Muslim holy days as national holidays. These include Gurban Bairam (Eid al-Adha), a 3-day holiday commemorating the end of the Hajj, and Oraza-Bairam (Eid al-Fitr), commemorating the end of Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting.\n\nThe Government does not offer alternative civilian service for conscientious objectors; individuals who want to refuse military service for religious reasons are offered noncombatant roles within the military. Until June 2007, conscripted members of the Jehovah's Witnesses were returned home unharmed several days after being called up, although they were not given papers excusing them from military service, which are needed for employment. This policy changed in June 2007, however, when three Jehovah's Witnesses were arrested and charged with avoiding military service.\n\nThere is no official religious instruction in public schools; however, the Government requires all public schools and institutes of higher learning to hold regular instruction on the Ruhnama. The Ministry of Education requires that each child bring a personal copy of the Ruhnama to school. President Berdimuhammedov raised the issue of education reform in January 2007 but there was no change in the Ruhnama policy by the end of the reporting period.\n\nArticle Six of the November 2004 law allows mosques to provide religious education to children after school for 4 hours a week with the approval of parents. Persons who graduate from institutions of higher religious education (the law does not specify domestic or international institutions) and who obtain CRA approval may provide religious education. Citizens have the right to receive religious education individually or with other persons; however, the law prohibits providing religious education in private, and those who do so are subject to punitive legal action. Although some independent religious education exists, the Government has done nothing to promote religious education beyond the official version incorporating the Ruhnama. Some Sunni mosques have regularly scheduled classes on the Qur'an.\n\nThe 2003 law prohibits the ROC from conducting religious education programs without CRA and presidential approval, and there were no reports that either the CRA or the President approved such programs. Homeschooling usually is allowed only in cases of severe illness or disability and not for religious reasons.\n\nThe Government, through the CRA, does little to promote interfaith understanding or dialogue beyond that between Muslims and Russian Orthodox Christians.\n\nThe Government officially has banned only extremist groups advocating violence, but it also categorized Islamic groups advocating stricter interpretation of Islamic religious doctrine as \"extremist.\" The activities of unregistered religious groups remained illegal, with violators subject to fines and administrative arrest under the administrative code.\n\nDuring the reporting period, at least four religious groups, all of which sought several times to register, continued to be denied legal status; as in previous years, the Government delayed or denied applications, citing technical reasons, including the requirement that the head of the group have \"higher education.\" The Roman Catholic Church remained unregistered because of a conflict with local law requiring that the head of the Church be a citizen of the country.\n\nOther groups either remained fearful of registering, citing the amount and type of information the Government required, or refused on principle to do so.\n\nRegistered religious minority groups reported few instances of harassment. However, in two cases regional affiliates of registered groups experienced harassment by provincial and district law enforcement agencies. Some of these groups found that by routinely notifying the Government of their gatherings and events and inviting government representatives to attend, they experienced decreased government harassment.\n\nThe Government restricted unregistered religious groups from establishing places of worship, and violations constituted an administrative offense. Registered groups also experienced difficulties establishing and maintaining places of worship; several groups stated that their largest obstacle was a lack of funds to rent a public hall. Several groups said they would prefer to buy a worship center or land to establish a permanent one, but municipal authorities raised insurmountable bureaucratic hurdles. Five registered minority religious groups have established public places of worship; three were rented and two were private residential homes of group members. The Government did not restrict some worship services in private homes, and the CRA assisted several registered minority groups to locate suitable worship locations. The Government forbids unregistered religious groups or unregistered branches of registered religious groups from gathering publicly or privately and can punish individuals or groups who violate these prohibitions. Some unregistered congregations continued to practice quietly, largely in private homes.\n\nThe Government also controls access to Islamic education. The theology faculty at Turkmen State University in Ashgabat had been the only academic faculty to conduct Islamic education. In July 2005 the President dissolved the theology faculty and incorporated the theology students and curriculum into the university's history department, leaving no official Islamic academic faculty.\n\nThe Government does not officially restrict persons from changing their religious beliefs and affiliation, but ethnic Turkmen members of unregistered religious groups accused of proselytizing and disseminating religious material generally receive harsher treatment than nonethnic Turkmen. During this reporting period, there was one report of local government officials attempting to force an ethnic Turkmen Christian convert to renounce his faith.\n\nThere were three high-level officials in the Government with a Russian Jewish heritage, and at least one deputy minister who is Russian Orthodox. No representatives of other minority religious groups were known to be working at senior or mid-level government positions during the reporting period. Some minority religious group adherents remained members of the only political party but feared openly acknowledging their faith out of concern for political reprisal.\n\nThe Government monitored minority religious groups, particularly those perceived to have connections with or support from a supranational hierarchy. The law prohibits foreign missionary activity, although in practice both Christians and Muslims working in the country in other capacities engaged in religious outreach. The 2003 law on religion stipulated that religious groups must report any financial or material assistance received from foreign sources. The Government denies visas to foreigners suspected of conducting or intending to conduct missionary activity.\n\nBy decree, publishing religious literature was prohibited, limiting the availability of Qur'ans, Bibles and other religious literature. Sacred religious books were rarely available for purchase. In practice the CRA must approve imported religious literature. Since all members of the CRA are either government officials, Sunni Muslims or members of the ROC, minority religious groups were disadvantaged regarding importing of religious materials. When the CRA approves the importation of a publication, the number of imported copies cannot exceed the number of registered group members. The Dashoguz office of the CRA required that its officers stamp religious literature, including Bibles and Qur'ans, in order to authorize it. During the reporting period, a leader of an unregistered church in Dashoguz reported that officials confiscated religious literature from him on a train and intercepted religious literature that had been mailed to him.\n\nThe Government enforced the use of former President Niyazov's books, Ruhnama and Ruhnama II, in educational institutions, government offices, and mosques. Copies of the book were kept in most mosques, and authorities have pressured religious leaders to place it alongside the Qur'an and to preach Ruhnama in their services.\n\nIn 2004 the Government formally lifted the exit visa requirement, theoretically permitting travel by all those who wished to participate in the Hajj or other travel for religious purposes; however, the Government maintained a \"black list\" of individuals and continued to limit freedom of movement, including in cases where individuals wanted to travel outside the country in order to conduct religious study. The Government continued to limit participation in the annual pilgrimage to Mecca (the Hajj), specifying that only 188 pilgrims (one plane load) personally approved by the President, out of the country's quota of 4,600, would be allowed to travel to Mecca. The national airline provided transportation free of charge.\n\nAccording to Forum 18, the Government on January 6, 2007 refused to grant permission to Merdan Shirmedov, a Protestant from an ethnic Turkmen fellowship in Dashoguz, to leave the country to join his pregnant wife, Wendy Lucas in the United States. Lucas said that on April 10, 2007, Shirmedov tried to cross the border to Uzbekistan, but was prevented from leaving after Turkmenistan border guards found his name on a computerized exit blacklist. Officials refused to tell him why he was barred from leaving.\n\nForeign members of registered and unregistered religious groups continued to be denied entry visas.\n\nSeveral registered religious minority groups reported that the Government monitored them by attending their gatherings; nonetheless, communities continued to engage in regular activities. Officers from the Sixth Department in Ashgabat, the division charged with fighting organized crime and terrorism, were still charged with monitoring members of religious minorities.\n\nThe Government continued to discriminate against members of religious groups with respect to employment.\n\nFollowing a sharp decrease in harassment of both registered and unregistered groups in late 2006, mistreatment of some registered and many unregistered religious minority group members resumed following the inauguration of President Berdimuhammedov in February 2007. The Government threatened members of minority religious groups with fines, loss of employment and housing, and imprisonment because of their beliefs. There were also reports of raids.\n\nAccording to Forum 18, Ministry for National Security (MNB) officials arrested Vyacheslav Kalataevsky, a Baptist leader from Turkmenbashy, on March 12, 2007, and on May 14 he was sentenced to 3 years' imprisonment in a labor camp on criminal charges of illegally crossing the border in 2001. In 2001, authorities had deported Kalataevsky without documents to Kazakhstan, and after a week he crossed back into the country to rejoin his wife and children.\n\nForum 18 also reported the arrest on May 19 of the leader of a Council of Churches Baptist congregation in Turkmenbashy City, Yevgeny Potolov. The report speculated that Potolov, a Russian citizen, had also been arrested for entering the country illegally in 2001; authorities had deported Potolov to Kazakhstan, but he had returned to Turkmenistan to rejoin his wife and children.\n\nDuring incidents involving police detaining and questioning members of unregistered minority religious groups, authorities took a range of actions including: filming those present; recording the names, addresses, and places of work of the congregants; threatening fines and imprisonment; and confiscating religious literature. With the exception of the Kalataevsky and Potolov cases, there were fewer reports of prolonged detention or physical abuse.\n\nThe fate of an estimated 30 suspected \"Wahhabis\" reportedly detained in Ashgabat in August 2005 remains unknown.\n\nThe country's former mufti, Nasrullah ibn Ibadullah, remained in prison serving a 22-year sentence. Ibadullah had been dismissed as mufti in 2003, reportedly in part for his refusal to teach the Ruhnama as a sacred text and in March 2004 was secretly tried and convicted, reportedly for his alleged role in a failed 2002 assassination attempt on Niyazov. Little was known about the whereabouts or the condition of Ibadullah, despite calls from the international community for access to him and for his release. Amnesty International reported in early 2007 that his family was increasingly concerned for his safety.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses have reported a number of beatings, arrests, fines and imprisonments of its members in Turkmenistan for conscientious objection and other charges related to their religious activities.\n\nOn April 29, 2007, an unidentified official—possibly from the Sixth Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs—demanded and then fled with the travel documents of three members of an unregistered Mary-based group who were traveling by train to Dashoguz province to meet with a religious leader. A transportation official, finding the three group members without documents, returned them by train to Ashgabat the same day.\n\nOn April 19, 2007, officials from the Ministry of Internal Affairs' Sixth Department raided a branch of the registered Evangelical Baptist Church of Turkmenistan in Turkmenbashy. The authorities came to a worship service, and took Bibles and hymnals from the congregation. That evening, police summoned two women to a local official's office and fined them approximately $90 (2.5 million manat), threatening further harassment if the women did not pay. The police gave no specific reason for the harassment, but suggested that the women ought to be attending a Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nIn early 2007 law enforcement officials reportedly raided a meeting of the registered group Svet Vostoka (Light of the East) Pentecostal church in Dashoguz.\n\nOn March 18, 2007, authorities raided a meeting of an unregistered religious group in Abadan and fined home owners.\n\nOn February 4, 2007, a group of law enforcement officers, who refused to show identification or a search warrant, raided the private house of the leader of an unregistered Christian group, where a wide circle of relatives and family friends were gathered. The inhabitants of the house were not conducting any religious activities. For five hours, the group of officers videotaped the people and belongings inside the house.\n\nA Hare Krishna representative reported that harassment from officials had decreased since her group's registration; there were no reports of authorities beating Hare Krishnas during this reporting period. In October 2006, as part of a general annual prison amnesty, former President Niyazov released imprisoned Hare Krishna follower Ceper Annaniyazova, who had been sentenced to seven years in prison in November 2005 for having illegally crossed the border in 2002.\n\nThe Government did not destroy any mosques during the reporting period and, in fact, resumed renovation of a mosque in Mary City and on a mosque in the new president's home village. One mosque in Turkmenbashy was destroyed in 2006. In 2004 at least six mosques were destroyed, some for no stated reason, others ostensibly for Ashgabat city \"beautification\" plans. In 2004 a Sunni cemetery north of the capital was leveled. Another cemetery in Ashgabat was being encroached upon by a high-rise development. In 2004 Muslims in Bagyr, a predominantly Kurdish suburb of Ashgabat, reported they could no longer bury their family members in traditional cemeteries but instead were obliged to use a centralized location. The Government restricts the number of mosques by requiring permission for construction. Government policy is that every community should have one mosque; however, in 2004 President Niyazov ordered that no more mosques were to be built without CRA approval and stated mosques would henceforth be led by state-appointed imams.\n\nThere were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.\n\nImprovements and Positive Developments in Respect for Religious Freedom\n\nRegistered minority religious groups generally continued to report lower levels of harassment.\n\nIn a May 2007 meeting with embassy officers, the Deputy Chairman of the CRA agreed in principle to hold another minority religious group roundtable to discuss pressing concerns, similar to the one held on October 20, 2005.\n\nThe CRA intervened on one occasion during the reporting period to release religious literature that had been embargoed by the Customs Department.\n\nThere were no reports of general societal abuses based on religious belief or practice during the period covered by this report.\n\nMany Muslims do not regularly attend mosques; however, the overwhelming majority of the population identify themselves as \"Muslim,\" and national identity is linked to Islam. (Turkmen society considers an individual to be born into an ethno-religious group.) Departures from the pattern are rare and either receive little support or are criticized. Ethnic Turkmen who choose to convert from Islam to other religious groups are viewed with suspicion and sometimes ostracized.\n\nDespite strong ties between Islam and national identity, the society historically has been tolerant and inclusive of different religious beliefs. For example, in the early part of the 20th century Ashgabat was a refuge for Baha'is escaping persecution in Iran, and a Baha'i temple was built in the city at that time. Government repression of minority religious groups does not reflect doctrinal or societal friction between the Muslim majority and minority religious groups. Rather, it reportedly reflects the Government's concern that the proliferation of nontraditional religious groups could undermine state control, promote civil unrest, facilitate undue influence by foreign interests, and destabilize the Government. There is also a societal distrust of foreign-based religious groups and the belief that Islam from outside the country is \"Wahhabist\"—extremist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36685246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36685246", "title": "Gedatsu Church of America", "text": "Gedatsu Church of America\n\nGedatsu Church of America is an American Buddhist church with branches in Japan, Sacramento, Los Angeles, and Hawaii. A nonsectarian spiritual movement, it is based on the Japanese Gedatsukai, a new religious movement that was founded in 1929 by Japanese Gedatsu Kongo. The Church preaches about Gedatsu, a religious study that does not exclude any religions and beliefs. Gedatsu is the Japanese term for moksha or enlightenment.\n\nGedatsu Kongo, the founder of Gedatsu Church of America, was born in Japan in 1881. According to the Church, Kongo received a revelation from God at the age of 48. He established Gedatsu Church in 1929, devoting himself to leading people to spiritual awakening, enlightenment and peace until his demise in 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "4420598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4420598", "title": "Ghatikachala", "text": "Ghatikachala\n\nGatikachala is a hill near Sholingur in the Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, India. It is a Hindu pilgrimage center and the site of an ancient temple dedicated to the God Narasimha. Lord Narasimha is the fourth incarnation (avatar) of the God Vishnu.\n\nThe name of this place is Kadigachalam as known from ancient legend. Kadigai is the name of a period of Time. Sholingur is famous for the temples at its outskirts – one of Sri Yoga Narasimha Swami located on the top of the hill Ghatikachala and another of Sri Yoga Anjaneyar Swami. Tirukkadikai (Sholingur or Cholasimhapuram) is one of the 108 Divya Desams - sacred places of Vaishnava Sect in Hinduism. Both the temples are located on two hillocks.\n\nYoga Anjaneyar\n\nIt is believed that Indirathuyman, the King of North Madurai killed the Asuran Nikumban and saved the Country Since, he helped the rishis and bhaktas, he was given the Vajrayudham by Indiran (Weapon of Indiran). Yoga Narasimhar asked Anjaneyar(Hanuman) to help him and after the asura was killed, Anjaneyar was asked to stay in the hills to give boons to his devotees, in his yoga nithrai (posture). Sacred Thirumanjanam and poojas are performed for Lord Anjaneyar on all Sundays as the killing of the asura took place on a Sunday. The Brahma theertham well, which is full of water rich in minerals, gives cure for many diseases.\n\nThe Hanumath Jayanthi festival is celebrated in a very grand manner here. Large number of devotees visit the Smaller Hillock of the Anjaneyar Temple during this occasion. Anjaneyar, sitting in Yoga Muthra is facing the west, where the Yoga Narasimhar is in his abode.\n\nLegend\n\nAfter killing the mighty demon Hiranyakashipu (asura), Lord Narasimha couldn’t contain his anger and Lord Shiva only came to his help. To make Prahalaada happy, Yoga Narasimhar gave his seva for 1 Kadigai in Yoga Nilai (Bigger Hillock). Because of this, the place is also called as \"Kadikasalam\".\n\nUtsavas (Festivals)\n\nSri Bhaktavatsala Perumal (Thakkan), Periyapiratiyar and Bhoomi piratiyar are found in Bhoga stage (Dhyanam stage) in the temple in Malai Adivaaram (foot hill). There are separate sannadhis for Andal, Alwars, Garuda Vagana Varadharaja Perumal, Erumbiyapa and Thottacharyaar. Both the God's in Periyamala and Chinnamala, Narasimar and Aajaneyar are in Santha Nilais (Yoga Stage). All Utsavams are conducted to Sri Bhakthavatsalar of the temple . Special Poojas for Thayaar (Amritha Valli)on every Friday are performed.\n\nDistances from Major Towns\n\n"}
{"id": "42723676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42723676", "title": "Giani Gurbachan Singh", "text": "Giani Gurbachan Singh\n\nGiani Gurbachan Singh (born on April 6, 1948 at Chakk Baja in Muktsar, Punjab, was the 30th Jathedar of Akal Takht.\n\nSingh joined Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) as a Sewadar at Muktsar. He served 36 years at SGPC beginning in 1972 and became head priest at Amritsar before becoming Jathedar on 6 August 2008.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Jathedars of all five Takhts including Jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Gurbachan Singh awarded Panth Rattan Fakhr-e-Quam (literally \"Jewel of the community, pride of the nation\") to Chief Minister of Punjab, Parkash Singh Badal. He was awarded this title at Akal Takht for his service towards the Sikh Nation by creating many memorials pertaining to Sikhi such as Virasat-e-Khalsa, besides being imprisoned for long time and having faced atrocities during various Akali movements. A Sarbat Khalsa held by Sikh organisations on November 10, 2015 stated that it was withdrawing the award due to allegations of Civil Rights Violations and failure to recognize the oppression faced by the Sikhs of Punjab.\n\nIn October 2015, the Panj Pyare of Akal Takht (Bhai Satnam Singh Khanda, Bhai Mangal Singh, Bhai Tarlok Singh, Bhai Satnam Singh and Bhai Major Singh) issued a summon to the Jathedars of the five Takhats (Giani Gurbachan Singh, Giani Mal Singh, Giani Gurmukh Singh, Giani Iqbal Singh, Giani Ram Singh) to clarify their position on the pardoning of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for imitation of the 10th Sikh Guru. After the Jathedars refused to recognize the summon, the Panj Pyare of Akal Takht directed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to relieve the Jathedars from their duties. The SGPC ignored the Gurmata and suspended the Panj Pyare from Akal Takht.\n\nA Sarbat Khalsa convened by radical Sikh organisations appointed Jagtar Singh Hawara as the jathedar of Akal Takht. SGPC President Avtar Singh Makkar however stated that its convening was against the principles of Sikhism and its decisions were null and void. He added that the removal of jathedars came under Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 and no one could challenge the SGPC's authority.\n\nOn 18 October 2018, Gurbachan Singh resigned from his post and the search for the next Jathedar was underway.\n"}
{"id": "307681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307681", "title": "Host desecration", "text": "Host desecration\n\nHost desecration is a form of sacrilege in Christian denominations that follow the doctrine of real presence of Christ in the Eucharist. It involves the mistreatment or malicious use of a consecrated host—the sacred bread used in the Eucharistic service of the Divine Liturgy or Mass. It is forbidden by the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches, as well as in certain Protestant traditions (including Anglicanism, Lutheranism, and Methodism). In Catholicism, where the host is held to have been transubstantiated into the body of Jesus Christ, host desecration is among the gravest of sins. Intentional host desecration is not only a mortal sin but also incurs the penalty of excommunication . Throughout history, a number of groups have been accused of desecrating the Eucharist, often with grave consequences due to the spiritual importance of the consecrated host.\n\nAccusations against Jews were a common reason given for massacres and expulsions throughout the Middle Ages in Europe. Similar accusations were made in witchcraft trials; witch-hunter's guides such as the Malleus Maleficarum refer to hosts as being objects of desecration by witches. It is part of many descriptions of the Black Mass, both in ostensibly historical works and in fiction.\n\nIn Christianity, within the Anglican Church, Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Church, Lutheran Church, Methodist Church, and Oriental Orthodox Church, during the celebration of the Eucharist, the offerings of bread and wine are changed or added to make the body and blood of Jesus by the action of God. The change effects the Real presence of Christ in the Eucharist, a doctrine which has been believed from the earliest days of the Church. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Roman Catholic theology offered the concept of transubstantiation to explain this change of substance which was believed to be actual and not merely symbolic. Transubstantiation, defined as a dogma at the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215, holds that the substances of the offerings are literally transformed, while the appearance of bread and wine remain. Many Christians believe Jesus to be \"true God and true man.\" In the Catholic Church, therefore, his \"body, blood, soul and divinity\" in the form of the consecrated host are adored. Theft, sale, or use of the host for a profane purpose is considered a grave sin and sacrilege, which incurs the penalty of excommunication, which is imposed automatically in the Latin Rite (See Code of Canon Law, Latin Rite Code canon 1367, or Eastern Rite Code canon 1442.)\n\nSome denominations, especially Lutherans, have similar beliefs regarding the Eucharist and the Real Presence, though they reject the Roman Catholic concept of transubstantiation, preferring instead, the doctrine of the sacramental union, in which \"the body and blood of Christ are so truly united to the bread and wine of the Holy Communion that the two may be identified. They are at the same time body and blood, bread and wine...in this sacrament the Lutheran Christian receives the very body and blood of Christ precisely for the strengthening of the union of faith.\" Both the Eastern Orthodox Churches and the Oriental Orthodox Churches, such as the Coptic Church, insist \"on the \"reality\" of the change from bread and wine into the body and the blood of Christ at the consecration of the elements\", although they have \"never attempted to explain the \"manner\" of the change\", thus rejecting philosophical terms to describe it. The Methodist Church similarly holds that Christ is truly present in the Eucharist \"through the elements of bread and wine\", but maintains that how He is present is a Holy Mystery. Until the 19th century Oxford Movement reintroduced the classic doctrine of the Real Presence Anglicanism favored \"Receptionism\"' which is a theological doctrine according to which, while the bread and wine in the Eucharist continue to exist unchanged after consecration, the faithful communicant receives together with them the body and blood of Christ. The term itself seems not to have appeared before 1867. A more accurate description of the classic Anglican attitude is Real Receptionism. There is an outer reality which is bread and wine and an inner which is the Body and Blood of Christ in a sacramental manner. Whatever the doctrine selected, among Anglicans the consecrated bread and hosts are reserved and treated with great reverence. \n\nHost desecration has been associated with groups identified as inimical to Christianity. It is a common belief that desecration of the host is part of Satanic practice, especially the Black Mass. LaVeyan Satanists do not typically perform Black Mass as a regular ritual, though \"Le Messe Noir\" from Anton LaVey's work The Satanic Rituals does include some elements.\n\nSince the publication of a document called Memoriale Domini in 1969, the Apolistic See of the Catholic Church has allowed certain countries to allow communicants to receive the Host in the hand, rather than directly onto the tongue, reviving an \"ancient custom\". Communion in the hand is now widespread in many parts of the world. The practice means that access to consecrated Hosts is easier than in the past, since the person receiving it in the hand may pretend to place it in their mouth for consumption. However, recent statements and practices of Pope Benedict XVI have caused a recent shift in Catholic practice (notably at Papal Masses and amongst more traditional-minded Catholics) of receiving on the tongue while kneeling, which is also an ancient practice. (This practice was still performed commonly and consistently, even as recently as the early 1970s in America, and is still received orally in many churches and countries presently. Receiving on the tongue is still the official norm of the Catholic Church, while receiving in the hand [via the Memoriale Domini indult] is, in English-speaking countries, the practical norm.)\n\nAccusations of host desecration (German \"Hostienschändung\") leveled against Jews were a common pretext for massacres and expulsions throughout the Middle Ages in Europe. The libel of \"Jewish deicide\": that the Jewish people were responsible for the killing of Jesus, whom Christians regard as God become man, was a generally accepted Christian belief. It was spuriously claimed that Jews stole hosts (objects to which they attached no significance, religious or otherwise), and further spuriously claimed that they abused these hosts to re-enact the crucifixion of Jesus by stabbing or burning them.\n\nIt has been asserted by modern scholars, such as the Catholic priest Gavin Langmuir, that these accusations against Jews represented profound doubt about the truth of Christianity. Catholics were being told, in the transubstantiation doctrine, that they, by consuming the host, were eating human flesh and drinking human blood. To dispel their doubts about transubstantiation, Christians projected a system of belief onto Jews that was completely alien to Judaism and Jewish law where strict dietary laws forbid the consumption of blood; even when consuming kosher animals.\n\nJews in the Middle Ages were frequently victims of similar accusations, considered more serious desecration of other revered items, such as relics or images of Jesus and the saints. The accusations were often supported only by the testimony of the accuser, who may potentially bear a prejudice against the accused Jew or the Jewish people. Despite this, some alleged perpetrators were tried and found guilty, on little evidence or through torture.\n\nThe penalties for Jews accused of defiling hosts were severe. Many Jews, after accusations and torture, \"confessed\" to abusing hosts, and the accused Jews were condemned and burned, sometimes with all the other Jews in the community, as happened in Beelitz in 1247, in Prague in 1389, and in many German cities, according to Ocker's writings in the \"Harvard Theological Review\". According to William Nichol in \"Christian Antisemitism\", \"over 100 instances of the charge have been recorded, in many cases leading to massacres.\"\n\nAs mentioned above, the first recorded accusation was made in 1247 at Beelitz, south of Potsdam. Tradition records that as a consequence the Jews of Beelitz were burned on a hill before the Mill Gate, which was subsequently, and until 1945, called the Judenberg, although there is no contemporary evidence for the burnings in documents of the 13th Century. Another famous case that took place in 1290, in Paris, was commemorated in the and in a local confraternity. The case of 1337, at Deggendorf, celebrated locally as part of the \"Deggendorfer Gnad\" until 1992, led to a series of massacres across the region. In 1370 in Brussels the charge of host desecration, long celebrated in a special fest and depicted in artistic relics in the Church of St. Gudule, led to the burning of twenty Jews and expulsion in the Brussels massacre. In 1510, at in Havelland 38 Jews were executed and more expelled from Brandenburg.\n\nAn alleged host desecration in 1410, at Segovia, was said to have brought about an earthquake; as a result, leading Jews in the city were executed and the local synagogue was seized and re-dedicated as the convent and Church of Corpus Christi.\n\nSimilar accusations, resulting in extensive persecution of Jews, were brought forward in 1294, at Laa, Austria; 1298, at Röttingen, near Würzburg, and at Korneuburg, near Vienna; 1299, at Ratisbon; 1306, at St. Pölten; 1330, at Güstrow; 1338, at Pulkau; 1388, at Prague; 1401, at Glogau; 1420, at Ems; 1453, at Breslau; 1478, at Passau; 1492, at Sternberg, in Mecklenburg; 1514, at Mittelberg, in Alsace; 1556, at Sochaczew, in Poland. The last Jew burned for stealing a host died in 1631, according to Jacques Basnage, quoting from Manasseh b. Israel. In some cases host desecration legends emerged without actual accusations, as was the case of the host desecration legend of Poznan (Posen).\n\nThe accusation of host desecration gradually ceased after the Reformation when first Martin Luther in 1523 and then Sigismund August of Poland in 1558 were among those who repudiated the accusation. However, sporadic instances of host desecration libel occurred even in the 18th and 19th century. In 1761 in Nancy, several Jews from Alsace were executed on a charge of host desecration. The last recorded accusation was brought up in Berlad, Romania, in 1836.\n\nIn his July 8 blog entry, University of Minnesota Morris biology professor Paul Zachary Myers criticized the reaction to a University of Central Florida student's perceived act of host desecration (the student had attempted to bring the host to a friend who was curious about communion). Myers described the level of harassment against the student and expressed his intent to desecrate the wafer, which Catholics consider a mortal sin.\n\nMyers expressed outrage that Fox News appeared to be inciting viewers to cause further problems for the student, and ridiculed reports that armed guards would attend the next Mass. Myers suggested that if any of his readers could acquire some consecrated Eucharistic hosts for him, he would treat the wafers \"with profound disrespect and heinous cracker abuse, all photographed and presented here on the web.\"\n\nA number of Catholics immediately reacted strongly. William A. Donohue of The Catholic League accused Myers of anti-catholic bigotry, described his proposal as a threat to desecrate what Catholics hold to be the Body of Christ, and sent a letter asking the University of Minnesota and the Minnesota State Legislature to take action against Myers.\n\nMyers pierced a Host with a rusty nail, which he also used to pierce a few ripped-out pages of the Quran and \"The God Delusion\", put them all in the trash along with old coffee grounds and a banana peel. He provided a photograph on his blog of these items in the garbage and wrote that nothing must be held sacred, encouraging people to question everything. In addition, he described the history of allegations of host desecration, emphasizing the frequent use of such allegations in medieval Europe to justify anti-Semitism.\n\nAccording to Donohue, as the Pharyngula website was accessible via a link from the University of Minnesota website, it should be bound by the institution's code of conduct which requires faculty to be \"respectful, fair and civil\" when dealing with others. Subsequently, Myers explained to the \"Star Tribune\" that while his post was \"satire and protest\", he had received death threats regarding the incident but was not taking them too seriously. The University of Minnesota, Morris (UMM) Chancellor defended Myers, and stated: \"I believe that behaviors that discriminate against or harass individuals or groups on the basis of their religious beliefs are reprehensible\" and that the school \"affirms the freedom of a faculty member to speak or write as a public citizen without institutional discipline or restraint.\"\n\nIn 2009, two Muslim reporters from \"Al-Islam\", a small Malaysian magazine, participated in a Catholic Mass, while undercover writing an article on cases of apostasy from Islam (\"riddah\") and received Holy Communion. The reporters afterwards spat out the Host and photographed it to prove they had not apostatised themselves. The resulting photo was then published in their May 2009 edition. The magazine, which is owned by Utusan Karya, part of the Utusan Malaysia Group, sent its reporters, including Muhd Ridwan Abdul Jalil, to two churches in the Klang Valley, as part of a special investigative report. The act of desecration occurred at St Anthony's Church in Jalan Robertson, Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAfter its publication, two lay Catholics from Penang, Sudhagaran Stanley and Joachim Francis Xavier, jointly lodged a police report against the reporters. The police took no action despite a potential charge under Section 298A (1) of the Penal Code for causing disharmony, disunity or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill will, or prejudicing the maintenance of harmony or unity, on grounds of religion.\n\nThe desecration caused widespread outrage and condemnation from non-Muslims as well as Muslims across the country. Parties including the Archbishop of Kuala Lumpur, Murphy Pakiam; the Catholic Lawyers Society; as well as numerous editorials in the media, criticised the government and the Attorney-General for its failure to act. Many saw this inaction as a case of the government's double standards, when dealing with religious issues.\n\nSome nine months later, in early March 2010, \"Al-Islam\" published an apology to the Catholic Church and other Christians for the article. It was posted on the website of its publisher. Archbishop Pakiam, who is also president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei, accepted the apology and said that no further (legal) action would be taken. The journalist and his colleague have personally never made any public statements on the matter nor apologised.\n\nA Black mass is a Satanic ritual designed to satirize or invert a traditional Catholic mass. Consecrated hosts are a common ingredient in black masses, becoming the subject of desecration. The hosts must first be stolen from the tabernacle of a Catholic church, and/or secreted away by people who are posing as parishioners taking communion.\n\nIn 2014, the Dakhma of Angra Mainyu held a public black mass at the Oklahoma Civic Center and planned to include the desecration of a consecrated host, which was to be \"stomped on\". That did not transpire: instead, the host was returned through an attorney after the archdiocese filed a lawsuit for its recovery.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "42418682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42418682", "title": "Irreligion in Botswana", "text": "Irreligion in Botswana\n\nIrreligion in Botswana is not uncommon among Botswana. Though Christianity predominates, according to census results, 20% of the country do not identify with a religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "8177949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8177949", "title": "Islam in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Islam in Papua New Guinea\n\nIslam in Papua New Guinea is a minority religion, with over 5,000 followers. The majority of the Muslims belong to the Sunni group, while a small number are Ahmadi.\n\nThe people of the island of New Guinea traded with China and the Malay empire, the latter of which was Muslim, beginning in the 16th century. In 1988, Muslims in Papua New Guinea set up the first Islamic center, with the help of a Malaysia-based Islamic organisation and the Saudi Ministry of Islamic affairs. In 1996, three more Islamic centers were established, with the help of the Muslim World League. There are now seven Islamic centers in the nation. The first mosque, known as the Baitul Kareem Mosque, was built in 1988 in Kimbe, New Britain, by the Ahmadiyya Muslims.\n\nAccording to Isa Teine, the general secretary for PNG's Islamic Society, many are drawn to Islam because of its similarities with Melanesian customs, and he predicts that \"Once the religion itself spread I tell you, I'm just predicting in 20, 30 years' time, all Papua New Guinea will submit to Islam.\" Similar opinions are voiced even by many of the non-Muslims of PNG, with a Seventh Day Adventist preacher from the highland Enga Province stating his belief that, “In the next 30 years all the PNG highlands will become Muslim because our culture is Islamic.” According to research by Dr Scott Flower, a Melbourne University Islamic specialist, secondary reasons for conversion to Islam include the disillusionment and confusion at the competition between the many different Christian churches, and inconsistencies in their theology: “PNG people are quite fanatical about theology, they actually read the bible. They can quote chapter and verse. And the contradictions they find in the bible are another major reason why people told me they converted.”.\n\nIn Papua New Guinea, new Islamic missionary movements are beginning to proliferate. There are pockets of Muslims around Port Moresby, in Baimuru, Daru, Marshall Lagoon, the Musa Valley and in the islands of New Britain and New Ireland. It is in the Highlands that Islam has seen the most growth.\n\nIn 2001, there were less than 500 Muslims in PNG. In 2007, the U.S. Department of State estimated that there were about 2,000 Muslims in the country. In 2008, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation cited that were more than 4,000 Muslims in the country, with reports of entire villages converting at the same time. In 2012, Scott Flower estimated that there were over 5000 Muslims, claiming a 500% increase since 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "14034876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14034876", "title": "John Rogers (Fifth Monarchist)", "text": "John Rogers (Fifth Monarchist)\n\nJohn Rogers (1627 - ?) was a Fifth Monarchist preacher of the 1650s, and later a physician.\n\nHe was born at Messing in Essex, the second son of the clergyman Nehemiah Rogers, by his wife Margaret. Because of his religious views, he was turned out by his father in 1642. He returned to studies of medicine, as a servitor at King's College, Cambridge. The First English Civil War had broken out, and the servitors were dismissed. Rogers almost starved, but in 1643 he obtained a post in a school in Lord Brudenel's house in Huntingdonshire, and afterwards at the free school at St. Neots.\n\nIn a short time he became known in Huntingdonshire as a preacher, and, returning to Essex, he received presbyterian ordination in 1647. About the same time he married a daughter of Sir Robert Payne of Midloe in Huntingdonshire, and became 'settled minister' of Purleigh in Essex, a valuable living. Rogers engaged a curate, and proceeded to London. There he renounced his presbyterian ordination, and joined the Independents. Becoming lecturer at St. Thomas Apostle, he preached violent political sermons in support of the Long parliament.\n\nIn 1650 he was sent to Dublin by parliament as a preacher. Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin was assigned him by the commissioners as a place of worship. A schism arose in his congregation owing to the adoption by a party among them of Anabaptist principles; he wearied of the controversy, and returned to England in 1652. In the following year his parishioners at Purleigh cited him for non-residence, and he lost the living.\n\nRogers was now no longer the champion of parliament. In 1653 Rogers published two controversial works, \"Bethshemesh, or Tabernacle for the Sun\", in which he assailed the presbyterians, and \"Sagrir, or Doomes-day drawing nigh\", in which he attacked the 'ungodly laws and lawyers of the Fourth Monarchy,' and also the collection of tithes. The two books indicate the date of his change of views: \"Bethshemesh\" is written from the standard Independent standpoint, while in \"Sagrir\" he has developed the characteristics of a fifth-monarchy man. The forcible dissolution of the Long parliament met with Rogers's approval. Besides doctrinal differences, he had personal quarrels with prominent members: Sir John Maynard had appeared against him as advocate for the congregation at Purleigh, while Zachary Crofton had anonymously attacked his preaching in a pamphlet.\n\nAfter Cromwell's \"coup d'état\" Rogers occupied himself with two long addresses to him, in which he recommended a system of government very similar to that which was actually inaugurated. This accord did not survive the dissolution of Cromwell's first parliament and his assumption of the title of Lord Protector. Rogers addressed a cautionary epistle to Cromwell, and assailed him openly from the pulpit. Being denounced as a conspirator in 1654, his house was searched and his papers seized. This drew from him another denunciation. On 28 March he proclaimed a solemn day of humiliation for the sins of the rulers. His sermon, in which he likened Whitehall to Sodom and demonstrated that Cromwell had broken the first eight commandments (time preventing his proceeding to the last two), procured his arrest and imprisonment in Lambeth. On 5 February 1655 he was brought from prison to appear before Cromwell. He held by his previous utterances, and desired Cromwell to remember that he must be judged. On 30 March he was moved to Windsor, and on 9 October to the Isle of Wight. He was released in January 1657, and immediately returned to London.\n\nThe fifth-monarchy men were then deep in conspiracy. Informations were repeatedly laid against Rogers, and on 3 February 1658 he was sent to the Tower of London on the Protector's warrant. This imprisonment lasted only till 16 April. Four and a half months later Cromwell died. The fifth-monarchy men followed Sir Henry Vane in opposing Richard Cromwell's succession, and Rogers denounced him vehemently from the pulpit. The remnant of the Long parliament was recalled to power, and Rogers involved himself in controversy with William Prynne. Both supported \"the good old cause,\" but differed in defining it. Prynne remained true to the older ideal of limited monarchy, while Rogers advocated a republic with Christ himself as its invisible sovereign.\n\nHis faction now wanted him to proceed safely to Ireland to preach the gospel. The insurrection of Sir George Booth intervened, and brought him the post of chaplain in Charles Fairfax's regiment. He served through the campaign against Booth, and at its conclusion was relieved of his duties in Ireland. In October he was nominated to a lectureship at Shrewsbury, but he was again in Dublin by the end of the year, and was imprisoned there for a time by the orders of the army leaders, after they had dissolved the remnant of the Long parliament. Parliament ordered his release immediately on regaining its ascendancy.\n\nAt the time of the Restoration he moved to the Netherlands. He resumed the study of medicine, at Leyden and Utrecht, and received a Utrecht M.D. In 1662 he returned to England and resided at Bermondsey. In 1664 he was admitted to an \"ad eundem\" degree of M.D. at Oxford. His date of death is not known. His oldest son and only surviving child was Sir John Rogers, 1st Baronet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10268654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10268654", "title": "Kobe Ryūkoku Junior High School, High School", "text": "Kobe Ryūkoku Junior High School, High School\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34187422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34187422", "title": "Kong Chow Temple", "text": "Kong Chow Temple\n\nKong Chow Temple () is a temple dedicated to Guan Di, located in the Chinatown neighborhood of San Francisco, California, in the United States.\n\nThe temple was founded, in 1849, by members of the Cantonese population of San Francisco. In 1854, the temple was renamed Kong Chow Clan Association, to stress the social activities planned by the temple. The Association provided social welfare and religious needs for the community. Like many buildings in the area, it was destroyed in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, and the community worked together to rebuild it at its original location, 520 Pine, near St. Mary's Square.\n\nBess Truman visited the temple in 1948, where she prayed for positive results to her husband, Harry S. Truman's presidential run. While there, she also asked for a prediction about the results, due to the public's prediction that he would lose. While there, she held a container of Kau cim sticks, and shook them until one of the sticks fell to the ground. This stick was then exchanged for a piece of paper, which told a story, offering insight to her question. The prediction was favorable, and Truman would go on to win the presidential election. The prediction slip that was given to her is displayed in the temple.\n\nIn 1977, the temple moved to its current building on Stockton Street in Chinatown, known as the Kong Chow Building. The association works closely with the elderly population, offers scholarships and other charitable projects for the neighborhood. They also organize prayer sessions, and participates in the Qing Ming Festival. Inside of the temple is a sculpture of Guan Di, which serves as the main altar.\n"}
{"id": "4586551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586551", "title": "Leo Garel", "text": "Leo Garel\n\nLeo Garel (1917 – July 4, 1999) was an American artist. He illustrated cartoons for such notable magazines as \"The New Yorker\", \"The Saturday Evening Post\" and \"Playboy\".\n\nGarel was born in Brooklyn, New York, to Max and Sarah Garil (née Kramer); his surname was changed from 'Garil' to 'Garel' to sound more American. Both of Garel's parents were Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants from an area of the Russian Empire near Kiev.\n\nGarel was a mentor, instructor and friend to many who exhibited at and made art upstairs at the Lavendar Door, a Stockbridge tradition that was attached to the Austin Riggs Center. Thus, Garel, in a natural way, helped hundreds of emotionally charged psychiatric patients paint their way out of difficulties that were often too complex for mere therapy to cure. So many of the lives he touched were literally turned around by the knowledge that if they applied themselves their art could gain an audience. An audience not judgmental, in a field where most work is done alone: a perfect combination for those trying to overcome the scars left by myriad unusual circumstances too awful to describe here. His art was superb, but his capacity as a lifesaver was unmatched.\n\nHe lived the later part of his life in Stockbridge, Massachusetts until his death from cancer. He was survived by a brother, two children and two grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "18516822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18516822", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Togo", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Togo\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Togo is composed of 1 ecclesiastical province and 6 suffragan dioceses. \n\n"}
{"id": "44401702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44401702", "title": "List of Hindu festivals in Punjab", "text": "List of Hindu festivals in Punjab\n\nThis list of Punjabi Hindu festivals summarizes festivals observed in Punjab. These are based on the Bikrami calendar. The festivals of Maghi and Vaisakhi are determined by the solar aspect and others on its lunar months.\n\nPunjabi Hindus follow the Bikrami calendar to observe religious festivals.\nIn addition to the above, Punjabi Hindus observe other Punjabi festivals such as, Basant Festival of Kites, Teej and Gugga.\n\n"}
{"id": "30938329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30938329", "title": "List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Albania by name", "text": "List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Albania by name\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Albania is composed of two ecclesiastical provinces, three suffragan dioceses and an apostolic administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514806", "title": "List of symbols of Scientology", "text": "List of symbols of Scientology\n\nThis is a list of the symbols of Scientology, the Church of Scientology, and related organizations.\n\nAll official symbols of Scientology are trademarks held by the Religious Technology Center (RTC). They are said by the center to be used \"on Scientology religious materials to signify their authenticity ... and provide a legal mechanism to ensure the spiritual technologies are orthodox and ministered according to Mr. Hubbard's Scripture. These marks also provide the means to prevent anyone from engaging in some distorted use of Mr. Hubbard's writings, thereby ensuring the purity of the religion for all eternity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53292902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53292902", "title": "Madhupayasa", "text": "Madhupayasa\n\nMadhupayasa is the Pali term for honey-infused \"kheer\" or \"payasa\", a rice pudding dish dating back to Ancient India.\n\nThe dish is served in Thailand, where it arrived from India. In Thailand, people used to make small sticky rice balls for worship. The flavor and ingredients of these influenced Thai versions of madhupayasa, which is now used in many Buddhist ceremonies.\n\nSujata, a daughter of wealthy family, prayed to a Banyan Tree for a baby boy to be her family's heir. After her prayer was granted, she gave thanks by returning to the tree with an offering of \"madhupayasa\". Lord Buddha, then in his ascetic period, was meditating under the tree and fainting from starvation. She gave him the food and he recovered, beginning to focus on moderation rather than extreme austerities. This story may have originated before the Buddhist Era (566 BCE) and become attached to the story of the Buddha.\n\nMadhupayasa use in Thailand started around the period of the Ayutthaya Kingdom (1351 – 1767 CE), and in the early Rattanakosin period (1782 CE). The ingredients used have changed many times. There are possibly more than 60 types of the pudding, made with different ingredients such as fruits, taro, potato, etc.\n\nA Phra-Song (Thai Buddhist monk) must make the ceremonial offering. After the end of the ceremony, the puddings are given to monks and to other temples nearby, or can be eaten for both luck and fortune.\n"}
{"id": "239266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239266", "title": "Mahamudra", "text": "Mahamudra\n\nMahāmudrā (Sanskrit, Tibetan: \"Chagchen\", Wylie: \"phyag chen\", contraction of \"Chagya Chenpo\", Wylie: \"phyag rgya chen po\") literally means \"great seal\" or \"great imprint\" and refers to the fact that \"all phenomena inevitably are stamped by the fact of wisdom and emptiness inseparable\". \n\nMahāmudrā is a multivalent term of great importance in later Indian Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism which \"also occurs occasionally in Hindu and East Asian Buddhist esotericism.\"\n\nThe name also refers to a body of teachings representing the culmination of all the practices of the Sarma schools of Tibetan Buddhism, who believe it to be the quintessential message of all of their sacred texts. The \"mudra\" portion denotes that in an adept's experience of reality, each phenomenon appears vividly, and the \"maha\" portion refers to the fact that it is beyond concept, imagination, and projection. The practice of Mahāmudrā is also known as the teaching called “Sahajayoga” or “Co-emergence Yoga”. In Tibetan Buddhism, particularly the Kagyu school, this is sometimes seen as a different Buddhist vehicle (yana), the \"Sahajayana\" (Tibetan: \"lhen chig kye pa\"), also known as the vehicle of self-liberation. \n\nThe usage and meaning of the term \"mahāmudrā\" evolved over the course of hundreds of years of Indian and Tibetan history, and as a result, the term may refer variously to \"a ritual hand-gesture, one of a sequence of 'seals' in Tantric practice, the nature of reality as emptiness, a meditation procedure focusing on the nature of Mind, an innate blissful gnosis cognizing emptiness nondually, or the supreme attainment of buddhahood at the culmination of the Tantric path.\"\n\nAccording to Jamgon Kongtrul, the Indian theoretical sources of the mahāmudrā tradition are Yogacara Tathagatagarbha (Buddha-nature) texts such as the Samdhinirmocana sutra and the Uttaratantra. The actual practice and lineage of mahāmudrā can be traced back to wandering mahasiddhas or great adepts during the Indian Pala Dynasty (760-1142), beginning with the 8th century siddha Saraha. \n\nSaraha's \"Dohas\" (songs or poems in rhyming couplets) are the earliest mahamudra literature extant, and promote some of the unique features of mahamudra such as the importance of Pointing-out instruction by a guru, the non-dual nature of mind, and the negation of conventional means of achieving enlightenment such as samatha-vipasyana meditation, monasticism, rituals, tantric practices and doctrinal study in favor of mahamudra 'non-meditation' and 'non-action'. Later Indian masters such as Padmavajra, Tilopa, and Gampopa incorporated mahamudra into tantric, monastic and traditional meditative frameworks.\n\nIt has been speculated that the first use of the term was in the c. 7th century \"Mañjuśrīmūlakalpa\", in which it refers to a hand gesture. The term is mentioned with increasing frequency as Buddhist tantra developed further, particularly in the Yogatantras, where it appears in \"Tattvasaṁgraha\" and the \"Vajraśekhara-tantra\". Here it also denotes a hand gesture, now linked to three other hand mudrās—the action (\"karma\"), pledge (\"samaya\"), and \"dharma\" mudrās—but also involves \"mantra recitations and visualizations that symbolize and help to effect one’s complete identification with a deity’s divine form or awakening Mind (bodhicitta).\" In Mahāyoga tantras such as the Guhyasamāja tantra, it \"has multiple meanings, including a contemplation-recitation conducive to the adamantine body, speech, and Mind of the tathāgatas; and the object-—emptiness-—through realization of which 'all is accomplished,'\" and it is also used as a synonym for awakened Mind, which is said to be \"primordially unborn, empty, unarisen, nonexistent, devoid of self, naturally luminous, and immaculate like the sky.\"\n\nIn the Yoginī or Anuttarayoga Tantras, mahāmudrā \"emerges as a major Buddhist concept.\"> As scholar Roger Jackson explains,\nThubten Yeshe explains: \"Mahāmudrā means absolute seal, totality, unchangeability. Sealing something implies that you cannot destroy it. Mahāmudrā was not created or invented by anybody; therefore it cannot be destroyed. It is absolute reality\".\n\nAryadeva summarises: \"The discussion of how to attain mahāmudrā entails methods for meditating on Mind itself as something having voidness as its nature\".\n\nAll of the various Tibetan mahāmudrā lineages originated with the Mahasiddhas of the Pala Empire of 8-12th century India. The earliest figure is the tenth century poet yogi Saraha, and his student Nagarjuna (not to be confused with the earlier philosopher). Saraha's collections of poems and songs, mostly composed in the apabhramsa language are the earliest Indian sources for mahāmudrā teachings, aside from the Buddhist tantras. \n\nOther influential Indian mahasiddhas include Tilopa, his student Naropa and Naropa's consort Niguma. Tilopa's \"Ganges Mahāmudrā\" song is a widely taught short mahāmudrā text. Niguma is an important source for the Shangpa Kagyu lineage. \n\nTilopa's pupil Maitripa became the principal master of mahāmudrā in India during his time and most lineages of mahāmudrā are traced from Maitripa. Maitripa was a very influential figure of the eleventh century, a scholar and tantrika who widely taught the Ratnagotravibhaga, a text which is widely seen as bridging the sutric Mahayana and Anuttarayogatantra views. He composed commentaries on the buddhist dohas, and his works include a collection of 26 texts on \"non-conceptual realization\" (\"amanasikara\"), which are a key Indian source of mahāmudrā teachings that blend sutra and tantra and teach an instantaneous approach to awakening.\n\nMaitripa described mahāmudrā as follows:\"Mahāmudrā, that which is unified and beyond the mind, is clear yet thoughtless, pervasive, and vast like space. Its aspect of great compassion is apparent yet devoid of any nature. Manifesting clearly like the moon in water; It is beyond all terms, boundaries or center. Polluted by nothing, it is stainless and beyond hope and fear. It cannot be described, like the dream of a mute.\"One of Maitripa's students was the Kadam scholar Atisha, who taught mahāmudrā to his pupil Dromton (1004-63) who decided not to make mahāmudrā a part of the Kadam tradition. Another pupil of Maitripa, Marpa Lotsawa, also introduced mahāmudrā to Tibet and his disciple Milarepa is also a central figure of this lineage. Another important figure in the introduction of mahāmudrā to the area is Vajrapani, yet another student of Maitripa. His student, Asu, also was a teacher of Rechungpa (1084-1161), one of Milarepa's pupils.\n\nGampopa, a key figure of the Kagyu school, refers to three important cycles of Indian texts which discuss Mahāmudrā as his main sources:\n\n\nThis classification existed since the time of Bu ston Rin chen grub (1290-1364).\n\nIndian sources of mahāmudrā were later compiled by the seventh Karmapa \"Chos grags rgya mtsho\" (1454- 1506) into a three-volume compilation entitled \"The Indian Mahāmudrā Treatises\" (Tib. \"Phyag rgya chen po 'i rgya gzhung\"). This compilation includes the above three collections, along with the \"Anavilatantra\" and texts that teach a non-tantric \"instantaneous\"approach to the practice by an Indian master named Sakyasribhadra.\n\nMahāmudrā is most well known as a teaching within the Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. However the Gelug and Sakya schools also practice mahāmudrā. The Nyingma school and Bon practise Dzogchen, a cognate but distinct method of direct introduction to the principle of śūnyatā. Nyingma students may also receive supplemental training in mahāmudrā, and the Palyul Nyingma lineage preserves a lineage of the \"Union of Mahāmudrā and Ati Yoga\" originated by Karma Chagme.\n\nGampopa Sönam Rinchen (1079-1153), a Kadam monk who was a student of the lay tantric yogi Milarepa, is a key figure in the Kagyu tradition. He is responsible for much of the development of Kagyu monastic institutions and for recording the teachings of the lineage in writing. He synthesized the Mahayana Kadam teachings with the tantric teachings he received from Milarepa and developed a unique system of mahāmudrā which he often taught without tantric empowerment, relying instead on guru yoga. \n\nMahamudra is defined by Gampopa as \"the realization of the natural state as awareness-emptiness, absolutely clear and transparent, without root\". Gampopa also states that mahamudra is \"the paramita of wisdom, beyond thought and expression.\" Gampopa taught mahamudra in a five part system to his disciples, one of his most well known disciples, Phagmo Drupa (1110-1170) became a very successful teacher who continued to teach this five part system and eight \"junior\" kagyu lineages are traced to him. This “Five-Part Mahāmudrā” system became one of the main ways that Mahāmudrā was transmitted in Kagyu lineages after Gampopa. \n\nThe tradition which follows Gampopa is called Dakpo Kagyu. A key Mahāmudrā author of this tradition is Dakpo Tashi Namgyal, well known for his \"Mahāmudrā: The Moonlight.\" Karma Kagyu Karmapas like the ninth Karmapa Wangchuk Dorje also composed important Mahāmudrā texts. A development of these later mahāmudrā writers is the integration of the common Mahayana teachings on samatha and vipasyana as preliminaries to the practice of mahāmudrā. \n\nThe Kagyu lineage divides the mahāmudrā teachings into three types, \"sutra mahāmudrā,\" \"tantra mahāmudrā,\" and \"essence mahāmudrā,\" in a formulation that appears to originate with Jamgon Kongtrul. Sutra mahāmudrā, as the name suggests, draws its philosophical view and meditation techniques from the sutrayana tradition. Tantric mahāmudrā employs such tantric techniques as tummo, dream yoga, and ösel, three of the Six Yogas of Naropa. Essence mahāmudrā is based on the direct instruction of a qualified lama, known as pointing-out instruction.\n\nThe particular Kagyu propensity to blend sutric and tantric traditions of mahāmudrā became a point of controversy in 13th century Tibet. The possibility of sudden liberating realization and the practicing of mahāmudrā without the need for tantric initiation or empowerment was seen as a result of this blending as well as a development stemming from Sino-Tibetan influences.\n\nAccording to Klaus-Dieter Mathes, the Kagyu tradition sought to base their teachings in Indian works:\nDr. Mathes investigated the practice described in these mahāmudrā works and found that it is not necessarily Tantric. In Saraha's dohās, it is simply the realization of Mind's co-emergent nature with the help of a genuine guru. Maitrīpa (ca. 1007– 085) uses the term mahāmudrā for precisely such an approach, thus employing an originally Tantric term for something that is not a specifically Tantric practice. \n\nIt is thus legitimate for later Kagyupas to speak of Saraha's mahāmudrā tradition as being originally independent of the Sūtras and the Tantras. For Maitrīpa, the direct realization of emptiness (or the co-emergent) is the bridging link between the Sūtras and the Tantras, and it is thanks to this bridge that mahāmudrā can be linked to the Sūtras and the Tantras. In the Sūtras it takes the form of the practice of non-abiding and becoming mentally disengaged, while in the Tantras it occupies a special position among the four mudrās.\n\nKhedrup Gelek Pelzang, 1st Panchen Lama identified a number of mahāmudrā lineages, according to their main practices for achieving mahāmudrā. In his teachings on the First Panchen Lama's root text and auto-commentary the 14th Dalai Lama delineated the Kagyu practice lineages as follows:\n\n\nThe Gelug school's mahamudra tradition is traditionally traced back to the school's founder Tsongkhapa (1357- 1419), who was said to have received oral transmission from Manjushri, and it is also traced to the Indian masters like Saraha through the Drikung Kagyu master Chennga Chokyi Gyalpo who transmitted Kagyu Mahamudra teachings (probably the five fold Mahamudra) to Tsongkhapa. Jagchen Jampa Pal (1310-1391), a prominent holder of the 'jag pa tradition of the Shangpa teachings, was also one of the teachers of rje Tsongkhapa.\n\nHowever, a specifically \"Gelug\" Mahamudra system was only recorded at the time of Lobsang Chökyi Gyaltsen, 4th Panchen Lama (sometimes named the \"1st Panchen Lama\", 1570-1662), who wrote a root Mahamudra text on the \"Highway of the Conquerors: Root Verses for the Precious Geden [Gelug] Kagyu [Oral] Transmission of Mahāmudrā\" (\"dGe-ldan bka'-brgyud rin-po-che'i phyag-chen rtsa-ba rgyal-ba'i gzhung-lam\") and its auto commentary (the \"Yang gsal sgron me, \"Lamp re-illuminating Mahamudra\"\"), which is still widely taught and commented upon. Before this work, Gelug writings on Mahamudra tended to follow orthodox Kagyu teachings. This text and its auto commentary have become a central work on Mahamudra in the Gelug school. The current 14th Dalai Lama and Lama Yeshe are some of the modern Gelug figures which have written commentaries on this key Gelug Mahamudra text.\n\nThe Panchen Lama Chökyi Gyaltsen, himself was influenced by Kagyu teachings, and wished to imitate great siddhas like Milarepa and Sabaripa. He names various Mahamudra and Dzogchen lineages in his text, and comes to the conclusion that \"their definitive meanings are all seen to come to the same intended point.\" Chökyi Gyaltsen also sides with the Kagyu school against Sakya, arguing that there is a sutra level of Mahamudra. However, in his account, sutra Mahamudra is particularly associated with a gradual path and his presentation of insight practice (\"vipasyana\") is uniquely Gelug.\n\nYongdzin Yeshe Gyaltsen (also known as Khachen Yeshe Gyaltsen, tutor of the 8th Dalai Lama, 1713–93) composed a commentary on Chökyi Gyaltsen's Mahamudra text, entitled \"The Lamp of the Clear and Excellent Path of the Oral Tradition Lineage\" (\"Yongs-'dzin ye shes rgyal mtshan\"). He also comments on Mahamudra in the context of Lama Chopa Guru Yoga.\n\nFollowing the great Sakya exegete and philosopher Sakya pandita (1182-1251), mahāmudrā in the Sakya school is seen as the highest tantric realization, which means that mahāmudrā practice is only taken on after having been initiated into tantric practice and practicing the creation and completion stages of deity yoga. In his \"A Clear Differentiation of the Three Codes\" (\"Sdom gsum rab dbye\"), Sakya Pandita criticized the non-tantric \"sutra\" mahamudra approaches of the Kagyu teachers such as Gampopa who taught mahāmudrā to those who had not received tantric initiations and based themselves on the Uttaratantrasastra. He argued that the term mahāmudrā does not occur in the sutras, only in the highest class of tantras and that only through tantric initiation does mahāmudrā arise: \"Our own Great Seal consists of Gnosis risen from initiation.\" According to Sakya Pandita, through the four empowerments or initiations given by a qualified guru, most practitioners will experience a likeness of true mahāmudrā, though a few rare individuals experience true mahāmudrā. Through the practice of the creation and completion stages of tantra, the tantrika develops this partial understanding of bliss and emptiness into a completely non-dual gnosis, the real Mahamudra, which corresponds to the attainment of the Path of Seeing, the first Bodhisattva bhumi.\n\nIn Sakya, this insight known as mahāmudrā is described variously as \"the unity of lucidity and emptiness, the unity of awareness and emptiness, the unity of bliss and emptiness\" and also \"the natural reality (\"chos nyid gnyug ma\") which is emptiness possessing the excellence of all aspects.\"\n\nA common schema used in the Kagyu school is that of Ground (buddha-nature, emptiness), Path (practice) and Fruition mahāmudrā (Buddhahood). The advice and guidance of a qualified teacher is considered to be very important in developing faith and interest in the dharma as well as in learning and practicing mahāmudrā meditation. Most often mahāmudrā (particularly essence mahāmudrā) is preceded by meeting with a lama and receiving pointing-out instruction. Some parts of the transmission are done verbally and through empowerments and \"reading transmissions.\" A student typically goes through various tantric practices before undertaking the \"formless\" practices described below; the latter are classified as part of \"essence mahāmudrā.\" Ngondro are the preliminary practices common to both mahāmudrā and dzogchen traditions and include practices such as contemplating the \"four thoughts that turn the mind\", prostrations, and guru yoga. According to one scholar, most people have difficulty beginning directly with formless practices and lose enthusiasm doing so, so the tantric practices work as a complement to the formless ones.\n\nAnother way to divide the practice of mahāmudrā is between the tantric mahāmudrā practices and the sutra practices. Tantric mahāmudrā practices involves practicing deity yoga with a yidam as well as subtle body practices like the six yogas of Naropa and can only be done after empowerment. After the preliminary practices, the Kagyu school's sutra mahāmudrā practice is often divided into the ordinary or essential meditation practices and the extraordinary meditation practices. The ordinary practices are samatha (calming) and vipasyana (special insight). The extraordinary practices include \"formless\" practices like 'one taste yoga' and 'non-meditation'. The tradition also culminates with certain special enlightenment and post-enlightenment practices. According to Reginald Ray, the \"formless\" practices, also called \"Essence mahamudra,\" is when \"one engages directly in practices of abandoning discursive thinking and resting the mind in the clear, luminous awareness that is mahamudra.\" The reason that preparatory practices and \"form\" practices like deity yoga and vipasyana are needed is because formless practices are quite difficult and subtle, and most practitioners are not able to enter into the simple essence of mind successfully without considerable mental preparation.\n\nIn the Dagpo Kagyu tradition as presented by Dagpo Tashi Namgyal, Mahāmudrā is divided into four distinct phases known as the four yogas of mahāmudrā (S. \"catvāri mahāmudrā yoga\", ). They are as follows:\n\n\nThese stages parallel the four yogas of Dzogchen semde. The four yogas of mahāmudrā have been correlated with the Mahāyāna five paths (S. \"pañcamārga\"), according to Tsele Natsok Rangdrol (\"Lamp of Mahāmudrā\"):\n\n\nDakpo Tashi Namgyal meanwhile in his \"Moonlight of Mahāmudrā\" correlates them as follows:\n\n\nAccording to Je Gyare as reported by Dakpo Tashi Namgyal (\"Moonlight of Mahāmudrā\"):\n\n\nAccording to Drelpa Dönsal as reported by Dakpo Tashi Namgyal (\"Moonlight of Mahāmudrā\"):\n\n\nAs in most Buddhist schools of meditation, the basic meditative practice of mahāmudrā is divided into two approaches: śamatha (\"tranquility\",\"calm abiding\") and vipaśyanā (\"special insight\"). This division is contained in the instructions given by Wangchuk Dorje, the ninth Karmapa, in a series of texts he composed; these epitomize teachings given on mahāmudrā practice.\n\nOften associated with the yoga of one-pointedness, mahāmudrā śamatha contains instructions on ways to sit with proper posture, called the seven point posture of Vairocana. The mahāmudrā shamatha teachings also include instructions on how to work with a mind that is beset with various impediments to focusing, such as raising the gaze when one feels dull or sleepy, and lowering it again when one feels overly excited. Two types of mahāmudrā śamatha are generally taught: śamatha with support and śamatha without support.\n\nMahāmudrā śamatha with support involves the use of an object of attention to which the meditator continually returns his or her attention. Wangchuk Dorje mentions that one can use a wide variety of supports, visual objects like a candle flame, but also sounds, a smell, etc.\n\nOne of the main techniques involved in Mahāmudrā śamatha with support is mindfulness of breathing (S. ānāpānasmṛti). Mindfulness of breathing practice is considered to be a profound means of calming the mind to prepare it for the stages that follow. For the Kagyupa, in the context of mahāmudrā, mindfulness of breathing is thought to be the ideal way for the meditator to transition into taking the mind itself as the object of meditation and generating vipaśyanā on that basis. The prominent contemporary Kagyu/Nyingma master Chogyam Trungpa, expressing the Kagyu Mahāmudrā view, wrote, \"your breathing is the closest you can come to a picture of your mind. It is the portrait of your mind in some sense... The traditional recommendation in the lineage of meditators that developed in the Kagyu-Nyingma tradition is based on the idea of mixing mind and breath.\" \n\nShamatha without support or objectless meditation refers to resting the mind without the use of a specific focal point or object of concentration. According to Reginald Ray, in this practice \"the eyes are open and one gazes straight ahead into space, directing one's mind to nothing at all.\" \n\nIn Gelug sutra mahāmudrā, the samatha techniques are similar to the Kagyu presentation.\n\nThe detailed instructions for the insight practices are what make mahāmudrā (and Dzogchen) unique in Tibetan Buddhism. In Mahāmudrā vipaśyanā, Wangchuck Dorje gives ten separate contemplations that are used to disclose the essential mind within; five practices of \"looking at\" and five of \"pointing out\" the nature of mind. They all presume some level of stillness cultivated by mahāmudrā shamatha. In retreat, each contemplation would typically be assigned specific time periods.\n\nThe five practices for \"looking at\" the nature of the mind are as follows:\n\nThe practices for \"pointing out the nature of mind\" build on these. One now looks again at each of the five, but this time repeatedly asks oneself \"What is it?\" In these practices, one attempts to recognize and realize the exact nature of, respectively:\n\nThe above practices do not have specific \"answers\"; they serve to provoke one to scrutinize experience more and more closely over time, seeking to understand what is really there.\n\nGelug sutra Mahāmudrā, as presented by Chökyi Gyaltsen, practices a unique Gelug style of doing vipaśyanā, based primarily on Gelug Madhyamaka. According to Roger Jackson:\n\nIn an actual meditation session, this involves, first of all, analyzing whether the meditator who has achieved tranquil equipoise actually can be found in an ultimate sense. Seeking the meditator both within and apart from the various elements, one encounters the meditator nowhere; seeking ultimacy in phenomena (dharmas), one encounters it nowhere. Thus, one comes to abide in a space-like awareness of the void nature of both the person and dharmas. Next (or, alternatively) one examines more carefully whether the mind itself can be found in an ultimate sense: it is discovered to have the conventional nature of a flow of awareness and clarity, but no ultimacy, no true existence. In short, one should recognize that any existent that arises, whether an object of the mind or the mind itself, is merely conceptual, is void and—as Chos rgyan quotes his guru, Sangs rgyas ye shes, as saying—”When . . . you are equipoised one-pointedly on that, marvelous!” (GBZL: 4a; trans. Dalai Lama and Berzin: 100; YSGM: 30b). In the period between meditation sessions (rjes thob), one should see all appearances as deceptive (sgyu ma), as existing differently than they appear, but one must at the same time recognize that their ultimate voidness does not preclude their conventional functioning, any more than conventional functioning gives them true existence.\n\nThe practice of ordinary meditation eventually leads one to the yoga of simplicity, which according to Gampopa, is \"understanding the essential state of that awareness [of one-pointedness] as nonarising [emptiness], which transcends conceptual modes of reality and unreality.\" One sees all phenomena just as they are, non-conceptually, beyond extremes of existence and non-existence.\n\nAccording to Gampopa the yoga of one taste is \"understanding diverse appearances as being one, from the standpoint of their intrinsic nature.\" \n\nPhagmo Drupa says: By meditating on the one taste of all things, the meditator will cognize the one taste of all these things. The diversity of appearances and nonappearances, mind and emptiness, emptiness and non-emptiness, Are all of one taste, undifferentiable in their intrinsic emptiness. Understanding and lack of understanding are of one taste; Meditation and nonmeditation are nondifferentiable; Meditation and absence of meditation are unified into one taste; Discrimination and lack of discrimination are one taste In the expanse of reality.\n\nGampopa states that non-meditation is \"an unceasing realization of the union of appearance and its intrinsic emptiness.\" \n\nPhagmo Drupa says: By perfecting this [nonmeditation] stage the meditator attains naked, unsupported awareness. This nondiscriminatory awareness is the meditation! By transcending the duality of meditation and meditator, external and internal realities, the meditating awareness dissolves itself into its luminous clarity. Transcending the intellect, it is without the duality of meditation and post-meditation. Such is the quintessence of mind. \n\nThe major source texts for the Indo-Tibetan Mahamudra tradition include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTilopa was a Bengali mahasiddha who developed the mahāmudrā method around 1,000 C.E. Tilopa gave Naropa, his successor, a teaching on mahāmudrā meditation called the Six Words of Advice.\n\nIn the following chart a translation is given of the Tilopa's Six Words of Advice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1759714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759714", "title": "Mimosa tenuiflora", "text": "Mimosa tenuiflora\n\nMimosa tenuiflora, syn. Mimosa hostilis, also known as Jurema Preta, Calumbi (Brazil), Tepezcohuite (México), Carbonal, Cabrera, Jurema, Black Jurema, and Vinho de Jurema, is a perennial tree or shrub native to the northeastern region of Brazil (Paraíba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará, Pernambuco, Bahia) and found as far north as southern Mexico (Oaxaca and coast of Chiapas), and the following countries: El Salvador, Honduras, Panama, Colombia and Venezuela. It is most often found in lower altitudes, but it can be found as high as .\n\nThe fern-like branches have leaves that are \"Mimosa\" like, finely pinnate, growing to long. Each compound leaf contains 15–33 pairs of bright green leaflets long. The tree itself grows up to tall and it can reach tall in less than 5 years. The white, fragrant flowers occur in loosely cylindrical spikes long. In the Northern Hemisphere it blossoms and produces fruit from November to June or July. In the Southern Hemisphere it blooms primarily from September to January. The fruit is brittle and averages long. Each pod contains 4–6 seeds that are oval, flat, light brown and in diameter. There are about 145 seeds/. In the Southern Hemisphere, the fruit ripens from February to April.\nThe tree's bark is dark brown to gray. It splits lengthwise and the inside is reddish brown.\n\nThe tree's wood is dark reddish brown with a yellow center. It is very dense, durable and strong, having a density of about .\n\n\"Mimosa tenuiflora\" does very well after a forest fire, or other major ecological disturbance. It is a prolific pioneer plant. It drops its leaves on the ground, continuously forming a thin layer of mulch and eventually humus. Along with its ability to fix nitrogen, the tree conditions the soil, making it ready for other plant species to come along.\n\nA tea made of the leaves and stem has been used to treat tooth pain. For cases of cough and bronchitis, a water extract (decoction) of \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" is drunk. A handful of bark in one liter of water is used by itself or in a syrup. The solution is drunk until the symptoms subside.\n\nOne preliminary clinical study found \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" to be effective in treating venous leg ulcerations.\n\nAqueous extracts of Mimosa are widely used for wound healing and burns in Middle and South America.\n\nThe tree is an acceptable source of forage or fodder for animals, providing vital protein and other nutrients. It does well in the dry season and in drought, while providing life saving food for local livestock and animals. Cows, goats and sheep eat the pods and leaves. There seems to be evidence that \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" forage or fodder cause development defects to pregnant ruminants in Brazil.\n\nThe tree is an important source of forage for bees, especially during the dry season and in the beginning of the wet season.\n\nLike most plants in the Fabaceae family, \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" fertilizes the soil via nitrogen fixing bacteria. The tree is useful in fighting soil erosion and for reforestation.\n\"Mimosa tenuiflora\" is a very good source of fuel wood and works very well for making posts, most likely because of its high tannin content (16%), which protects it from rot. Due to its high tannin content, the bark of the tree is widely used as a natural dye and in leather production. It is used to make bridges, buildings, fences, furniture and wheels. It is an excellent source of charcoal and at least one study has been done to see why this is the case.\n\nThe healing properties of the tree make it useful in treating domestic animals. A solution of the leaves or bark can also be used for washing animals in the prevention of parasites. Because the tree keeps most of its leaves during the dry season, it is an important source of shade for animals and plants during that time.\n\nThe bark is known to be rich in tannins, saponins, alkaloids, lipids, phytosterols, glucosides, xylose, rhamnose, arabinose, lupeol, methoxychalcones, and kukulkanins. Additionally, \"Mimosa hostilis\" contains labdane diterpenoids.\n\n\"Mimosa tenuiflora\" is an entheogen used by the Jurema Cult (\"O Culto da Jurema\") in northeastern Brazil. Dried Mexican \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" root bark has been recently shown to have a dimethyltryptamine (DMT) content of about 1-1.7%. The stem bark has about 0.03% DMT.\n\nThe parts of the tree are traditionally used in northeastern Brazil in a psychoactive decoction also called or Yurema. Analogously, the traditional Western Amazonian sacrament Ayahuasca is brewed from indigenous \"ayahuasca\" vines.\nHowever, to date no β-carbolines such as harmala alkaloids have been detected in \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" decoctions, yet the Jurema is used in combination to several plants.\n\nThis presents challenges to the pharmacological understanding of how DMT from the plant is rendered orally active as an enthenogen, because the pyschoactivity of DMT requires the presence of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), such as a β-carboline. If an MAOI is neither present in the plant nor added to the mixture, the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) will metabolize DMT in the human gut, preventing the active molecule from entering the blood and brain.\n\nThe isolation of the chemical compound yuremamine from \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" as reported in 2005 represents a new class of phytoindoles, which may explain an apparent oral activity of DMT in Jurema.\n\nFor outside planting, USDA Zone 9 or higher is recommended.\n\nIn nature, \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" \"[...] fruits and seeds are disseminated by the wind in a radius of from the mother plant; rain carries them from slopes to lower plains and human activities contribute to their dissemination.\"\n\nFor cultivation, the seed pods are collected once they start to spontaneously open on the tree. The collected pods are laid out in the sun so that the pods open up and release their seeds. The seeds can then be planted in sandy soil with sun exposure.\n\nScarification of the seed via mechanical means or by using sulfuric acid greatly increases the germination rate of the seeds over non-treatment. The seeds can be sown directly into holes in the ground or planted in prepared areas.\n\nThe seeds can germinate in temperatures ranging from , but the highest germination rate occurs at around (about 96%), even after four years of storage. Germination takes about 2–4 weeks.\n\nIt is also possible to propagate \"Mimosa tenuiflora\" via cuttings.\n\nTrimming adult \"Mimosa tenuiflorae\" during the rainy season is not recommended because it can cause them to perish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1749242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749242", "title": "Miriam Defensor Santiago", "text": "Miriam Defensor Santiago\n\nMiriam Palma Defensor Santiago (15 June 1945 – 29 September 2016) was a Filipino lawyer, professor, judge, author, and statesman, who served in all three branches of the Philippine government: judicial, executive, and legislative. While never officially assumed the post, she has been recognized posthumously as the \"best president the Philippines never had.\" She also worked at the United Nations while studying abroad. Some of her alma maters are University of the Philippines, University of Michigan, Oxford University, Maryhill School of Theology, University of California, Harvard University, and University of Cambridge. Defensor Santiago was named one of The 100 Most Powerful Women in the World in 1997 by \"The Australian\" magazine. She was a long-serving Senator of the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nIn 1988, Defensor Santiago was named laureate of the Ramon Magsaysay Award for government service, with a citation \"for bold and moral leadership in cleaning up a graft-ridden government agency.\" She ran in the 1992 presidential elections but was controversially defeated.\n\nIn 2012, Defensor Santiago became the first Filipina and the first Asian from a developing country to be elected a judge of the International Criminal Court. She later resigned the post, citing chronic fatigue syndrome, which turned out to be lung cancer. In 2016, she became part of the International Advisory Council of the International Development Law Organization (IDLO), an intergovernmental body that promotes the rule of law.\n\nDefensor Santiago served three terms in the Philippine Senate. On 13 October 2015, Defensor Santiago declared her candidacy for President of the Philippines in the 2016 elections after her doctors from the United States declared her cancer 'stable' and 'receded', but lost in the elections.\n\nDefensor Santiago was known as the Dragon Lady, the Platinum Lady, the Incorruptible Lady, the Tiger Lady, and most popularly, the Iron Lady of Asia. She is colloquially known in Philippine pop culture as simply Miriam or MDS.\n\nDefensor Santiago was born Miriam Palma Defensor in Iloilo City, to Benjamin Defensor, a local judge, and Dimpna Palma, a schoolteacher. She was the eldest of seven children. She graduated valedictorian in grade school, high school, undergraduate school. She graduated high school in Iloilo Provincial High School (now Iloilo National High School) and served as the Editor-in-Chief (EIC) of the said high school's student publication \"The Ilonggo\". In 1965, Defensor Santiago graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science, \"magna cum laude\" from the University of the Philippines Visayas. After graduation, she was elected to the Pi Gamma Mu and Phi Kappa Phi honor societies.\n\nShe proceeded to the University of the Philippines College of Law. There, she was champion in numerous oratorical contests and debates. She became the first female editor of the student newspaper, \"The Philippine Collegian\", and was twice appointed ROTC muse. She graduated Bachelor of Laws, \"cum laude\", from the University of the Philippines College of Law in Diliman.\n\nDefensor Santiago went on a fellowship to the United States, and earned the degrees Master of Laws and Doctor of Juridical Science degrees at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. She finished both degrees in a period of only one and a half years. Following school she took a position as special assistant to the justice secretary. She also taught political science at the Trinity University of Asia. She was law professor at the University of the Philippines Diliman, teaching evening classes for some ten years.\n\nShe has studied at several universities, including Oxford and Harvard law summer schools; Cambridge; and The Hague Academy of International Law. She earned the degree Master of religious studies (without thesis) at the Maryhill School of Theology.\n\nIn Oxford, she was a research fellow at St. Hilda's College and also took a summer program in law at St. Edmund's Hall. At Cambridge, she was a research fellow at the Lauterpacht Research Centre for International Law.\n\nShe became a special assistant to the Secretary of Justice for ten years after her higher studies abroad. At a young age, she became a legal officer to the United Nations afterwards due to her constitutional and international law knowledge and experience.\n\nDefensor Santiago served as Legal Officer of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees at Geneva, Switzerland. She was assigned to the Conferences and Treaties Section. She became skilled at treaty negotiation and drafting. She resigned her position when her father in the Philippines developed prostate cancer.\n\nDefensor Santiago was appointed judge of the Regional Trial Court (RTC) of Quezon City, Metro Manila by President Ferdinand Marcos. She was the youngest judge appointed to Metro Manila, and exempted from the practice of first serving as a judge outside Metro Manila. As a RTC judge, she quickly proclaimed a \"no postponement\" policy. At that time, cases were tried in segments that were usually a month apart, resulting in trials that took years to finish. Lawyers were prone to seek postponement of trial. As a result, trial judges scheduled ten or fifteen cases a day, so that they could make up for cases postponed. Defensor Santiago scheduled only five cases a day, heard each case, and disposed of the highest number of cases in her first year in office. \n\nDefensor Santiago became nationally famous when she issued perhaps the first decision to rule against martial law. At that time, alleged illegal public assemblies were declared as crimes and were punishable by death. A large group of activist students from the University of the Philippines and Ateneo, as well as activists in the film industry, staged a rally in a central business district, and denounced the First Lady for her excesses. To retaliate, Marcos issued a Preventive Detention Action order which authorized the military to hold suspects indefinitely, without bail. The students faced the dire prospect of missing their final exams and, for many of them, missing graduation. Defensor Santiago suspended hearings on all other pending cases, and conducted whole-day trials. In the end, she ordered the military to allow the students to post bail. After promulgating her decision at the end of the day, Defensor Santiago drove herself to the state university, where she was teaching law. The Philippine Jaycees, the Philippine Lions, and the YMCA Philippines all gave her awards for judicial excellence.\n\nAfter martial law, in 1988, President Corazon Aquino appointed Defensor Santiago as commissioner of the Bureau of Immigration and Deportation. At that time, the BID was one of the most corrupt government agencies in Southeast Asia. Defensor Santiago declared the Philippines as \"the fake passport capital of the world\", and directed raids against criminal syndicates, including the Yakuza. She filled the CID detention center with alien criminals, and ordered construction of another detention center. She extended to legal aliens protection from widespread extortion by requesting President Aquino to issue an executive order that authorized the \"alien legalization program\".\n\nShe received serious death threats, but proclaimed: \"I eat death threats for breakfast\". A member of the House of Representatives, Laguna Rep. Nereo Joaquin, delivered a privilege speech in 1992 and denounced her raids against pedophile communities in Central Luzon run by alien pedophiles. Defensor Santiago responded by calling him \"fungus face\".\n\nThe Rockefeller Foundation named her a laureate of the Magsaysay Award for government service – \"for bold and moral leadership in cleaning up a graft-ridden government agency.\"\n\nPresident Corazon Aquino promoted Defensor Santiago to member of her cabinet, as secretary of the Secretary of Agrarian Reform. Under a controversial law passed by Congress and signed by President Aquino, all agricultural landholdings were taken by the government and divided among the farmers. Each landowner was allowed to keep only five hectares, and each farmer received three hectares. Payment was in bonds of the Land Bank. To subvert the law, big landowners applied for conversion of the classification of their land as agricultural, to classification as commercial, residential, or industrial. The process became the widespread \"conversion scandal of agrarian reform\". The DAR officials themselves were the biggest culprits, because they sold conversion permits for bribes on a market rate set at certain amounts per hectare involved in the conversion. Defensor Santiago stopped the conversion scandal, and appeased the landowners by enhancing the incentives for voluntary offers by the landowners for the sale of their landholdings, which entitled them to an additional five percent cash payment. When asked if the hacienda belonging to the president's family should be covered by agrarian reform, Defensor Santiago replied that the family's hacienda should be distributed among the farmers. Shortly thereafter President Aquino accepted Defensor Santiago's resignation.\n\nDefensor Santiago organized the People's Reform Party (PRP) and ran with a senatorial ticket during the 1992 presidential campaign. Ramon Magsaysay Jr. was her running mate. While campaigning on 28 April 1991, she was severely injured in car crash, which she claimed was an assassination attempt. She was wearing a white bush jacket which became splattered with blood that gushed from a wound to her head. On orders of President Aquino, she was airlifted from Tarlac to a Manila hospital. She underwent surgery on the jaw, and at one point a Catholic priest administered the last rites of the dying. Two months later, she was back on the campaign trail.\n\nDefensor Santiago has been dubbed as \"The Iron Lady of Asia\" and the \"Dragon Lady\" due to her scathing but bold eloquence both in leadership and writing. She cites physicist Marie Curie and former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as her major influences throughout her political career, with Thatcher praising her for her book \"Cutting Edge\" during their meeting while the Prime Minister visited the Philippines.\n\nDefensor Santiago was leading the canvassing of votes for the first five days. Following a string of power outages, the tabulation concluded, and Ramos was declared president-elect. Defensor Santiago filed a protest before the Supreme Court as electoral tribunal, citing the power outages during the counting of votes as evidence of massive fraud. Her election protest was eventually dismissed on a technicality.\n\nThe public outrage over the presidential results prompted \"Newsweek\" to feature her and her rival on the cover with the question: \"Was the Election Fair?\" In another cover story, \"Philippines Free Press\" magazine asked: \"Who's the Real President?\". The quote, 'Miriam won in the elections but lost in the counting' was popularized by the masses.\n\nDefensor Santiago was first elected senator in 1995. In 1997, her presidential rival Fidel Ramos initiated a \"people's campaign\" for an infinite presidential term. Defensor Santiago harshly criticized Ramos' campaign and went to court. In a landmark case, \"Defensor Santiago vs COMELEC\", she won and preserved the people's mandate for term limits. She again ran for president in the 1998 presidential elections, with running-mate Francisco Tatad, but lost amidst heavy propaganda concerning her mental health, which was later proven false.\n\nShe was one of the few senators who were against the opening of the brown envelope during the impeachment trial of then-President Joseph Estrada, who was her foe in the 1998 presidential elections. She said afterwards:Estrada was ousted in the Second EDSA Revolution in 2001, but was sent free in 2007 by President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who was persuaded by senator Mar Roxas. Defensor Santiago lost re-election to the senate in 2001.\n\nDefensor Santiago ran for senator in 2004 and was elected. She focused on creating significant laws that changed the country as a whole. She ran again for senator in 2010 and won. During her three terms, she served as chair mostly of the foreign relations committee and the constitutional amendments committee. She was elected as official candidate of her party People's Reform Party, serving also as chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Commission on Appointments. She exposed and named numerous \"jueteng\" (illegal gambling) lords and illegal-logging lords throughout her terms.\n\nIn 2011, Defensor Santiago was elected as a judge of the International Criminal Court (ICC) which hears cases against humanity for former heads of state. She was the first Asian from a third world country to be elected to such a post. She resigned in 2014 after being diagnosed with lung cancer. She was one of the senators who backed Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona during his impeachment trial; he was ultimately impeached due to corruption.\n\nIn December 2012, she exposed that the Senate president, Juan Ponce Enrile, used Senate funds to give away as cash gifts. Every senator, except Defensor Santiago and two others, received 2 million pesos as a chunk of the Filipino population lived in poverty. This led to the Priority Development Assistance Fund scandal, which put the Senate president behind bars with charges of plunder. Defensor Santiago's live Senate hearings in the case led to public outrage and support for Defensor Santiago's call to abolish the pork-barrel system.\n\nShe was the first Filipino elected as a commissioner for the International Development Law Organization (IDLO) in 2016. Her role in the organization was advisory to the international law community.\n\nThe many laws that Defensor Santiago authored include:\n\nIn October 2015, Defensor Santiago announced her intention to run in the 2016 Philippine presidential elections after her cancer was deemed 'stable' and 'receded' by doctors from the United States. She later confirmed that Senator Bongbong Marcos would serve as her running mate for vice president. Her campaign focused on the youth sector for which she heavily advocated, making use of social media. She was a landslide winner in numerous polls conducted in various public and private universities and colleges in the country. Despite this, she lost in the elections. Defensor Santiago was subsequently called \"the greatest president we never had\", a title which had been associated with her prior to her presidential run.\n\nEven after retirement, Defensor Santiago continued to advocate the passage of many bills for the nation while in her Quezon City home. A few of these include: the anti-dynasty bill; an act institutionalizing an age-appropriate curriculum to prevent the abduction, exploitation, and sexual abuse of children; anti-epal bill; freedom of information bill; and the magna carta for Philippine internet freedom.\n\nBefore her death, various groups in the country have been lauding her to join the candidacy for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Secretary-General post where the elected Secretary-General will be positioned for 2018. Among other candidates for the position are AirAsia chief Tony Fernandes of Malaysia and an unstated representative from Brunei, which is the lead country for 2018–2022 according to tradition.\n\nShe was awarded as a \"Distinguished Icon of Legal Excellence and Public Service\" by the University of the Philippines in September 2016, and posthumously \nthe \"PUP Online Personality of the Year Award\" by the Polytechnic University of the Philippines in November 2016.\n\nAt the age of 71, Defensor Santiago died in her sleep at exactly 8:52 a.m. on 29 September 2016 while she was confined at the St. Luke's Medical Center in Taguig from lung cancer; several reports cited that Defensor Santiago died in her residence in La Vista Subdivision, Quezon City. Santiago's last words according to her husband were, \"I accept this. I do not want to do anything heroic.\" While her last wish was to remain only in the memory of her own family. Her body lay in state at the Cathedral Grottos of the Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Cubao the following day. Following a Catholic funeral Mass, she was interred at the Loyola Memorial Park in Marikina on 2 October, beside the tomb of her son Alexander, who died in 2003. Santiago's hometown, Iloilo City, declared a day of mourning for Santiago and flew the Philippine flag half-mast from September 9 to October 17, 2016. The local government said in an official statement that Santiago 'brought pride and honor to all Ilonggos'.\n\nIn June 2017, members of the Youth Reform Movement lobbied for the posthumous awarding of the Quezon Service Cross to Defensor Santiago. In September 2017, Senator Grace Poe, her freedom of information (FOI) ally and 2016 presidential rival, nominated Defensor Santiago to be awarded the Quezon Service Cross, the highest honor in the entire Republic, subject for approval of both houses of Congress and by President Rodrigo Duterte, who was also her presidential rival. On the same month, Senator Sonny Angara, who considers Defensor Santiago as his mentor, followed suit by filing another resolution nominating Defensor Santiago to become a laureate of the prestigious Quezon Service Cross, just days before Defensor Santiago's first death anniversary on September 29. The Senate expressed its full intent to confer Defensor Santiago the award. The president, through the Presidential Palace, welcomed the proposal to bestow the award to Santiago once both houses of Congress have ratified the document conferring such award. The House of Representatives is the only body left that has yet to express its intent to bestow the award to Defensor Santiago. Most members of the House are against Defensor Santiago's anti-political dynasty bill which she introduced in Congress. Santiago's bill is backed by the Constitution itself, where it mandates both chambers of Congress to enact such a law. On December 5, 2017, the president officially nominated Defensor Santiago for the award, awaiting concurrence of both chambers of Congress to officially bestow the award. Santiago is the sixth person and the first and only woman to be nominated for the award. If bestowed the award, she would be the sixth person to be immortalized in the 69-year old national roster. In December 11, 2017, the Senate approved the bestowing of the award to Defensor Santiago. In February 20, 2018, the House of Representatives approved the bestowing of the award to Defensor Santiago. Once the symbolic conferring of the award to is made by the President, Santiago will officially be the sixth person and first woman to be enthroned in the country's highest accolade.\n\nSantiago is not in favor of Federalism, stating in one interview that, \"The masses and the entire electorate will not choose who the president will be. We leave that choice to a group of politicians, and we know how those politicians act. Mostly, their actions are always attended by corruption.\"\n\nDefensor Santiago was in favor of amending the Constitution of the Philippines to enhance foreign investments in the country and to mandate that all high posts in government (senator, congressperson, president, vice president, governor, mayor, vice mayor, secretaries, undersecretaries, etc.) should have additional qualifications which are 'a college graduate' and must pass a duly-accredited government examination. Numerous politicians in the country are only high school or elementary graduates, and most college graduate officials have never passed the Civil Service Examination for Professionals (CSE-P). She argues that positions in government like administrative assistant must pass the CSE-P as a qualification, 'why not higher posts too?'.\n\nDefensor Santiago was the principal author of the \"Anti-Dynasty Bill\" in the Senate and had been pushing for its immediate passage in Congress for more than a decade. Unfortunately, most of the congresspersons in the House of Representatives, which are the bulk of Filipino politicians, are not in favor of its passage because they are part of political dynasties. \n\nShe stressed during a live debate that the West Philippine Sea is a sovereign territory of the Philippines and that the country should have a better military and police force and assets and should prioritize enhancing ties with allied nations, especially in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). She was one of the international law experts who criticized China and aided in the Philippine case against China. The case was won by the Philippines in 2016. Despite this, China still does not recognize the ruling.\n\nDefensor Santiago was against the Bangsamoro Basic Law, saying it is unconstitutional because it specifies that Bangsamoro will become a 'sub-state' of the republic which is illegal under the law. She prefers a more constitutional form of the Bangsamoro Basic Law which does not create a 'sub-state' government.\n\nDefensor Santiago was in favor of appointing a third-party to conduct under international law \"inquiry and fact-finding\" to resolve the North Borneo dispute, where the third-party is approved by both the national governments of Malaysia and the Philippines. She cited the 1907 Hague Convention for the Pacific Settlement of Disputes as motivator of her legal position. She said that this can end the dispute as it did in the 1981 involvement of mercenaries in an invasion of the Seychelles, the 1987 use of chemical weapons in the Gulf War between Iran and Iraq, and the 1988 destruction of Korean Air Lines Boeing 747. She said that since no transfer of sovereignty was involved in the 1878 Deed, no transfer of sovereignty has ever passed to Malaysia. She added that the Philippines has never abandoned its claim over eastern Sabah.\n\nDefensor Santiago publicly advocated for the passage of a divorce law in the Philippines, saying, \"Why would you force [couples] to be together if they want to kill each other by mere sight?\" With respect to her position on divorce, she clarified that it should be restricted on two grounds: \"an attempt on the life of the spouse by the other\" and \"when one spouse is already living with another person, that is adultery or concubinage.\" In the 2016 Presidential campaign, despite being unable to attend the second debate citing health concerns, she reiterated on Twitter her position on divorce, leaving her as the only presidential candidate to favor its legislation.\n\nDefensor Santiago took a critical perspective of abortion and supports maintaining laws against it: \"No to abortion, never. I am a very avid supporter of RH [Reproductive Health] Law, but I will definitely fight to the death against abortion as a lawyer, not necessarily as a religious person. I equate it properly with the crime of murder.\" On contraception, she stressed the importance of its distribution, especially in poverty-stricken areas. She was a strong proponent of the Philippines' Reproductive Health Law, which guarantees universal access to methods on contraception, maternal health and sex education. According to her, the bill was shelved for more than 13 years, citing the Catholic Church's opposition. Defensor Santiago expressed dismay when the RH Law had suffered a one-billion peso budget cut before the Congress in early 2016. She said if she will be elected, she will work for a full and conscientious implementation of the law.\n\nDefensor Santiago magnified the issues concerning the LGBT community before the Senate. In the wake of the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting incident, she said on a Twitter post: \"The mass shooting at a club in Orlando is appalling and heartbreaking\" and \"I long for the day when the LGBT community no longer has to live in fear of discrimination and hate crimes\". Defensor Santiago was one of the senators who advocated the immediate investigation of the Jennifer Laude case, wherein the American marine, Joseph Scott Pemberton, killed Laude, a Filipina transgender, in Subic, Zambales. She also supported the passage of the anti-discrimination bill (SOGIE Equality Bill) which protects the rights of people of different sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression. She was the first senator in Philippine history to push for the bill's legislation, filing it repeatedly since 2000.\n\nDefensor Santiago favored the death penalty but limited it to heinous crimes, while maintaining that the justice system should be improved.\n\nDefensor Santiago vehemently opposed mining. She believes mining is one of the greatest reasons why local communities are impoverished as most of the profit coming from mining are siphoned by mining companies away from the local economy. In addition, mining has made numerous destructive advances in Philippine society and ecosystems, destroying watersheds and agricultural lands, as well as rivers and seas. According to an interview conducted by Haribon Foundation during the 2016 Presidential Campaign, the organization voted her as the \"greenest\" in all of the candidates. She was the main author of the Climate Change Law and the Renewable Energies Law in the Senate.\n\nDefensor Santiago advocated the establishment of the Department of Information which is mandated to speed-up internet connectivity in the Philippines which she described \"the worst internet speed in Asia\". She also advocated for the passage of the Magna Carta for Philippine Internet Freedom which protects the rights and freedoms of Filipinos in cyberspace, while defining and penalizing cybercrimes.\n\nDefensor Santiago advocated the establishment of a completely new railway system from Manila to Sorsogon and a new high-speed transit system connecting Metro Manila to Pampanga, Bulacan. Rizal, Batangas, Laguna, and Cavite. She also advocated the establishment of a new modernized airport and the establishment of new projects in every province in the entire country.\n\n\nDefensor Santiago wrote at least 30 books, many of which are about law and social sciences. Among her works is the \"Code Annotated Series Project 2000\", a series of books about laws passed by the Philippine Congress and Supreme Court decisions. The \"Code Annotated Series\" is the main part of Defensor Santiago's Legal Outreach Program. During her initial battle with cancer, she continued to work on the 2014 edition of all her law books. These were published as the 2015 edition of her \"Code Annotated Series\", by Rex Bookstore.\n\nThe doctoral dissertation she wrote for the University of Michigan was published as a book, \"Political Offences in International Law\". She wrote two autobiographies, \"Inventing Myself\"  and \"Cutting Edge: The Politics of Reform in the Philippines,\" the latter being praised by UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.\n\nShe published a joke book in 2014, \"Stupid is Forever\", a collection of jokes, comebacks, one-liners, and pick-up lines she used in speeches. A sequel, titled \"Stupid is Forevermore\", was published a year later. Both books were published by ABS-CBN Publishing. The first book was named the best-selling book of 2014, selling about 110,000 copies in one month.\n\nDefensor Santiago grew up in a middle-class erudite household with both parents having higher educational attainments. She is the eldest among her siblings: Benjamin, Nenalyn, Linn, and Paula Dimpna Beatriz.\n\nShe was married to Narciso \"Jun\" Santiago Jr., with whom she had two sons, Narciso III (Archie) and Alexander (A.R.); Alexander committed suicide in 2003. The couple adopted four children; Megan Santiago, Mallory Santiago, Mackenzie Santiago, and Morven Santiago. She and her husband renewed their wedding vows on their 40th wedding anniversary in 2011. She has close relationships with actress and visual artist, Heart Evangelista, who she has mentored.\n\nIn an interview with \"Esquire\" years after the death of her son who committed suicide, she said:\n\nShe stated in a separate interview:\n\nIn the succeeding years, Defensor Santiago returned to her faith. She was quoted as saying, \"Good things happen to those who love God.\" Notwithstanding her defense of the Reproductive Health Law, a law that has been opposed by the Catholic Church in the Philippines, she asserted her Catholicism and remained religious as an adult, saying her prayers day and night. She cited Ecclesiastes as her favorite book in the Bible and had once considered becoming a nun.\n"}
{"id": "58417107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58417107", "title": "Nemat (militant)", "text": "Nemat (militant)\n\nMufti Nemat, also known as Mufti Nematullah Qaweem or Mullah Nemat Mufti, is an Afghan militant and Salafist cleric who served as a field commander for the Taliban and later the Islamic State's Khorasan Province (ISIL-K) in northern Afghanistan, particularly Jowzjan Province. While waging an insurgency against the Afghan government, he has been accused of committing several war crimes.\n\nAn ethnic Uzbek, Nemat originally was a religious teacher and mufti in First Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostum's home village in Jowzjan Province. At some point, Nemat became a Salafist and joined the Taliban, forming a small private army to fight for Qush Tepa District. He eventually rose to head of the Taliban military committee for the districts of Darzab and Qush Tepa in Jowzjan, and was considered to be an \"important\" field commander for the insurgents. It is possible that Nemat took part in \"Operation Badr\", a major Taliban offensive in northern Afghanistan in 2011. According to Pajhwok Afghan News, he even served as shadow governor of Jowzjan at some point, and was adressed with the honorific title \"Maulvi\". Despite this, Nemat was also increasingly criticised by his superiors for various irregularities, including abuse of authority, harassment and torture of locals over taxation, and corruption. While visiting Pakistan in 2013, Nemat was arrested by the Taliban over these issues, and expelled from the rebel movement in 2014.\n\nIn response, Nemat made a deal with Vice President Dostum in December 2014, and officially surrendered to the Afghan government with 220 of his followers in February 2015. He and his fighters were promised salaries for six months, and help in finding new civilian jobs. For the next two years, he stayed in Sheberghan, hoping to gain an appointment as commander in the pro-government militias. Nemat also started a Salafi madrasa called \"E'ya-ye Sunnat\" (\"Rehabilitation of the Sunnah\"), and organized classes for male and female students. His Salafist views aroused great opposition from the local religious establishment of Hanafi clerics, resulting in several public debates between Nemat and a number of his opponents. State authorities eventually shut down his madrasa and banned him from teaching in Jowzjan Province in November 2016. Believing that neither Dostum nor the rest of government had upheld their part of the agreement with him, Nemat consequently resumed his insurgency. He joined forces with Qari Hekmat, the leader of the region's branch of ISIL's Khorasan Province. Though Nemat later argued that his decision to join ISIL-K stemmed from ideological conviction, an expert of the \"Afghanistan Analysts Network\" said that he had probably been more motivated by \"power-saving opportunism\".\n\nCommanding about 80 fighters, Nemat became the commander for all ISIL-K forces in Darzab's Sar Dara area, and was also appointed by Hekmat as head of ISIL-K's local military court. In course of 2017, ISIL-K grew increasingly powerful in northern Afghanistan, and almost completely captured Darzab District from the Taliban and government forces, including Dostum's militias, in April. At the time, government officials regarded Nemat as one of the most important Islamic State commanders, stating that \"he knows the Darzab District and the area very well; he is a very dangerous guy\". Darzab consequently became the group's stronghold, though it repeatedly attempted to expand into other areas. Hekmat was killed by a US airstrike in April 2018, and the other northern ISIL-K commanders consequently elected Mawlavi Habibul Rahman, Nemat's brother-in-law, as their new leader. An expert speculated that Nemat might have played an important role in the succession; in any case, he became ISIL-K's second-in-command for Jowzjan Province after Mawlavi Habibul Rahman's appointment. While serving with ISIL-K, Nemat reportedly committed numerous war crimes.\n\nDespite their military successes in 2017, ISIL-K remained threatened by the Taliban in northern Afghanistan, as the latter repeatedly attempted to oust the Islamic State militants from Darzab. A major Taliban offensive in July 2018 eventually overwhelmed ISIL-K's defenses and brought the group's northern branch to the brink of destruction. The Taliban rejected offers for a ceasefire, and demanded that Nemat, alongside Mawlavi Habibul Rahman and Sibghatullah, ISIL-K's local head of finances be handed over to them. At this point, the northern ISIL-K branch split, with a substantial number of fighters defecting to the Taliban, while the three commanders and their loyalists decided to contact the Afghan government and offered their surrender in exchange for protection from the Taliban. Nemat and his fellow fighters, along with their families, consequently fled to government lines in the night, protected by Commandos and the Afghan Air Force.\n\nFollowing his surrender, the ISIL-K militants were transported to Sheberghan, where they were treated rather well despite the protests of many local civilians and soldiers. Nemat subsequently gave several interviews to the press, declaring that \"fake news\" were responsible for the Islamic State's bad reputation. He claimed that he and his followers had only launched an insurgency because they were met with hostility by the \"whole world\", and that he wanted people to accept ISIL's ideology \"with their hearts, not by force\". Regarding his future, Nemat said that the \"Afghan government must save my life and provide me with security\" as it promised to do so before the surrender, and that he was not guilty of any crimes. Despite these claims, several women had previously accused him of having abducted and raped them. This was notable, as it was \"the first time Afghan women have come forward and accused IS fighters of rape\". Rape victims in Afghanistan usually do not speak out due to rape being a taboo topic in the country's society. Other civilians accused ISIL-K of having executed over one hundred civilians, including children, and of practising slavery in Darzab. The government was widely criticised for \"its unexplained action of providing asylum and protection to IS-K militants\", prompting officials to declare that the Islamic State fighters would be brought to justice.\n"}
{"id": "35491866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35491866", "title": "Om Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya", "text": "Om Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya\n\nOm Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya () (in devanagari: ॐ नमो भगवते वासुदेवाय) is one of the most popular Hindu mantra and the most important mantra in Vaishnavism. It is called as Dwadasakshari Mantra or simply Dwadasakshari meaning the \"twelve-syllable\" mantra dedicated to Lord Krishna/Vishnu. It has two traditions—Tantric and Puranic. In Tantrik Tradition, the Rishi of the Mantra is Prajapati, in Puranic Tradition the Rishi is Narada. Both, however, say it is the Supreme Vishnu Mantra.\n\nSharada Tilak Tantram says: \nSimilarly, this is the ultimate mantra in Shrimad Bhagavatam. This twelve syllable mantra is known as a Mukti (liberation) mantra and a spiritual formula for attaining freedom. This mantra can also be found in Vishnu Purana.\n\n\"Om Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya\" means \"\"Om\", I bow to Lord Vasudeva or Lord Krishna\". \n\n\"Om Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya\" means \"prostration to Vasudeva\" who is variously understood as Krishna or Vishnu.\" Krishna himself asked his devotees to completely surrender to him:\n\nKrishna also proclaimed \"Everybody should recite \"Om Namo Bhagavate Vasudevaya\" mantra daily whenever possible so that I will stand by them. I respond to the call of the heart immediately and invariably. See me in your duties. I am committed to those who are committed to their duties. Believe in putting faith in me and make me your own\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41040248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41040248", "title": "Panhalakaji Caves", "text": "Panhalakaji Caves\n\nPanhalakaji Caves are situated in the Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra state, about 160km south of Mumbai. This cave complex has around 30 Buddhist Caves. The Hinayana sect began carving caves in 3rd century AD, beginning with the stupa in the current Cave 5. The caves have inscriptions in Brahmi and Devanagari script. In the 10-11th century AD another Buddhist group, a Vajrayana sect, established cave 10 with their deities \"Akshobhya\" and \"Mahachandaroshana\"; and strengthened their practice in that region. \"Shiva\" and \"Ganpatya\" worshiping started at the site during Silahara rule.\n\nA list of important caves includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20609180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609180", "title": "Predikant", "text": "Predikant\n\nPredikant \"[pred-ik-ant]\" is a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa. Predikant is the Afrikaans term for \"pastor\".\n\nThe word 'predikant' is also used in the Dutch, Norwegian and Swedish languages.\n"}
{"id": "13510722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13510722", "title": "Prophethood (Ahmadiyya)", "text": "Prophethood (Ahmadiyya)\n\nThe view on the Prophets of God (Arabic: نبي) in Ahmadiyya theology differs significantly from Orthodox Islam. The main difference centres on the Quranic term \"Khatam an-Nabiyyin\" (lit. Seal of Prophets) with reference to Muhammad which is understood by Ahmadis in terms of perfection and testification of prophethood instead of finality (as understood within mainstream Islam). Accordingly, Muhammad is held to be the last prophet to deliver a religious law to humanity in the form of the Quran whose teachings embody a perfected and universal message. Although, in principle, prophets can appear within Islam, their prophethood is dependent upon and reflective of that of Muhammad, that is, \"within\" his Seal; and their role is merely that of reviving and purifying the faith. They cannot be prophets in their own right and cannot change, add to or subtract from the religious law of Islam. As such, Ahmadis, regard their founder Mirza Ghulam Ahmad as a prophet who appeared as the promised Messiah and Mahdi in accordance with Islam's eschatological prophecies. In contrast to mainstream Muslims who believe Jesus to be still alive and one who would return himself towards the end of time, Ahmadis believe Jesus to have died a natural death and view the coming of such an independent, Israelite prophet (from outside the Islamic dispensation) to amount to breaking the Seal of Prophethood.\n\nMoreover, unlike orthodox Islam, the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community considers the term Messenger (\"rasul\") and Prophet (\"nabi\") as being different aspects of the same office of a \"Khalifatullah\" (Representative of God on Earth). According to Ahmadiyya belief, the terms used in the Qur'an to signify divinely appointed individuals, namely, Warner (\"Nazir\"), Prophet (\"Nabi\"), Messenger (\"Rasul\"), are generally synonymous. Ahmadis however categorise prophets as law-bearing ones and non-lawbearing ones.\n\nAhmadis believe that when the world is filled with unrighteousness and immorality, or rather, when a specific part of the world displays these attributes, or when the followers of a certain law (religion) become corrupt or incorporate innovative and corrupted teachings into the faith (\"Bid‘ah\"), thus making the faith obsolete or in need of a Divine Sustainer, then a Prophet of God is sent to Earth by God to re-establish His Divine Will, that is, for humans to worship Him and to observe the rights of his creation.\n\nProphets, and the true followers of Prophets, according to the Ahmadiyya Community have always faced severe opposition and often persecution, especially so in the country/society in which they brought forth their Divine Message. This is in accordance with the history of the Prophets and also with the principle laid out in the Qur'an and parts of the Bible to this effect.\n\nThe Prophets, according to the Ahmadiyya Community, inspire humans to such an extent that faith (\"eiman\") translates into practical application of the faith (\"a'maal\"). The Prophets 'magnetize' and draw humans towards them and as a result of this, true faith – that is, \"eiman\" with a'maal (practical application) – is established amongst their followers.\nIt is written, however, that the 'magnetism' which draws forth people that a Prophet displays is for a limited time because, within a somewhat long time period after they die, the magnetism that the Prophet brought becomes less and less until it is absolutely non-existent. Thus, either God immediately appoints a Successor to the Prophet (who may be a Prophet himself) that has died or, after hundreds of years, when the magnetism is virtually non-existent, God sends forth another new Messenger to display that magnetism once more.\nIt is for this reason that, according to Ahmadiyya belief, followers of all faiths are not drawn to the magnetism of their founding Prophets because that has become non-existent over time. This also applies, according to Ahmadiyya belief, to Orthodox Islam because it has been centuries since the founding Prophet Muhammad died and centuries still since Muhammad's original Caliphate ceased to exist.\n\nAccording to Ahmadiyya belief, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of the Ahmadiyya Community, was the Promised Messiah, sent by God as a Prophet to bring back that magnetism that draws forth humans. After he died in 1908, his first successor was elected and uptill today, this Ahmadiyya Caliphate has spanned over a century, seen 5 Caliphs and is continuing, in the manner of the first 4 Caliphs of the Pious Caliphate of Muhammad. However, the Ahmadiyya Caliphate is seen as a re-establishment and continuation of the first Islamic Caliphate of Muhammad and the Ahmadiyya Caliphs as successors to the Promised Messiah as well as to Muhammad.\nThe Rightly-Guided Caliphs of Islam (Pious Caliphs and Ahmadiyya Caliphs) are thought to be chosen by God through the agency of pious believers. The Rightly-Guided Caliphs are considered to be guided by God after their election to this office. Thus, the present Ahmadiyya Khalifa, Mirza Masroor Ahmad and also all other Ahmadiyya Khulafa are seen as successors of both the Promised Messiah and Muhammad, though human and in no way incarnations of God or any other status which would jeopardize the concept of the Unity of God (see: \"Non-divinity of Prophets\"). Though the Caliphs, like the Prophets, are deemed completely pure and sinless, much like in Shia Islam (see: \"‘Isma\"), however, they, like Prophets, are not deemed immune from making mistakes pertaining to worldly affairs of everyday life or human errors in judgement.\n\nAhmadiyya belief dictates that Prophethood is \"Qudrat Al-Awwal\" or the First Manifestation of God's Omnipotence and Rightly-Guided Caliphate (usually taken to mean the Ahmadiyya Caliphate) is a form of \"Qudrat Ath-Thaani\" or the Second Manifestation of God's Omnipotence. However, in no way does the Ahmadiyya Community deem the Ahmadiyya Caliphate to be better than the Pious Caliphate of Muhammad because it has spanned a longer time or seen more Caliphs.\n\nThe Prophets of God are not seen as incarnations of God but are seen as mortal humans, as they have all died, according to Ahmadiyya belief (including Jesus,who, according to Ahmadiyya belief died and his body is not currently in Heaven right now as according to Orthodox Islamic and Christian belief). Each Messenger is seen to have been an ordinary human who displayed righteousness and honesty to a degree that was not found even remotely in his society of the time. Then, according to Ahmadiyya belief, God is thought to have selected this pious human and told him his divine station of Prophethood. God would then, invest the Holy Spirit (Arabic: \"rohil-Quddos\") within the newly appointed Prophet and the Prophet would become a Man/Manifestation of God, though still a human being and not Divine in his own right.\nProphets are not regarded as God, God's Sons, incarnations of God, or in any other way which would put the Unity of God, the concept of Islamic (\"tawhid\") or the declaration of faith in jeopardy. The first part of the shahadah, the essential declaration of a Muslim, states: \"There is no god but Allah\" and another version of the same is \"There is none worthy of worship except Allah\". The word Allah, according to Ahmadiyya belief, is a personal name of God, is a proper noun and is not a combination or a derivative of any other Arabic words. The second Caliph of the Ahmadiyya Movement made this abundantly clear in his ground-breaking commentary of the Qur'an. He writes: \"In the Arabic language, the word Allah is never used for any other thing or being. No other language has a distinctive name for the Supreme Being. The names found in other languages are all attributive or descriptive and are often used in the plural, but the word 'Allah' is never used in the plural number. It is a simple substantive, not derived. It is never used as a qualifying word.\"\n\nAlthough Prophets are regarded as human beings, they are seen as having attained the highest rank of spirituality among all humans. According to the Ahmadiyya Community, only in spirituality (literally, \"Nearness to God\") does one deserve any honour and that also usually only by God Himself and thus racism, sexism, nationalism and other ideologies such as these are condemned by the Ahmadiyya Community. \nThe Prophets are seen to have resisted and overcome Satan, which is either Satan taking a corporeal form and inviting them to evil or the metaphorical Satan which is the base desires of humans (i.e. wealth, fame, lust, greed etc.).\nThe purpose of life, according to the Ahmadiyya Community, and in principle with the Qur'an, is to worship God. This worship is in two parts:\n\n1.) Direct Prayer with God to establish communion with Him, \"Zikr-Illahi\" (Remembrance of God) and other spiritual exercises.\n\n2.) Service to humanity. As humans are the creatures of God, service to them means that you are in part worshipping God. This service may be on any scale, from being polite or holding the door for people, to being a doctor or establishing/donating to a large humanitarian relief organization. \nThe only way to worship God completely is to mimic His Divine Attributes (though unlimited, 99 of which are told of in the Qur'an which is the literal Word of God, according to the Ahmadiyya Community) which are able to be mimicked (i.e. some attributes such as Al-Khaaliq (the Creator) cannot be mimicked by humans). Thus God sends prophets to ease this task for humans because Prophets are those, according to the Ahmadiyya Community, that have mimicked God's Attributes and are thus Manifestations of God, or Manifestations of God's Attributes. They are seen as representatives of God on Earth and are invested with His Holy Spirit.\nAccording to Ahmadiyya belief, out of all Prophets which are Manifestations of God, Muhammad reflected God's Attributes perfectly and was the Supreme Manifestation of His Attributes or the \"Seal of the Prophets\" as described in the Qur'an.\n\nProphets are viewed as 'representatives' of God. This is in accordance with the following Qur'anic verse:\n\"Those who bear the Throne and those who are around it, proclaim the praise of their Lord and believe in Him, and ask forgiveness for those who believe…\" (40:8)\nThe 'Throne' signified in this verse by the Arabic word 'Arsh' means the transcendent Attributes of God (Arabic: \"Sifāt Tashbīhiyyah\") and thus, the Prophets are the manifestations of the attributes of God, or the Manifestations of God.\nThis is also shown in that once, Ayesha, the wife of the Muhammad, was asked whether Muhammad or the Qur'an was better. She replied that Muhammad was the Qur'an personified (Qur'an in the flesh).\nIn this way, the Biblical quotation referring to Jesus is shown to mean the same thing:\n\"In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God.\" (John 1:1)\nThus, as \"the Word of God becoming flesh\" is applied for both Muhammad and Jesus, it signifies that they were metaphorical Manifestations of God, but not actually God or sons/incarnations of God in any way. (see: \"Non-Divinity of Prophets\")\n\nThe \"Review of Religions\", a magazine started by Ahmad, founder of the Ahmadiyya Community, to promote inter-faith dialogue and guide seekers of the truth, which is the longest running Ahmadi English language magazine in the world, elaborates in the Prospectus of its first issue under its first volume (1902) and gives a short overview of the points above concerning Prophets being 'Manifestations of God' and 'Divine Magnetizers'. The Non-Divinity of Prophets, the Mirror Analogy, Sun and Lake Analogy and Prophets as the Reflection of Divine Attributes:\n\"…how to be enfranchised from the bondage of sin, and how to get out of the impurities of life? There is only one answer to this all-important question. Such a regeneration can only be effected by the one who comes with a magnetism from heaven, who on account of the extreme purity of his soul and the surpassing cleanliness of his heart is metaphorically called a Manifestation of God.\"\n\n\"He (the Prophet) removes the poisonous matters, gives the elixir vitae in their stead, burns the carnal passions and low motives of worldly life and ennobles the soul with the pure and exalted divine morals.\" \n\n\"Look at the sun and the moon: each new day requires a new appearance of the glorious orb of light.\" \n\n\"The holy one that rose in the days of Pilate among the Jews (Jesus) was, no doubt, a sun of righteousness, but only so long as his magnetism attracted the hearts and his light worked a heavenly transformation in the souls of his followers. He is now a sun but one that has passed below the horizon. The radiant light which shone from his face and the brilliant luster which he cast around him is shorn of its beams and grown quite obscure, not the least trace of it being visible among those that call themselves after his name.\" \n\n\"The holy one that sheds such light is not and cannot be God, but there is no doubt that he is one with God (this is in accordance with John 10:30 of the Bible where Jesus stated 'I and the Father are one') and his soul is in constant and close communion with God. He is the fountainhead of the divine powers, and the rare and hidden manifestations of the powers of the Almighty which are not generally disclosed, are revealed through him. Such persons are called the manifestations, 'incarnations' and representatives of God. In the manifestation of the divine powers they sit on the throne of God's glory.\" \n\n\"God is One and without any partner or rival, but persons of this type, the elect of God, whom the world has seen, may be counted by thousands. We may see a single face reflected in a thousand looking-glasses, and yet there are not really a thousand faces but only one face of which there are so many reflections. This world is a grand reflector; in other words, it is a place of glasses for the reflection of the 'face' of God and the face of Satan. God, so to speak, stands against some of the mirrors and therefore the 'image' of God is seen in them. Against others, Satan makes his appearance and his likeness is consequently witnessed in them. But from these reflections it should not be imagined that the images are so many different gods. There are thousands of the Manifestations of God, and thousands of those of the Devil.\" \n\n\"God made Adam in His image and after His likeness, and the Prince of the Devils manifested himself in the person of Cain. The manifestations of the Deity and the Devil have since then been appearing in the world…\" \n\n\"Every age stands in need of new light and a new representative. Whenever this light grows dim in a people and the influence of a heavenly magnetizer is not felt among them, they bend down solely to the Earth and its mean cares. They are carried away by the current of carnal desires and drown in a flood of sins and impurities, unable to get out of it. History bears strong evidence to it.\" \n\nGod would, according to Ahmadiyya belief, reveal the Prophet some knowledge of the unseen if He so wills, tell the Prophet to project his message across the people of his society, tell the Prophet to establish a gathering of his followers and continuously give the Prophet revelation expressing His Divine Will. Some, most or all of the revelation given to a Prophet is sometimes recorded as a Holy Scripture and thus, Ahmadis also believe in all those Books regarded as such, i.e. the Bible, Avesta, Torah, Qur'an etc.\nAhmadiyya belief states that some original Holy Scriptures such as the Scrolls of Abraham, are not to be found in contemporary times and that all Holy Scriptures, have undergone some form of interpolation or extraction by the followers of each independent faith and thus they are not reliable today as they were when they were first revealed. \nOnly the Qur'an has not undergone any interpolation/corruption and it is the same book in its entirety exactly as it was when it was revealed to Muhammad. It is labeled, like Muhammad's status of \"Seal of the Prophets\" as the \"Seal of the Books\" (Arabic: \"Khatam-ul-Kutub\").\n\nProphets are divided into either 'law-bearing' or 'non law-bearing' categories. Law-bearing Prophets are known as those Prophets/Messengers that brought forth a new revelation by God, and a new Holy Scripture, thus often making the previous religion obsolete. Their laws, though essentially all part of the One and only religion by God, Islam, are suited for the specific time, place and societal needs of their independent civilizations. Thus, they would differ in minor details but remain with the essential principles of the One World Religion, Islam, that are, Unity and worship of God and service to humanity and/or all life on Earth. Noah, Moses and Muhammad are examples of Law-bearing Prophets. Non law-bearing Prophets/Messengers do not bring forth any new revelation but are followers of a previous revelation given by a Law-bearing Prophet. They are usually Successors (Arabic: \"Khulafa\") of the previous Law-bearing Prophets in which they follow. Sometimes, they are not Successors of previous Prophets and are thus just contemporaries of Law-Bearing Prophets. The Prophets of the Old Testament (David, Solomon etc.) are examples of Successor-Prophets of Moses and follow his Mosaic Law. Hud, a Prophet mentioned exclusively in the Qur'an, is an example of a contemporary Law-bearing Prophet, who in this case is Noah.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Writings reveal that Prophets have always been sent by God in the past to all nations of the world, as part of the single religion from God, which is Islam. \nReligion is taught to be progressive and the Prophets reveal teachings either more advanced than their preceding religions or suited for each specific time, place and society. If one were to strip all religions of their innovative teachings, one would find that they are all essentially identical, according to Ahmadiyya belief. \nAll religions, according to the Ahmadiyya teaching of the evolution of religion, were part of Islam and were revealed in parts like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. But then, according to Ahmadiyya belief, God fully revealed the whole of Islam, in its perfect form, to Muhammad. Islam was thus called the 'Seal of the Religions' (Arabic: \"Khatam-ud-Din\") just as Muhammad was called \"Seal of the Prophets\".\nOne of the earliest recorded expressions of this religious perennialism is found in the Bhagavad-Gita, which the Ahmadiyya Community acknowledges as of Divine origin:\n\"I come, and go, and come. When Righteousness declines, O Bharata! When Wickedness is strong, I rise, from age to age, and take visible shape, and move a man with men, succouring the good, thrusting the evil back, and setting Virtue on her seat again.\" (Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter IV)\n\n\"We have adorned the lowest heaven with an adornment – the planets.\" (37:7)\n\n\"And We have, indeed, made mansions of stars in the heaven and have adorned it for beholders.\" (15:17)\n\n\"Blessed is He Who has made in the heaven mansions of the stars and has placed therein a Lamp producing light and a moon that reflects light.\" (25:62)\n\n\"…And He created the sun and the moon and the stars – all made subservient by His command…\" (7:55)\n\nThe above verses of the Qur'an, according to the Ahmadiyya Community, have many interpretations, one in which the verses reveal key astronomical knowledge about the stars, planets and other celestial bodies. Another interpretation of these verses (and the one used for the subject at hand) made by the Ahmadis is that the universe is the 'spiritual universe', the celestial beings (i.e. stars, planets, etc.) as the Prophets, the sun as Muhammad and the moon as Ahmad.\n\nThe moon is taken to be Ahmad because in every verse above where the moon is signified, the word \"Qamar\" is used and that word distinctly means Full Moon (see: 'Moon of the Prophets' below).\n\n\"By the heaven having mansions of stars. And the Promised Day, And the Witness and he to whom witness is borne.\" (85:2-4)\n\nAccording to the Ahmadiyya interpretation of the above verse, the stars signify Prophets and the 'Promised Day' as the day of the coming of Ahmad (it is also interpreted as the Day of Resurrection). The Witness in this verse signifies Ahmad as he was a \"Shahid\" (Witness) as all other Prophets were and was a witness to the truth of the 'one to whom witness is borne' in this verse, or Muhammad as he was a Mashhud (One to whom witness is made) as all other prophets were.\n\nRejection of even one of the Prophets, results in the rejection of all prophets, according to the Ahmadiyya Community.\n\nThe Qur'an refers to Muhammad as the \"Seal of the Prophets\" (Arabic: \"Khatam-un-Nabiyeen\"). In the Qur'an, he is also known by the term \"Khatam-ul-Mursaleen\" (Seal of the Envoys).Muslims take this to mean that Muhammad was the final Prophet and that no prophet after him would be able to come at all. Ahmadis interpret this differently. According to Ahmadiyya belief, Muhammad is the \"Seal of the Prophets\" in that his law, as opposed to the nationalist laws of the preceding Prophets, was not aimed at a specific part of the world but to all of mankind, as according to the Qur'an:\n\"And We have sent thee (Muhammad) not but as a mercy for all peoples.\" (21:108)\nThus, Muhammad was the most perfect Prophet out of all Prophets, and his law, Islam, was perfect. All religions, according to the Ahmadiyya teaching of the evolution of religion, were part of Islam and were revealed in parts like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. But then, according to Ahmadiyya belief, God fully revealed the whole of Islam to Muhammad. This religion was to be the final religion for humans on Earth, chosen by God to establish His Unity.\nAccording to Ahmadiyya belief, thus, non law-bearing prophets may come after Muhammad but only if they follow his final law of Islam.\n\nSee also Criteria of True Prophet\n\nA Hadith of Muhammad states that \"124,000 Prophets\" came before his advent . This is in accordance with many Qur'anic verses, namely:\n\"And there is no people to whom a Warner (\"Nazir\") has not been sent.\" (35:25) \n\"And there is a guide for every people.\" (13:8)\n\"There are no people (in the world) to whom We have not sent a Warner.\" (32:25)\nEach prophet brought forth a message suited for his own societal needs, time period and specific place on Earth, i.e. it is inconceivable that an Australian at the time of Moses be a Jew.\nThis is also in accordance with the Qur'anic verse:\n\"And We sent Messengers before thee among parties of ancient peoples.\" (15:11)\nIn accordance with this Qur'anic principle, there is the following verse of the Qur'an:\n\"We sent some Messengers whom We have already mentioned to thee and some Messengers whom We have not mentioned to thee\" (4:165)\nThus, as the Qur'an only mentions 24 Prophets, these Prophets whom God has not mentioned in the Qur'an, according to the Ahmadiyya Community, would be the Prophets of the Bible not mentioned in the Qur'an and the Founders of the World Religions and other religious personages sent throughout the world.\nMirza Basheer-ud-Din Mahmood Ahmad, who is called The Promised Son by Ahmadis, was also the Second Khalifa-tul-Masih of the Ahmadiyya Community writes:\n\"According to this teaching there has not been a single people at any time in history or anywhere in the world who have not had a warner from God, a teacher, a prophet. According to the Holy Qur'an there have been prophets at all times and in all countries. India, China, Russia, Afghanistan, parts of Africa, Europe, America - all had prophets according to the theory of divine guidance taught by the Holy Qur'an. When, therefore, Muslims hear about prophets of other peoples or other countries, they do not deny them. They do not brand them as liars. Muslims believe that other peoples have had their teachers. If other peoples have had prophets, books, and laws, these constitute no difficulty for Islam.\" Ahmad, founder of the Ahmadiyya Community wrote in his book \"A Message of Peace\":\n\n\"Our God has never discriminated between one people and another. This is illustrated by the fact that all the potentials and capabilities (Prophets) which have been granted to the Aryans (Hindus) have also been granted to the races inhabiting Arabia, Persia, Syria, China, Japan, Europe and America.\" \n\nMirza Ghulam Ahmad also wrote within the same book:\n\n\"God also made it clear in several places in the Holy Qur'an that His Messengers have been appearing in different lands all over the world. In fact He did not neglect any people or any country.\" \n\nAll prophets are regarded as the One and of having the same essential message and disbelief in one of the Prophets is tantamount to disbelief in all of the Prophets.\n\"We make no distinction between any of His Messengers.\" (Qur'an 2:286)\nSometimes, however, Prophets are ranked higher or lower than other ones, as shown in the Qur'an:\n\"These Messengers have We exalted some of them above others; among them there are those whom Allah spoke; and some of them He exalted in degrees of rank...\" (2:253)\n\n"}
{"id": "3340000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3340000", "title": "Public Affairs Committee (Malawi)", "text": "Public Affairs Committee (Malawi)\n\nPublic Affairs Committee (PAC) was founded in 1992 by the religious community and other pressure groups in Malaŵi to enter into a dialogue with Kamuzu Banda's Presidential Committee on Dialogue in the transition period from the one-party to the multiparty system of government in Malaŵi. Most accounts of the transition credit PAC with a major role at this crucial point in the younger history of Malaŵi. \n\nAfter the referendum on multipartyism was won in 1993 and the first multiparty elections were scheduled to take place in 1994, a number of pressure groups (notably the United Democratic Front and the Alliance for Democracy) split from PAC to form political parties to contest in the elections. PAC has since carried on as an umbrella organisation for the major faith communities represented in the country by the Muslim Association of Malawi, the Quadria Muslim Association of Malawi, the Malawi Council of Churches, the Evangelical Association of Malawi and the Episcopal Conference of Malawi . As such, it is the oldest and most well-known nongovernmental organisation in the country. PAC also is the national chapter of the World Conference on Religion and Peace (WCRP). The organisation’s mission statement is “to mobilise the general public through the religious community and other stakeholders in promoting democracy, development, peace and unity through civic education, mediation and advocacy”. After existing for over a decade, PAC has worked with a large number of partners (both local and international) in pursuance of this mission, and has put into practice a wide variety of activities.\n\nThe organisation has a national secretariat in Lilongwe, Malaŵi's capital city.\n\n"}
{"id": "1638057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638057", "title": "Questing Beast", "text": "Questing Beast\n\nThe Questing Beast, or the Beast Glatisant (Barking Beast), is a monster from Arthurian legend. It is the subject of quests undertaken by famous knights such as King Pellinore, Sir Palamedes, and Sir Percival.\n\nThe strange creature has the head and neck of a snake, the body of a leopard, the haunches of a lion, and the feet of a hart. Its name comes from the great noise that it emits from its belly, a barking like \"thirty couple hounds questing\". \"Glatisant\" is related to the French word \"glapissant\", 'yelping' or 'barking', especially of small dogs or foxes. The questing beast is a variant of the mythological medieval view on giraffes, whose generic name of \"Camelopardalis\" originated from their description of being half-camel and half-leopard. \n\nThe first accounts of the beast are in the \"Perlesvaus\" and the Post-Vulgate \"Suite du Merlin\". The Post-Vulgate's account, which is taken up in Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", has the Questing Beast appear to King Arthur after he has had an affair with his half-sister Morgause and begotten Mordred (they did not know that they were related when the incestuous act occurred).\n\nArthur sees the beast drinking from a pool just after he wakes from a disturbing dream that foretells Mordred's destruction of the realm (no noise of hounds from the belly is emitted while it is drinking). He is then approached by King Pellinore who confides that it is his family quest to hunt the beast. Merlin reveals that the Questing Beast had been born of a human woman, a princess who lusted after her own brother. She slept with a devil who had promised to make the boy love her, but the devil manipulated her into accusing her brother of rape. Their father had him torn apart by dogs as punishment. Before he died, however, he prophesied that his sister would give birth to an abomination that would make the same sounds as the pack of dogs that was about to kill him.\n\nThe \"Perlesvaus\" offers an entirely different depiction of the Questing Beast than the best known one, given above. There, it is described as pure white, smaller than a fox, and beautiful to look at. The noise from its belly is the sound of its offspring who tear the creature apart from the inside; the author takes the beast as a symbol of Christ, destroyed by the followers of the Old Law, the Twelve Tribes of Israel. \n\nGerbert de Montreuil provides a similar vision of the Questing Beast in his Continuation of \"Perceval, the Story of the Grail\", though he says that it is \"wondrously large\" and interprets the noise and subsequent gruesome death by its own offspring as a symbol of impious churchgoers who disturb the sanctity of Mass by talking. \n\nLater in the Post-Vulgate, the Prose \"Tristan\", and the sections of Malory based on those works, Saracen knight Palamedes hunts the Questing Beast. It is a futile venture, much like his love for Sir Tristan's paramour Iseult, offering him nothing but hardship. In the Post-Vulgate, his conversion to Christianity allows him relief from his endless worldly pursuits, and he finally slays the creature during the Grail Quest after he, Percival, and Galahad have chased it into a lake. \n\nThe Questing Beast appears in many later works as well, including stories written in French, Galician, Spanish, and Italian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401436", "title": "Rosalía de Castro", "text": "Rosalía de Castro\n\nMaría Rosalía Rita de Castro (; 24 February 1837 – 15 July 1885), was a Galician romanticist writer and poet.\n\nWriting in Galego, the Galician language, after the period known as the \"Séculos Escuros\" (lit. Dark Centuries), she became an important figure of the Galician Romantic movement, known today as the \"Rexurdimento\" (\"Renaissance\"), along with Manuel Curros Enríquez and Eduardo Pondal. Her poetry is marked by \"saudade\", an almost ineffable combination of nostalgia, longing and melancholy.\n\nShe married Manuel Murguía, a member of the important literary group known as the Royal Galician Academy, historian, journalist and editor of Rosalía's books. The couple had seven children: Alexandra (1859–1937), Aura (1868–1942), twins Gala (1871–1964) and Ovidio (1871–1900), Amara (1873–1921), Adriano (1875–1876) and Valentina (stillborn, 1877). Only two of Rosaía's children married, Aura in 1897 and Gala in 1922; neither they nor their siblings left any children, and thus, today there are no living descendants of Rosalía de Castro and her husband. Their son Ovidio was a promising painter, his career cut short by early death.\n\nRosalía published her first collection of poetry in Galician, \"\" (\"Galician Songs\"), on 17 May 1863. This date, 17 May, is now known as the \"Día das Letras Galegas\" (\"Galician Literature Day\"), and commemorates Rosalía's achievement by dedicating, every year, this special day to a different writer, who must also write in the Galician language, since 1963. Día das Letras Galegas is an official holiday in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. \n\nRelative poverty and sadness marked Rosalía's life, in spite of this, she had a strong sense of commitment to the poor and to the defenseless. She was a strong opponent of authoritative abuse or abuse of authority and an ardent defender of women's rights. Rosalia suffered from uterine cancer and died in Padrón, province of A Coruña, Spain, on 15 July, 1885.\n\nShe is buried in the \"Panteón de Galegos Ilustres\", a pantheon (mausoleum) in the Convent of San Domingos de Bonaval in Santiago de Compostela, Spain.\n\nRosalia de Castro is today one of the unquestionable poet laureates of Galicia (Spain). Highly educated, expected to speak and write in Spanish only, she took the bold, unconventional step of writing her early poems in the Galician language. Her defiance earned her the contempt and spite of many that deemed Galician as a Spanish dialect fit \"only for the illiterate and the churlish\". However, Rosalía's defiant gesture won her the love and admiration of the common folk, who spoke Galician at home or on a daily basis. Schools in Galicia, in Spain, in Russia and in Uruguay, libraries, cultural associations, awards, parks, folklore groups, choirs, compositions of her poems, a Galician traditional morning song adorned with the lyrics of one of her poems, a professional sports team, monuments at home and abroad, a theater, restaurants, a label of white wine, lodgings, a banknote formerly in circulation, a postage stamp, a FS98 Iberia Airbus A340, a sea-rescue plane, a school train and many streets have all taken her name.\n\nSmall Stations Press published Rosalía de Castro's \"Galician Songs\" in English, translated by *Erín Moure, in 2013 . The Moure translation of de Castro's \"New Leaves\" is expected to be published by Small Stations in September, 2016. Edwin Mellen Press also published in 2010 \"the most thorough and representative volume of poetry and prose from Rosalia de Castro (1837–1885) ever translated into English.\" In 2007, Shearsman Books published a paperback of selected poems translated by Michael Smith. In 2004, Louis J. Rodrigues wrote for the literary magazine \"Babel\" a translation and analysis of two Rosalian poems, \"Nasín cando as prantas nasen\" and \"Negra Sombra\". In 1991, State University of New York Press launched an English anthology edited and translated by Anna-Marie Aldaz, Barbara N. Gantt and Anne C. Bromley. In 1977 Kathleen Kulp-Hill translated several Galician poems as part of her work entitled \"Rosalía de Castro\"; this book is still available from AllBookstores.com. In 1964 the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a selection of Galician poems translated into English by Charles David Ley; this book may be found in Spanish Rare Books libraries.\n\nIn Japan, the first volume of Rosalian poetry was translated in 2009 by Takekazu Asaka which is available from DTP Publishing (Tokyo). In the nineteen-nineties Katsuyo Ohata wrote two articles in the journal, \"The Review of Inquiry and Research\" at Kansai Gaidai University (Osaka, Japan) on the Galician poet: \"El inconsciente creativo de Rosalía de Castro\" and \"En las orillas del Sar: El mundo íntimo de Rosalía de Castro.\"\n\nEditoria Crisálida, in 2008, published an anthology of Rosalia's Galician poems in Portuguese, translated by Andityas Soares de Moura. There is a statue in her honor in the Galicia Square in the city of Porto, Portugal, by the sculptor Barata Feyo (September 1954).\n\nIn the French-speaking world Folle Avoine in 2003 offered a French anthology of Galician poems translated by Jose-Carlos Gonzalez.\n\nThe name Rosalía de Castro has been used by several institutions, public spaces and/or parks, and on consumer goods, thus showing the social influence and impact this poet has had on the region. Today, it is possible to find schools and universities named after the writer in the Spanish Autonomous Region of Galicia as well as other parts of Spain. Russia, Venezuela (Teatro Rosalía de Castro) and Uruguay also have places that bear the name of this distinguished poet. Furthermore, there are numerous parks, plazas and streets, cultural associations, prizes granted to people that are intimately linked with the Galician and Spanish languages, libraries, folk groups, choirs, and even a wine with the name \"Rías Baixas.\" There is also a plane from the airline Iberia, as well as an aircraft belonging to the Maritime Safety and Rescue Society (\"Salvamento Marítimo),\" have been given the name of Rosalía de Castro. Moreover, there are a multitude of monuments, commemorative plaques and sculptures dedicated to her in many parts of the world.\n\nOn 23 October 1979, the last of the 500 peseta bills was printed, being that in 1987, this bill was to be substituted by a coin of the same value. The bill had the portrait of Rosalía de Castro displayed on the obverse side, created by Pablo Sampedro Moledo: on the reverse side were the House/Museum of Rosalía located in Padrón and a few handwritten verses from Rosalía de Castro's work \"Follas Novas.\" With the printing of this bill, Rosalía de Castro became, along with Isabella I of Castile, the only female (not allegorical) to be placed on the obverse side of a Spanish bill.\n\nEach year links to its corresponding year-in-poetry article or year-in-literature article:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10654168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10654168", "title": "Sahavas", "text": "Sahavas\n\nSahavas (Vedanta - singular & plural, also sahawas; sahavasa) literally means dwelling together, close companionship, or in the company of. It may also refer to a spiritual retreat or a gathering held by a guru or master so that his devotees may enjoy his company, i.e., his physical presence, or a gathering in his honor where his followers meet to remember him.\n\n"}
{"id": "914171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914171", "title": "Samson Occom", "text": "Samson Occom\n\nThe Reverend Samson Occom (1723 – July 14, 1792; also misspelled as Occum and Alcom) was a member of the Mohegan nation, from near New London, Connecticut, who became a Presbyterian cleric. Occom was the first Native American to publish his writings in English, and also helped found several settlements, including what ultimately became known as the Brothertown Indians. Together with the missionary John Eliot, Occom became one of the foremost missionaries who cross-fertilised Native American communities with Christianized European culture.\n\nBorn to Joshua Tomacham and his wife Sarah, Occom is believed to be a direct descendant of Uncas, the notable Mohegan chief. In 1743 at the age of 20, Occom heard the teachings of Christian evangelical preachers in the Great Awakening. He began to study theology at the \"Lattin School\" of Congregational minister Eleazar Wheelock in 1743 and stayed for four years until leaving to begin his own career. In addition to improving his English, Occom learned to read and speak Hebrew. As a young man, the only book he owned was the Bible. From 1747 until 1749, Occum worked under and studied with the Reverend Solomon Williams in New London, Connecticut.\n\nOccom became a teacher, preacher, and judge to Pequot Native Americans in Montauk, eastern Long Island. He married Mary Fowler, a local woman. Occom helped the Pequot to assimilate and adopt European-style houses, dress and culture. He was officially ordained a minister on August 30, 1759, by the presbytery of Suffolk. Occom was never paid the same salary as white preachers, although promised that he would be. The \"Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge\" also gave Occom a stipend, but he lived in deep poverty for much of his life. In 1761 and 1763, Occom traveled to the Six Nations of the Iroquois in upstate New York to preach. Winning few converts, he returned to teach at Mohegan, Connecticut, near New London.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1754, Wheelock had established an Indian charity school in Lebanon, Connecticut, with a legacy from Joshua Moor, among others. Wheelock persuaded his former pupil to travel to England to raise money for the school. Occom preached his way across Britain from February 16, 1766, to July 22, 1767, delivering between three and four hundred sermons, drawing large crowds wherever he went, and raising over ₤12,000 (pounds) for Wheelock's project. King George III donated 200 pounds, and William Legge, Earl of Dartmouth, subscribed 50 guineas. However, Occom on his return learned that Wheelock had failed to care for Occom's wife and children while he was away. Furthermore, Wheelock moved to New Hampshire and used the funds raised to establish Dartmouth College (named after the generous aristocrat) for the education of Englishmen, rather than Native Americans as originally promised to Occom.\nIn 1768, Occom wrote the 10-page \"A Short Narrative of My Life\", a manuscript now held in Dartmouth College's archive collection; it was first published in 1982. The document expands upon a single page biography that Occom wrote before his preaching tour of England and Scotland. Occom also published \"Sermon at the Execution of Moses Paul\" and \"A Choice Collection of Hymns and Spiritual Songs\" in 1774. All provide a very different perspective on the relations between colonists and Native Americans from Mary Rowlandson's narrative of her captivity in similar areas a century earlier.\n\nUpon his return from England, Occom lived with the Mohegan people. After Wheelock's betrayal, Occom worked to organize Christianized Indians of New England and Long Island into a new tribe, located in western Connecticut. Under continuing pressure from settlers following the American Revolutionary War, in 1785 they migrated at the invitation of Christians of the Oneida tribe to their reservation in central New York state. Occom, his son-in-law Joseph Johnson (Mohegan) (a messenger for General George Washington during the American Revolution), and his brother-in-law David Fowler (Montauk) led the emigrants who built a new settlement called \"Brothertown\" (originally nearby Waterville, New York). The Oneida also invited other Christian Indians to live with them, namely the Stockbridge Mohican from western Massachusetts and two Lenape groups from southern New Jersey. The Mohicans founded what they called New Stockbridge in New York, near Oneida Lake. Occom not only assured that these villages received civil charters in 1787, but also evicted white settlers from Brothertown on April 12, 1792.\n\nOccom died on July 14, 1792, in New Stockbridge. He is buried just off Bogusville Hill Road outside of Deansboro.\n\nIn the 1820s, many Brothertown Indians and some Oneida accepted payment for their land from New York State and removed to what is now known as the town of Brothertown in Calumet County, Wisconsin. In the modern era, the Brothertown Indians petitioned the federal government for recognition as a tribe, but were denied and have appealed.\n\nSeveral locations around Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, are named after Occom, including Occom Pond and Occom Ridge on the college campus' northern edge. Bruce Duthu is the Samson Occom Professor and Chair of Native American Studies Program. The Occom Commons community space is part of Goldstein Hall, in the recently opened McLaughlin Residential Cluster. Eastern Connecticut State University in Willimantic, Connecticut, also named a residence hall for upperclassmen after Occom.\n\nThe Norwich, Connecticut neighborhood of Occum is named for Samson Occom.\n\nOccom is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on July 14.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44483850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44483850", "title": "Sikh Manji", "text": "Sikh Manji\n\nA Manji is a Sikh religious administrative unit. It was founded by Guru Amar Das, the third leader of Sikhism. Manji refers to each zone of religious administration with an appointed chief called \"sangatias\", with officially appointed representatives known as \"masand\". It has been conceptually similar in its aims to the diocese system in Christianity, and has been similarly important in Sikh missionary activity.\n\nThe word \"Manji\" or \"Manja\" literally means a cot (taken as the \"seat of authority\" in this context).\n\n"}
{"id": "23760707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23760707", "title": "Simhasana", "text": "Simhasana\n\nSimhasana (; IAST: \"Siṁhāsana\") or Lion Pose is an asana.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"simha\" (सिंह) meaning \"lion\", and \"asana\" (आसन, āsana) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nThe asana resembles a seated lion, hence the name Simha (lion in Sanskrit) asana. The practitioner's facial expressions are modified to resemble a lion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12876288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12876288", "title": "Social Republican Party", "text": "Social Republican Party\n\nThe Social Republican Party () or Socio-Republican Party (; PSR: ) was a political party in Cambodia, founded by the then Head of State Lon Nol in June 1972 to contest the National Assembly Elections of the Khmer Republic held on September 3, 1972.\n\nThe Party was formed around Lon Nol's existing Socio-Republican Association, and was heavily influenced by his brother Lon Non and by the officers of the Khmer Republic's armed forces. It adopted the symbol of Angkor Wat, previously used by Prince Norodom Norindeth's Liberal Party from 1946–56. Its platform was populist, nationalist and anticommunist, Lon Nol being determined to oppose North Vietnamese and Chinese influence in the region in the context of the Second Indochina War: its three principal values were declared to be \"republicanism, social responsibility and nationalism\". The party's main function, however, was to support and legitimise Lon Nol's leadership of the country; he was later to develop a rather ramshackle chauvinist and semi-mystical ideology called \"Neo-Khmerism\" to back his political agenda.\n\nThe party had, early on, developed two distinct factions. One, known as \"Dangrek\", was led by veteran rightist radical, and (since 18 March) Prime Minister, Son Ngoc Thanh and the left-wing academic Hang Thun Hak. The \"Dangrek\" faction, named after the mountain range in which Thanh's Khmer Serei guerrillas had been based, attracted those figures who had long been part of the republican and radical opposition to Prince Norodom Sihanouk in the period before the Republic's establishment. The other faction, known as \"Dangkor\", centred on Lon Non and the army. Tension between these two factions would later prove a serious obstacle to stable government.\n\nThe two main opposition parties, the Democratic Party led by In Tam and the Republican Party of Sirik Matak, did not take part in the National Assembly Elections, saying that there were some dubious points in the election law. The Social Republican Party fielded 126 candidates and won all of the seats. The only opposition were 10 candidates fielded by the \"Pracheachon\" group, a resurrected socialist party widely believed to have been organised by Lon Non as a token opposition.\n\nIn the elections to the Senate, the upper house of legislature, the 'token' opposition to the PSR was provided by a few candidates of the Sangkum, the former party of Sihanouk, who had been deposed as Head of State by Lon Nol in 1970. The Sangkum had been formally dissolved in 1971, but as with the \"Pracheachon\" was resurrected by Lon Non to provide the appearance of a multiparty election.\n\nThanh's brief period as Prime Minister ended on 15 October 1972, shortly after an assassination attempt widely believed to have been organised by Lon Non. The PSR's Secretary-General, Hang Thun Hak, was made Prime Minister in his place, but was to be forced out in early 1973 after a period of increasingly poor outcomes for the Republic in the Cambodian Civil War. After a period in which In Tam served in the post, PSR member Long Boret was made Prime Minister in late 1973.\n\nLon Non attempted to strengthen his influence on the PSR, but was forced into exile in September 1973. He returned in 1974 and as late as March 1975 was still attempting to obtain the party's Secretary-Generalship, despite the Republic by this time holding little more than the city of Phnom Penh.\n\nIn April 1975, the Socio-Republican Party, along with the rest of the Khmer Republic regime, fell to the Khmer Rouge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860426", "title": "Spiral dance", "text": "Spiral dance\n\nThe spiral dance, also called the grapevine dance and the weaver’s dance, is a tradition group dance practiced in Neopaganism in the United States, especially in feminist Wicca and the associated \"Reclaiming\" movement. \nIt is designed to emphasize \"community and rebirth\", and is also used \"to raise power in a ritual\".\n\nThe spiral dance is a central ritual dance to Reclaiming Witches. The first spiral dance was performed in Berkeley, CA, and was performed in a ritual intended to meld art, music, and politics as well as to celebrate the publication of \"The Spiral Dance\" by Starhawk. It turned into a yearly ritual, although a large portion of the politics were removed for later versions of the ritual and it currently exists as a Samhain celebration to honor the dead and celebrate rebirth.\n\nThe spiral dance usually involves a drumming group and a chant or song in addition to the dancers. All members present hold hands and follow a leader in a counter-clockwise motion using a grapevine step. As the leader comes near closing the circle, he or she whips around and begins moving clockwise while facing the rest of the dancers. By continuing this formation, every dancer in the line will eventually be face to face with every other dancer.\n\nIn some close-knit circles, where people are comfortable with the idea, a kiss is given to each person at the moment they pass each other in the dance. In some cases kissing may be discouraged during large or public rituals, due to disruptions of the rhythm of the dance.\n\nThe 1990s adventure game \"\" depicts Maid Marian as a forest priestess whose duties include, among other things, a one-person spiral dance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "605843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605843", "title": "Stanley Donen", "text": "Stanley Donen\n\nStanley Donen ( ; born April 13, 1924) is an American film director and choreographer whose most celebrated works are \"Singin' in the Rain\" and \"On the Town\", both of which he co-directed with actor and dancer Gene Kelly. Other noteworthy films include \"Royal Wedding\", \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\", \"Funny Face\", \"Indiscreet\", \"Damn Yankees!\", \"Charade\", and \"Two for the Road\". He began his career in the chorus line on Broadway for director George Abbott, where he befriended Kelly. In 1943 he went to Hollywood and worked as a choreographer before he and Kelly made \"On the Town\" in 1949. He then worked as a contract director for MGM under producer Arthur Freed producing hit films amid critical acclaim. In 1952 Donen and Kelly co-directed the musical \"Singin' in the Rain\", regarded as one of the greatest films ever made. Donen's relationship with Kelly deteriorated in 1955 during their final collaboration on \"It's Always Fair Weather\". He then broke his contract with MGM to become an independent producer in 1957. He continued making films throughout the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, often financial successes that were critically acclaimed. His film output became less frequent in the early 1980s and he briefly returned to the stage as a director in the 1990s and again in 2002.\n\nDonen is credited with transitioning Hollywood musical films from realistic backstage dramas to a more integrated art form in which the songs were a natural continuation of the story. Before Donen and Kelly made their films, musicals – such as the extravagant and stylized work of Busby Berkeley – were often set in a Broadway stage environment where the musical numbers were part of a stage show. Donen and Kelly's films created a more cinematic form and included dances that could only be achieved in the film medium. Donen stated that what he was doing was a \"direct continuation from the Astaire – Rogers musicals ... which in turn came from René Clair and from Lubitsch ... What \"we\" did was not geared towards realism but towards the unreal.\"\n\nDonen is highly respected by film historians, however his career is often compared to Kelly's and there is debate over who deserves more credit for their collaborations. Donen and Kelly's relationship was complicated, both professionally and personally, but Donen's films as a solo director are generally better regarded by critics than Kelly's. French Film critic Jean-Pierre Coursodon has said that Donen's contribution to the evolution of the Hollywood musical \"outshines anybody else's, including Vincente Minnelli's\" and David Quinlan called him \"the King of the Hollywood musicals\". Among his awards are an Honorary Academy Award in 1998 and a Career Golden Lion from the Venice Film Festival in 2004. Donen married five times and had three children. His long term partner since 1999 is film director and comedian Elaine May. He is the last surviving notable director of Hollywood's Golden Age.\n\nStanley Donen was born in Columbia, South Carolina to Mordecai Moses Donen, a dress-shop manager, and Helen (Cohen), the daughter of a jewelry salesman. His younger sister Carla Donen Davis was born in August 1937. Although born to Jewish parents, he became an atheist in his youth. Donen described his childhood as lonely and unhappy as one of the few Jews in Columbia, and he was occasionally bullied by anti-semitic classmates at school. To help cope with his isolation, he spent much of his youth in local movie theaters and was especially fond of Westerns, comedies and thrillers. The film that had the strongest impact on him was the 1933 Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers musical \"Flying Down to Rio\". Donen said that he \"must have seen the picture thirty or forty times. I was transported into some sort of fantasy world where everything seemed to be happy, comfortable, easy and supported. A sense of well-being filled me.\" He shot and screened home movies with an 8 mm camera and projector that his father bought for him.\n\nInspired by Astaire, Donen took dance lessons in Columbia and performed at the local Town Theater. His family often traveled to New York City during summer vacations where he saw Broadway musicals and took further dance lessons. One of his early instructors in New York was Ned Wayburn, who had taught eleven-year-old Astaire in 1910. After graduating from high school at sixteen, Donen attended the University of South Carolina for one summer semester, studying psychology. Encouraged by his mother, he moved to New York City to pursue dancing on stage in the fall of 1940. After two auditions he was cast as a chorus dancer in the original Broadway production of Rodgers and Hart's \"Pal Joey\", directed by the legendary George Abbott. The titular Pal Joey was played by the young up-and-comer Gene Kelly, who became a Broadway star in the role.\n\nAbbott cast Donen in the chorus of his next Broadway show \"Best Foot Forward\". He became the show's assistant stage manager, and Kelly asked him to be his assistant choreographer. Eventually Donen was fired from \"Best Foot Forward\", but in 1942 was the stage manager and assistant choreographer for Abbott's next show \"Beat the Band\". In 1946, Donen briefly returned to Broadway to help choreograph dance numbers for \"Call Me Mister\".\n\nIn 1943 Arthur Freed, the successful producer of musical films at Metro Goldwyn Mayer, bought the film rights to \"Best Foot Forward\" and made a film version starring Lucille Ball and William Gaxton. Donen moved to Hollywood to audition for the film and signed a one-year contract with MGM. Donen appeared as a chorus dancer and was made assistant choreographer by Charles Walters. At MGM Donen renewed his friendship with Kelly, who was quickly becoming a popular supporting actor in musicals. When Kelly was loaned to Columbia Pictures for a film, he was offered the chance to choreograph his own dance numbers and asked Donen to assist. Kelly stated, \"Stanley needed a job. I needed someone to count for the cameraman, someone who knew the steps and could explain what I was going to do so the shot was set up correctly.\" Donen accepted and choreographed three dance sequences with Kelly in \"Cover Girl\". Donen came up with the idea for the \"Alter Ego\" dance sequence where Kelly's reflection jumps out of a shop window and dances with him. Director Charles Vidor insisted that the idea would never work, so Donen and Kelly directed the scene themselves and Donen spent over a year editing it. The film made Kelly a movie star and is considered by many film critics to be an important and innovative musical. Donen signed a one-year contract with Columbia and choreographed several films there, but returned to MGM the following year when Kelly wanted assistance on his next film.\n\nIn 1944 Donen and Kelly choreographed the musical \"Anchors Aweigh\", released in 1945 and starring Kelly and Frank Sinatra. The film's most famous scene is when Kelly dances with the cartoon mouse Jerry. The animation was supervised by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera and is credited to cartoonist Fred Quimby, but the idea for the scene was Donen's. Originally Donen and Kelly wanted to use either Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck for the sequence and met with Walt Disney to discuss the project; Disney was working on a similar idea in \"The Three Caballeros\" and was unwilling to license one of his characters to MGM. The duo spent two months shooting Kelly dancing and Donen spent a year perfecting the scene frame by frame. According to Barbera \"the net result at the preview of \"Anchors Away\" that I went to, blew the audience away.\"\n\nWhile Kelly completed his service in the U.S. Naval Air Service as a photographer from 1944 to 1946, Donen worked uncredited as a choreographer on musical films. Of this period Donen said, \"I practiced my craft, working with music, track and photography. I often directed the sequences. I always tried to have an original idea about how to do musical sequences.\" Donen has stated that he was excused from military service as 4-F because of high blood pressure. When Kelly returned to civilian life, he and Donen directed and choreographed Kelly's dance scenes in \"Living in a Big Way\". They then began work on an original story about two baseball players in the early 20th century who spend their off-season as vaudevillian song and dance men. This film would eventually become \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" in 1949. Kelly and Donen had hoped to co-direct the film, but Freed hired Busby Berkeley instead and they only directed Kelly's dance numbers. The film starred Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin.\n\nAfter the success of \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\", Freed gave Donen and Kelly the chance to direct \"On the Town\", released in 1949. The film was an adaptation of the Betty Comden and Adolph Green Broadway musical about sailors on leave in New York City and was the first musical to be filmed on location. Donen and Kelly had wanted to shoot the entire film in New York, but Freed would only allow them to spend one week away from the studio.\n\nThat week produced the film's famous opening number \"New York, New York\". Away from both studio interference and sound stage constrictions, Donen and cinematographer Harold Rosson shot a scene on the streets of New York City that pioneered many cinematic techniques that would not be used again until they were popularized by the French New Wave ten years later. These techniques included spatial jump cuts, 360-degree pans, hidden cameras, abrupt changes of screen direction and non-professional actors. Donen's biographer Joseph A. Casper stated that the scene avoids being gratuitous or amateurish, while still \"developing plot, describing the setting while conveying its galvanizing atmosphere and manic mood, introducing and delineating character.\" Casper also said that \"Today the film is regarded as a turning point: the first bona fide musical that moved dance, as well as the musical genre, out of the theater and captured it \"with\" and \"for\" film rather than \"on\" film; the first to make the city an important character; and the first to abandon the chorus.\"\n\n\"On the Town\" starred Kelly, Sinatra and Munshin as three sailors on a 24-hour shore leave in New York whose romantic pursuits lead them to Ann Miller, Betty Garrett and Vera-Ellen. The film was a success both financially and critically. It won the Academy Award for Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture and screenwriters Comden and Green won the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Written American Musical. Like Orson Welles, Donen made his directorial debut at 25. Donen stated that Kelly was \"responsible for most of the dance movements. I was behind the camera in the dramatic and musical sequences.\" Kelly believed that he and Donen \"were a good team. I thought we complemented each other very well.\"\n\nAfter the success of \"On the Town\", Donen signed a seven-year contract with MGM as a director. His next two films were for Freed, but without Kelly. After being replaced as director on \"Pagan Love Song\" over personal differences with star Esther Williams, Donen was given the chance to direct his boyhood idol Fred Astaire.\n\n\"Royal Wedding\" starred Astaire and Jane Powell as a brother-sister American dancing team performing in England during the royal wedding of Elizabeth and Philip in 1947. Judy Garland was originally cast in the lead role, but was fired for absenteeism due to illness and replaced by Powell. In the film, Powell's love affair with a wealthy Englishman (Peter Lawford) threatens to ruin the brother-sister act, while Astaire finds his own romance with (Sarah Churchill). The film is loosely based on Astaire's real-life career with his sister and early dancing partner Adele Astaire, who retired after marrying an English lord in 1932 and includes one of Astaire's most famous dance sequences: the \"You're All the World to Me\" number where he defies gravity by dancing first on the walls and then on the ceiling. The shot was achieved by building the set inside a rotating reinforced-steel cylindrical chamber with the camera attached to the cylinder. Both Astaire and the film's lyricist Alan Jay Lerner claimed that they thought of the idea. The film included music by Lerner and Burton Lane and was released in 1951.\n\nLater in 1951 Donen made \"Love Is Better Than Ever\". The film stars Larry Parks as a streetwise show business agent who is compelled to marry an innocent young dance teacher (Elizabeth Taylor). Donen and Kelly appear in cameo roles. The film remained unreleased for over a year after Parks admitted to the House Un-American Activities Committee that he had been a member of the Communist Party and named other members and was unsuccessful at the box office.\n\nIn 1952 Kelly was at the height of his fame after the release of \"An American in Paris\". He then re-teamed with Donen to make \"Singin' in the Rain\", which would become one of the most highly praised films of all time. The film was produced by Freed, written by Comden and Green, photographed by Harold Rosson and starred Kelly, Debbie Reynolds, Donald O'Connor and Jean Hagen.\n\nFreed wanted to make a musical using old songs that he and composer Nacio Herb Brown had written in the late 1920s and early 1930s. He hired Comden and Green to write a script, with Donen and Kelly involved from the early development stages. Comden and Green decided to write a story inspired by the time period in which the songs were written, and satirized Hollywood's transition from silent films to \"talkies\" in the late 1920s. Comden, Green and Donen interviewed everyone at MGM who was in Hollywood during that period, poking fun at both the first movie musicals and the technical difficulties with early sound films. This included characters loosely based on Freed and Berkeley and a scene that references silent film star John Gilbert. Donen and Kelly also made use of MGM's large collection of sets, props, costumes and outdated equipment from the 1920s.\n\nIn the film, Don Lockwood (Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Hagen) are two silent film stars in Hollywood whose careers are threatened by the invention of \"talkies\". With help from his best friend Cosmo Brown (O'Connor) and love interest Kathy Selden (Reynolds), Lockwood saves his career by turning his latest film into a musical. Filming was harmonious, but Donen thought Kelly's \"Broadway Melody\" ballet sequence was too long. The \"Singin' in the Rain\" musical number took several months to choreograph, and Donen and Kelly found it necessary to dig holes in the cement to create puddles in the street.\n\nThe film was a hit when it was released in April 1952, earning over $7.6 million. Kelly's \"An American in Paris\" had been a surprise Best Picture winner at the Oscars in March, and MGM decided to re-release it. \"Singin' in the Rain\" got pulled from many theaters to showcase the older film, preventing it from making further profits. \"Singin' in the Rain\" was nominated for two Academy Awards: Best Supporting Actress for Hagen and Best Original Score. Donald O'Connor won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and Comden and Green once again won the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Written American Musical. Initially the film received only moderate reviews from critics such as Bosley Crowther and did not begin to receive widespread acclaim until the late 1960s. One of its earliest supporters was critic Pauline Kael, who said that it \"is perhaps the most enjoyable of all movie musicals – just about the best Hollywood musical of all time.\" It was re-released in 1975 to critical and popular success.\n\nNow established as a successful film director, Donen continued his solo career at MGM with \"Fearless Fagan\" in 1952. Based on a true story, the film stars Carleton Carpenter as a GI who brings his tame lion with him when he joins the army. In 1953 Donen made the musical \"Give a Girl a Break\". The film stars Debbie Reynolds, Marge Champion and Helen Wood as three aspiring dancers competing for the lead in a new Broadway musical. Bob Fosse, Gower Champion and Kurt Kasznar also appear, with music by Lane and Ira Gershwin. The most famous scene is the \"Give a Girl a Break\" dance between Reynolds and Fosse, which was choreographed backwards and then played in reverse to create the illusion that the two are surrounded by hundreds of balloons that instantly appear at the touch of their fingers. Shooting the film became a bitter experience for Donen due to a major on-set fight over the film's choreography between Fosse and Gower Champion. The film was not well reviewed upon release, but its reputation has grown over the years.\n\nDonen solidified his solo career and scored another hit with the musical \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\". Based on a short story by Stephen Vincent Benét, the film had music by Saul Chaplin and Gene de Paul, with lyrics by Johnny Mercer and choreography by Michael Kidd. Jane Powell plays Milly, an 1850s frontierswoman who marries Adam (Howard Keel) only hours after meeting him. When she returns with Adam to his log cabin in the Oregon backwoods, Milly discovers that her husband's six brothers are uncivilized and oafish. She makes it her mission to domesticate them and, upon Milly's sarcastic suggestion, the brothers kidnap six women from a neighboring town to marry them. The film was shot in the new CinemaScope format and is remembered for its dance sequences, particularly the \"barn raising scene\" in which architecture and construction become acrobatic ballet steps. \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\" was one of the highest-grossing films of 1954 and appeared on many critics' 10 Best Films lists. It was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Music (Scoring of a Musical Picture), which it won. Its success was a surprise to MGM, which had invested more money in two other musicals: \"Rose Marie\" and \"Brigadoon\", starring Kelly. \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\" was more profitable than either film, as well as \"On the Town\" and \"Singin' in the Rain\", and its success was a major turning point for Donen's career. The film was later criticized by novelist Francine Prose, who described it as anti-woman, calling it \"one of the most repulsive movies about men and women that has ever been made\" and a musical about rape.\n\nLater in 1954 Donen made \"Deep in My Heart\", a biography of the Hungarian-born American operetta composer Sigmund Romberg starring José Ferrer. The film included cameos by many MGM contract actors, including the only screen pairing of Gene Kelly and his brother Fred. Although it received mediocre reviews, Romberg's cult status and popularity helped make the film a hit.\n\nIn 1955 Donen teamed up with Kelly for their third and final directorial collaboration. The musical \"It's Always Fair Weather\" was produced by Freed, written by Comden and Green and had music by André Previn. It starred Kelly, Dan Dailey, Cyd Charisse, Michael Kidd, and Dolores Gray. Originally envisioned as a sequel to \"On the Town\", Kelly, Dailey and Kidd play three ex-GIs who reunite 10 years after World War II and discover that none of their lives have turned out how they had expected. Kelly approached Donen with the project and at first Donen was reluctant due to his own success. Their friendship deteriorated during production and Donen noted, \"the atmosphere from day one was very tense and nobody was speaking to anybody.\" He called it a \"one hundred percent nightmare\" which was a \"struggle from beginning to end\" and MGM did not allow the co-directors to shoot on location in New York. \"It's Always Fair Weather\" was moderately profitable, but not as successful as their previous two films. It was Donen's last film with Kelly or Freed. After the its completion he fulfilled his MGM contract agreement by working with other studios. His last project for MGM was completing the final four days of shooting on \"Kismet\" in July 1955 for director Vincent Minnelli.\n\nDonen's next film was at Paramount Pictures for producer Roger Edens. \"Funny Face\" contains four of the original George and Ira Gershwin songs from the otherwise unrelated 1927 Broadway musical of the same name that had starred Fred Astaire. Loosely based on the life of fashion photographer Richard Avedon, who was also the visual consultant and designed the opening title sequence for the film, it was written by Leonard Gershe and included additional music by Gershe and Edens. Donen and Edens began pre-production at MGM, but had difficulty juggling Astaire and Audrey Hepburn's Paramount contracts, the Warner Brothers-owned rights to the Gershwin music that they wanted and their own MGM contracts. Eventually a deal was reached that both released Donen from his MGM contract and allowed him to make his next two films at Paramount and Warner Brothers respectively. Astaire plays an aging fashion photographer who discovers the intellectual bohemian Hepburn at a used bookstore in Greenwich Village and turns her into his new model while falling in love with her in Paris. Donen, Avedon and cinematographer Ray June collaborated to give the film an abstract, smokey look that resembled the fashion photography of the period despite protests by Paramount, which had recently spent a fortune developing the crisp VistaVision. \"Funny Face\" was screened in competition at the 1957 Cannes Film Festival and received good reviews from critics like Crowther. \"Sight and Sound\", in contrast, accused it of being anti-intellectual.\n\nWhile in pre-production on \"Funny Face\", Donen received a letter from his old boss George Abbott inviting him to make a film version of his stage hit \"The Pajama Game\" at Warner Brothers. As part of the deal to secure the Warner-owned Gershwin music he wanted for \"Funny Face\", Donen accepted the offer and he and Abbott co-directed the film version in 1957. \"The Pajama Game\" stars Doris Day and John Raitt, with music by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross and choreography by Bob Fosse. Raitt plays a plant supervisor at a nightwear factory who is in constant disputes with the plant's union organizer (Day), until they end up falling in love. Donen described his working relationship with Abbott as relaxed, stating that \"[Abbott would] play tennis, come watch on the set for an hour, then watch the rushes, then go home.\" It was only a modest financial success, but Jean-Luc Godard praised it and declared \"Donen is surely the master of the movie musical. \"The Pajama Game\" exists to prove it.\"\n\nDonen's next film was \"Kiss Them for Me\". He was personally asked by Cary Grant to direct and began developing it while still under contract at MGM. With a plot that strongly resembles \"On the Town\", the film features Grant, Ray Walston and Larry Blyden as three navy officers on leave in San Francisco in 1944. Unlike \"On the Town\", \"Kiss Them for Me\" is a dark comedy that contrasts the officers' selfless heroism with their self-absorbed hedonism while on leave. The film was released in 1957 to mostly poor reviews.\n\nAfter three films in 1957 Donen became an independent producer and director. He had reluctantly agreed to direct \"Kiss Them for Me\" on condition that 20th Century Fox buy out his remaining contract with MGM. Now free from contractual obligations, he formed Grandon Productions with Grant and signed a distribution deal through Warner Brothers. Donen would self-produce nearly all of his films for the rest of his career, sometimes under the name \"Stanley Donen Productions\". Donen and Grant inaugurated their company in 1958 with \"Indiscreet\", based on a play by Norman Krasna and starring Grant and Ingrid Bergman. Because of Bergman's schedule, the film was shot on location in London. Bergman plays a famous and reclusive actress who falls in love with the supposedly married playboy-diplomat Grant. When Bergman discovers that he has been lying about having a wife, she concocts a charade with another man in order to win Grant's full affection. The film's most famous scene involves Donen's clever circumvention of the strict Production Code. In the scene, Grant is in Paris while Bergman is still in London and the two exchange pillow talk over the phone. Donen used a split screen of the two stars with synchronized movements to make it appear as though they were in the same bed together. The film was a financial and critical success, and Donen was compared to such directors as Ernst Lubitsch and George Cukor.\n\nDonen briefly returned to the musical genre in 1958 with \"Damn Yankees!\", based on George Abbott's Broadway hit. He again co-directed with Abbott in the same hands-off collaboration as their first film. Like \"The Pajama Game\" the film includes music by Adler and Ross and choreography by Fosse. It starred Tab Hunter, Gwen Verdon, and Ray Walston. \"Damn Yankees!\" is an adaptation of the Faust legend about a fan of the Washington Senators who would sell his soul to give the losing team a good hitter. Walston plays the Brooks Brothers-attired Devil who grants the fan his wish and transforms him into the muscular young hitter Joe Hardy (Hunter). Donen was able to shoot three real Senator-Yankee games on location with seven hidden cameras. The low-budget film was a moderate financial success and received good reviews. It was also Donen's last musical film for many years.\n\nAfter \"Indiscreet\" Donen made England his home until the early 1970s. Musicals' waning popularity caused Donen to focus on comedy films. He observed that his \"London base afforded me the advantage of being away from the Hollywood rat race. Just going your own way in spite of whatever anyone else is doing or in spite of what you've done already was satisfying. I also had the advantage of the European influence: their way of looking at life, of making movies.\" While in the UK in the early 1960s Donen was praised as an early influence on the then-emerging British New Wave film movement.\n\nIn the late 1950s Donen signed a non-exclusive, three-film deal with Columbia Pictures. His first film under this contract was \"Once More, with Feeling!\" in 1960. Adapted by Harry Kurnitz from his own stage play, the film was shot in Paris and starred Yul Brynner as a tyrannical orchestra conductor whose mistress (Kay Kendall) grows tired of his tantrums and plots to marry him in order to quickly divorce him for his money. Kendall was terminally ill with leukemia during the shoot and died before its release. The film was not successful financially or critically.\n\nDonen quickly re-teamed with Brynner and Kurnitz for the film \"Surprise Package\", also released in 1960. In this film Brynner plays an American gangster who is deported to the Greek island of Rhodes. Mitzi Gaynor plays the \"surprise package\" who is sent to the island to appease Brynner, and Noël Coward plays the King of Rhodes whom Brynner plots to dethrone. The film was not a financial success, and Donen stated that it was made because he \"desperately needed money for personal reasons.\" These were the only two films that Donen completed for his Columbia contract. The studio cancelled the deal after their poor box office results, and Donen was unable to produce the projects that he was pursuing at that time: playwright Robert Bolt's \"A Man for All Seasons\" and \"A Patch of Blue\", both of which became successful films by other directors.\n\nGrandon Productions produced Donen's next film: \"The Grass Is Greener\", released through Universal Pictures in 1960. Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr play the earl and countess of a large estate in England who are forced to permit guided tours of their mansion in order to help their financial problems. Robert Mitchum plays an American oil tycoon who falls in love with Kerr and Jean Simmons plays an eccentric American heiress who is Grant's former girlfriend. The film was a financial disappointment in the US, but successful in England where the original stage version had been a West End hit.\n\nIn 1963 Donen made one of his most praised films: \"Charade\", starring Cary Grant, Audrey Hepburn, Walter Matthau, James Coburn, George Kennedy and Ned Glass. Donen has said that he had \"always wanted to make a movie like one of my favorites, Hitchcock's \"North by Northwest\"\" and the film has been referred to as \"the best Hitchcock movie that Hitchcock never made.\" \"Charade\" was produced by Stanley Donen Productions, released through Universal and adapted by Peter Stone from his own novel. Reggie Lampert (Hepburn) discovers that her husband has been murdered and (at least) three sinister men are all searching for the $250,000 in gold that he had hidden somewhere. Peter Joshua (Grant) befriends Reggie and helps her fight off the three thugs while the two begin to fall in love. The film was released in December 1963, only two weeks after the assassination of US President John F. Kennedy, and the word \"assassinate\" had to be redubbed twice. It was Donen's most financially successful film and influenced a number of romantic comedy-thrillers released in the years following it. Film critic Judith Crist called it a \"stylish and amusing melodrama\", and Pauline Kael said it had \"a freshness and spirit that makes [it] unlike the films of any other country\" and was \"probably the best American film of [1963]\". In 2002 it was remade as \"The Truth About Charlie\", directed by Jonathan Demme.\n\nIn 1966 Donen made another Hitchcock-inspired film: \"Arabesque\", starring Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren. The film was written by Julian Mitchell and Stanley Price, with an uncredited rewrite by Peter Stone. Peck plays an American professor at Oxford University who is an expert in ancient hieroglyphics. He is approached by a Middle Eastern prime minister to investigate an organization that is attempting to assassinate him and uses hieroglyphic codes to communicate. The investigation leads Peck to one mystery after another, often involving the prime minister's mysterious mistress (Loren). The film was Donen's second consecutive hit.\n\nIn 1967 Donen made \"Two for the Road\", starring Audrey Hepburn and Albert Finney with supporting roles by Eleanor Bron, William Daniels, and Jacqueline Bisset. The film was conceived by Donen and written by novelist Frederic Raphael, who was nominated for an Academy Award. It has been called one of Donen's most personal films, \"with glints of passion never disclosed before\", and \"a veritable textbook on film editing.\" The film's complicated and non-linear story is about the 12-year relationship between Hepburn and Finney over the course of four separate (but interwoven) road trips that they take together throughout the years in the south of France. It was moderately successful at the box office while the critical reception was extremely mixed. Crowther called the film \"just another version of commercial American trash.\" The film attained a cult following and was cited as an early example of non-linear storytelling in film. It is also the film that Donen said he is most frequently asked about by film students.\n\nWhile living in England Donen became a fan of the British variety show \"Beyond the Fringe\" and wanted to work with the show's comedy duo Peter Cook and Dudley Moore. The resulting film was \"Bedazzled\", an updated version of the Faust legend in 1967. It was written by Cook with music by Moore, and also starred Eleanor Bron and Raquel Welch. Moore plays a lonely young man whose unrequited love of his co-worker (Bron) drives him to attempt suicide. Just then the devil (Cook) appears and offers him seven wishes in exchange for his soul. The film's fun-loving association with the Swinging London of the 1960s divided critics, but Roger Ebert called its satire \"barbed and contemporary ... dry and understated\", and overall, a \"magnificently photographed, intelligent, very funny film.\" On the other hand, \"Time\" magazine called it the feeblest of all known variations on the Faust theme. The film was a hit and was especially popular among American college students. Donen considered it a favorite among his own films and called it \"a very personal film in that I said a great deal about what I think is important in life.\" It was remade as \"Bedazzled\" by director Harold Ramis in 2000.\n\nIn 1969 Donen directed \"Staircase\", an adaptation of the autobiographical stage play by Charles Dyer with music by Moore. Rex Harrison and Richard Burton star as a middle-aged gay couple who run a London barber shop and live together in a \"bad marriage\". The film was shot in Paris for tax purposes and was not a financial success. It received poor reviews upon release, but was reevaluated by film critic Armond White in 2007. He called the film \"a rare Hollywood movie to depict gay experience with wisdom, humor and warmth\", and \"a lost treasure\".\n\nAfter Donen's marriage to Adelle Beatty ended, he moved back to Hollywood in 1970. Producer Robert Evans asked Donen to direct an adaptation of the beloved children's book \"The Little Prince\". Lyricist Alan Jay Lerner and composer Frederick Loewe wrote the music and screenplay and filming was done on location in Tunisia. \"The Little Prince\" stars Steven Warner in the title role, with Richard Kiley, Bob Fosse, Gene Wilder and Donna McKechnie. It was Donen's first musical film since \"Damn Yankees!\" Although it contained very little dancing, Fosse choreographed his own dance scenes as the snake. Lerner stated that Donen \"took it upon himself to change every tempo, delete musical phrases at will and distort the intention of every song until the entire score was unrecognizable\". It was released in 1974 and was a financial disaster.\n\nDonen's next film was \"Lucky Lady\", starring Liza Minnelli, Gene Hackman and Burt Reynolds. Minnelli plays a Prohibition era bootlegger who smuggles alcohol from Mexico to California with the help of Hackman and Reynolds, who both compete for her affection. Donen has stated that he \"really cared about [the film] and gave three years of my life to it ... I think it's a very good movie.\" It went over budget and was unsuccessful at the box office. Most critics were unenthusiastic; however, Jay Cocks praised the film for having \"the glistening surface and full-throttle frivolity that characterized Hollywood films in the 1930s.\"\n\nNostalgia for old Hollywood movies would be a theme of Donen's next film: \"Movie Movie\", produced by Lew Grade's ITC Entertainment and scripted by Larry Gelbart and Sheldon Keller. The film is actually two shorter films presented as an old fashioned double feature, complete with a fake movie trailer and an introduction by comedian George Burns. It starred George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Red Buttons, Michael Kidd and Eli Wallach and premiered in competition at the 29th Berlin International Film Festival in 1978. The first of the two films is \"Dynamite Hands\", a black and white tribute to boxing – morality films. The second film is \"Baxter's Beauties of 1933\", a tribute to the extravagant musicals of Busby Berkely. Like Donen's previous two films, it was unsuccessful both financially and critically.\n\nIn 1980, Donen made the science fiction film \"Saturn 3\", starring Kirk Douglas, Farrah Fawcett and Harvey Keitel. Donen first read the script when its writer (and \"Movie Movie\"'s set designer) John Barry showed it to him, prompting Donen to pass it along to Lew Grade. Donen was initially hired to produce, but Grade asked him to complete the film when first-time director Barry was unable to direct. According to Donen \"only a tiny bit of what Barry shot ended up in the finished film.\" It was a critical and financial disaster and initially Donen did not want to be credited as director. In the early 1980s Donen was attached to direct an adaptation of Stephen King's \"The Dead Zone\" and worked with writer Jeffrey Boam on the script. Donen eventually dropped out of the project and David Cronenberg directed the film a few years later. Boam stated that Donen was initially attracted to making the film because he wanted to \"connect with contemporary youthful audiences\" and that the script that they worked on together was \"very close to the script that David wound up making.\"\n\nDonen's last theatrical film was the May – December romance \"Blame It on Rio\" in 1984. The film is a remake of the 1977 Claude Berri film \"Un moment d'égarement\" and was written by Gelbart and Charlie Peters. It stars Michael Caine, Joseph Bologna, Michelle Johnson, Valerie Harper and Demi Moore and was shot on location in Rio de Janeiro. Caine and Bologna play wealthy executives on vacation with their families in Rio, where Caine has an affair with Bologna's teenage daughter (Johnson). It received poor reviews, but was a modest success financially.\n\nIn 1986, Donen produced the televised ceremony of the 58th Academy Awards, which included a musical performance of the song \"Once a Star, Always a Star\" with June Allyson, Leslie Caron, Marge Champion, Cyd Charisse, Kathryn Grayson, Howard Keel, Ann Miller, Jane Powell, Debbie Reynolds, and Esther Williams. Also in 1986 Donen directed a musical sequence for an episode of the popular TV series \"Moonlighting\" and directed the music video for Lionel Richie's song \"Dancing on the Ceiling\". In 1989 Donen was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Fine Arts from the University of South Carolina. In his commencement address Donen stated that he thought he was unique in being the first tap dancer to be a doctor and then tap danced for the graduates. At around the same time Donen taught a seminar on film musicals at the Sundance Institute at the request of Robert Redford.\n\nIn 1993, Donen was preparing to produce and direct a movie musical adaptation of Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" starring Michael Jackson. After allegations that Jackson had molested young boys at his Neverland ranch became a tabloid scandal, the project was abandoned. Later that year Donen directed a stage version of \"The Red Shoes\" at the George Gershwin Theater. He replaced the original director Susan Schulman just six weeks before the show opened. It closed after four days. In 1998, Donen was awarded an Honorary Academy Award \"in appreciation of a body of work marked by grace, elegance, wit and visual innovation.\" In his acceptance speech he danced with his Oscar statue while singing Irving Berlin's \"Cheek to Cheek\", a song first popularized by his boyhood idol Fred Astaire. Martin Scorsese presented the award and created a montage of Donen's films for the show.\n\nDonen's last film was the made-for-TV movie \"Love Letters\", which aired on ABC in April 1999. The film starred Steven Weber and Laura Linney and was based on the play by A.R. Gurney. Weber plays a successful US Senator who finds out that his long lost love (Linney) has recently died. The two had only corresponded through mail over the years, and Weber remembers Linney through his collection of old love letters. Donen had wanted to make a theatrical film version of the play, but was unable to secure financing from any major studio and instead took the project to ABC. In 2002 Donen directed Elaine May's musical play \"Adult Entertainment\" starring Danny Aiello and Jeannie Berlin in Stamford, Connecticut. In 2004 he was awarded the Career Golden Lion at the 61st Venice International Film Festival.\n\nDuring his career Donen's biggest rival was Vincente Minnelli, to whom he is often compared. Like Donen, Minnelli was a contract director at MGM known for the musicals he made in the Freed Unit. According to Donen biographer Stephen Silverman, critics tend to \"express a distinct preference for Donen's bold, no-nonsense style of direction over Minnelli's Impressionist visual palette and Expressionist character motivations\", while most film directors are said to prefer Minnelli's work. Michael Kidd, who worked with both directors early in his career, describes Minnelli as being much less open to collaborative suggestions than Donen. The two directors' camera work differs in that Minnelli often used forward and backwards tracking shots while Donen preferred horizontal tracking shots and crane shots. Silverman said film critics consider Donen's approach to be better suited for dance sequences.\n\nDavid Thomson dismisses most of his later comedy films, but praises him for leading \"the musical in a triumphant and personal direction: out of doors ... Not even Minnelli can rival the fresh-air excitement of such sequences. And few can equal his integration of song, dance and story.\" Andrew Sarris dismisses Donen as being without a personal style of his own and as being dependent upon his collaborators on his better films. Debbie Reynolds downplayed his contributions to \"Singin' in the Rain\", stating that \"Stanley just operated the camera, because Stanley didn't dance.\"\n\nAmong Donen's admirers are film directors Pedro Almodóvar, Lindsay Anderson, Charlie Chaplin, Damien Chazelle, Jules Dassin, William Friedkin, Jean-Luc Godard, Stanley Kubrick, Karel Reisz, Martin Scorsese, François Truffaut, and Edgar Wright. Donen's skill as a director has been praised by such actors as Cyd Charisse and Audrey Hepburn. Donen's work influenced later directors of film musicals Bill Condon, Rob Marshall and Baz Luhrmann The 2011 film \"The Artist\" pays tribute to \"Singin' in the Rain\" (among other films), and Donen praised the film after attending its Los Angeles premiere.\n\n\"Singin' in the Rain\" is Donen's most revered film and it was included in the first group of films to be inducted into the National Film Registry at the Library of Congress in 1989 and has been included on Sight and Sound's prestigious list of \"Top Ten Films\" twice, in 1982 and in 2002. Chaplin and Truffaut were among its earliest fans, and Billy Wilder called the film \"one of the five greatest pictures ever made.\"\n\nDonen made a host of critically acclaimed and popular films. His most important contribution to the art of film was helping to transition movie musicals from the realistic backstage settings of filmed theater to a more cinematic form that integrates film with dance. Eventually film scholars named this concept \"cine-dance\" (a dance that can only be created in the medium of film), and its origins are in the Donen/Kelly films. Film scholar Casey Charness described \"cine-dance\" as \"a melding of the distinctive strengths of dancing and filmmaking that had never been done before\" and adds that Donen and Kelly \"seem to have elevated Hollywood dance from simplistic display of either dancing or photographic ability into a perception that incorporates both what the dancer can do and what the camera can see ... [They] developed a balance between camera and dancer that ... encouraged both photographer and choreographer to contribute significantly to the creation and final effectiveness of dance.\"\n\nWhen \"talkies\" began to gain momentum in the film industry, the Hollywood studios recruited the best talent from Broadway to make musical films, such as \"Broadway Melody\" and Berkley's \"42nd Street\". These films established the backstage musical, a subgenre in which the plot revolves around a stage show and the people involved in putting it on. They set the standard for the musical genre, placing their musical numbers either within the context of a stage performance or tacked on and gratuitous, without furthering the story or developing the characters. Donen stated that he disliked them and that his own films were \"a reaction against those backstage musicals.\" Donen credits producer Freed as the driving force behind the transition, adding that Freed \"had some sort of instinct to change the musical from a backstage world into something else. He didn't quite know what to change it into, just that it had to change.\" Kelly stated that Donen was the only person he knew that understood how musicals could progress and better suit the film medium.\n\nDonen and Kelly's films set new standards for special effects, animation, editing and cinematography. Their first collaboration \"Cover Girl\" firmly established their intentions, particularly in the \"Alter Ego\" dance sequence. It employed a special effect that could not be achieved with a live take, while advancing the story and revealing the character's inner conflict. Donen and Kelly tested the limits of film's potential with the Jerry the Mouse dance in \"Anchors Aweigh\", one of the most sophisticated combinations of live action and animation.\n\nBy the time they made \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" they had perfected what Martin Rubin called an \"indication of changing trends in musical films\" which differed from the Berkeley spectacles towards \"relatively small-scale affairs that place the major emphasis on comedy, transitions to the narrative, the cleverness of the lyrics and the personalities and performance skills of the stars, rather than on spectacle and group dynamics.\" Rubin credits Donen and Kelly with making musicals more realistic, compared to Berkeley's style of a \"separation of narrative space from performance space\" \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" was Berkeley's last film as a director and today can be viewed as a passing of the torch. Both Donen and Kelly found working with Berkeley difficult, and the director left before the film's completion. When Donen and Kelly directed their own work, they were able to realize their ambitions.\n\nWhen Donen and Kelly released \"On the Town\", they boldly opened the film with an extravagant musical number shot on location in New York with fast-paced editing and experimental camera work, thus breaking from the conventions of that time. Their most celebrated film \"Singin' in the Rain\" is appropriately a musical about the birth of the movie musical. The film includes a musical montage that Donen says was \"doing Busby Berkeley here, only we're making fun of him.\" Charness stated that \"Singin' in the Rain\"'s references to Berkeley \"marks the first time the Hollywood musical had ever been reflexive, and amused at its own extravagant non-dancing inadequacy, at that\" and that Berekeley's \"overhead kaleidoscope floral pattern is predominantly featured, as is the line of tap-dancing chorines, who are seen only from the knees down.\" Charness also stated that the film's cinematography \"moves the audience perspective along with the dance.\"\n\nCharness singled out the film's famous title number and states, \"it's a very kinetic moment, for though there is no technically accomplished dance present, the feeling of swinging around in a circle with an open umbrella is a brilliantly apt choice of movement, one that will be readily identifiable by an audience which might know nothing kinesthetically of actual dance ... Accompanying this movement is a breathless pullback into a high crane shot that takes place at the same time Kelly is swinging into his widest arcs with the umbrella. The effect is dizzying. Perhaps the finest single example of the application of camera knowhow to a dance moment in Donen-Kelly canon.\" He also complimented Donen's direction in the \"Moses Supposes\" number, including \"certain camera techniques which Donen had by now formularized ... the dolly shot into medium shot to signify the ending of one shot and the beginning of another.\" Although Donen credits earlier musicals by René Clair, Lubitsch and Astaire as \"integrated\", he also states that \"in the early musicals of Lubitsch and Clair, they made it clear from the beginning that their characters were going to sing operatically. Gene and I didn't go that far. In 'Moses Supposes', he and Donald sort of talk themselves into a song.\" Donen's \"Royal Wedding\" and \"Give A Girl A Break\" continued to use special effect shots to create elaborate dance sequences, and Kelly used even more sophisticated animation in his film \"Invitation to Dance\".\n\nDonen's relationship with Gene Kelly was complicated and he often spoke bitterly about his former friend and mentor decades after they worked together. Kelly was never explicitly negative about Donen in later years. However, Silverman has asserted that Kelly's comments were often condescending and demonstrated \"a long-standing attempt to diminish Donen's contributions to their collective work.\" The reasons for their conflict were both personal (both men married dancer Jeanne Coyne) and professional (Donen always felt that Kelly did not treat him as an equal). They disagreed over who deserved more credit for their joint projects: three films as co-directors and four as co-choreographers.\n\nAt age 7 Coyne enrolled in the Gene Kelly Studio of Dance in Johnstown, Pennsylvania and developed a schoolgirl crush on him In her twenties she was cast in \"Best Foot Forward\", where she reconnected with Kelly and first met Donen, later moving to Hollywood with them. She and Donen eloped in 1948, but their marriage became strained. They separated in 1950 and divorced in 1951. During their marriage Donen confided to Coyne his frustration with Kelly while making \"On the Town\", only to find that she immediately took Kelly's side. Coyne worked as Kelly's personal assistant on several films while married to Donen and continued assisting Kelly until her death. Rumors held that Kelly and Coyne were having an affair both during and after Coyne's marriage to Donen, as well as that Donen was in love with Kelly's first wife Betsy Blair. Blair's autobiography makes no mention of an affair between Kelly and Coyne nor of any romantic relationship with Donen. However, she does state that Donen's marriage to Coyne was unhappy and that Donen was very close to both her and Kelly.\n\nKelly said that Donen's impulsive marriage to Coyne showed an emotional immaturity and lack of good judgment, and stated that \"Jeannie's marriage to Stanley was doomed from the start. Because every time Stanley looked at Jeannie, he saw Betsy, whom he loved; and every time Jeannie looked at Stanley, I guess she saw me. One way or another it was all pretty incestuous.\" Kelly's marriage to Blair ended in 1957, after which he moved in with Coyne. They married in 1960 and had two children together. Coyne died of leukemia in 1973. In November 2012 the musical \"What A Glorious Feeling\" depicted both the making of \"Singin' in the Rain\" and the love triangle between Donen, Kelly and Coyne.\n\nDonen and Kelly's relationship has been described as similar to that of the characters Don Lockwood and Cosmo Brown in \"Singin' in the Rain\", with Kelly as the star performer and Donen as his trusted sidekick. Kelly described Donen as being like a son to him and Donen initially idolized Kelly, while still finding him to be \"cold, egotistical and very rough.\" Although Donen credited Kelly for \"jump-starting his career as a filmmaker\", he also stated that MGM producer Roger Edens was his biggest promoter.\n\nMany people believe that Donen owed everything to Kelly, and Kelly biographer Clive Hirschhorn described Donen as having \"no particular identity or evident talent ... and was just a kid from the south who wanted to make it in show business.\" Donen stated that he moved to Hollywood of his own accord; other sources state that he followed Kelly, who then helped him get his first job. Kelly would sometimes embarrass and patronize Donen in public, such as berating him for not being able to keep up with his dance steps during the rehearsals for \"Cover Girl\". Donen has admitted that he did not consider himself to be a great performer. Despite Donen's growing resentment of Kelly, he was able to contain his feelings and professional attitude during their collaborations. Tensions between the two exploded on the set of \"It's Always Fair Weather\". After Donen's recent hits \"Deep in My Heart\" and \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\" he did not want to make another film with Kelly. They fought on the set for the first time, with the now more confident Donen asserting himself. Donen almost quit the film, and his friendship with Kelly ended.\n\nOther tensions included Donen's hit films compared to Vincente Minnelli's \"Brigadoon\" (which Kelly was closely involved in and had wanted to direct) flop, and Kelly's own ambitious film \"Invitation to Dance\", both financially unsuccessful. During the shooting of \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\", Donen often complained about his budgetary constraints, while \"Brigadoon\" had a much larger budget. Around that time Kelly's unsuccessfully attempted dramatic acting with \"The Devil Makes Three\" and \"Seagulls Over Sorrento\" also flopped, and his marriage to Betsy Blair was ending.\n\nIn later years Donen would state that he had nothing nice to say about Kelly. At a 1991 tribute to Comden and Green, Kelly said in a public speech that Donen \"needed [him] to grow up with\" but added \"I needed Stanley at the back of the camera.\" He also described Donen as being thought of as his whipping-boy at MGM. Although Donen often complained that Kelly never gave him enough credit for their work, Kelly did credit him for the Jerry the Mouse and \"Alter Ego\" dance sequences. In 1992 Donen said \"I'm grateful to him, but I paid back the debt, ten times over. And he got his money's worth out of me.\" Betsy Blair claimed to be \"surprised and bemused\" about Donen's bitterness towards Kelly.\n\nThe relative importance of the two men's contributions has been debated by critics. David Thomson wrote about \"the problem in assessing [Donen's] career: who did what in their collaboration? And what is Donen's real standing as a director?\" Thomson remarked that \"nothing in his career suggests that Gene Kelly could have filmed himself singing in the rain with the exhilaration of Donen's retreating crane shot.\" However set reports state that Kelly rode the camera boom between shots and during camera set-ups. Donen stated that \"by the time you hash it through from beginning to end ten million times, you can't remember who did what except in a few instances where you remember getting an idea.\" Composer Saul Chaplin said that \"Gene was the prime mover and Stanley an eager and talented pupil.\" During the shooting of \"On the Town\", all memos and correspondence from MGM to the production were addressed exclusively to Donen and not to Kelly.\n\nHowever, actress Kathleen Freeman stated that when people visited set of \"Singin' in the Rain\" to relate their experiences during the silent era, they would ask to speak with Kelly. \"Singin' in the Rain\" art director Randall Duell stated, \"Gene ran the show. Stan had some good ideas and worked with Gene, but he was still the 'office boy' to Gene, in a sense, although Gene had great respect for him.\" Kelly became more involved with the \"Singin' in the Rain\" script during its third draft, which was when its structure began to resemble the final version. Comparing Donen and Kelly's films as solo directors, Donen's were usually more critically acclaimed and financially successful than Kelly's films. Kelly's 1969 film \"Hello, Dolly!\" is credited with effectively killing the Hollywood musical.\n\nDonen married and divorced five times and had three children. His first wife was dancer, choreographer and actress Jeanne Coyne. They married on April 14, 1948 and divorced in May 1951. Donen's second wife was actress Marion Marshall, who had been the girlfriend and protégé of Howard Hawks and later married actor Robert Wagner. Donen and Marshall had two sons together: Peter Donen (1953-2003) and Joshua Donen, born in 1955. They provided the name of Cary Grant's character in \"Charade\". Donen and Marshall were married from 1952 until 1959. They had a lengthy custody battle over their two sons after Marshall married Wagner and Donen moved to England. Donen's third wife was Adelle, Countess Beatty. She had previously been the second wife of the 2nd Earl Beatty. They married in 1960, had one son (Mark Donen, born 1962), and lived together in London. They separated in 1969 before divorcing in 1971. Donen's fourth wife was American actress Yvette Mimieux. They were married from 1972 until 1985, but remained close friends after their divorce. Donen's fifth wife was Pamela Braden, thirty-six years his junior. Donen proposed to her four days after having met her. They were married from 1990 until 1994.\n\nIn the early 1940s, Donen dated actress Judy Holliday while working on Broadway. He also dated Elizabeth Taylor for a year between his first and second marriages. Donen's current longtime companion is writer and director Elaine May, who he has dated since 1999 and claimed to have proposed marriage to \"about 172 times.\"\n\nDonen's eldest son Peter Donen was a visual effects artist who worked on such films as \"Superman III\", \"Spaceballs\", \"The Bourne Identity\", and \"The Truth About Charlie\". He also designed the title credits for \"Blame It on Rio\". He died of a heart attack in 2003 at age 50. Donen's second son Joshua Donen is a film producer who worked on such films as \"The Quick and the Dead\" and \"Gone Girl\". Mark Donen, Stanley's third son, worked as a production assistant on \"Blame It on Rio\".\n\nIn 1959, Donen's father, Mordecai, died at 59 in Beaufort, South Carolina. His mother, Helen, died in 1989 at 84 in South Carolina, and Donen delivered the eulogy at her funeral.\n\nWith the deaths in the 2000s of Billy Wilder, George Sidney, Elia Kazan, Robert Wise, and Jules Dassin, Donen became the last surviving notable film director of Hollywood's Golden Age. He occasionally appears at film festivals and retrospectives and has continued to develop ideas for film projects. He was the subject of the 2010 documentary \"Stanley Donen: You Just Do It\".\n\nIn December 2013 it was announced that Donen was in pre-production for a new film co-written with Elaine May, to be produced by Mike Nichols. A table reading of the script for potential investors included such actors as Christopher Walken, Charles Grodin, Ron Rifkin and Jeannie Berlin. In celebration of Donen's 90th birthday in 2014, a retrospective of his work titled \"A Lotta Talent and a Little Luck: A Celebration of Stanley Donen\" was held from July to August in Columbia, South Carolina. This retrospective included a tour of Donen's childhood neighborhood, a lecture by Steven Silverman and film screenings at the Nickelodeon movie theater, which Donen frequented as a child.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "3899075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899075", "title": "Tangra Mountains", "text": "Tangra Mountains\n\nTangra Mountains (in Bulgarian \"Тангра планина\", 'Tangra planina' \\'tan-gra pla-ni-'na\\) () form the principal mountain range of Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica. The range had been nameless until 2001, when it was named after the Bulgar god Tangra.\n\nTangra Mountains are 30 km long between Barnard Point and Renier Point, 8 km wide, and are bounded by Moon Bay and Huron Glacier to the north, Huntress Glacier to the northwest, False Bay to the west, and Bransfield Strait to the southeast, and is linked to Bowles Ridge by Wörner Gap, and to Pliska Ridge by Nesebar Gap. The mountain is divided in three principal ridges: Friesland Ridge in the west, Levski Ridge in the centre, and Delchev Ridge in the east.\n\nThe peaks and slopes of Tangra are heavily glaciated, and drained by the glaciers Huron, Huntress, Ruen Icefall, Peshtera, Charity, Tarnovo Ice Piedmont, Prespa, Macy, Boyana, Srebarna, Magura, Dobrudzha, Ropotamo, Strandzha, Pautalia, Sopot Ice Piedmont, and Iskar.\n\nCamp Academia in the northwestern foothills of Zograf Peak is the perfect gateway to central Tangra Mountains via Catalunyan Saddle (1260 m) to the south and Lozen Saddle (437 m) to the east. Catalunyan Saddle was occupied by a bivouac of the Tangra 2004/05 Exploration team on 14–16 December 2004.\n\nFriesland Ridge is 15.5 km long from Botev Point in the southwest to Shipka Saddle to the northeast. The summit Mount Friesland () rises to exactly 1700 m. It was accurately measured by GPS in December 2003 by the Omega Foundation expedition led by Damien Gildea, which made the second ascent of Mount Friesland. Other main peaks are St. Boris (1699 m), Simeon (1580 m), St. Cyril (1505 m), Lyaskovets (1473 m), Presian Ridge (1456 m), St. Methodius (1180 m), Academia (1253 m), and Zograf (1011 m). First ascents: Mount Friesland by Francesc Sàbat and Jorge Enrique from Juan Carlos I Base on 30 December 1991; Lyaskovets Peak by L. Ivanov and D. Vasilev from Camp Academia on 14 December 2004; Zograf Peak by L. Ivanov from Camp Academia on 31 December 2004; and St. Boris Peak by D. Boyanov and N. Petkov from Camp Academia area on 23 January 2016.\n\nLevski Ridge is 8 km long between Shipka Saddle to the west and Devin Saddle to the east, and 8 km wide between Cherepish Ridge to the north and Christoff Cliff to the south. The summit Great Needle Peak () rises to 1680 m, and was first ascended and GPS-surveyed by the Bulgarian mountaineers Doychin Boyanov, Nikolay Petkov and Aleksander Shopov on 8 January 2015. Other main peaks are Levski (1430 m), St. Ivan Rilski Col (1350 m), Helmet (1254 m), Serdica (1200 m), Vihren (1150 m), Ongal (1149 m), and Plovdiv (1040 m). Other first ascents: Ongal Peak and Komini Peak (774 m) by L. Ivanov from Camp Academia on 21 December 2004, and Plana Peak by D. Boyanov, N. Petkov and A. Shopov on 8 January 2015.\n\nDelchev Ridge is 10 km long between Devin Saddle to the west and Renier Point to the east. The summit Delchev Peak () rises to 940 m, other main peaks are Ruse (800 m), Asen (800 m), Peter (800 m), Kuber (770 m), Elena (700 m), Spartacus (650 m), Yavorov (640 m), and Paisiy (550 m).\n\nBritish mapping of the mountains in 1968, Spanish mapping in 1991, Omega Foundation mapping in 2004, Bulgarian mapping in 2005 and 2009 from topographic surveys in 1995/96 and 2004/05.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13457299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13457299", "title": "The Making of the Pentateuch", "text": "The Making of the Pentateuch\n\nThe Making of the Pentateuch (\"The Making of the Pentateuch: A Methodological Study\", JSOT Press, Sheffield, 1987) by R. N. Whybray, Professor of Hebrew and Old Testament Studies at the University of Hull (UK), was a major contribution to the field of Old Testament studies, and specifically to theories on the origins and composition of the Pentateuch. Its originality lay in its detailed critique of the documentary hypothesis, and it remains a standard text on many reading lists.\n\nFor almost a century prior to Whybray's book, a scholarly consensus had developed regarding the question of Pentateuchal origins the composition and dates of the first five books of the Old Testament. In the closing decades of the 19th century Julius Wellhausen published \"Prolegomena zur Geschichte Israels\", in which he had set out the definitive version of the historical development of the Hebrew bible. According to this hypothesis, the Pentateuch Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy was originally four separate documents, retelling the same episodes and stories, but with differing emphases designed to further the theological and political agendas of their authors. Their combination by a Redactor (editor) into a single narrative spread over five books had resulted in many inconsistencies and repetitious stories, which could be analysed through the methodology of source criticism to reconstruct the original documents.\n\nWellhausen had concentrated exclusively on the written text of the Pentateuch, but in the next generation Hermann Gunkel developed form criticism, a methodology which he claimed could identify the various genres which had contributed to the text and thus reconstruct its tradition history. Gunkel and his followers, notably Martin Noth, used this new methodology to discover the oral sagas which formed the basis of the written texts of the Pentateuch.\n\nBy the middle of the 20th century, Wellhausen's documentary hypothesis, the tradition history of Gunkel and Noth, and the Biblical archaeology of William F. Albright, who claimed to have found physical proof of the 2nd millennium BC origins of Genesis, Exodus, and the other books of the Pentateuch, had merged to form a dominant paradigm, or consensual view, of the origins of the Pentateuch. It was this paradigm that was challenged by Whybray's \"The Making of the Pentateuch\".\n\n\"The Making of the Pentateuch\" (in fact only Genesis–Numbers, as Whybray excludes Deuteronomy) is in three parts. Part 1 examines the methodology and assumptions of source criticism and the Documentary Hypothesis; Part 2 examines the methodology of form criticism and tradition history as developed by Noth and others; and Part 3 sets out Whybray's own suggestions for the process by which the Pentateuch came to be composed.\n\nWhybray's attack on the documentary hypothesis addressed the basic methodology of source criticism, which relies on the existence of inconsistencies, repetitions and stylistic features such as alternative names for God to identify distinctive sources within the biblical text. The assumptions behind this methodology, Whybray says, are illogical and self-contradictory. If the authors of the original documents did not tolerate contradiction and repetition, why did the editors of the final work do so? And if the writers who created the final document did not mind such features, why should we suppose that the earlier sources did not contain contradiction and repetition? \"Thus the hypothesis can only be maintained on the assumption that, while consistency was the hallmark of the various documents, inconsistency was the hallmark of the redactors\" (p. 19). Similarly, the repetition and stylistic variation which the documentary hypothesis explains as the remains of distinct sources, may be understood quite differently. For example, since other religious texts use a variety of names for God, why should the change of divine name in Genesis from Yahweh to Elohim signal a change of source? There could be a theological reason why one name is preferred to another, or the writer may just want a change. Repetition is often done for stylistic reasons, or for emphasis, or for rhetorical effect or in poetic parallelism. The task of form and tradition critics, according to Whybray, is even more difficult than that of source critics. Where the latter are dealing with partially extant texts, the former are dealing with hypothetical reconstructions for which we have no tangible evidence: \"Much of Noth's detailed reconstruction of the Pentateuchal traditions was obtained by piling one speculation upon another.\" (p. 20)\n\nHis critique of scholars such as Rolf Rendtorff and Erhard Blum (a student of Rendtorff), who worked after Noth but in the same form and tradition-critical school was even more trenchant. These scholars contributed to what is known as the Supplementary hypothesis.\n\nAccording to Whybray:\n\"Rendtorff has merely replaced the comparatively simple Documentary Hypothesis which postulated only a small number of written sources and redactors with a bewildering multiplicity of sources and redactors\" (p. 21), while Blum's approach was, if anything, more complex and more dogmatic not to mention less demonstrable than Rendtorff's.\nWhybray's own, alternative hypothesis, is based not on the documentary model but on a fragmentary model. He suggests that the Pentateuch was the product of a single author (not the four authors and multiple editors of the documentary hypothesis) working at some time in the 6th century BC \"[with] a mass of material, most of which may have been of quite recent origin and had not necessarily formed part of any ancient Israelite tradition\" (p. 242). Whybray saw this author as a national historian, aware of contemporary Greek history and writing in conscious imitation of Greek models, with the aim of extending the existing Deuteronomic history backwards in time to create a national history of the Israelites from the creation of the world.\n\n\"The Making of the Pentateuch\" has been described as \"the most compelling critique of the hypothesis\" ever made, and its arguments are frequently cited by evangelical Christians who wish to state the case for Mosaic authorship (although Whybray explicitly rejects this notion and states that he regards the Pentateuch as fiction). Gordon Wenham, for example, writing in 1996, \"Whybray's work on the Pentateuch could be viewed as the logical conclusion of the direction in which most pentateuchal criticism has been moving in the last three decades. ... His book is a powerful and valid critique of the methods that have been taken for granted in Pentateuchal criticism for nearly two centuries.\"\n\nEgyptologist and Bible scholar James K. Hoffmeier has affirmed that although Whybray offers the most comprehensive critique of the documentary hypothesis within recent critical scholarship, he concludes that Whybray's view doesn't actually advance pentateuchal studies but instead revives a late 18th, early 19th century theory held by Alexander Geddes and J.S. Vater.\n"}
{"id": "95223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95223", "title": "Wati-kutjara", "text": "Wati-kutjara\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, the Wati kutjara (also Wati kutjarra or Wadi Gudjara) are two young lizard-men (totem: goanna) who, in the Dreaming, travelled all over the Western Desert. In English, their songline is often called the \"Two Men Dreaming\". The Wati kutjara are ubiquitous in the mythology of the Western Desert; indeed, their journey extends for thousands of kilometres, stretching from the Kimberley to South Australia.\n\nWati kutjara is one of the most important Dreamings around Balgo; in Kukatja narratives, the Wati kutjara are often likened to the wind, whose form they adopt when in danger. The men's first action is to sing about their names in order to establish their own identity. Then they decide to travel about, and eventually decide to head south-east in order to enlighten the people there who do not possess the rituals known to the Dreaming heroes. As they travel, they sing of the animals, plants and geographic features that they encounter, naming them and calling them into being. Filled with magical power, these two unmarried brothers eventually travelled all over the Western Desert destroying many dangerous evil spirits. They also created sacred objects.\n\nThe Wati kutjara feature in innumerable stories, whose details vary from region to region. In one recension, they are credited with castrating the Man in the Moon by throwing a magical boomerang, Kidili, because he tried to rape the first woman. In other versions, the Wati kutjara are the ones attempting to seduce the same group of women.\n\n\nTingari, another major song-myth cycle from the Western Desert\n"}
{"id": "2532641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2532641", "title": "White Parker", "text": "White Parker\n\nWhite Parker (1887–1956) was a son of Mah-Cheeta-Wookey and Quanah Parker, chief of the Comanches. He married Laura E. Clark (1890-1962), a daughter of Reverend and Mrs. M. A. Clark, a former Methodist missionary to the Comanches. They had at least three children: Patty Bertha, Cynthia Ann Joy, and Milton Quanah (1914-1930).\n\nWhite Parker did Christian missionary work among the Comanche people. He studied for the ministry at Cook Bible School in Phoenix, Arizona. After graduation, Parker joined the Methodist Conference. The Parkers were active in the 1920s and '30s Saturday afternoon street meetings in Lawton, Oklahoma, which was led by Rev. J. Leighton Read, a European-American missionary from Colony, Oklahoma.\n\nParker had a varied religious background. His father was a member of and leader in the Native American Church. The Parker family brought the first non-Catholic church to the state of Texas. He received his education at a Presbyterian/Reformed institution, but affiliated with the Methodists when no Reformed missionary appointment was available.\n\nIn 1920, Parker played a lead role in the silent film \"The Daughter of Dawn\", a silent film directed by Norbert A. Myles shot in the Wichita Mountains of Southwest Oklahoma. The story, played by an all-Indian cast of 300 Kiowas and Comanches, includes themes of love story, battle, dance, deceit, combat, and concludes with a happy ending.\n\nThis is a historically important film in American cinema as it is the first full-length movie of an American Indian story, and that uses all American Indian actors. The film was restored by the Oklahoma Historical Society and has been digitized.\n\nWhite Parker and his wife are buried in the Highland Cemetery, Lawton, Comanche County, Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "12956300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12956300", "title": "Yated Ne'eman (United States)", "text": "Yated Ne'eman (United States)\n\nYated Ne'eman is a weekly English-language Haredi newspaper and magazine based in Monsey, New York and distributed in most large metropolitan areas where Orthodox Jews reside. Israeli newspaper Haaretz describes \"Yated Ne'eman\" as one of the \"most powerful\" newspapers in the Haredi community.\n\nThe American \"Yated Ne'eman\" was founded as a spinoff of its Israeli parent, also named Yated Ne'eman, which itself was established in 1985 by Elazar Shach over differences of editorial opinion with Hamodia. This was a result of American Haredi rabbis seeking an alternative outlet for their views, since the widely read Orthodox Jewish weekly in the New York area, \"The Jewish Press\", was privately owned, too independent, and expressed more of a Modern Orthodox and Religious Zionist point of view. The UJA-supported \"Jewish Week\" was similarly considered inappropriate.\n\nThe publication's name, supposedly attributed to Yaakov Yisrael Kanievsky, is derived from a phrase in Hebrew scripture which translates as 'a peg strongly anchored in terra firma'. It is meant to figuratively describe a secure connection or something which can be relied upon.\nIn the 1990s, the American Yated severed its relationship with the Israeli edition over perceived complex religious leanings there.\n\nThe current publisher is Pinchos Lipschutz, who resides in Monsey, New York, where the \"Yated\" is also based.\n\n\"Yated Ne'eman's\" opinions generally reflect the positions and policies of Agudath Israel of America and its leadership body, the American Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah (Council of Torah Sages). Its views on Orthodox Jewish education for example are based upon the educational policies of the rabbis that guide Torah Umesorah - National Society for Hebrew Day Schools. However, its right-wing tendency is sometimes at odds with the rabbinic leadership of Haredi Judaism, who often prefer a more pragmatic, nuanced approach to political issues. The publication, as do most of those within its genre, adhere to a strict interpretation of tzniut that prohibits photographs of women on its pages and website.\n\n\"Yated Ne'eman\" reports Israeli news extensively, keeping track of social trends, political developments, and military affairs. Its political stance tends to toe the party line of Degel HaTorah, as can be evidenced by the frequent publication of photos extolling the activities of Degel's leaders, such as Chaim Kanievsky.\n\nThe growth of \"Yated Ne'eman\" reflects the emergence of a uniquely English-speaking yeshiva community in the United States that sees itself as independent from the non-Orthodox institutions of earlier generations. Its articles, editorials, photos and advertisements are strictly controlled by the editorial board to reflect the religious mores of the American yeshiva world, as practiced in institutions such as New Jersey's Beth Medrash Govoha, New York's Yeshiva Torah Vodaas and Yeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin, and Maryland's Yeshivas Ner Yisroel.\n\n"}
{"id": "22414479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414479", "title": "Šulak", "text": "Šulak\n\nIn the Babylonian magico-medical tradition, Šulak is the Lurker of the bathroom or the demon of the privy. Šulak appears in the Babylonian \"Diagnostic Handbook\" (Tablet XXVII), in which various diseases are described and attributed to the \"hand\" of a god, goddess, or spirit. A \"Lurker\" is a type of demon who lies in wait in places where a potential victim is likely to be alone. When a man attends to excretory functions or elimination, he is exposed and hence vulnerable: \"Šulak will hit him!\" The \"hit\" may be a type of \"stroke\" (\"mišittu\"). The demon referred to as \"The Hitter\" or \"Striker\" elsewhere in the handbook may be Šulak identified by an epithet. A much earlier reference to this demon is found in a Hittite diagnostic text.\n\nThe \"demon of the privy\" \"(Sheid beit ha-Kisset)\" appears also in the Babylonian Talmud:\n\nStroke and epilepsy were closely related in ancient medicine. This law is not included in the Mishneh Torah. The lavatory demon takes the form of a goat in the Talmud (\"Shabbat\" 67a, \"Berachot\" 62a).\n\nThe \"demon of the privy\" is the type of unclean spirit that in the early Christian era was regarded as causing both physical and spiritual affliction.\n\n\n\n"}
