{"id": "53292889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53292889", "title": "Applications of 3D printing", "text": "Applications of 3D printing\n\nIn recent years, 3D printing has developed enough to perform crucial roles in many applications, with the most important ones being manufacturing, medicine, architecture, custom art and design. Some companies even use 3D printers to create more 3D printers.\n\nIn the current scenario, we can see 3D printing processes finally catching up to their full potential, and are currently being used in the manufacturing and medical industries, as well as by sociocultural sectors which facilitate 3D printing to become successful commercial technology.\n\nThere has been a lot of hype (and disappointment) in the last decade when referring to the possibilities we would achieve by adopting 3D printing as one of the main manufacturing technologies.\n\nFor a long time, the issue with 3D printing was that it had been demanding very high entry costs, not really allowing profitable implementation to mass-manufacturers when compared to standard processes, but market trends spotted in recent years have found that the needle is finally moving, as the market for 3D printing becomes one of the most important ones, and certainly the one with the biggest growth numbers in the manufacturing industry in recent years.\nAM technologies found applications starting in the 1980s in product development, data visualization, rapid prototyping, and specialized manufacturing. Their expansion into production (job production, mass production, and distributed manufacturing) has been under development in the decades since. Industrial production roles within the metalworking industries achieved significant scale for the first time in the early 2010s. Since the start of the 21st century there has been a large growth in the sales of AM machines, and their price has dropped substantially. According to Wohlers Associates, a consultancy, the market for 3D printers and services was worth $2.2 billion worldwide in 2012, up 29% from 2011. McKinsey predicts that additive manufacturing could have an economic impact of $550 billion annually by 2025. There are many applications for AM technologies, including architecture, construction (AEC), industrial design, automotive, aerospace, military, engineering, dental and medical industries, biotech (human tissue replacement), fashion, footwear, jewelry, eyewear, education, geographic information systems, food, and many other fields.\n\nAdditive manufacturing's earliest applications have been on the toolroom end of the manufacturing spectrum. For example, rapid prototyping was one of the earliest additive variants, and its mission was to reduce the lead time and cost of developing prototypes of new parts and devices, which was earlier only done with subtractive toolroom methods such as CNC milling and turning, and precision grinding, far more accurate than 3d printing with accuracy down to 0.00005\" and creating better quality parts faster, but sometimes too expensive for low accuracy prototype parts. With technological advances in additive manufacturing, however, and the dissemination of those advances into the business world, additive methods are moving ever further into the production end of manufacturing in creative and sometimes unexpected ways. Parts that were formerly the sole province of subtractive methods can now in some cases be made more profitably via additive ones. In addition, new developments in RepRap technology allow the same device to perform both additive and subtractive manufacturing by swapping magnetic-mounted tool heads.\n\nAdditive manufacturing in combination with cloud computing technologies allows decentralized and geographically independent distributed production. Cloud-based additive manufacturing refers to a service-oriented networked manufacturing model in which service consumers are able to build parts through Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), Hardware-as-a-Service (HaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). Distributed manufacturing as such is carried out by some enterprises; there is also a services like 3D Hubs that put people needing 3D printing in contact with owners of printers.\n\nSome companies offer online 3D printing services to both commercial and private customers, working from 3D designs uploaded to the company website. 3D-printed designs are either shipped to the customer or picked up from the service provider.\n\nCompanies have created services where consumers can customize objects using simplified web based customization software, and order the resulting items as 3D printed unique objects. This now allows consumers to create custom cases for their mobile phones. Nokia has released the 3D designs for its case so that owners can customize their own case and have it 3D printed.\n\nAdvances in RP technology have introduced materials that are appropriate for final manufacture, which has in turn introduced the possibility of directly manufacturing finished components. One advantage of 3D printing for rapid manufacturing lies in the relatively inexpensive production of small numbers of parts.\n\nRapid manufacturing is a new method of manufacturing and many of its processes remain unproven. 3D printing is now entering the field of rapid manufacturing and was identified as a \"next level\" technology by many experts in a 2009 report. One of the most promising processes looks to be the adaptation of selective laser sintering (SLS), or direct metal laser sintering (DMLS) some of the better-established rapid prototyping methods. , however, these techniques were still very much in their infancy, with many obstacles to be overcome before RM could be considered a realistic manufacturing method.\n\nThere have been patent lawsuits concerning 3-D printing for manufacturing.\n\nIndustrial 3D printers have existed since the early 1980s and have been used extensively for rapid prototyping and research purposes. These are generally larger machines that use proprietary powdered metals, casting media (e.g. sand), plastics, paper or cartridges, and are used for rapid prototyping by universities and commercial companies.\n\n3D printing can be particularly useful in research labs due to its ability to make specialized, bespoke geometries. In 2012 a proof of principle project at the University of Glasgow, UK, showed that it is possible to use 3D printing techniques to assist in the production of chemical compounds. They first printed chemical reaction vessels, then used the printer to deposit reactants into them. They have produced new compounds to verify the validity of the process, but have not pursued anything with a particular application.\n\nUsually, the FDM process is used to print hollow reaction vessels or microreactors. If the 3D print is performed within an inert gas atmosphere, the reaction vessels can be filled with highly reactive substances during the print. The 3D printed objects are air- and watertight for several weeks. By the print of reaction vessels in the geometry of common cuvettes or measurement tubes, routine analytical measurements such as UV/VIS-, IR- and NMR-spectroscopy can be performed directly in the 3D printed vessel.\n\nIn addition, 3D printing has been used in research labs as alternative method to manufacture components for use in experiments, such as magnetic shielding and vacuum components with demonstrated performance comparable to traditionally produced parts.\n\nAdditive manufacturing of food is being developed by squeezing out food, layer by layer, into three-dimensional objects. A large variety of foods are appropriate candidates, such as chocolate and candy, and flat foods such as crackers, pasta, and pizza. NASA has considered the versatility of the concept, awarding a contract to the Systems and Materials Research Consultancy to study the feasibility of printing food in space. One of the problems with food printing is the nature of the texture of a food. For example, foods that are not strong enough to be filed are not appropriate for 3D printing.\n\nAgile tooling is the process of using modular means to design tooling that is produced by additive manufacturing or 3D printing methods to enable quick prototyping and responses to tooling and fixture needs. Agile tooling uses a cost-effective and high-quality method to quickly respond to customer and market needs. It can be used in hydro-forming, stamping, injection molding and other manufacturing processes.\n\nSurgical uses of 3D printing-centric therapies have a history beginning in the mid-1990s with anatomical modeling for bony reconstructive surgery planning. By practicing on a tactile model before surgery, surgeons were more prepared and patients received better care. Patient-matched implants were a natural extension of this work, leading to truly personalized implants that fit one unique individual. Virtual planning of surgery and guidance using 3D printed, personalized instruments have been applied to many areas of surgery including total joint replacement and craniomaxillofacial reconstruction with great success. Further study of the use of models for planning heart and solid organ surgery has led to increased use in these areas. Hospital-based 3D printing is now of great interest and many institutions are pursuing adding this specialty within individual radiology departments. The technology is being used to create unique, patient-matched devices for rare illnesses. One example of this is the bioresorbable trachial splint to treat newborns with tracheobronchomalacia developed at the University of Michigan. Several devices manufacturers have also begin using 3D printing for patient-matched surgical guides (polymers). The use of additive manufacturing for serialized production of orthopedic implants (metals) is also increasing due to the ability to efficiently create porous surface structures that facilitate osseointegration. Printed casts for broken bones can be custom-fitted and open, letting the wearer scratch any itches, wash and ventilate the damaged area. They can also be recycled.\n\nFused filament fabrication (FFF) has been used to create microstructures with a three-dimensional internal geometry. Sacrificial structures or additional support materials are not needed. Structure using polylactic acid (PLA) can have fully controllable porosity in the range 20%–60%. Such scaffolds could serve as biomedical templates for cell culturing, or biodegradable implants for tissue engineering. \n\n3D printing has been used to print patient-specific implant and device for medical use. Successful operations include a titanium pelvis implanted into a British patient, titanium lower jaw transplanted to a Dutch patient, and a plastic tracheal splint for an American infant. The hearing aid and dental industries are expected to be the biggest areas of future development using custom 3D printing technology. In March 2014, surgeons in Swansea used 3D printed parts to rebuild the face of a motorcyclist who had been seriously injured in a road accident. Research is also being conducted on methods to bio-print replacements for lost tissue due to arthritis and cancer .\n\n3D printing technology can now be used to make exact replicas of organs. The printer uses images from patients' MRI or CT scan images as a template and lays down layers of rubber or plastic.\n\nIn 2006, researchers at Cornell University published some of the pioneer work in 3D printing for tissue fabrication, successfully printing hydrogel bio-inks. The work at Cornell was expanded using specialized bioprinters produced by Seraph Robotics, Inc., a university spin-out, which helped to catalyze a global interest in biomedical 3D printing research.\n\n3D printing has been considered as a method of implanting stem cells capable of generating new tissues and organs in living humans. With their ability to transform into any other kind of cell in the human body, stem cells offer huge potential in 3D bioprinting. Professor Leroy Cronin of Glasgow University proposed in a 2012 TED Talk that it was possible to use chemical inks to print medicine.\n\n, 3D bio-printing technology has been studied by biotechnology firms and academia for possible use in tissue engineering applications in which organs and body parts are built using inkjet techniques. In this process, layers of living cells are deposited onto a gel medium or sugar matrix and slowly built up to form three-dimensional structures including vascular systems. The first production system for 3D tissue printing was delivered in 2009, based on NovoGen bioprinting technology. Several terms have been used to refer to this field of research: organ printing, bio-printing, body part printing, and computer-aided tissue engineering, among others. The possibility of using 3D tissue printing to create soft tissue architectures for reconstructive surgery is also being explored.\n\nIn 2013, Chinese scientists began printing ears, livers and kidneys, with living tissue. Researchers in China have been able to successfully print human organs using specialized 3D bioprinters that use living cells instead of plastic . Researchers at Hangzhou Dianzi University designed the \"3D bioprinter\" dubbed the \"Regenovo\". Xu Mingen, Regenovo's developer, said that it can produce a miniature sample of liver tissue or ear cartilage in less than an hour, predicting that fully functional printed organs might take 10 to 20 years to develop.\n\nOn October 24, 2014, a five-year-old girl born without fully formed fingers on her left hand became the first child in the UK to have a prosthetic hand made with 3D printing technology. Her hand was designed by US-based e-NABLE, an open source design organisation which uses a network of volunteers to design and make prosthetics mainly for children. The prosthetic hand was based on a plaster cast made by her parents. A boy named Alex was also born with a missing arm from just above the elbow. The team was able to use 3D printing to upload an e-NABLE Myoelectric arm that runs off of servos and batteries that are actuated by the electromyography muscle. With the use of 3D printers, e-NABLE has so far distributed thousands of plastic hands to children.\n\nPrinted prosthetics have been used in rehabilitation of crippled animals. In 2013, a 3D printed foot let a crippled duckling walk again. In 2014 a chihuahua born without front legs was fitted with a harness and wheels created with a 3D printer. 3D printed hermit crab shells let hermit crabs inhabit a new style home. A prosthetic beak was another tool developed by the use of 3D printing to help aid a bald eagle named Beauty, whose beak was severely mutilated from a shot in the face. Since 2014, commercially available titanium knee implants made with 3D printer for dogs have been used to restore the animals' mobility. Over 10,000 dogs in Europe and the United States have been treated after only one year.\n\nIn February 2015, FDA approved the marketing of a surgical bolt which facilitates less-invasive foot surgery and eliminates the need to drill through bone. The 3D printed titanium device, 'FastForward Bone Tether Plate' is approved to use in correction surgery to treat bunion. In October 2015, the group of Professor Andreas Herrmann at the University of Groningen has developed the first 3D printable resins with antimicrobial properties. Employing stereolithography, quaternary ammonium groups are incorporated into dental appliances that kill bacteria on contact. This type of material can be further applied in medical devices and implants.\n\nOn June 6, 2011, the company Xilloc Medical together with researchers at the University of Hasselt, in Belgium had successfully printed a new jawbone for an 83-year-old Dutch woman from the province of Limburg.\n\n3D printing has been used to produce prosthetic beaks for eagles, a Brazilian goose named Victoria, and a Costa Rican toucan called Grecia.\n\nIn May of 2015 the first pill manufactured by 3D printing was produced. In August 2015 the FDA approved the first 3D printed pill. Binder-jetting into a powder bed of the drug allows very porous pills to be produced, which enables high drug doses in a single pill which dissolves quickly and can be ingested easily. This has been demonstrated for Spritam, a reformulation of levetiracetam for the treatment of epilepsy. \n\n3D printing has entered the world of clothing with fashion designers experimenting with 3D-printed bikinis, shoes, and dresses. In commercial production Nike used 3D printing to prototype and manufacture the 2012 Vapor Laser Talon football shoe for players of American football, and New Balance is 3D manufacturing custom-fit shoes for athletes.\n\n3D printing has come to the point where companies are printing consumer grade eyewear with on-demand custom fit and styling (although they cannot print the lenses). On-demand customization of glasses is possible with rapid prototyping.\n\nHowever, comments have been made in academic circles as to the potential limitation of the human acceptance of such mass customized apparel items due to the potential reduction of brand value communication.\n\nIn the world of high fashion courtiers such as Karl Lagerfeld designing for Chanel, Iris van Herpen and Noa Raviv working with technology from Stratasys, have employed and featured 3d printing in their collections. Selections from theie lines and other working with 3d printing were showcased at\nthe 2016 Metropolitan Museum of Art Anna Wintour Costume Center, exhibition \"Manus X Machina\".\n\n3D printing is used to manufacture moulds for making jewelery, and even the jewelery itself. 3D printing is becoming popular in the customisable gifts industry, with products such as personalized models of art and dolls, in many shapes: in metal or plastic, or as consumable art, such as 3D printed chocolate.\n\nIn early 2014, Swedish supercar manufacturer Koenigsegg announced the One:1, a supercar that utilizes many components that were 3D printed. In the limited run of vehicles Koenigsegg produces, the One:1 has side-mirror internals, air ducts, titanium exhaust components, and complete turbocharger assemblies that were 3D printed as part of the manufacturing process.\n\nUrbee is the name of the first car in the world car mounted using the technology 3D printing (its bodywork and car windows were \"printed\"). Created in 2010 through the partnership between the US engineering group Kor Ecologic and the company Stratasys (manufacturer of printers Stratasys 3D), it is a hybrid vehicle with futuristic look.\n\nIn 2014, Local Motors debuted Strati, a functioning vehicle that was entirely 3D Printed using ABS plastic and carbon fiber, except the powertrain. In 2015, the company produced another iteration known as the LM3D Swim that was 80 percent 3D-printed. In 2016, the company has used 3D printing in the creation of automotive parts, such ones used in Olli, a self-driving vehicle developed by the company.\n\nIn May 2015 Airbus announced that its new Airbus A350 XWB included over 1000 components manufactured by 3D printing.\n\n3D printing is also being utilized by air forces to print spare parts for planes. In 2015, a Royal Air Force Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet flew with printed parts. The United States Air Force has begun to work with 3D printers, and the Israeli Air Force has also purchased a 3D printer to print spare parts.\n\nThe use of 3D printing to produce scale models within architecture and construction has steadily increased in popularity as the cost of 3D printers has reduced. This has enabled faster turn around of such scale models and allowed a steady increase in the speed of production and the complexity of the objects being produced.\n\nConstruction 3D printing, the application of 3D printing to fabricate construction components or entire buildings has been in development since the mid-1990s, development of new technologies has steadily gained pace since 2012 and the sub-sector of 3D printing is beginning to mature. See main article.\n\nIn 2012, the US-based group Defense Distributed disclosed plans to \"[design] a working plastic gun that could be downloaded and reproduced by anybody with a 3D printer.\" Defense Distributed has also designed a 3D printable AR-15 type rifle lower receiver (capable of lasting more than 650 rounds) and a 30-round M16 magazine. The AR-15 has multiple receivers (both an upper and lower receiver), but the legally controlled part is the one that is serialized (the lower, in the AR-15's case). Soon after Defense Distributed succeeded in designing the first working blueprint to produce a plastic gun with a 3D printer in May 2013, the United States Department of State demanded that they remove the instructions from their website. After Defense Distributed released their plans, questions were raised regarding the effects that 3D printing and widespread consumer-level CNC machining may have on gun control effectiveness.\n\nIn 2014, a man from Japan became the first person in the world to be imprisoned for making 3D printed firearms. Yoshitomo Imura posted videos and blueprints of the gun online and was sentenced to jail for two years. Police found at least two guns in his household that were capable of firing bullets.\n\n3D printing can also be used to make laptops and other computers and cases. For example, Novena and VIA OpenBook standard laptop cases. I.e. a Novena motherboard can be bought and be used in a printed VIA OpenBook case.\n\nOpen-source robots are built using 3D printers. Double Robotics grant access to their technology (an open SDK). On the other hand, 3&DBot is an Arduino 3D printer-robot with wheels and ODOI is a 3D printed humanoid robot.\n\n3D printing has found its place in soft sensors and actuators manufacturing inspired by 4D printing concept. The majority of the conventional soft sensors and actuators are fabricated using multistep low yield processes entailing manual fabrication, post-processing/assembly, and lengthy iterations with less flexibility in customization and reproducibility of final products. 3D printing has been a game changer in these fields with introducing the custom geometrical, functional, and control properties to avoid the tedious and time-consuming aspects of the earlier fabrication processes.\n\nThe Zero-G Printer, the first 3D printer designed to operate in zero gravity, was built under a joint partnership between NASA Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) and Made In Space, Inc. In September 2014, SpaceX delivered the zero-gravity 3D printer to the International Space Station (ISS). On December 19, 2014, NASA emailed CAD drawings for a socket wrench to astronauts aboard the ISS, who then printed the tool using its 3D printer. Applications for space offer the ability to print parts or tools on-site, as opposed to using rockets to bring along pre-manufactured items for space missions to human colonies on the moon, Mars, or elsewhere. The second 3D printer in space, the European Space Agency's Portable On-Board 3D Printer (POP3D) was planned to be delivered to the International Space Station before June 2015. In 2016, Digital Trends reported that BeeHex was building a 3D food printer for manned missions to Mars.\n\nMost construction planned on asteroids or planets will be bootstrapped somehow using the materials available on those objects. 3D printing is often one of the steps in this bootstrapping. The Sinterhab project is researching a lunar base constructed by 3D printing using lunar regolith as a base material. Instead of adding a binding agent to the regolith, researchers are experimenting with microwave sintering to create solid blocks from the raw material.\n\nProjects like these have been investigated for construction of off-Earth habitats.\n\nIn 2005, a rapidly expanding hobbyist and home-use market was established with the inauguration of the open-source RepRap and Fab@Home projects. Virtually all home-use 3D printers released to-date have their technical roots in the ongoing RepRap Project and associated open-source software initiatives. In distributed manufacturing, one study has found that 3D printing could become a mass market product enabling consumers to save money associated with purchasing common household objects. For example, instead of going to a store to buy an object made in a factory by injection molding (such as a measuring cup or a funnel), a person might instead print it at home from a downloaded 3D model.\n\nIn 2005, academic journals began to report on the possible artistic applications of 3D printing technology, being used by artists such as Martin John Callanan at The Bartlett school of architecture. By 2007 the mass media followed with an article in the Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine, listing a printed design among their 100 most influential designs of the year. During the 2011 London Design Festival, an installation, curated by Murray Moss and focused on 3D Printing, was held in the Victoria and Albert Museum (the V&A). The installation was called \"Industrial Revolution 2.0: How the Material World will Newly Materialize\".\n\nAt the 3DPrintshow in London, which took place in November 2013 and 2014, the art sections had works made with 3D printed plastic and metal. Several artists such as Joshua Harker, Davide Prete, Sophie Kahn, Helena Lukasova, Foteini Setaki showed how 3D printing can modify aesthetic and art processes. In 2015, engineers and designers at MIT's Mediated Matter Group and Glass Lab created an additive 3D printer that prints with glass, called \"G3DP\". The results can be structural as well as artistic. Transparent glass vessels printed on it are part of some museum collections.\n\nThe use of 3D scanning technologies allows the replication of real objects without the use of moulding techniques that in many cases can be more expensive, more difficult, or too invasive to be performed, particularly for precious artwork or delicate cultural heritage artifacts where direct contact with the moulding substances could harm the original object's surface.\n\nA 3D photo booth such as the Fantasitron located at Madurodam, the miniature park, generates 3D selfie models from 2D pictures of customers. These selfies are often printed by dedicated 3D printing companies such as Shapeways. These models are also known as 3D portraits, 3D figurines or mini-me figurines.\n\nEmploying additive layer technology offered by 3D printing, Terahertz devices which act as waveguides, couplers and bends have been created. The complex shape of these devices could not be achieved using conventional fabrication techniques. Commercially available professional grade printer EDEN 260V was used to create structures with minimum feature size of 100 µm. The printed structures were later DC sputter coated with gold (or any other metal) to create a Terahertz Plasmonic Device.\nIn 2016 artist/scientist Janine Carr Created the first 3d printed vocal percussion (beatbox) as a waveform, with the ability to play the soundwave by laser, along with four vocalised emotions these were also playable by laser.\n\nSome early consumer examples of 3d printing include the 64DD released in 1999 in Japan. As of 2012, domestic 3D printing was mainly practiced by hobbyists and enthusiasts. However, little was used for practical household applications, for example, ornamental objects. Some practical examples include a working clock and gears printed for home woodworking machines among other purposes. Web sites associated with home 3D printing tended to include backscratchers, coat hooks, door knobs, etc.\n\nThe open source Fab@Home project has developed printers for general use. They have been used in research environments to produce chemical compounds with 3D printing technology, including new ones, initially without immediate application as proof of principle. The printer can print with anything that can be dispensed from a syringe as liquid or paste. The developers of the chemical application envisage both industrial and domestic use for this technology, including enabling users in remote locations to be able to produce their own medicine or household chemicals.\n\n3D printing is now working its way into households, and more and more children are being introduced to the concept of 3D printing at earlier ages. The prospects of 3D printing are growing, and as more people have access to this new innovation, new uses in households will emerge.\n\nThe OpenReflex SLR film camera was developed for 3D printing as an open-source student project.\n\n3D printing, and open source 3D printers in particular, are the latest technology making inroads into the classroom. 3D printing allows students to create prototypes of items without the use of expensive tooling required in subtractive methods. Students design and produce actual models they can hold. The classroom environment allows students to learn and employ new applications for 3D printing. RepRaps, for example, have already been used for an educational mobile robotics platform.\n\nSome authors have claimed that 3D printers offer an unprecedented \"revolution\" in STEM education. The evidence for such claims comes from both the low cost ability for rapid prototyping in the classroom by students, but also the fabrication of low-cost high-quality scientific equipment from open hardware designs forming open-source labs. Engineering and design principles are explored as well as architectural planning. Students recreate duplicates of museum items such as fossils and historical artifacts for study in the classroom without possibly damaging sensitive collections. Other students interested in graphic designing can construct models with complex working parts easily. 3D printing gives students a new perspective with topographic maps. Science students can study cross-sections of internal organs of the human body and other biological specimens. And chemistry students can explore 3D models of molecules and the relationship within chemical compounds.\n\nAccording to a recent paper by Kostakis et al., 3D printing and design can electrify various literacies and creative capacities of children in accordance with the spirit of the interconnected, information-based world.\n\nFuture applications for 3D printing might include creating open-source scientific equipment.\n\nIn Bahrain, large-scale 3D printing using a sandstone-like material has been used to create unique coral-shaped structures, which encourage coral polyps to colonize and regenerate damaged reefs. These structures have a much more natural shape than other structures used to create artificial reefs, and, unlike concrete, are neither acid nor alkaline with neutral pH.\n\nIn the last several years 3D printing has been intensively used by in the cultural heritage field for preservation, restoration and dissemination purposes. Many Europeans and North American Museums have purchased 3D printers and actively recreate missing pieces of their relics.\n\nScan the World is the largest archive of 3D printable objects of cultural significance from across the globe. Each object, originating from 3D scan data provided by their community, is optimised for 3D printing and free to download on MyMiniFactory. Through working alongside museums, such as The Victoria and Albert Museum and private collectors, the initiative serves as a platform for democratizing the art object.\n\nThe Metropolitan Museum of Art and the British Museum have started using their 3D printers to create museum souvenirs that are available in the museum shops. Other museums, like the National Museum of Military History and Varna Historical Museum, have gone further and sell through the online platform Threeding digital models of their artifacts, created using Artec 3D scanners, in 3D printing friendly file format, which everyone can 3D print at home.\n\nConsumer grade 3D printing has resulted in new materials that have been developed specifically for 3D printers. For example, filament materials have been developed to imitate wood in its appearance as well as its texture. Furthermore, new technologies, such as infusing carbon fiber into printable plastics, allowing for a stronger, lighter material. In addition to new structural materials that have been developed due to 3D printing, new technologies have allowed for patterns to be applied directly to 3D printed parts. Iron oxide-free Portland cement powder has been used to create architectural structures up to 9 feet in height.\n"}
{"id": "4359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4359", "title": "Boomerang", "text": "Boomerang\n\nA boomerang is a thrown tool, typically constructed as a flat airfoil, that is designed to spin about an axis perpendicular to the direction of its flight. A returning boomerang is designed to return to the thrower. It is well known as a weapon used by Indigenous Australians for hunting.\n\nBoomerangs have been historically used for hunting, as well as sport, and entertainment. They are commonly thought of as an Australian icon, and come in various shapes and sizes.\n\nA boomerang is traditionally a long wooden device, although historically boomerang-like devices have also been made from bones. Modern boomerangs used for sport are often made from thin aircraft plywood, plastics such as ABS, polypropylene, phenolic paper, or even high-tech materials such as carbon fibre-reinforced plastics. Boomerangs come in many shapes and sizes depending on their geographic or tribal origins and intended function. Many people think of a boomerang as the Australian type, although today there are many types of more easily usable boomerangs, such as the cross-stick, the pinwheel, the tumble-stick, the Boomabird and many other less common types.\n\nAn important distinction should be made between returning boomerangs and non-returning boomerangs. Returning boomerangs fly and are examples of the earliest heavier-than-air human-made flight. A returning boomerang has two or more airfoil wings arranged so that the spinning creates unbalanced aerodynamic forces that curve its path so that it travels in an elliptical path and returns to its point of origin when thrown correctly. While a throwing stick can also be shaped overall like a returning boomerang, it is designed to travel as straight as possible so that it can be aimed and thrown with great force to bring down the game. Its surfaces therefore are symmetrical and not uneven like the aerofoils which give the returning boomerang its characteristic curved flight.\n\nThe most recognisable type of the boomerang is the L-shaped returning boomerang; while non-returning boomerangs, throwing sticks (or shaunies) were used as weapons, returning boomerangs have been used primarily for leisure or recreation. Returning boomerangs were also used to decoy birds of prey, thrown above the long grass to frighten game birds into flight and into waiting nets. Modern returning boomerangs can be of various shapes or sizes.\n\nHistorical evidence also points to the use of non-returning boomerangs by the Native Americans of California and Arizona, and inhabitants of southern India for killing birds and rabbits. Indeed, some boomerangs were not thrown at all, but were used in hand to hand combat by Indigenous Australians. Ancient Egyptian examples, however, have been recovered, and experiments have shown that they functioned as returning boomerangs.\n\nBoomerangs can be variously used as hunting weapons, percussive musical instruments, battle clubs, fire-starters, decoys for hunting waterfowl, and as recreational play toys. The smallest boomerang may be less than from tip to tip, and the largest over in length. Tribal boomerangs may be inscribed and/or painted with designs meaningful to their makers. Most boomerangs seen today are of the tourist or competition sort, and are almost invariably of the returning type.\n\nThe origin of the term is mostly certain, but many researchers have different theories on how the word entered into the English vocabulary. One source asserts that the term entered the language in 1827, adapted from an extinct Aboriginal language of New South Wales, Australia, but mentions a variant, \"wo-mur-rang\", which it dates to 1798. The boomerang was first encountered by western people at Farm Cove (Port Jackson), Australia, in December 1804, when a weapon was witnessed during a tribal skirmish:\n\nDavid Collins listed \"Wo-mur-rāng\" as one of eight aboriginal \"Names of clubs\" in 1798. A 1790 anonymous manuscript on aboriginal language of New South Wales reported \"Boo-mer-rit\" as \"the Scimiter\".\n\nIn 1822, it was described in detail and recorded as a \"bou-mar-rang\" in the language of the Turuwal people (a sub-group of the Darug) of the Georges River near Port Jackson. The Turawal used other words for their hunting sticks but used \"boomerang\" to refer to a returning throw-stick.\n\nDepictions of boomerangs being thrown at animals, such as kangaroos, appear in some of the oldest rock art in the world, the Indigenous Australian rock art of the Kimberly region, which is potentially up to 50,000 years old. Stencils and paintings of boomerangs also appear in the rock art of West Papua, including on Bird's Head Peninsula and Kaimana, likely dating to the Last Glacial Maximum, when lower sea levels led to cultural continuity between Papua and Arnhem Land in Northern Australia. The oldest surviving Australian Aboriginal boomerangs come from a cache found in a peat bog in the Wyrie Swamp of South Australia and date to 10,000 BC.\n\nAlthough traditionally thought of as Australian, boomerangs have been found also in ancient Europe, Egypt, and North America. Hunting sticks discovered in Europe seem to have formed part of the Stone Age arsenal of weapons. One boomerang that was discovered in Obłazowa Cave in the Carpathian Mountains in Poland was made of mammoth's tusk and is believed, based on AMS dating of objects found with it, to be about 30,000 years old. In the Netherlands, boomerangs have been found in Vlaardingen and Velsen from the first century BC. King Tutankhamun, the famous Pharaoh of ancient Egypt, who died over 3,300 years ago, owned a collection of boomerangs of both the straight flying (hunting) and returning variety.\n\nNo one knows for sure how the returning boomerang was invented, but some modern boomerang makers speculate that it developed from the flattened throwing stick, still used by the Australian Aborigines and other indigenous peoples around the world, including the Navajo in North America. A hunting boomerang is delicately balanced and much harder to make than a returning one. The curving flight characteristic of returning boomerangs was probably first noticed by early hunters trying to \"tune\" their throwing sticks to fly straight.\n\nToday, boomerangs are mostly used for recreation. There are different types of throwing contests: accuracy of return; Aussie round; trick catch; maximum time aloft; fast catch; and endurance (see below). The modern sport boomerang (often referred to as a 'boom' or 'rang') is made of Finnish birch plywood, hardwood, plastic or composite materials and comes in many different shapes and colours. Most sport boomerangs typically weigh less than , with MTA boomerangs (boomerangs used for the maximum-time-aloft event) often under .\n\nBoomerangs have also been suggested as an alternative to clay pigeons in shotgun sports, where the flight of the boomerang better mimics the flight of a bird offering a more challenging target.\n\nThe modern boomerang is often computer-aided designed with precision airfoils. The number of \"wings\" is often more than 2 as more lift is provided by 3 or 4 wings than by 2.\n\nIn 1992, German astronaut Ulf Merbold performed an experiment aboard Spacelab that established that boomerangs function in zero gravity as they do on Earth. French Astronaut Jean-François Clervoy aboard Mir repeated this in 1997. In 2008, Japanese astronaut Takao Doi again repeated the experiment on board the International Space Station.\n\nTraditionally, most boomerangs used by aboriginal groups in Australia were 'non-returning'. These weapons, sometimes called \"throwsticks\" or \"kylies\", were used for hunting a variety of prey, from kangaroos to parrots; at a range of about , a 2-kg (4.4 lb) non-returning boomerang could inflict mortal injury to a large animal. A throwstick thrown nearly horizontally may fly in a nearly straight path and could fell a kangaroo on impact to the legs or knees, while the long-necked emu could be killed by a blow to the neck. Hooked non-returning boomerangs, known as \"beaked kylies\", used in northern Central Australia, have been claimed to kill multiple birds when thrown into a dense flock. It should be noted that throwsticks are used as multi-purpose tools by today's aboriginal peoples, and besides throwing could be wielded as clubs, used for digging, used to start friction fires, and are sonorous when two are struck together.\n\nA returning boomerang is a rotating wing. Although it is not a requirement that the boomerang be in its traditional shape, it is usually flat. A falling boomerang starts spinning, and most then fall in a spiral. When the boomerang is thrown with high spin, a boomerang flies in a curve rather than a straight line. When thrown correctly, a boomerang returns to its starting point.\n\nReturning boomerangs consist of two or more arms, or wings, connected at an angle. Each wing is shaped as an airfoil.\n\nAs the wing rotates and the boomerang moves through the air, this creates airflow over the wings and this creates lift on both \"wings\". However, during one-half of each blade's rotation, it sees a higher airspeed, because the rotation tip-speed and the forward speed add, and when it is in the other half of the rotation, the tip speed subtracts from the forward speed. Thus if thrown nearly upright each blade generates more lift at the top than the bottom.\n\nWhile it might be expected that this would cause the boomerang to tilt around the axis of travel, because the boomerang has significant angular momentum, gyroscopic effect causes the plane of rotation to tilt about an axis that is 90 degrees to the direction of flight, and this is what curves the flight in such a way that it will tend to return.\n\nThus gyroscopic precession is what makes the boomerang return to the thrower when thrown correctly. This is also what makes the boomerang fly straight up into the air when thrown incorrectly. With the exception of long-distance boomerangs, they should not be thrown sidearm or like a Frisbee, but rather thrown with the long axis of the wings rotating in an almost-vertical plane.\n\nFast Catch boomerangs usually have three or more symmetrical wings (seen from above), whereas a Long Distance boomerang is most often shaped similar to a question mark. Maximum Time Aloft boomerangs mostly have one wing considerably longer than the other. This feature, along with carefully executed bends and twists in the wings help to set up an 'auto-rotation' effect to maximise the boomerang's hover-time in descending from the highest point in its flight.\n\nSome boomerangs have turbulators—bumps or pits on the top surface that act to increase the lift as boundary layer transition activators (to keep attached turbulent flow instead of laminar separation).\n\nThe pattern is placed on the plywood so that the wood grain runs across from the tip of one end of the boomerang to the tip of the other end. Try to get the grain of the outer ply running at 45 degrees to the length of the arms. If there is any warp in the wood, make sure that this produces dihedral on the upper side of the boomerang, i.e., if the airfoil is uppermost and the boomerang is on a flat surface, then the wingtips are raised slightly above the surface. (Any anhedral and the boomerang won't fly.) The pattern is traced on to the boomerang with a pencil. The boomerang shape is cut out of the plywood. This basic cut out is called the blank. An outline is drawn on the top of the blank to show the areas to be shaped for the leading and trailing edges of the wings. The profiles of the wings are shaped. The top of the leading edge of each wing is decreased at a 45° angle, while the rear of the wing is angled down to leave 1–2 mm thick trailing edge. The bottom face of the leading edge is trimmed back slightly. The tips of the wings are shaped down to the same thickness as the trailing edge. The various layers of the plywood serve as an outline that helps the worker achieve equal slopes. A shallow section may also be cut out from the bottom surface of each wing. For example, this might consist of a 5-cm long strip near the wing tip and behind the leading edge. Using progressively finer sandpaper, the surface of the boomerang is smoothed carefully. Check the boomerang for a slight amount of dihedral (2–3 mm) on both wings at this point. If there isn't any, introduce some by heating the boomerang either over a heat source or a brief spell in the microwave oven (about 30 seconds on high) – if the boomerang is just about uncomfortably hot to handle, you've got it just about right. Bend up the tips of the wings and place the boomerang on a flat surface with a coin under each tip and a weight (bag of sugar?) on the elbow of the boomerang. Allow it to cool for twenty minutes or more. After spraying the surface with sanding sealer, the surface is smoothed with fine steel wool. The boomerang is then painted again.\n\nThe boomerang is then thrown several times to check if it works. The extreme subtleties of the aerodynamic forces on the light wooden boomerang make it surprisingly difficult to predict how the finished boomerang will perform. Two apparently identical boomerangs may radically differ in their flight patterns. For example, they may climb uncontrollably, they may fall repeatedly into the ground, they may exhibit long narrow pattern non-returning flight, or display other erratic behaviour. The only sure way to know is to flight-test them. There are several methods to correct problems, for example the wing profiles might be adjusted by additional sanding. Plywood boomerangs may be heated for a short time in a microwave oven which softens the glue between the layers and then can be carefully intentionally warped. Angle of attack of the leading arm and the dingle arm can be adjusted, as can the overall dihedral angle of the wings all with some effect. There are many other esoteric tuning techniques as well. Tuning boomerangs is more of a slowly learned art than a science. The quality of the boomerang is also checked throughout this process. A tuned boomerang should be stored carefully on a flat surface away from too much humidity, direct sunlight, or heat. These conditions can subtly affect the shape of the boomerang and ruin its flight characteristics, and the boomerang will then need to be re-tuned.\n\nThe hunting boomerang is more delicately balanced and is therefore much harder to make than a returning one. When thrown, this type of boomerang needs to develop no unbalanced aerodynamic forces that would affect its flight path, so that it will fly true to the target.\n\nBeginning in the later part of the twentieth century, there has been a bloom in the independent creation of unusually designed art boomerangs. These often have little or no resemblance to the traditional historical ones and on first sight some of these objects often do not look like boomerangs at all. The use of modern thin plywoods and synthetic plastics have greatly contributed to their success. As long as there are somewhere in the object several airfoil contoured surfaces, whether wing shaped or not, these boomerangs can be thrown and will return. Designs are amazingly diverse and can range from animal inspired forms, humorous themes, complex calligraphic and symbolic shapes, to the purely abstract. Painted surfaces are similarly richly diverse.\n\nA right-handed boomerang is thrown with a counter-clockwise spin causing a counter-clockwise flight (as seen from above). Conversely, a left-handed boomerang is constructed as a mirror image with the aerofoils' leading edges on the left side of the wings, as seen from above, causing it to produce lift when circling clockwise. Although appearing symmetrical from a plan view, the leading edges are on opposite edges of the wings (leading and trailing) so as to present the leading edges of the aerofoil to the wind when spinning.\nMost sport boomerangs are in the range of about . The range on most is between . Boomerangs are generally thrown in treeless, large open spaces that are twice as large as the range of the boomerang. A right- or left-handed boomerang can be thrown with either hand, but the flight direction will depend upon the boomerang, not the thrower. Throwing a boomerang with the wrong hand requires a throwing motion that many throwers may find awkward.\n\nThe correct launch orientation makes the boomerang's flight begin by flying into the wind, then having its flight take it through the \"eye of the wind\" and finally returning downwind using the wind's speed to help complete its flight back to the thrower. It is the spin that makes the boomerang return and the strength of throw and spin must be varied according to the speed of the wind – the stronger the wind, the less power is required to provide lift enough to make the return journey. In other words, the stronger the wind, the softer the boomerang is thrown. A light wind of three to five miles per hour is considered ideal. If the wind is strong enough to fly a kite, then it is usually too strong for boomerangs.\n\nA properly thrown boomerang should curve around to the left, climb gently, level out in mid-flight, arc around and descend slowly, and then finish by popping up slightly, hovering, then stalling near the thrower. Ideally, this momentary hovering or stalling will allow the catcher the opportunity to clamp their hands shut horizontally on the boomerang from above and below, sandwiching the centre between their hands.\n\nIn international competition, a \"world cup\" is held every second year. , teams from Germany and the United States dominated international competition. The individual World Champion title was won in 2000, 2002, 2004, 2012 and 2016 by Swiss thrower Manuel Schütz. In 1992, 1998, 2006 and 2008 Fridolin Frost from Germany won the title.\n\nThe team competitions of 2012 and 2014 were won by Boomergang (an international team). World champions were Germany in 2012 and Japan in 2014 for the first time. Boomergang was formed by individuals from several countries, including the Colombian Alejandro Palacio. In 2016 USA became team world champion.\n\nModern boomerang tournaments usually involve some or all of the events listed below In all disciplines the boomerang must travel at least from the thrower. Throwing takes place individually. The thrower stands at the centre of concentric rings marked on an open field.\n\nEvents include:\n\n\n\"Non-discipline record\": Smallest Returning Boomerang: Sadir Kattan of Australia in 1997 with long and wide. This tiny boomerang flew the required , before returning to the accuracy circles on 22 March 1997 at the Australian National Championships.\n\nA boomerang was used to set a Guinness World Record with a throw of 1,401.5 feet (427.2 metres) by David Schummy on at Murrarie Recreation Ground, Australia. This broke the record set by Erin Hemmings who threw an Aerobie 1,333 feet (406.3 metres) on 14 July 2003 at Fort Funston, San Francisco.\n\nLong-distance boomerang throwers aim to have the boomerang go the furthest possible distance while returning close to the throwing point. In competition the boomerang must intersect an imaginary surface defined as an infinite vertical extrude of a large line centred on the thrower. Outside of competitions, the definition is not so strict, and the thrower is happy whenever he/she does not have to travel after the throw, to recover the boomerang.\n\nLong-distance boomerangs are optimised to have minimal drag while still having enough lift to fly and return. For this reason, they have a very narrow throwing window, which discourages many beginners from continuing with this discipline. For the same reason, the quality of manufactured long-distance boomerangs is often non-deterministic.\n\nToday's long-distance boomerangs have almost all an \"S\" or \"? – question mark\" shape and have a beveled edge on both sides (the bevel on the bottom side is sometimes called an undercut). This is to minimise drag and lower the lift. Lift must be low because the boomerang is thrown with an almost total layover (flat). Long-distance boomerangs are most frequently made of composite material, mainly fibre glass epoxy composites.\n\nThe projection of the flight path of long-distance boomerang on the ground resembles a water drop. For older types of long-distance boomerangs (all types of so-called big hooks), the first and last third of the flight path are very low, while the middle third is a fast climb followed by a fast descent. Nowadays, boomerangs are made in a way that their whole flight path is almost planar with a constant climb during the first half of the trajectory and then a rather constant descent during the second half.\n\nFrom theoretical point of view, distance boomerangs are interesting also for the following reason: for achieving a different behaviour during different flight phases, the ratio of the rotation frequency to the forward velocity has a U-shaped function, i.e., its derivative crosses 0. Practically, it means that the boomerang being at the furthest point has a very low forward velocity. The kinetic energy of the forward component is then stored in the potential energy. This is not true for other types of boomerangs, where the loss of kinetic energy is non-reversible (the MTAs also store kinetic energy in potential energy during the first half of the flight, but then the potential energy is lost directly by the drag).\n\nIn Noongar language, \"kylie\" is a flat curved piece of wood similar in appearance to a boomerang that is thrown when hunting for birds and animals.\n\"Kylie\" is one of the Aboriginal words for the hunting stick used in warfare and for hunting animals. Instead of following curved flight paths, kylies fly in straight lines from the throwers. They are typically much larger than boomerangs, and can travel very long distances; due to their size and hook shapes, they can cripple or kill an animal or human opponent. The word is perhaps an English corruption of a word meaning \"boomerang\" taken from one of the Western Desert languages, for example, the Warlpiri word \"karli\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58721", "title": "Chemical industry", "text": "Chemical industry\n\nThe chemical industry comprises the companies that produce industrial chemicals. Central to the modern world economy, it converts raw materials (oil, natural gas, air, water, metals, and minerals) into more than 70,000 different products.\n\nThe plastics industry contains some overlap, as most chemical companies produce plastic as well as other chemicals.\n\nAlthough chemicals were made and used throughout history, the birth of the heavy chemical industry (production of chemicals in large quantities for a variety of uses) coincided with the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution in general.\n\nOne of the first chemicals to be produced in large amounts through industrial processes was sulphuric acid. In 1736, the pharmacist Joshua Ward developed a process for its production that involved heating saltpeter, allowing the sulfur to oxidize and combine with water. It was the first practical production of sulphuric acid on a large scale. John Roebuck and Samuel Garbett were the first to establish a large-scale factory in Prestonpans, Scotland, in 1749, which used leaden condensing chambers for the manufacture of sulfuric acid.\nIn the early 18th century, cloth was bleached by treating it with stale urine or sour milk and exposing it to sunlight for long periods of time, which created a severe bottleneck in production. Sulfuric acid began to be used as a more efficient agent as well as lime by the middle of the century, but it was the discovery of bleaching powder by Charles Tennant that spurred the creation of the first great chemical industrial enterprise. His powder was made by reacting chlorine with dry slaked lime and proved to be a cheap and successful product. He opened a factory in St Rollox, north of Glasgow, and production went from just 52 tons in 1799 to almost 10,000 tons just five years later.\n\nSoda ash was used since ancient times in the production of glass, textile, soap, and paper, and the source of the potash had traditionally been wood ashes in Western Europe. By the 18th century, this source was becoming uneconomical due to deforestation, and the French Academy of Sciences offered a prize of 2400 livres for a method to produce alkali from sea salt (sodium chloride). The Leblanc process was patented in 1791 by Nicolas Leblanc who then built a Leblanc plant at Saint-Denis. He was denied his prize money because of the French Revolution.\n\nHowever, it was in Britain that the Leblanc process really took off. William Losh built the first soda works in Britain at the Losh, Wilson and Bell works on the River Tyne in 1816, but it remained on a small scale due to large tariffs on salt production until 1824. When these tariffs were repealed, the British soda industry was able to rapidly expand. James Muspratt's chemical works in Liverpool and Charles Tennant's complex near Glasgow became the largest chemical production centres anywhere. By the 1870s, the British soda output of 200,000 tons annually exceeded that of all other nations in the world combined.\nThese huge factories began to produce a greater diversity of chemicals as the Industrial Revolution matured. Originally, large quantities of alkaline waste were vented into the environment from the production of soda, provoking one of the first pieces of environmental legislation to be passed in 1863. This provided for close inspection of the factories and imposed heavy fines on those exceeding the limits on pollution. Methods were soon devised to make useful byproducts from the alkali.\n\nThe Solvay process was developed by the Belgian industrial chemist Ernest Solvay in 1861. In 1864, Solvay and his brother Alfred constructed a plant in the Belgian town of Charleroi and in 1874, they expanded into a larger plant in Nancy, France. The new process proved more economical and less polluting than the Leblanc method, and its use spread. In the same year, Ludwig Mond visited Solvay to acquire the rights to use his process, and he and John Brunner formed the firm of Brunner, Mond & Co., and built a Solvay plant at Winnington, England. Mond was instrumental in making the Solvay process a commercial success; he made several refinements between 1873 and 1880 that removed byproducts that could slow or halt the mass production of sodium carbonate through use of the process.\n\nThe late 19th century saw an explosion in both the quantity of production and the variety of chemicals that were manufactured. Large chemical industries also took shape in Germany and later in the United States.\nProduction of artificial manufactured fertilizer for agriculture was pioneered by Sir John Lawes at his purpose-built Rothamsted Research facility. In the 1840s he established large works near London for the manufacture of superphosphate of lime. Processes for the vulcanization of rubber were patented by Charles Goodyear in the United States and Thomas Hancock in England in the 1840s. The first synthetic dye was discovered by William Henry Perkin in London. He partly transformed aniline into a crude mixture which, when extracted with alcohol, produced a substance with an intense purple colour. He also developed the first synthetic perfumes. However, it was German industry that quickly began to dominate the field of synthetic dyes. The three major firms BASF, Bayer and Hoechst produced several hundred different dyes, and by 1913, the German industry produced almost 90 percent of the world supply of dyestuffs and sold about 80 percent of their production abroad. In the United States, Herbert Henry Dow's use of electrochemistry to produce chemicals from brine was a commercial success that helped to promote the country's chemical industry.\n\nThe petrochemical industry can be traced back to the oil works of James Young in Scotland and Abraham Pineo Gesner in Canada. The first plastic was invented by Alexander Parkes, an English metallurgist. In 1856, he patented Parkesine, a celluloid based on nitrocellulose treated with a variety of solvents. This material, exhibited at the 1862 London International Exhibition, anticipated many of the modern aesthetic and utility uses of plastics. The industrial production of soap from vegetable oils was started by William Lever and his brother James in 1885 in Lancashire based on a modern chemical process invented by William Hough Watson that used glycerin and vegetable oils.\n\nBy the 1920s, chemical firms consolidated into large conglomerates; IG Farben in Germany, Rhône-Poulenc in France and Imperial Chemical Industries in Britain. Dupont became a major chemicals firm in the early 20th century in America.\n\nCurrently chemical production is a high-tech industry, where the competitiveness is more based on capacity in investment on research and development than the labour cost.\n\n\"Polymers and plastics, especially polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate, polystyrene and polycarbonate comprise about 80% of the industry’s output worldwide\". These materials are often converted to fluoropolymer tubing products and used by the industry to transport highly corrosive materials. Chemicals are used in a lot of different consumer goods, but they are also used in a lot of different other sectors; including agriculture manufacturing, construction, and service industries. Major industrial customers include rubber and plastic products, textiles, apparel, petroleum refining, pulp and paper, and primary metals. Chemicals are nearly a $3 trillion global enterprise, and the EU and U.S. chemical companies are the world's largest producers.\n\nSales of the chemical business can be divided into a few broad categories, including basic chemicals (about 35 to 37 percent of the dollar output), life sciences (30 percent), specialty chemicals (20 to 25 percent) and consumer products (about 10 percent).\n\nPolymers, the largest revenue segment at about 33 percent of the basic chemicals dollar value, includes all categories of plastics and man-made fibers. The major markets for plastics are packaging, followed by home construction, containers, appliances, pipe, transportation, toys, and games. \nThe principal raw materials for polymers are bulk petrochemicals.\n\nChemicals in the bulk petrochemicals and intermediates are primarily made from liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), natural gas, and crude oil. Their sales volume is close to 30 percent of overall basic chemicals. \nTypical large-volume products include ethylene, propylene, benzene, toluene, xylenes, methanol, vinyl chloride monomer (VCM), styrene, butadiene, and ethylene oxide. These basic or commodity chemicals are the starting materials used to manufacture many polymers and other more complex organic chemicals particularly those that are made for use in the specialty chemicals category (see below).\n\nOther derivatives and basic industrials include synthetic rubber, surfactants, dyes and pigments, turpentine, resins, carbon black, explosives, and rubber products and contribute about 20 percent of the basic chemicals' external sales.\n\nInorganic chemicals (about 12 percent of the revenue output) make up the oldest of the chemical categories. Products include salt, chlorine, caustic soda, soda ash, acids (such as nitric acid, phosphoric acid, and sulfuric acid), titanium dioxide, and hydrogen peroxide.\n\nFertilizers are the smallest category (about 6 percent) and include phosphates, ammonia, and potash chemicals.\n\nLife sciences (about 30 percent of the dollar output of the chemistry business) include differentiated chemical and biological substances, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, animal health products, vitamins, and pesticides. While much smaller in volume than other chemical sectors, their products tend to have very high prices—over ten dollars per pound—growth rates of 1.5 to 6 times GDP, and research and development spending at 15 to 25 percent of sales. Life science products are usually produced with very high specifications and are closely scrutinized by government agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration. Pesticides, also called \"crop protection chemicals\", are about 10 percent of this category and include herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides.\n\nSpecialty chemicals are a category of relatively high valued, rapidly growing chemicals with diverse end product markets. Typical growth rates are one to three times GDP with prices over a dollar per pound. They are generally characterized by their innovative aspects. Products are sold for what they can do rather than for what chemicals they contain. Products include electronic chemicals, industrial gases, adhesives and sealants as well as coatings, industrial and institutional cleaning chemicals, and catalysts. In 2012, excluding fine chemicals, the $546 billion global speciality chemical market was 33% Paints, Coating and Surface Treatments, 27% Advanced Polymer, 14% Adhesives and Sealants, 13% additives and 13% pigments and inks.\n\nSpeciality chemicals are sold as effect or performance chemicals. Sometimes they are mixtures of formulations, unlike \"fine chemicals,\" which are almost always single-molecule products.\n\nConsumer products include direct product sale of chemicals such as soaps, detergents, and cosmetics. Typical growth rates are 0.8 to 1.0 times GDP.\n\nConsumers rarely if ever come into contact with basic chemicals but polymers and speciality chemicals are the materials that they will encounter everywhere in their everyday lives, such as in plastics, cleaning materials, cosmetics, paints & coatings, electronic gadgets, automobiles and the materials used to construct their homes. These speciality products are marketed by chemical companies to the downstream manufacturing industries as pesticides, speciality polymers, electronic chemicals, surfactants, construction chemicals, Industrial Cleaners, flavours and fragrances, speciality coatings, printing inks, water-soluble polymers, food additives, paper chemicals, oil field chemicals, plastic adhesives, adhesives and sealants, cosmetic chemicals, water management chemicals, catalysts, textile chemicals. Chemical companies rarely supply these products directly to the consumer.\n\nEvery year, the American Chemistry Council tabulates the U.S. production volume of the top 100 chemicals.In 2000, the aggregate production volume of the top 100 chemicals totalled 502 million tons, up from 397 million tons in 1990. \nInorganic chemicals tend to be the largest volume, though much smaller in dollar revenue terms due to their low prices. The top 11 of the 100 chemicals in 2000 were sulfuric acid (44 million tons), nitrogen (34), ethylene (28), oxygen (27), lime (22), ammonia (17), propylene (16), polyethylene (15), chlorine (13), phosphoric acid (13) and diammonium phosphates (12).\n\nThe largest chemical producers today are global companies with international operations and plants in numerous countries. A list of the top 25 chemical companies by chemical sales in 2015 appears below. (Note: Chemical sales represent only a portion of total sales for some companies.)\n\nTop chemical companies by chemical sales in 2015.\n\nFrom the perspective of chemical engineers, the chemical industry involves the use of chemical processes such as chemical reactions and refining methods to produce a wide variety of solid, liquid, and gaseous materials. Most of these products serve to manufacture other items, although a smaller number go directly to consumers. Solvents, pesticides, lye, washing soda, and portland cement provide a few examples of product used by consumers.\n\nThe industry includes manufacturers of inorganic- and organic-industrial chemicals, ceramic products, petrochemicals, agrochemicals, polymers and rubber (elastomers), oleochemicals (oils, fats, and waxes), explosives, fragrances and flavors. Examples of these products are shown in the Table below.\nAlthough the pharmaceutical industry is often considered a chemical industry , it has many different characteristics that puts it in a separate category. Other closely related industries include petroleum, glass, paint, ink, sealant, adhesive, and food processing manufacturers.\n\nChemical processes such as chemical reactions operate in chemical plants to form new substances in various types of reaction vessels. In many cases the reactions take place in special corrosion-resistant equipment at elevated temperatures and pressures with the use of catalysts. The products of these reactions are separated using a variety of techniques including distillation especially fractional distillation, precipitation, crystallization, adsorption, filtration, sublimation, and drying.\n\nThe processes and product or products are usually tested during and after manufacture by dedicated instruments and on-site quality control laboratories to ensure safe operation and to assure that the product will meet required specifications. More organizations within the industry are implementing chemical compliance software to maintain quality products and manufacturing standards. The products are packaged and delivered by many methods, including pipelines, tank-cars, and tank-trucks (for both solids and liquids), cylinders, drums, bottles, and boxes. Chemical companies often have a research-and-development laboratory for developing and testing products and processes. These facilities may include pilot plants, and such research facilities may be located at a site separate from the production plant(s).\n\nThe scale of chemical manufacturing tends to be organized from largest in volume (petrochemicals and commodity chemicals), to specialty chemicals, and the smallest, fine chemicals.\n\nThe petrochemical and commodity chemical manufacturing units are on the whole single product continuous processing plants. Not all petrochemical or commodity chemical materials are made in one single location, but groups of related materials often are to induce industrial symbiosis as well as material, energy and utility efficiency and other economies of scale.\n\nThose chemicals made on the largest of scales are made in a few manufacturing locations around the world, for example in Texas and Louisiana along the Gulf Coast of the United States, on Teesside in the Northeast of England in the United Kingdom, and in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. The large scale manufacturing locations often have clusters of manufacturing units that share utilities and large scale infrastructure such as power stations, port facilities, road and rail terminals. To demonstrate the clustering and integration mentioned above, some 50% of the United Kingdom's petrochemical and commodity chemicals are produced by the Northeast of England Process Industry Cluster on Teesside.\nSpecialty chemical and fine chemical manufacturing are mostly made in discrete batch processes. These manufacturers are often found in similar locations but in many cases they are to be found in multi sector business parks.\n\nIn the U.S. there are 170 major chemical companies.They operate internationally with more than 2,800 facilities outside the U.S. and 1,700 foreign subsidiaries or affiliates operating. The U.S. chemical output is $750 billion a year. The U.S. industry records large trade surpluses and employs more than a million people in the United States alone. The chemical industry is also the second largest consumer of energy in manufacturing and spends over $5 billion annually on pollution abatement.\n\nIn Europe the chemical, plastics and rubber sectors are among the largest industrial sectors. Together they generate about 3.2 million jobs in more than 60,000 companies. Since 2000 the chemical sector alone has represented 2/3 of the entire manufacturing trade surplus of the EU.\n\nin 2012 The chemical sector accounted for 12% of the EU manufacturing industry's added value. Europe remains world’s biggest chemical trading region with 43% of the world’s exports and 37%of the world’s imports, although the latest data shows that Asia is catching up with 34% of the exports and 37% of imports. Even so, Europe still has a trading surplus with all regions of the world except Japan and China where in 2011 there was a chemical trade balance. Europe’s trade surplus with the rest of the world today amounts to 41.7 billion Euros.\n\nOver the 20 years between 1991 and 2011 the European Chemical industry saw its sales increase 295 billion Euros to 539 billion Euros a picture of constant growth. Despite this the European industry’s share of the world chemical market has fallen from 36% to 20%. This has resulted from the huge increase production and sales in the emerging markets like India and China. The data suggest that 95% of this impact is from China alone. In 2012 the data from the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC)shows that 5 European countries account for 71% of the EU's chemicals sales. These are Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy and the Netherlands.\n\nThe chemical industry has shown rapid growth for more than fifty years. The fastest-growing areas have involved the manufacture of synthetic organic polymers used as plastics, fibres and elastomers. Historically and presently the chemical industry has been concentrated in three areas of the world, Western Europe, North America and Japan (the Triad). The European Community remains the largest producer area followed by the US and Japan.\n\nThe traditional dominance of chemical production by the Triad countries is being challenged by changes in feedstock availability and price, labour cost, energy cost, differential rates of economic growth and environmental pressures. Instrumental in the changing structure of the global chemical industry has been the growth in China, India, Korea, the Middle East, South East Asia, Nigeria, and Brazil.\n\nJust as companies emerge as the main producers of the chemical industry, we can also look on a more global scale to how industrialized countries rank, with regards to the billions of dollars worth of production a country or region could export. Though the business of chemistry is worldwide in scope, the bulk of the world’s $3.7 trillion chemical output is accounted for by only a handful of industrialized nations. The United States alone produced $689 billion, 18.6 percent of the total world chemical output in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21688403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21688403", "title": "Conical mill", "text": "Conical mill\n\nA conical mill (or conical screen mill) is a machine used to reduce the size of material in a uniform manner. It is an alternative to the hammermill or other forms of grinding mills. As the name implies, the conical mill varies in diameter from where the feed enters to where the product exits. \n\nThe conical mill operates by having the product being fed into the mill by gravity or vacuum. A rotating impeller forces the material outward to a conical screen surface, where it is sized and passed through the openings in the screen. Once finished, the product simply drops through the milling chamber to a receptacle underneath.\n\nConical mills come in a variety of sizes from tabletop lab models to full-size high-capacity machines for use in processing large quantities of material, and the impeller and screen can be customized for each individual use. The machines can be used not only to reduce the size of particles, but also for deagglomeration, sieving, dispersion, and mixing.\n\nThe applications for a conical mill are varied, but trend towards use in the food, cosmetic, chemical, and pharmaceutical industries:\n\nThe conical mill has some marked advantages over the hammermill, especially in the pharmaceutical industry: low noise, heat and dust, a more uniform particle size, flexibility in design, and higher capacity.\n\nThe concept of the conical mill was created in 1976 by the engineers of Quadro Engineering, who remains the foremost manufacturer of conical mills. Conical mills are available in Ex- execution with a variety of sieves and impellers. The mill head can be mounted on a mobile lifter which allows for easy up and down movement for docking into containers, tablet presses and others. The mill head is dismounted from a lifter for easy cleaning.\n\n"}
{"id": "374385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374385", "title": "Creative problem-solving", "text": "Creative problem-solving\n\nCreative problem-solving is the mental process of searching for an original and previously unknown solution to a problem. To qualify, the solution must be novel and reached independently.\n\nThe process of creative problem-solving usually begins with defining the problem. This may lead to finding a simple non-creative solution, a textbook solution, or discovering prior solutions developed by other individuals. If the discovered solution is sufficient, the process may then be abandoned.\n\nA creative solution will often have distinct characteristics that include using only existing components, or the problematic factor, as the basis for the solution. However, a change of perspective may in many cases be helpful. A solution may also be considered creative if readily available components can be used to solve the problem within a short time limit (factors typical to the solutions employed by the title character in the television series MacGyver).\n\nIf a creative solution has broad application – that is, uses that go beyond the original intent –, it may be referred to as an innovative solution, or an innovation (some innovations may also be considered an invention).\nMany techniques and tools employed for creating effective solutions to a problem are described in creativity techniques and problem-solving articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30905649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30905649", "title": "Cyber City, Kochi", "text": "Cyber City, Kochi\n\nCyber City, Kochi, also known as HDIL Cyber City, is a proposed Special Economic Zone information technology park in the city of Kochi, Kerala, India. It is promoted by HDIL and is located near HMT at Kalamassery. The SEZ will be built over a land area of . Construction was expected to start on 17 February 2011, and the first phase was scheduled to be within two years. The current status of the project is uncertain as the work never commenced as planned.\n\nAccording to the rules governing a Special Economic Zone, 70% of the built-up area will be processing area for IT and ITES business, primarily for export. The remaining 30 per cent is categorised as a non-processing zone and will feature shopping malls, convention centres, apartment complexes and other lifestyle needs, developing it into a full-fledged township.\n\nThe first phase consists of a built-up space of , to be built in two years. Once completed, it will house a built-up space of .\n\nThe planned township is on 70 acres of land bought from HMT. It is located 17 km from the city centre and 22 km from the International Airport, among an area where a number of other similar developments are being planned. the distance to NH 47 is 5 km.\n\nThe VSNL’s communication gateway is located less than 7 km from the park. This gateway handles around 70% of the country’s data traffic. The proximity to the SAFE and SEA-ME-WE 3 cables dropping zone and direct optical fibre link to the gigabyte router of VSNL, enables the park to offer 100% uptime data connectivity to units. Kochi offers Pacific and Atlantic route of connectivity to the US.\n\n70% of the built up area of the township will be used for IT and ITES industries. The remaining 30% will be non processing area, used for residential, commercial and entertainment purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50312404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50312404", "title": "DediProg Technology Co.,Ltd", "text": "DediProg Technology Co.,Ltd\n\nDediProg is an IC programmer manufacturer founded in Taiwan, which research and develop on the electrical engineering tools and systems, including Engineering IC Programmers, gang programmers, Automatic IC Programming System, etc. Also provides IC Programming Service of markings, testing, and encrptions, which has obtained ISO9001:2008 cerfication.\n\nThe Taipei headquarter founded in 2005, and has offices in ShangHai and the United States. The company has received a reward of \"TVman Wireless DTV Tuner\" at the 18th Taiwan SMEs Innovation Award　DediProg is now focusing on manufactures IC programmers and automatic IC programming systems.\n\nDediProg Website \n\nDediProg Releases Automated IC Programming System, DP2000: Produces High Throughput and Supports Small IC Packages\n\nDediProg Videos\n"}
{"id": "16166875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16166875", "title": "Design Eye Position", "text": "Design Eye Position\n\nIn the design of human-machine user interfaces (HMIs or UIs), the Design Eye Position (DEP) is the position from which the user is intended to view the workstation for an optimal view of the visual interface. The Design Eye Position represents the ideal but notional location of the operator's view and is usually expressed as a monocular point midway between the pupils of the average user. The DEP may also allow for a standardisation of monocular and binocular \"Field of View\" and may be integrated into the CAD/CAM design system used to define the workstation build.\n\nThe DEP is particularly important in those operator workstations, such as the cockpit of a military fast jet, where an accurate reading of information and symbols on displays may be critical. When designing such user interfaces the DEP is used as the reference point for the location of items (e.g. displays or controls) within the interface.\n\nWith collimated displays, such of the cockpit Head Up Display, the projected symbology is aligned very precisely with the outside world to allow for precise delivery of weapons and also for safe landing. Unless located at the Design Eye Position the pilot cannot see the symbology as it is effectively focussed at infinity. Similarly, Head Down Displays will usually be angled precisely towards the DEP so that all symbols may be equally visible to the pilot without parallax or other display distortion errors.\n\nPilots who are below or above the 50% percentile point for sitting height, i.e. not of average stature, may need to adjust the seat in order to attain the DEP, even if this means compromising their optimal reach envelope. This is why, for example, rudder pedals may need to be adjustable.\n\n"}
{"id": "18567298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18567298", "title": "Digital pattern generator", "text": "Digital pattern generator\n\nA digital pattern generator is a piece of electronic test equipment or software used to generate digital electronics stimuli. Digital electronics stimuli are a specific kind of electrical waveform varying between two conventional voltages that correspond to two logic states (\"low state\" and \"high state\", \"0\" and \"1\"). The main purpose of a digital pattern generator is to stimulate the inputs of a digital electronic device. For that reason, the voltage levels generated by a digital pattern generator are often compatible with digital electronics I/O standards – TTL, LVTTL, LVCMOS and LVDS, for instance.\nDigital pattern generators are sometimes referred to as \"pulse generator\" or \"pulse pattern generator\" which may be able to function as digital pattern generators as well. Hence, the distinction between the two types of equipment may not be clear. A digital pattern generator is a source of synchronous digital stimulus; the generated signal is interesting for testing digital electronics at logic level - this is why they are also called \"logic source\". A pulse generator is of purpose to generate electrical pulse of different shapes; they are mostly used for tests at an electrical or analog level.\nAnother common name for such equipment is \"digital logic source\" or \"logic source\".\n\nDigital pattern generator can produce either repetitive, or single-shot signals in which case some kind of triggering source is required (internal or external).\n\nDigital pattern generators are today available as stand-alone units, add-on hardware modules for other equipment such as a [logic analyzer] or as PC-based equipment.\n\nStand-alone units are self-contained devices that include everything from the user interface to define the patterns that should be generated to the electronic equipment that actually generates the output signal.\n\nSome test equipment manufacturers propose pattern generators as add-on modules for logic analyzers (see for example the PG3A module for Tektronix' TLA7000 series of logic analyzers). In this case, the pattern generator is the \"generation counterpart\" to the analysis functionality offered by logic analyzers.\n\nPC-based digital pattern generators are connected to a PC through peripheral ports such as PCI, USB and/or Ethernet (see for example the \"Wave Generator Xpress\" from Byte Paradigm, connected through USB). They use the PC as user interface for defining and storing the digital patterns to be sent.\n\nDigital pattern generators are primarily characterized by a number of digital channels, a maximum rate and the supported voltage standards.\n\nMost digital pattern generator add features such as the ability to generate a repetitive sequence or a digital clock signal at a specified frequency, the ability to use an external clock input and triggering options, to start pattern generation upon the reception of an event from an external input.\n\n\nVideo digital pattern generators are digital pattern generators dedicated to the generation of a specific test pattern in a specific digital video format such as DVI or HDMI.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27639784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27639784", "title": "Dipper well", "text": "Dipper well\n\nA dipper well is a perpetual-flow sink often used in coffeehouses and ice cream shops to rinse utensils. Ice cream scoops and other food-preparation utensils can be placed under the continuous stream in order to remove allergens and protect against bacterial growth. Most dipper wells have a single spigot and can be adjusted for both hot and cold water use. As largely a commercial appliance, dipper well valves are typically kept at full flow during all serving hours. Dipper wells have also been used as key components in pharmacological experimentation.\n\nThe dipper well has been criticized in the United States as wasteful since on average it pumps of water an hour and is normally left running continuously. Because its potential for water waste is counteracted by a potential for increased sanitation, most health regulations do not prohibit or mandate dipper wells. It was estimated in 1988 that a dipper well running 12 hours a day in a single business could use up to of water yearly. It was found that some establishments, however, left dipper wells running even while the business was closed.\n\nStarbucks Corporation, for example, was targeted in 2008 for wasting over of water daily through use of dipper wells. The company's health and safety regulations prohibited the immediate shut-off of Starbucks dipper wells in order to prevent the breeding of pathogens, but meanwhile continued work towards environmentally friendly washing alternatives.\n"}
{"id": "216967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216967", "title": "Distributed Management Task Force", "text": "Distributed Management Task Force\n\nThe Distributed Management Task Force (DMTF) is a computer software trade group which works to simplify the manageability of network-accessible technologies.\n\nThe DMTF creates open manageability standards spanning diverse emerging and traditional IT infrastructures including cloud, virtualization, network, servers and storage. Member companies and alliance partners worldwide collaborate on standards to improve the interoperable management of information technologies.\n\nThe DMTF board of directors is led by technology companies including: Broadcom Inc., CA Technologies, Dell Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Hitachi, Ltd., HP Inc., Intel Corporation, Lenovo, NetApp, Software AG, Vertiv and VMware.\n\nDMTF standards include:\n\nWithin the VMAN initiative, there are several specifications and profiles:\n\n\nCIM related standards are also developed outside of the DMTF. Some examples are:\n\nCIM and WBEM are supported by a large number of products and open source projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "21538523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538523", "title": "EN 1063", "text": "EN 1063\n\nEN 1063, or CEN 1063, is a security glazing standard created by the European Committee for Standardization for measuring the protective strength of bullet-resistant glass. It is commonly used in conjunction with EN 1522 (Euronorm standard for Bullet Resistance in Windows, Doors, Shutters and Blinds) to form a ballistic classification system by which armored vehicles and structures are tested and rated. A similar classification system primarily used in the United States is NIJ Standard 0108, the U.S. National Institute of Justice's Standard for Ballistic Resistant Protective Materials which includes glass and armor plate.\n\nThe protective strength of a glazed shielding is rated based on the type of munitions, or threat level, it is capable of withstanding. There are 7 main standard threat levels: BR1-BR7 (also written as B1-B7), each corresponding to a different type of small arms fire. Additionally, there are two other threat levels (SG1 & SG2) corresponding to shotgun munitions.\n\nTo be given a particular rating, the glazing must stop the bullet for the specified number of strikes, with multiple strikes placed within 120mm of each other. The glazing should also be shatterproof and produce no spalls after each strike. Lastly, the classification levels are numbered in order of increasing protective strength. Thus any sample complying with the requirements of one class also complies with the requirements of previous classes. However, the SG (shotgun) classes do not necessarily comply with BR classes.\n\nThe precise test requirements and bullet types used are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "44226082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44226082", "title": "Employee experience design", "text": "Employee experience design\n\nEmployee experience design (EED or EXD) is the application of experience design in order to intentionally designing HR products, services, events, and organizational environments with a focus on the quality of the employee experience and organizationally relevant solutions.\n\nEED can be described as the \"intentional design of the active or passive use of HR products or services\", and employee experiences in general, that affect employees' emotional reaction and therefore their particular behaviors and loyalty.\n\nThe underlying assumption is that best (customer/employee) relationships are emotional in nature and achieved when companies succeed in not only satisfying certain needs (e.g. compensation), but also making interactions pleasurable.\n\nThe goal is to yield better customer experience through increased employee engagement and employee empowerment. Following Krippendorf, EED focuses on creating meaningful and sense-making opportunities for engagement, and addressing aspirational and fundamental psychological needs of an employee, such as autonomy, competence and relatedness.\n\nRelated to design strategy, EED is a participatory systems approach to workplace improvements that applies methods and principles of experience design, such as design thinking, co-creation and empathic design. It also uses tools and techniques that are typical to customer experience management and service design, e.g. employee experience journey mapping or touchpoint analysis.\n\nPrimary design object is the employee experience, which – when successful – an employee finds unique, memorable and sustainable over time, would want to repeat and build upon, and enthusiastically promotes via word of mouth. It is suspected to encourage loyalty by creating an emotional connection through engaging, compelling, and consistent context. The categories for employee experience design context are products, processes, artefacts, content, space and interactions.\n\nHuman resource management, operating across hierarchies and departments, plays a central role in design, distribution and delivery of EED. As co-creation is an important design principle, it is a shared task and joint responsibility of leadership, HR professionals and employees. Following the logic of the service-profit chain, beneficiaries are also customers, as the recipients of improved service quality and the organization itself through increased profits.\n"}
{"id": "31322247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31322247", "title": "Energy and facility management software", "text": "Energy and facility management software\n\nEnergy and facility management software is a term used to refer to an enterprise-wide platform for handling technical data related to buildings and stems from the merger of EMS (energy management software), CAFM (Computer Aided Facility Management) and EAS (Energy Accounting Software). As such it involves the gathering and processing or information that is required for maintaining acceptable indoor comfort level while minimizing energy use.\n\nAn EFMS serves a dual purpose:\n\n\nTo achieve its purpose an EFMS integrates several informational classes in a common processing environment, mainly:\n\n\nAn EFMS should be consisted of at least the following modules:\n\n\nThe processes performed in an EFMS fall under the categories of:\n\nApplications of integrated EFMS suites will benefit mostly organizations with either very large and busy facilities, such as malls, hotel complexes and transportation hubs the complexity of which challenges operational efficiency and organizations with many buildings dispersed across remote locations such as retail chains, restaurant chains, banks and food store chains which operate medium-sized buildings that stretch facility management operations to high costs.\n\nCommercial property managers that plan and manage energy efficiency projects generally use a software platform to perform energy audits and to collaborate with contractors to understand their full range of options. The Department of Energy (DOE) Software Directory describes EnergyActio software, a cloud based platform designed for this purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "26827442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827442", "title": "Engineering duty officer", "text": "Engineering duty officer\n\nAn engineering duty officer (EDO) is a restricted line officer in the United States Navy, involved with the design, acquisition, construction, repair, maintenance, conversion, overhaul and disposal of ships, submarines, aircraft carriers, and the systems installed aboard (weapons, command and control, communications, computers). As of August 1, 2016, there are approximately 835 engineering duty officers on active duty in the U.S. Navy, representing approximately 2 percent of its active-duty commissioned officers (and approximately 400 engineering duty officers in the Navy Reserve).\n\nThe engineering duty officer community provides experienced naval engineers to provide technical advice and leadership . EDO's are involved with the design, acquisition, construction, repair, maintenance, conversion, overhaul, and disposal of ships, submarines, and the systems installed aboard. EDOs are unique to the Navy because they start their careers as URL officers. First, prospective EDOs learn how to operate ships or submarines. Next, all EDOs obtain technical/engineering Master's degrees. Then, as engineering duty officers, they assume technical leadership roles.\n\nAs line officers of the Navy, EDOs wear an inverted gold star above their rank stripes on both their dress blue uniforms and on their shoulder boards. In virtually all respects, their uniforms are indistinguishable from their Unrestricted Line (URL) counterparts. The two predominant sources of new EDOs are by Lateral Transfer from another URL designator or by choosing to exercise their Engineering Duty Option granted upon commissioning. For active duty URL Officers, a requirement for Lateral Transfer, or for exercising an Engineering Duty Option, is the completion of either Submarine Warfare or Surface Warfare qualification. Therefore, the vast majority of EDOs wear the same Submarine Warfare or Surface Warfare insignia as their URL counterparts.\n\nA small number of EDOs \"not\" previously qualified as submarine warfare officers can volunteer for the Engineering Duty Dolphin Program, and by successfully completing it, earn their Submarine Engineering Duty insignia.\nThe EDO qualification insignia was approved in June 2017. Taking the same form as other warfare or qualification devices, it is a metal or embroidered chest device worn on the left side primary or secondary position of the uniform. Once qualified, EDOs can wear this insignia according to U.S. Navy uniform regulations (December 22, 2017). Warfare-qualified EDOs have the option of wearing the EDO insignia in the secondary position since warfare devices take precedence over the EDO qualification insignia.\n\nCurrent EDOs serve in one of several career fields, including:\n\nThe importance of engineering duty officers in United States Navy history is memorialized in a bronze bas-relief by American sculptor Antonio Tobias \"Toby\" Mendez , on the sculpture wall at the United States Navy Memorial in Washington DC, entitled \"Engineering Duty Officers – 'Sharpening the Point of the Spear.' \" This is one of 26 such reliefs along the southern hemisphere of the Granite Sea at the Navy Memorial, which commemorate events, personnel, and communities of the various sea services.\n\nThe breast insignia of the EDO, first issued in January 2018, was spearheaded by Capt. Huan Nguyen, with the support of Rear Adm. Alma Grocki and Rear Adm. Ronald Fritzemeier.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7104097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7104097", "title": "Extended Validation Certificate", "text": "Extended Validation Certificate\n\nAn Extended Validation Certificate (EV) is a certificate used for HTTPS websites and software that proves the legal entity controlling the website or software package. Obtaining an EV certificate requires verification of the requesting entity's identity by a certificate authority (CA). \n\nWeb browsers show the verified legal identity prominently in their user interface, either before, or instead of, the domain name. For software, the verified legal identity is displayed to the user by the operating system (e.g., Microsoft Windows) before proceeding with the installation.\n\nEV certificates use the same encryption as organization-validated certificates and domain-validated certificates: the increase in security is due to the identity validation process, which is indicated within the certificate by the policy identifier.\n\nThe criteria for issuing EV certificates are defined by the \"Guidelines for Extended Validation\", currently (as of December 13, 2017) at version 1.6.6. The guidelines are produced by the CA/Browser Forum, a voluntary organization whose members include leading CAs and vendors of Internet software, as well as representatives from the legal and audit professions.\n\nIn 2005 Melih Abdulhayoglu, CEO of the Comodo Group, convened the first meeting of the organization that became the CA/Browser Forum, hoping to improve standards for issuing SSL/TLS certificates. On June 12, 2007, the CA/Browser Forum officially ratified the first version of the Extended Validation (EV) SSL Guidelines, which took effect immediately. The formal approval successfully brought to a close more than two years of effort, and provided the infrastructure for trusted Web site identity on the Internet. Then, in April 2008, the Forum announced version 1.1 of the Guidelines, building on the practical experience of its member CAs and relying-party application software suppliers gained in the months since the first version was approved for use.\n\nAn important motivation for using digital certificates with SSL/TLS was to add trust to online transactions by requiring website operators to undergo vetting with a certificate authority (CA) in order to get a certificate.\n\nHowever, commercial pressures have led some CAs to introduce \"domain-validated\" certificates. Domain-validated certificates existed before validation standards, and generally only require some proof of domain control. In particular, domain-validated certificates do not assert that a given legal entity has any relationship with the domain, although the domain may resemble a particular legal entity.\n\nIn the past, most browsers' user interfaces did not clearly differentiate between low-validation certificates and those that have undergone more rigorous vetting. Since any successful SSL/TLS connection would cause a green padlock icon to appear in most browsers, users were not likely to be aware of whether the website owner has been validated or not. As a result, fraudsters (including phishing websites) could use TLS to add perceived credibility to their websites. Users of modern browsers can always check the identity of certificate owners by examining the details of the issued certificate which always indicates the certificate owner information such as the name of the organization and its location.\n\nEV certificates are validated against both the Baseline Requirements and the Extended Validation requirements, which place additional requirements on how authorities vet companies. These include manual checks of all the domain names requested by the applicant, checks against official government sources, checks against independent information sources, and phone calls to the company to confirm the position of the applicant. If the certificate is accepted, the government-registered serial number of the business as well as the physical address are stored in the EV certificate.\n\nBy establishing stricter issuing criteria and requiring consistent application of those criteria by all participating CAs, EV certificates are intended to restore confidence among users that a website operator is a legally established business or organization with a verifiable identity.\n\nThat said, there is still the concern that the same lack of accountability that led to the loss of public confidence in domain-validated certificates will lead to lax certification practices that will erode the value of EV certificates as well.\n\nOnly CAs who pass an independent qualified audit review may offer EV, and all CAs globally must follow the same detailed issuance requirements which aim to:\n\n\nWith the exception of Extended Validation Certificates for .onion domains, it is otherwise not possible to get a wildcard Extended Validation Certificate – instead, all fully qualified domain names must be included in the certificate and inspected by the certificate authority.\n\nBrowsers with EV support display the validated identity – usually a combination of organization name and jurisdiction – contained in the EV certificate's 'subject' field. Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Google Chrome all provide EV support.\n\nThe Extended Validation guidelines require participating certificate authorities to assign a specific EV identifier, which is registered with the browser vendors who support EV once the certificate authority has completed an independent audit and met other criteria. The browser matches the EV identifier in the certificate with the one it has registered for the CA in question: if they match, and the certificate is verified as current, the certificate receives the enhanced EV display in the browser's user interface. In most implementations, the enhanced display includes:\n\n\nBy clicking on the lock symbol you can obtain more information about the certificate, including the name of the certificate authority (CA) that issued the EV certificate.\n\nMost of the Extended Validation Certificates are compatible with the following browsers:\n\n\n\nAs the necessary attributes to identify the legal entity and jurisdiction are included inside the certificate, Extended Validation supports all web servers supporting HTTPS.\n\nEV certificates are standard X.509 digital certificates. The primary way to identify an EV certificate is by referencing the Certificate Policies extension field. Each issuer uses a different object identifier (OID) in this field to identify their EV certificates, and each OID is documented in the issuer's Certification Practice Statement. As with root certificate authorities in general, browsers may not recognize all issuers.\n\nEV HTTPS certificates contain a subject with X.509 OIDs for codice_1, codice_2, and codice_3, with the codice_3 pointing to the ID at the relevant secretary of state (US) or government business registrar (outside US), as well as a CA-specific policy identifier so that EV-aware software, such as a web browser, can recognize them.\n\nThe criteria for issuing Extended Validation certificates do not require issuing certificate authorities to immediately support Online Certificate Status Protocol for revocation checking. However, the requirement for a timely response to revocation checks by the browser has prompted most certificate authorities that had not previously done so to implement OCSP support. Section 26-A of the issuing criteria requires CAs to support OCSP checking for all certificates issued after Dec. 31, 2010.\n\nSince EV certificates are being promoted and reported as a mark of a trustworthy website, some small business owners have voiced concerns that EV certificates give undue advantage to large businesses. The published drafts of the EV Guidelines excluded unincorporated business entities, and early media reports focused on that issue. Version 1.0 of the EV Guidelines was revised to embrace unincorporated associations as long as they were registered with a recognized agency, greatly expanding the number of organizations that qualified for an Extended Validation Certificate.\n\nIn 2006, researchers at Stanford University and Microsoft Research conducted a usability study of the EV display in Internet Explorer 7. Their paper concluded that \"participants who received no training in browser security features did not notice the extended validation indicator and did not outperform the control group\", whereas \"participants who were asked to read the Internet Explorer help file were more likely to classify both real and fake sites as legitimate\".\n\nWhile proponents of EV Certificates claim they help against phishing attacks, security expert Peter Gutmann states the new class of certificates restore a CA's profits which were eroded due to the race to the bottom that occurred among issuers in the industry. Gutmann calls this phenomenon \"PKI-Me-Harder\".\nThe introduction … of so-called high-assurance or extended validation (EV) certificates that allow CAs to charge more for them than standard ones, is simply a case of rounding up twice the usual number of suspects—presumably somebody’s going to be impressed by it, but the effect on phishing is minimal since it is not fixing any problem that the phishers are exploiting. Indeed, cynics would say that this was exactly the problem that certificates and CAs were supposed to solve in the first place, and that “high-assurance” certificates are just a way of charging a second time for an existing service. A few years ago certificates still cost several hundred dollars, but now that the shifting baseline of certificate prices and quality has moved to the point where they can be obtained for $9.95 (or even for nothing at all) the big commercial CAs have had to reinvent themselves by defining a new standard and convincing the market to go back to the prices paid in the good old days.\n\nThis deja-vu-all-over-again approach can be seen by examining Verisign’s certificate practice statement (CPS), the document that governs its certificate issuance. The security requirements in the EV-certificate 2008 CPS are (except for minor differences in the legalese used to express them) practically identical to the requirements for Class 3 certificates listed in Verisign’s version 1.0 CPS from 1996. EV certificates simply roll back the clock to the approach that had already failed the first time it was tried in 1996, resetting the shifting baseline and charging 1996 prices as a side-effect. There have even been proposals for a kind of sliding-window approach to certificate value in which, as the inevitable race to the bottom cheapens the effective value of established classes of certificates, they’re regarded as less and less effective by the software that uses them…\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2442130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442130", "title": "Fire arrow", "text": "Fire arrow\n\nFire arrows were one of the earliest forms of weaponized gunpowder, being used from the 9th century onward. Not to be confused with earlier incendiary arrow projectiles, the fire arrow was a gunpowder weapon which receives its name from the translated Chinese term \"huǒjiàn\" (火箭), which literally means fire arrow. In China a 'fire arrow' referred to a gunpowder projectile consisting of a bag of incendiary gunpowder attached to the shaft of an arrow . Fire arrows are the predecessors of fire lances, the first firearm.\n\nLater rockets utilizing gunpowder were used to provide arrows with propulsive force and the term \"fire arrow\" became synonymous with rockets in the Chinese language. In other languages such as Sanskrit 'fire arrow' (\"agni astra\") underwent a different semantic shift and became synonymous with 'cannon.' \nAlthough the fire arrow is most commonly associated with its rocket mechanism, it originally consisted of a pouch of gunpowder attached to an arrow. This type of fire arrow served the function of an incendiary and was launched using a bow or crossbow.\n\nAccording to the Wujing Zongyao the fire arrow was constructed and used in the following manner:\n\nIncendiary gunpowder weapons had an advantage over previous incendiaries by using their own built-in oxygen supply to create flames, and was therefore harder to put out, similar to Greek Fire. However unlike Greek Fire, gunpowder's physical properties are solid rather than liquid, which makes it easier to store and load.\n\nThe rocket propelled fire arrow appeared later. By the mid 1300s rocket arrow launchers had appeared in the Ming dynasty and later on mobile rocket arrow launchers were utilized in both China and Korea. The fire arrows propelled by gunpowder may have had a range of up to 1,000 feet.\n\nFire arrows were first reported to have been used by the Southern Wu in 904 during the siege of Yuzhang.\n\nIn 969 gunpowder propelled rocket arrows were invented by Yue Yifang and Feng Jisheng.\n\nPublished in 1044, the \"Wujing Zongyao\", or \"Complete Compendium of Military Classics\", states that in 994 A.D. the city of Zitong was attacked by an army of 100,000 men who were driven back by regular war machines and fire arrows.\n\nIn 1083 Song records state that the court produced 350,000 fire arrows and sent them to two garrisons.\n\nOn March 1, 1126, the Song general Li Gang used a fire arrow machine known as the \"Thunderbolt Thrower\" during the Jingkang Incident.\n\nBy 1127 the Jin were also using fire arrows produced by captured Song artisans.\n\nIn 1159 fire arrows were used by the Song navy in sinking a Jin fleet.\n\nIn 1161 the general Yu Yunwen used fire arrows at the Battle of Caishi, near present-day Ma'anshan, during a Jin maritime incursion.\n\nThe Mongols also made use of the fire arrow during their campaigns in Japan. Probably as a result of the Mongolian military campaigns the fire arrow later spread into the Middle East, where they were mentioned by Hasan al-Rammah in the late 13th century.\n\nIn 1374 the kingdom of Joseon also started producing gunpowder and by 1377 were producing fire arrows and cannons, which they used against wokou pirates. Korean fire arrows were used against the Japanese during the invasion of Korea (1592).\n\nIn 1380 an order of \"wasp nest\" arrow rocket launchers were ordered by the Ming army and in 1400 rocket launchers were recorded to have been used by Li Jinglong.\n\nIn 1451 a type of mobile arrow rocket launcher known as the \"Munjong Hwacha\" was invented in Joseon.\n\nThe Japanese version of the fire arrow was known as \"bo-hiya\". Japanese pirates (wokou also, kaizoku or wako) in the 16th century were reported to have used bo hiya which had the appearance of a large arrow. A burning element made from incendiary waterproof rope was wrapped around the shaft and when lit the bo-hiya was fired from a wide bore tanegashima (Japanese matchlock) or a mortar-like weapon . During one sea battle it was said the bo-hiya were \"falling like rain\".\n\nThe dating of the appearance of the gunpowder propelled fire arrow, otherwise known as a rocket, more specifically a solid-propellant rocket, is disputed. The History of Song attributes the invention to two different people at different times, Feng Zhisheng in 969 and Tang Fu in 1000. However Joseph Needham argues that rockets could not have existed prior to the 12th century since the gunpowder formulas listed in the Wujing Zongyao are not suitable as rocket propellant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54298504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54298504", "title": "Ghost restaurant", "text": "Ghost restaurant\n\nA ghost restaurant (also known as a delivery-only restaurant or online-only restaurant) is a food service business that serves customers exclusively through online food delivery. Without the need to interact with customers directly on the premises, ghost restaurants can offset the high cost of a delivery system with cheaper real estate and operations. \n\nAlthough restaurants typically earn more from customers who dine at the restaurant, due to the expense of operating a delivery service or the fees charged by third party delivery companies like Grubhub and Caviar, ghost restaurants have significantly lower overhead. Operating a dining room, with the real estate it requires, staff, amenities, insurance, and other expenses, is a significant cost. Even restaurants with considerable to-go business traditionally dedicate the majority of their space to seating. As visibility, curb appeal, foot traffic, and accessibility are not concerns, the kitchen can be housed in an inexpensive location that would not typically be considered desirable for a restaurant.\n\nA single company may operate several ghost restaurants, and a single location's kitchen and staff can function as multiple branded restaurants. Without a brick-and-mortar location to renovate, companies can also try out new brands and cuisines with little effort, to appeal to changing tastes and trends.\n\nMost of the restaurants utilize existing delivery services. For example, Green Summit, which owns several ghost restaurants in New York City and partners with Grubhub. Some companies incorporate their own delivery system into the business model, like the New York-based company Maple. Maple, which is backed by restaurateur David Chang, is able to orient its business around productivity in terms of meals per hour per kitchen — a metric more typical of fast food restaurants.\n\nSeveral 2015 news articles exposed a sub-segment of operations they termed \"ghost restaurants\", which operate as unregulated, unlicensed standalone entities or as fronts for restaurants that might or might not have health code violations.\n"}
{"id": "651116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651116", "title": "Goggles", "text": "Goggles\n\nGoggles, or safety glasses, are forms of protective eyewear that usually enclose or protect the area surrounding the eye in order to prevent particulates, water or chemicals from striking the eyes. They are used in chemistry laboratories and in woodworking. They are often used in snow sports as well, and in swimming. Goggles are often worn when using power tools such as drills or chainsaws to prevent flying particles from damaging the eyes. Many types of goggles are available as prescription goggles for those with vision problems.\n\nThe Inuit and Yupik people carved Inuit snow goggles from caribou antler, wood, and shell to help prevent snow blindness. The goggles were curved to fit the user's face and had a large groove cut in the back to allow for the nose. A long thin slit was cut through the goggles to allow in a small amount of light, diminishing subsequent ultraviolet rays. The goggles were held to the head by a cord made of caribou sinew.\n\nIn the early 20th century, goggles were worn by drivers of uncovered cars to prevent irritation of the eyes by dust or wind. Likewise in the first ten years after the invention of the airplane in 1903 goggles became a necessity as wind blow became more severe as aircraft speeds increased and as protection against bugstrikes at high altitudes. The first pilot to wear goggles was probably Charles Manly in his failed attempt to fly Samuel Langley's aerodrome in 1903.\n\nThe requirements for goggles varies depending on the use. Some examples:\n\nGoggles are often worn as a fashion statement in certain subcultures, most often as part of the cybergoth subculture. They are usually worn over the eyes or up on the forehead to secure 'falls': a type of long, often brightly coloured, synthetic hairpiece. Fans of the steampunk genre or subculture also frequently wear steampunk-styled goggles, particularly when performing in a live action role-playing game.\n\nGoggles are also frequently used by anime and manga characters as a fashion statement. For example, it is an idiosyncrasy of team leader characters in the \"Digimon\" anime to wear goggles. Other notable characters who wear goggles are the young Naruto Uzumaki and Konohamaru from Naruto, Matt from \"Death Note\" and Usopp from \"One Piece\".\n\nGoggles are available for horses used in speed sports such as horse racing. In some traditions of horse mounted bullfighting, the horse may wear a protective cloth over its eyes.\n\nGoggles have been used on military working dogs, for protection in harsh conditions, such as sandstorms and rotorwash from helicopters. One of the brands of these types of goggles are Doggles.\n\n"}
{"id": "38628314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38628314", "title": "Hardware stress test", "text": "Hardware stress test\n\nStress test (sometimes called a torture test) is a form of deliberately intense and thorough testing used to determine the stability of a given system or entity. It involves testing beyond normal operational capacity, often to a breaking point, in order to observe the results. Reasons can include: to determine breaking points and safe usage limits; to confirm that the intended specifications are being met; to determine modes of failure (how exactly a system may fail), and to test stable operation of a part or system outside standard usage. Reliability engineers often test items under expected stress or even under accelerated stress in order to determine the operating life of the item or to determine modes of failure.\n\nThe term \"stress test\" as it relates to hardware (including electronics, physical devices, nuclear power plants, etc.) is likely to have different refined meanings in specific contexts. One example is in materials, \"see Fatigue (material)\". \n\nStress testing, in general, should put computer hardware under exaggerated levels of stress in order to ensure stability when used in a normal environment. These can include extremes of workload, type of task, memory use, thermal load (heat), clock speed, or voltages. Memory and CPU are two components that are commonly stress tested in this way.\n\nThere is considerable overlap between stress testing software and benchmarking software, since both seek to assess and measure maximum performance. Of the two, stress testing software aims to test stability by trying to force a system to fail; benchmarking aims to measure and assess the maximum performance possible at a given task or function.\n\nWhen modifying the operating parameters of a CPU, such as temperature, humidity, overclocking, underclocking, overvolting, and undervolting, it may be necessary to verify if the new parameters (usually CPU core voltage and frequency) are suitable for heavy CPU loads. This is done by running a CPU-intensive program for extended periods of time, to test whether the computer hangs or crashes. CPU stress testing is also referred to as torture testing. Software that is suitable for torture testing should typically run instructions that utilise the entire chip rather than only a few of its units. Stress testing a CPU over the course of 24 hours at 100% load is, in most cases, sufficient to determine that the CPU will function correctly in normal usage scenarios such as in a desktop computer, where CPU usage typically fluctuates at low levels (50% and under).\n\nHardware stress testing and stability are subjective and may vary according to how the system will be used. A stress test for a system running 24/7 or that will perform error sensitive tasks such as distributed computing or \"folding\" projects may differ from one that needs to be able to run a single game with reasonably reliability. For example, a comprehensive guide on overclocking Sandy Bridge found that:\n\n<poem>Even though in the past IntelBurnTest was just as good, it seems that something in the SB uArch [Sandy Bridge microarchitecture] is more heavily stressed with Prime95 ... IBT really does pull more power [make greater thermal demands]. But ... Prime95 failed first every time, and it failed when IBT would pass. So same as Sandy Bridge, Prime95 is a better stability tester for Sandy Bridge-E than IBT/LinX.\n\nStability is subjective; some might call stability enough to run their game, other like folders [folding projects] might need something that is just as stable as it was at stock, and ... would need to run Prime95 for at least 12 hours to a day or two to deem that stable ... There are [bench testers] who really don’t care for stability like that and will just say if it can [complete] a benchmark it is stable enough. No one is wrong and no one is right. Stability is subjective. [But] 24/7 stability is not subjective.</poem>\n\nAn engineer at ASUS advised in a 2012 article on overclocking an Intel X79 system, that it is important to choose testing software carefully in order to obtain useful results:\n\nUnvalidated stress tests are not advised (such as Prime95 or LinX or other comparable applications). For high grade CPU/IMC and System Bus testing Aida64 is recommended along with general applications usage like PC Mark 7. Aida has an advantage as it is stability test has been designed for the Sandy Bridge E architecture and test specific functions like AES, AVX and other instruction sets that prime and like synthetics do not touch. As such not only does it load the CPU 100% but will also test other parts of CPU not used under applications like Prime 95. Other applications to consider are SiSoft 2012 or Passmark BurnIn. Be advised validation has not been completed using Prime 95 version 26 and LinX (10.3.7.012) and OCCT 4.1.0 beta 1 but once we have internally tested to ensure at least limited support and operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3476765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3476765", "title": "High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance", "text": "High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance\n\nThe High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance (HANA) was a cross-industry collaboration of members addressing the end-to-end needs of connected, HD, home entertainment products and services. The organization was formed by leading companies from the four industries most affected by the HD revolution: content providers, consumer electronics, service providers and information technology. HANA worked to create design guidelines for secure high-definition audio-video networks that would speed the creation of new, high quality, easy to use HD products. HANA membership was open to all companies involved in the digital entertainment industry. HANA was dissolved in September 2009 and the 1394 Trade Association assumed control of all HANA-generated intellectual property.\n\nHANA was incorporated in October 2005 and formally launched in December 2005. HANA's mission was to provide consumers with a simple way to connect and enjoy HD entertainment anywhere in the home. The organisation's goal were to create standards-based solutions to facilitate commercial deployment of connected products and services that would enhance the consumer HD entertainment experience.\n\n\nEight major consumer electronics manufacturers have come up with an open standard enabling home entertainment devices to communicate intelligently with each other. The HAVi (Home Audio Video Interoperability) standard promises to bring true platform independent interoperability to consumer devices using high bandwidth IEEE 1394 (FireWire) as the connecting medium.\n\nThe manufactures, namely Grundig, Hitachi, Panasonic, Philips, Sharp, Sony, Thomson and Toshiba along with now over 30 other participants, have formed a non-profit organization called HAVi (Home Audio Video Interoperability) for promoting the development of interoperable consumer products. The goal of HAVi organization is to provide a standard open architecture for intelligent audio and video devices to interoperate with each other regardless of manufacturer, operating system, CPU or programming language used for implementation (HAVi, Inc., 2001a).\n\nThe first beta version of the HAVi standard version 1.0 was published in December 1998 while the final 1.0 version was released in December 1999. The current version of the specification is 1.1 (HAVi, Inc., 2001b) and it was published in May 15, 2001.\n\nHANA uses content protection developed in conjunction with IBM, a HANA member, called Advanced Secure Content Cluster Technology (ASCCT). ASCCT content protection is based on broadcast encryption key management and AES 128 for distribution and storage. ASCCT was designed specifically for home networks. Devices connected on a HANA network are cryptographically bound to each other to create an “authorized domain”, with each domain receiving its own unique ID. All devices that are members of this domain share certain cryptographic secrets allowing them to act in many ways, as if they are a single device. When content is received into the authorized domain, it too is bound in that only authorized members of the domain will have the keys to decrypt it. If a copy were to be given to a non-authorized device, it would not be able to decrypt it, rendering the copy useless. Moreover, devices may only be a member of a single domain and they may only play content that is bound to that domain. This avoids any situation where a device is loaded with content on one network and then moved to another. To share content, it must join the new network at which time its keys from the original domain are destroyed and the content rendered unreadable.\n\nASCCT, as implemented by HANA, is a peer-to-peer solution. There is no central device that maintains the decryption keys or the library of content. Therefore, there is no central failure point as there is for many other solutions such as a cable STB PVR or a PC. It is based on broadcast encryption, the same basic technology used in 4C and AACS content protection. Similar to AACS, a compromised device or class of devices is repairable by revocation of device the keys which can occur any time new content is imported into the domain, or a connection is made to a content service. Further, content can be pre-encrypted with ASCCT by provider or delivered using a proprietary content protection which is then can transcrypted to ASSCT using the built-in secure encryption engine in HANA devices.\n\nA benefit of this approach is that it supports managed copies of content distributed by DVD, On-Demand services, downloads from the Internet, etc. Perfect copies of a movie can be stored on any or all devices within the domain without fear the copies will be distributed outside the domain. Portable devices can be disconnected and still play the content, yet if they are connected to another device or network, any copy left behind cannot be used. The decryption keys remain with the authorized device.\n\nHANA worked with several leading organizations to realize its vision of a trusted, easy-to-use home entertainment network that enhanced the consumer HD experience. HANA did not create specifications; instead it worked with existing standards and developing design guidelines to incorporate best in class technologies. HANA worked with organizations such as the 1394 Trade Association and CableLabs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19056769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19056769", "title": "Hook gauge evaporimeter", "text": "Hook gauge evaporimeter\n\nA Hook gauge evaporimeter is a precision instrument used to measure changes in water levels due to evaporation. It is used \nto precisely measure the level of a free water surface as an evaporation pan or a tank. The main users are meteorologists and water engineers, especially in hot, arid countries where water conservation is of vital importance.\n\nThe device consists of a sharp hook suspended from a micrometer cylinder, with the body of the device having arms which rest on the rim of a still well inside the pan. The still well serves to isolate the device from any ripples that might be present in the sample being measured, while allowing the water level to equalize. The measurement is taken by turning the knob to lower the hook through the surface of the water until capillary action causes a small depression to form around the tip of the hook. The knob is then turned slowly until the depression \"pops,\" with the measurement showing on the micrometer scale.\n\nEvaporation rate is determined by a sequence of measurements over a set time interval, usually every 24 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "50825029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50825029", "title": "Industrial augmented reality", "text": "Industrial augmented reality\n\nIndustrial augmented reality (IAR) is related to the application of augmented reality (AR) to support an industrial process. The use of IAR dates back to the 1990s with the work of Thomas Caudell and David Mizell about the application of AR at Boeing. Since then several applications of this technique over the years have been proposed showing its potential in supporting some industrial processes. Although there have been several advances in technology, IAR is still considered to be at an infant developmental stage.\n\nSome challenging factors of IAR development are related to the necessary interdisciplinarity knowledge in areas such as object recognition, computer graphics, artificial intelligence and human-computer-interaction. Where a partial context understanding is required for the adaptation to unexpected conditions and understand the user's actions and intentions. Additionally user intuitive interfaces still remain a challenge likewise hardware improvements such as sensors and displays.\n\nFurther, some controversy prevails about the boundaries that define IAR and its potential benefits for some activities with the currently available technology.\n\nAlthough the origins of Augmented Reality dates from the 1960s, when Ivan Sutherland created the first head-mounted display it did not gain strength until the early 1990s, when the David Mizell and Thomas Caudell developed the first industrial AR at Boeing. They used a head-mounted display (HMD) to superimpose a computer-generated diagram of the manufacturing process with a real-time world registration and the user's head position calculation. They coined the name Augmented Reality to this technology.\nContemporary several prototypes were proposed to demonstrate AR's application to manufacturing: a laser-printer maintenance application was proposed in 1993 by Steven K. Feiner and coauthors by introducing the concept of knowledge-based AR for maintenance assistance (KARMA). Whitaker Ross et al. proposed a system to display the name of the part pointed by the user in an engine.\n\nBy the 2000s, the interest in AR had grown considerably. Some important groups were funded: the largest consortium for IAR backed by the German's Federal Ministry of Education and Research (ARVIKA), with the aim of researching and implementing AR in relevant German industries,; the European Community founded several projects including Service and Training through (STAR), which is a collaboration between institutes and companies from Europe and the US, and Advanced Augmented Reality Technologies for Industrial Service Applications (ARTESAS) derived from ARVIKA, focused on the development of AR for automotive and aerospace maintenance. Likewise, from other countries such as Sweden, Australia and Japan with the aim of encourage the IAR development.\n\nFrom the beginning of 2010 until today, advances in hardware devices such as the wearable Google Glass, the reduced cost of mobile devices, and the increasing user familiarity with this technology. Besides the increasing product-development complexity where products are becoming more versatile and intricate, with multiple variations and mass customization. Opened new scenarios for this technology.\n\nOne of the most promising fields of AR application is industrial manufacturing, where it can be used to support some activities in product development and manufacturing through providing information available to reduce and simplify the user's decisions. The general issues of the development of an AR system can still be classified into:\n\nThere are technologies needed to build AR systems. Some of them are directly related with the performance of the software and hardware that enable the deployment of AR, such as displays, sensors, processors, recognition, tracking, registration among others. Thus AR uses different approaches to integrate the virtual and real worlds, where several technologies influence the usability and applicability.\n\nSome common unsolved issues concern tracking systems suited for industrial scenarios which mean: poorly textured objects with smooth surfaces and strong light variation; object recognition using natural features when it is not possible to use markers; the improvement of accuracy and latency of registration, and 3D context scene capture to allow context awareness.\n\nThe limited understanding of human factors is likely to be obstructing the spreading of IAR beyond laboratories prototypes. Their study is challenged to overcome technological issues (deficiencies in resolution, field of view, brightness, contrast, tracking systems, among others) in order to separate the AR performance from interface factors and technological issues.\n\nIt was suggested by that for an IAR application to be successful in a commercial environment, it has to be \"user friendly\", meaning that it needs to be easy and safe to setup, learn, use and customize and the user should feel free to move with an AR system. As well as the use of natural interfaces in order to control AR by using natural movements of the body have also motivated a good deal of research. The reason for this is that the usability not only depends on the system's stability but also on the control interface's quality.\n\nFurther, the user interface should avoid overloading the user with information and prevent over relying on it in order to avoid losing important cues from the environment. Other issues are also related with improving multiple user collaboration\n\nIt is the final challenge, given an ideal AR system (hardware, software and an intuitive interface) to be accepted and become a part of a user's daily life.\nConsequently, one of the most important factors related with the adoption of any new technology is the perception of usefulness, and AR needs to show a clear cost-benefit relation. Some studies suggest that, in order for AR to be perceived as useful the task should be high enough to require its use.\n\nOther non-addressed but important issues for technology acceptance are related with fashion, ethics, and privacy.\n\nAssembling is the process of putting together several separate components in order to create a functional one. It can be performed in different stages of the product's life. Even though nowadays many assembly operations are automated, some of them still require human assistance as, in many cases, their bits of information are detached from the equipment. Thus it is necessary to alternate their attention which leads to decreasing productivity and increasing of errors and injuries\n\nThe use of AR is encouraged by the premise that instructions might be easier to understand if instead of being available as manuals they are super imposed upon the actual equipment. Some of the uses of AR in the support of the assembly can be categorized into:\n\nSimilarly, by using AR it is possible to simulate the user's motion during assembly to acquire an accurate and realistic movement of virtual parts.\n\nOn the other hand, some of the critical issues of the support assembly task are related with the dynamic reconfiguration of the state diagram, which allows to automatically identify the step of assembly and also adapt to unexpected actions or errors of the user. Thus, defining 'what', 'where', and 'when' to display information becomes a challenge since it requires a minimum understanding of the surrounding scene.\n\nLike the assembly task, maintenance serves as a natural application for AR because it is a tasks that requires keeping the user's attention on a specific area, and also synthesizing additional information such as complex sequences, component identification, and textual data.\nThe maintenance activity can be supported by displaying related information about an unfamiliar piece of equipment to a technician instead of searching it in a repair manual. Similarly, AR can support maintenance tasks by acting as an \"x-ray\" like vision, or providing information from sensors directly to the user.\n\nIt can also be employed in repairing tasks. For instance, in the diagnosis of modern cars whose status information can be loaded via a plug-like connector. AR can be used to immediately display the diagnosis on the engine\n\nMany industries are required to perform complex activities that needs previous training. Therefore, for learning a new skill, technicians need to be trained in sensorimotive and cognitive of sub-skills that can be challenging. This kind of training can be supported by AR.\n\nAdditionally, the possibility to use AR to motivate both trainees and students through enhancing the realism of practices has been suggested. By providing instructions with an AR, the immediate capability to perform the task can be also accomplished.\n\nOther advantages of using AR for training are that students can interact with real objects and, at the same time, have access to guidance information,and the existence of tactile feedback provided by the interaction with real objects.\n\nBy displaying information about the components of manufacturing in real time. For instance, Volkswagen has used it to verify parts by analyzing their interfering edges and variance. AR has also been used in automobile development to display and verify car components and ergonomic test in reality. By superimposing the original 3D model over the real surface, deviations can easily be identified, and therefore sources of error can be corrected.\n\nThe use of AR have been proposed to interact with scientific data in shared environments, where it allows a 3D interaction with real objects compared to virtual reality, while allowing the user to move freely in the real world. Similar systems for allowing multiple user's with HMD can interact with dynamic visual simulations of engineering processes\n\nIn the same way, AR simulation of working machinery can be checked from mobile devices as well as other information such as temperature and, time of use, which can reduce worker's movements and stress.\n\nThe benefits of implementing AR into some industrial activities have been of a high interest. However, there is still a debate as the current level of the technology hides all of its potential.\n\nIt has been reported that, in maintenance and repair, the use of AR can reduce time to locate a task, head and neck movements, and also other disadvantages related to bulky, low resolution display hardware\nIn addition, in training it aims to improve the performance up to 30% and, at the same time reduce costs by 25%.\n\nSimilar benefits have been reported by Juha Sääski et al. in the comparative use of AR versus paper instructions to support the assembly operation of the parts of a tractor's accessory power unit which showed a time and error reduction (six time less).\n\nBut, on the other hand, the long-term use has been reported to cause stress and strain to the user. Johannes Tumler et al. compared the stress and strain produced by picking parts from a rack using AR versus using paper as a reference, which showed as result a change of the strain that could be assumed by the non-optimal system.\n\nAdditionally, it has been suggested that one potential danger in use AR for training is the user dependability of this technology. As a consequence the user will not be able to perform the task without it. In order to overcome this situation, the information available during training needs to be controlled.\n\nThe boundaries that define IAR are still not clear. For instance, one of the most accepted definitions of AR implies that the virtual elements need to be registered. But in industrial field, performance is a main goal, and therefore has been an extensive research about the presentation of virtual components in AR regarding the type of the task. This research has shown that the optimal visual aid type may variate depending on the difficulty of the task.\n\nFinally, it has been suggested that in order to have commercial IAR solutions, they must be:\n"}
{"id": "100625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100625", "title": "Inverter (logic gate)", "text": "Inverter (logic gate)\n\nIn digital logic, an inverter or NOT gate is a logic gate which implements logical negation. The truth table is shown on the right.\n\nAn inverter circuit outputs a voltage representing the opposite logic-level to its input. Its main function is to invert the input signal applied. If the applied input is low then the output becomes high and vice versa. Inverters can be constructed using a single NMOS transistor or a single PMOS transistor coupled with a resistor. Since this 'resistive-drain' approach uses only a single type of transistor, it can be fabricated at low cost. However, because current flows through the resistor in one of the two states, the resistive-drain configuration is disadvantaged for power consumption and processing speed. Alternatively, inverters can be constructed using two complementary transistors in a CMOS configuration. This configuration greatly reduces power consumption since one of the transistors is always off in both logic states. Processing speed can also be improved due to the relatively low resistance compared to the NMOS-only or PMOS-only type devices. Inverters can also be constructed with bipolar junction transistors (BJT) in either a resistor–transistor logic (RTL) or a transistor–transistor logic (TTL) configuration.\n\nDigital electronics circuits operate at fixed voltage levels corresponding to a logical 0 or 1 (see binary). An inverter circuit serves as the basic logic gate to swap between those two voltage levels. Implementation determines the actual voltage, but common levels include (0, +5V) for TTL circuits.\n\nThe inverter is a basic building block in digital electronics. Multiplexers, decoders, state machines, and other sophisticated digital devices may use inverters.\n\nThe \"hex inverter\" is an integrated circuit that contains six (\"hexa-\") inverters. For example, the 7404 TTL chip which has 14 pins and the 4049 CMOS chip which has 16 pins, 2 of which are used for power/referencing, and 12 of which are used by the inputs and outputs of the six inverters (the 4049 has 2 pins with no connection).\n\nformula_1 is the analytical representation of NOT gate:\n\nIf no specific NOT gates are available, one can be made from the universal NAND or NOR gates.\n\nDigital inverter quality is often measured using the voltage transfer curve (VTC), which is a plot of output vs. input voltage. From such a graph, device parameters including noise tolerance, gain, and operating logic levels can be obtained.\n\nIdeally, the VTC appears as an inverted step function – this would indicate precise switching between \"on\" and \"off\" – but in real devices, a gradual transition region exists. The VTC indicates that for low input voltage, the circuit outputs high voltage; for high input, the output tapers off towards the low level. The slope of this transition region is a measure of quality – steep (close to infinity) slopes yield precise switching.\n\nThe tolerance to noise can be measured by comparing the minimum input to the maximum output for each region of operation (on / off).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "178787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178787", "title": "Jupiter Cantab", "text": "Jupiter Cantab\n\nJupiter Cantab Limited was a Cambridge based home computer company. Its main product was the 1983 Forth based Jupiter Ace.\n\nThe company was founded in 1982 by two ex-Sinclair Research staffers, Richard Altwasser and Steven Vickers. Their machine was, externally, remarkably similar to the ZX Spectrum, with a copycat rubber keyboard. It also used the same Z80 processor. The Ace's video output was limited to monochrome like the ZX-81.\n\nThe £90 Ace was a flop in both the UK and US markets: the Forth language, although considered powerful, was not as popular or accessible as the already well-established BASIC language featured in competing microcomputers. In the US it was sold as the \"Ace 4000\".\n\nThe company went bankrupt in November 1983 and its assets were sold to Boldfield Computing Ltd in 1984. The remaining hardware was sold-off into 1985. Boldfield Computing Ltd also commissioned some software for it, including various games, database, and spread sheet software. Documentation to this exists and is held by the current owners of the brand.\n\nThe sale of Boldfield’s IT solution business in 2006, excluded the rights to the Jupiter Ace IP and brand, but this was later sold to Andrews UK Limited in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "45112545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45112545", "title": "Looker (company)", "text": "Looker (company)\n\nLooker Data Sciences (doing business as Looker) is an American computer software company headquartered in Santa Cruz, California. Looker markets a data exploration and discovery business intelligence platform.\n\nThe company was founded in Santa Cruz, California in January, 2012 by Lloyd Tabb and Ben Porterfield. The product grew out of Tabb's experience building software at companies like Netscape, LiveOps, and Luminate before founding Looker.\n\nLooker makes use of a simple modeling language called LookML that lets data teams define the relationships in their database so business users can explore, save, and download data without needing to know the SQL query language.\nThe product was the first commercially available business intelligence platform built for and aimed at scalable or massively parallel relational database management systems like Amazon Redshift, Google BigQuery, HP Vertica, Netezza, and Teradata.\n\nOn August 13, 2013, Looker announced a Series A round of funding from Redpoint Ventures, First Round Capital, and PivotNorth Capital, raising more than $18M. Prior to the Series A round, Looker raised $2M in a seed round from First Round Capital and PivotNorth Capital. On March 11, 2015 Looker raised $30M in series B funding.\nIn July, 2015, Jen Grant joined as chief marketing officer, and the company estimated it has 140 employees. On January 14, 2016 Looker raised $48M in series C funding from Kleiner Perkins Claufield & Byers. At that time, the company estimated 450 customers, including Jet.com. On March 30th, 2017 Looker raised $81.5M in series D funding led by Capital G. On June 21st, 2016 Looker celebrated the release of \"Winning With Data,\" a book coauthored by Looker CEO, Frank Bien and Redpoint Partner, Tomasz Tunguz. \n\n"}
{"id": "490393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490393", "title": "Margaret Bourke-White", "text": "Margaret Bourke-White\n\nMargaret Bourke-White (; June 14, 1904 – August 27, 1971) was an American photographer and documentary photographer. She is best known as the first foreign photographer permitted to take pictures of the Soviet five-year plan, the first American female war photojournalist, and having one of her photographs (the construction of Fort Peck Dam) on the cover of the first issue of \"Life magazine\". She died of Parkinson's disease about eighteen years after developing symptoms.\n\nMargaret Bourke-White, born Margaret White in the Bronx, New York, was the daughter of Joseph White, a non-practicing Jew from Poland, and Minnie Bourke, who was of Irish Catholic descent. She grew up in Bound Brook, New Jersey (in a neighborhood now part of Middlesex), and graduated from Plainfield High School in Union County. From her naturalist father, an engineer and inventor, she claimed to have learned perfectionism; from her \"resourceful homemaker\" mother, she claimed to have developed an unapologetic desire for self-improvement.\" Her younger brother, Roger Bourke White, became a prominent Cleveland businessman and high-tech industry founder, and her older sister, Ruth White, became well known for her work at the American Bar Association in Chicago, Ill. Roger Bourke White described their parents as \"Free thinkers who were intensely interested in advancing themselves and humanity through personal achievement,\" attributing this quality in part to the success of their children. He was not surprised at his sister Margaret's success, saying \"[she] was not unfriendly or aloof\".\n\nMargaret's interest in photography began as a young woman's hobby, supported by her father's enthusiasm for cameras. Despite her interest, in 1922, she began studying herpetology at Columbia University, only to have her interest in photography strengthened after studying under Clarence White (no relation). She left after one semester, following the death of her father. She transferred colleges several times, attending the University of Michigan (where she became a member of Alpha Omicron Pi sorority), Purdue University in Indiana, and Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. Bourke-White ultimately graduated from Cornell University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1927, leaving behind a photographic study of the rural campus for the school's newspaper, including photographs of her famed dormitory, Risley Hall. A year later, she moved from Ithaca, New York, to Cleveland, Ohio, where she started a commercial photography studio and began concentrating on architectural and industrial photography.\n\nIn 1924, during her studies, she married Everett Chapman, but the couple divorced two years later. Margaret White added her mother's surname, \"Bourke\" to her name in 1927 and hyphenated it.\n\nOne of Bourke-White's clients was Otis Steel Company. Her success was due to her skills with both people and her technique. Her experience at Otis is a good example. As she explains in \"Portrait of Myself\", the Otis security people were reluctant to let her shoot for many reasons.\n\nFirstly, steel making was a defense industry, so they wanted to be sure national security was not endangered. Second, she was a woman, and in those days, people wondered if a woman and her delicate cameras could stand up to the intense heat, hazard, and generally dirty and gritty conditions inside a steel mill. When she finally got permission, technical problems began.\n\nBlack-and-white film in that era was sensitive to blue light, not the reds and oranges of hot steel, so she could see the beauty, but the photographs were coming out all black. She solved this problem by bringing along a new style of magnesium flare, which produces white light, and having assistants hold them to light her scenes. Her abilities resulted in some of the best steel factory photographs of that era, which earned her national attention.\n\"To me... industrial forms were all the more beautiful because they were never designed to be beautiful. They had a simplicity of line that came from their direct application of purpose. Industry... had evolved an unconscious beauty - often a hidden beauty that was waiting to be discovered\" Margaret Burke-White, Portrait of Myself (New York: Simon and Shuster, 1963), 49.\n\nIn 1929, Bourke-White accepted a job as associate editor and staff photographer of \"Fortune\" magazine, a position she held until 1935. In 1930, she became the first Western photographer allowed to take photographs of Soviet industry.\n\nShe was hired by Henry Luce as the first female photojournalist for \"Life\" magazine in 1936. She held the title of staff photographer until 1940, but returned from 1941 to 1942, and again in 1945, after which she stayed through her semi-retirement in 1957 (which ended her photography for the magazine) and her full retirement in 1969.\n\nHer photographs of the construction of the Fort Peck Dam were featured in \"Life\"'s first issue, dated November 23, 1936, including the cover. This cover photograph became such a favorite (see ) that it was the 1930s' representative in the United States Postal Service's \"Celebrate the Century\" series of commemorative postage stamps. \"Although Bourke-White titled the photo, \"New Deal, Montana: Fort Peck Dam\", it is actually a photo of the spillway located three miles east of the dam,\" according to a United States Army Corps of Engineers web page.\n\nDuring the mid-1930s, Bourke-White, like Dorothea Lange, photographed drought victims of the Dust Bowl. In the February 15, 1937 issue of \"Life\" magazine, her famous photograph of black flood victims standing in front of a sign which declared, \"World's Highest Standard of Living\", showing a white family, was published. The photograph later would become the basis for the artwork of Curtis Mayfield's 1975 album, \"There's No Place Like America Today\".\n\nBourke-White and novelist Erskine Caldwell were married from 1939 to their divorce in 1942, and collaborated on \"You Have Seen Their Faces\" (1937), a book about conditions in the South during the Great Depression.\nShe also traveled to Europe to record how Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia were faring under Nazism and how Russia was faring under Communism. While in Russia, she photographed a rare occurrence, Joseph Stalin with a smile, as well as portraits of Stalin's mother and great-aunt when visiting Georgia.\n\nBourke-White was the first female war correspondent and the first woman to be allowed to work in combat zones during World War II. In 1941, she traveled to the Soviet Union just as Germany broke its pact of non-aggression. She was the only foreign photographer in Moscow when German forces invaded. Taking refuge in the U.S. Embassy, she then captured the ensuing firestorms on camera.\n\nAs the war progressed, she was attached to the U.S. Army Air Force in North Africa, then to the U.S. Army in Italy and later in Germany. She repeatedly came under fire in Italy in areas of fierce fighting.\n\n\"The woman who had been torpedoed in the Mediterranean, strafed by the Luftwaffe, stranded on an Arctic island, bombarded in Moscow, and pulled out of the Chesapeake when her chopper crashed, was known to the \"Life\" staff as 'Maggie the Indestructible.'\" This incident in the Mediterranean refers to the sinking of the England-Africa bound British troopship \"SS Strathallan\" that she recorded in an article, \"Women in Lifeboats\", in \"Life\", February 22, 1943. She was disliked by General Dwight D Eisenhower but was friendly with his chauffeur/secretary, Irishwoman Kay Summersby, with whom she shared the lifeboat.\n\nIn the spring of 1945, she traveled throughout a collapsing Germany with Gen. George S. Patton. She arrived at Buchenwald, the notorious concentration camp, and later said, \"Using a camera was almost a relief. It interposed a slight barrier between myself and the horror in front of me.\" After the war, she produced a book entitled \"Dear Fatherland, Rest Quietly\", a project that helped her come to grips with the brutality she had witnessed during and after the war.\n\n\"To many who got in the way of a Bourke-White photograph—and that included not just bureaucrats and functionaries but professional colleagues like assistants, reporters, and other photographers—she was regarded as imperious, calculating, and insensitive.\"\n\nBourke-White is known equally well in both India and Pakistan for her photographs of Dr. Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar at his home Rajgriha, Dadar in Mumbai on the occasion of a third impression of his book which was published in December 1940 as \"Thoughts on Pakistan\" (the book was republished in 1946 under the title \"\"). These photographs were published on LIFE magazine cover. She also photographed M. K. Gandhi at his spinning wheel and Pakistan's founder, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, upright in a chair.\n\nShe also was \"one of the most effective chroniclers\" of the violence that erupted at the independence and partition of India and Pakistan, according to Somini Sengupta, who calls her photographs of the episode \"gut-wrenching, and staring at them, you glimpse the photographer's undaunted desire to stare down horror.\" She recorded streets littered with corpses, dead victims with open eyes, and refugees with vacant eyes. \"Bourke-White's photographs seem to scream on the page,\" Sengupta wrote. The photographs were taken just two years after those Bourke-White took of the newly captured Buchenwald.\n\nSixty-six of Bourke-White's photographs of the partition violence were included in a 2006 reissue of Khushwant Singh's 1956 novel about the disruption, \"Train to Pakistan\". In connection with the reissue, many of the photographs in the book were displayed at \"the posh shopping center Khan Market\" in Delhi, India. \"More astonishing than the images blown up large as life was the number of shoppers who seemed not to register them,\" Sengupta wrote. No memorial to the partition victims exists in India, according to Pramod Kapoor, head of Roli, the Indian publishing house coming out with the new book.\n\nShe had a knack for being at the right place at the right time: she interviewed and photographed Mohandas K. Gandhi just a few hours before his assassination in 1948. Alfred Eisenstaedt, her friend and colleague, said one of her strengths was that there was no assignment and no picture that was unimportant to her. She also started the first photography laboratory at \"Life\" magazine.\n\nIn 1953, Bourke-White developed her first symptoms of Parkinson's disease. She was forced to slow her career to fight encroaching paralysis. In 1959 and 1961, she underwent several operations to treat her condition, which effectively ended her tremors but affected her speech. In 1971, she died at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Connecticut, aged 67, from Parkinson's disease.\n\nBourke-White wrote an autobiography, \"Portrait of Myself\", which was published in 1963 and became a bestseller, but she grew increasingly infirm and isolated in her home in Darien, Connecticut. In her living room, there \"was wallpapered in one huge, floor-to-ceiling, perfectly-stitched-together black-and-white photograph of an evergreen forest that she had shot in Czechoslovakia in 1938\". A pension plan set up in the 1950s, \"though generous for that time\", no longer covered her health-care costs. She also suffered financially from her personal generosity and \"less-than-responsible attendant care.\"\n\nBourke-White's photographs are in the Brooklyn Museum, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the New Mexico Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art in New York as well as in the collection of the Library of Congress. A 160-foot long photomural she created for NBC in 1933, for the Rotunda in the broadcaster's Rockefeller Center headquarters, was destroyed in the 1950s. In 2014, when the Rotunda and Grand Staircase leading up to it were rebuilt, the photomural was faithfully recreated in digital form on the 360-degree LED screens on the Rotunda's walls. It forms one of the stops on the NBC Studio Tour.\n\nMany of her manuscripts, memorabilia, photographs, and negatives are housed in Syracuse University's Bird Library Special Collections section.\n\n\"Group\"\n\n\"Individual\"\n\n\nBourke-White was portrayed by Farrah Fawcett in the television movie, \"\" (1989) and by Candice Bergen in the 1982 film \"Gandhi\".\n\n\nIn 1990, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame. She was designated a Women's History Month Honoree in 1992 and again in 1994 by the National Women's History Project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4719126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719126", "title": "Micropatterning", "text": "Micropatterning\n\nMicropatterning is the art of miniaturisation of patterns. Especially used for electronics, it has recently become a standard in biomaterials engineering and for fundamental research on cellular biology by mean of soft lithography. It generally uses photolithography methods but many techniques have been developed .\n\nIn cellular biology, micropatterns can be used to control the geometry of adhesion and substrate rigidity. This tool helped scientists to discover how the environment influences processes such as the orientation of the cell division axis, organelle positioning, cytoskeleton rearrangement cell differentiation and directionality of cell migration.\n\nMicropatterns can be made on a wide range of substrates, from glass to polyacrylamide and Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). The polyacrylamide and PDMS in particular come into handy because they let scientists specifically regulate the stiffness of the substrate, and they allow researchers to measure cellular forces (traction force microscopy). Advanced custom micropatterning allow precise and relatively rapid experiments controlling cell adhesion, cell migration, guidance, 3D confinement and microfabrication of microstructured chips. Using advanced tools, protein patterns can be produced in virtually unlimited numbers (2D/ 3D shapes and volumes).\n\nNanopatterning of proteins has been achieved through using top-down lithography techniques.\n\nAerosol micropatterning for biomaterials uses spray microscopic characteristics to obtain semi-random patterns particularly well adapted for biomaterials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9346800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9346800", "title": "Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science", "text": "Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science\n\nThe Australian Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science was a portfolio in the Government of Australia between 1928, when the post was held by John Latham as the Minister for Industry, and 20 December 2017, when the last incumbent of the office was Senator The Hon. Arthur Sinodinos , since 24 January 2017.\n\nThe portfolio was supported by the Australian Minister for Resources and Northern Australia, and the last incumbent of the office was The Hon. Matt Canavan between 27 October 2017 until 20 December 2017; and the Australian Assistant Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science, and the last incumbent of the office was The Hon. Craig Laundy between 19 July 2016 until 20 December 2017.\n\nIn the Government of Australia, the ministers administered their former portfolios through the Department of Industry, Innovation and Science. On 20 December 2017 the functions of the department were dissolved into the newly formed Department of Jobs and Small Business.\n\nOther bodies in the former portfolio included:\n\nThe following individuals have been appointed as Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science or any precursor title.\nThe following individuals have been appointed as assistant minister for innovation, or any of its precedent titles:\n\nIn 1931 and from 1932 to 1937, 1940 to 1949 and 1950 to 1963 there were ministers in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and its successors. In 1963 John Gorton was given responsibility for science (and education) generally.\nThe following individual has been appointed as assistant minister for science, or any of its precedent titles:\n\nAustralia has had ministers who had specific responsibility for matters relating to the development of minerals resources since December 1972, although earlier there were ministers for national development, who had some responsibilities in this area as well.\n"}
{"id": "22631453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22631453", "title": "Mutoh Europe nv", "text": "Mutoh Europe nv\n\nMutoh Europe nv is a business unit of Mutoh Holdings Co. Ltd.\n\n“wide format printers for productive people”\n\n\n\nMutoh Europe nv are a fully owned subsidiary of Mutoh Industries Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan (TYO: 7999 “MUTOH”). Founded in 1991, the company’s activities encompass sales, warehousing and logistics, technical and commercial marketing, training, product support and after-sales service of Mutoh hardware (professional sign cutting plotters and large-format full-colour piezo printers for commercial inkjet printing, sign & display, specialty/industrial, digital transfer & direct textile applications).\n\nMutoh products are distributed via a wide network of authorised Mutoh resellers in the EMEA territory through Mutoh Europe, Mutoh Deutschland and Mutoh North Europe\n\nMutoh’s Large-format printer printers & sign cutting plotters for Sign & Display, Specialty / Industrial, Indoor & Digital Transfer and Direct Textile applications encompass Eco Ultra / UMS printers (ValueJet 628, ValueJet 1324X, ValueJet 1604X, ValueJet 1624X, ValueJet 1638X & ValueJet 2638X), LED UV printers (ValueJet 426UF, ValueJet 626UF, ValueJet 1638UR, ValueJet 1626UH, ValueJet 1638UH & PerformanceJet 2508UF), direct textile printers (ValueJet 1938TX), Indoor & dye sublimation printers (DrafStation RJ-900XG & ValueJet 1624WX/1638WX/1938WX/1948WX/2638X Dye Sub printers) and sign cutting plotters (ValueCut family, Lite 140, Advanced 160 & Premium 160).\n\n"}
{"id": "3645285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3645285", "title": "NCR 5380", "text": "NCR 5380\n\nThe NCR 5380 is an early SCSI controller chip developed by NCR Microelectronics. It was popular due to its simplicity and low cost. The 5380 was used in the Macintosh Plus and in numerous SCSI cards for personal computers, including the Amiga and Atari TT. The 5380 was second sourced by several chip makers, including AMD and Zilog.\n\nThe NCR 5380 also made a significant appearance in Digital Equipment Corporation's VAX computers, where it was featured on various Q-Bus modules and as an integrated SCSI controller in numerous MicroVAX, VAXstation and VAXserver computers. Many UMAX SCSI optical scanners also contain the 53C80 chip interfaced to an Intel 8031-series microcontroller.\n\nSingle-chip SCSI controller NCR 53c400 used SCSI 5380 core.\n\n"}
{"id": "15791310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15791310", "title": "Network on Terminal Architecture", "text": "Network on Terminal Architecture\n\nNetwork on Terminal Architecture (i.e. NoTA) is a modular service based system architecture for mobile and embedded devices. NoTA enables mobile device makers speed-up their product development by shortening the integration phase. Additionally NoTA makes it possible to quickly bring-in 3rd party innovations into the products due to loosely coupled and functional-driver -less approach.\n\nNoTA device consists of Service Nodes (SN) and Application Nodes (AN) that communicate through logical Interconnect (IN). IN provides two basic means of communication, namely message based and streaming type. The former is bi-directional and used for Service Messages. The latter one is uni-directional and used for large amounts of data like media content. Service Nodes have unique Service Identifier (SID).\n\nService Nodes and Application Nodes map into sub-systems consisting of all software and hardware resources needed to implement those. In order to maintain system level modularity, the only way for a node to use SW&HW resources from other sub-systems is through Services Nodes.\n\nInterconnect is divided into two layers, namely High Interconnect (H_IN) and Low Interconnect (L_IN). The former provides means for service activation and deactivation as well as service and stream accesses. Low Interconnect provides network socket interface with uniform addressing mechanism. L_IN internally can be divided into transport network independent and dependent parts. MIPI Alliance originated solutions are expected to be key enablers for wide use of NoTA.\n\nNoTA Sub-system provides the physical implementation for a set of Nodes (ANs and/or SNs). Sub-system consists of all the software and hardware resources (including peripherals, memories, controllers, internal buses etc.) needed to implement the defined Nodes. The only means for a sub-system to use the other Sub-systems' resources is via Service Nodes. Every NoTA Sub-system consists of the NoTA Interconnect stack.\n\nNoTA principles\n\nThe NoTA concept and the first implementations were the result of internal Nokia Research Center activities started in 2003. The objective of this work was to develop a novel embedded device architecture that could solve the existing R&D challenges, as well as prepare the company to face the expected horizontalization and digital convergence. The NoTA basic framework was strongly influenced by Network-on-Chip (NoC) and Web Services research. \n\nNoTA Interconnect Release 1 was released in December 2005. Release 1 only consisted of Service communication, activation/deactivation, discovery and access. Release 2 added efficient data communication means, with a handle based stream referencing approach. This functionality, called DOA (Direct Object Access), allows direct memory-to-memory streaming between different NoTA subsystems. Release 2 came out during the second half of 2006. Release 3 became the official public release comprising all the essential functionalities. Reference implementation source code packages (user-space) can be downloaded from either www.notaworld.org or gitorious.org/nota. Linux Kernel optimized Debian package is also available through gitorious.org/knota.\n\nFast-time-to-market is possible due to multiple reasons. Product vendors can purchase already productized NoTA Sub-systems removing time needed for vendor specific requirements definition, implementation and integration phases. In case there are no ready-made products on the market, NoTA type system-level modularity allows technology vendors to do the implementation and testing without heavy involvement with other Sub-system provides (e.g. the application engine). \n\nScalability in integration level allows product companies to do fast cost optimization without major extra R&D effort. NoTA core is physical interconnect agnostic and hence replacing e.g. off-chip interconnect with on-chip interconnect does not destroy the device functionality. More practical example is to integrate multiple ICs into the same package (e.g. through stacking) and use package internal interconnect technologies.\n\nCost reduction in product development can be achieved in two dimensions. Firstly system-level modularity allows free and fair competition between different technology vendors reducing Sub-system costs. Secondly in many cases product vendors do not have to bear costs incurring from sub-system adaptation work specific to their technologies.\n\nPerformance and features meeting end-user needs. Product companies are more agile to adopt new technology or technology that better meets users' needs in digital convergence devices.\n\nDue to being agnostic to transport technology, NoTA can be used for many inter-device use-cases (wireless based L_INdown). There are currently projects running e.g. in Finland (SHOK DIEM) and in Japan to apply NoTA in the ubiquitous world. An excellent outcome revealed in the TronShow2010 is the intelligent house built in Taiwan utilizing both the T-Kernel and NoTA technologies. In addition, VTT (Technical Research Center of Finland) has demonstrated their NoTA (and Smart M3) based intelligent Greenhouse.\n\nExtending NoTA to the Internet is one of the research topics. So called NoTA Virtual Device (NVD) is expected to provide a solution here. Through the NVD one can build combined service platforms where the services can be running intra-device, inter-device and/or in the Internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31061460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31061460", "title": "Nicole Stenger", "text": "Nicole Stenger\n\nNicole Stenger is a French-born American artist, pioneer in Virtual Reality and Internet movies. In 1989–1991, she was a research Fellow at MIT (CAVS & Visual Arts Program, now merged into ACT). In 1991–1992, she was a Visiting Scholar at the Human Interface Technology Laboratory (Hitlab) in Seattle. Her works have been featured in the SIGGRAPH Art Show, the FILE Festival, the JavaMuseum, the Cartier Art Foundation and are part of the Archive of Digital Art (ADA). In 2013, she was included in the \"Contemporary women artists on the web\" collection of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, in Washington DC.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1992, she created \"Angels\", the first immersive movie. The project foundation was laid out at the Visual Arts Program at MIT, employing Wavefront's Advanced Visualizer on a Silicon Graphics personal IRIS. The VR work was done at the Hitlab (University of Washington) using VPL's Virtualization interface and its Body Electric software running on the IRIS. Angels is a real-time interactive immersive movie, a kind of travel in a virtual paradise. The participant uses a VPL Dataglove and high-resolution HRX goggles developed by Jaron Lanier. Following Tom Furness' theory, the artwork was developed for the three senses: vision, audio and touch, though the technological restraints at the time could only implement vision, audio, and a non tactile data glove. Each user starts his/her experience in front of an odd carousel that is a passage to more VR worlds. Touching one of the three angels’ hearts in the carousel, defines the range in which the following three segments will appear. The duration of the sections varies from just about 30\" to 2'30\". The brilliantly colourful environments are a gateway to more scenes. The angels' voices ask the users to interact with them, causing a story to open. The music was composed by Diane Thome.\nWhile at MIT, Stenger also contributed to the seminal \"Cyberspace First Steps\" edited by Michael L. Benedikt with the now famous essay \"Mind is a Leaking Rainbow\".\n\nIn the 1990s, after the completion of her VR project, Stenger worked on VRML works and developed online art projects that are early examples of web cinema. \"My Faux Cinema\"’s website (1998–2003) was a project composed of web pages with animated gifs, java applets, open source audio files, textual parts written by Stenger or sampled from the Internet. It included VRML movies, web books and “faux films”. Stenger’s web books, \"To Dream or Not to Eat\" (1998), \"California Trilogy\" (1996-2000), \"Nature\" (2000), \"Nanfei in Waspland\" (2000) show her innovative spirit.A web book is a kind of book with a story, a cover, an introduction, a conclusion, and a narrative of seven to twelve pages. The “faux films”, \"Fresh!\" (2000) and \"Bitchery\" (2001), are stylistic jokes. They mimic cinema moving images through javascripts.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 21st century, Stenger worked on a series of VRML movies and environments, which, though she had no more access to VR interfaces, were still conceived for immersion. In 2001 she created \"Chambers\". The movie, completed days before 9/11, is an emotional journey through the different stages of a dying love. Towards the end of the decade, Stenger concluded her Virtual Reality trilogy with \"Dynasty\" (2007-2009). Dynasty is composed of 15 scenes with music by Tchaikovsky. The movie is a travel through time, in which users revisit their childhood and meet their ancestors from a remote past.\n\nIn 2011 Stenger completed \"The Isle That Was A Book\", another VRML piece, based on a 1970s Beat Poetry book with 14 texts read by Stenger. In 2012, she composed a short story for Twitter called \"IS IT U, I U?\" \"(I U=Internet Unicorn)\". Her last published work is \"TheyNuked My Lettuce!\" (2012). Created in Machinima style, this 3D/2D animation is a cautionary tale on the effects of cyberwar on our daily lives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25025834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25025834", "title": "Novus Biologicals", "text": "Novus Biologicals\n\nNovus Biologicals is a biotech company based in Centennial, Colorado. The company develops, licenses and markets research materials to scientists in academic, corporate and government laboratories. Novus began as a company focused on providing research-grade antibodies for the scientific market. It was acquired by Bio-Techne in 2014.\n\nFounded in 1996, Novus Biologicals has developed more than 180,000 products, ranging from antibodies to cell lysates and purification kits.\n\nIn 2008, Novus became a limited liability company when Mainsail Partners invested in the company. Novus Biologicals has reported double digit revenue growth every year since its inception, has been selected six years in a row to the Inc. (magazine) 5000 fastest-growing private companies in America, and was on the 2009 list of Colorado Companies to Watch.\n\nIn 2014, antibody and reagent supplier Bio-Techne, acquired Novus Biologicals for $60 million. The acquisition was meant to provide scientists and doctors a broader selection of products in one location.\n\n"}
{"id": "132883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132883", "title": "Optoelectronics", "text": "Optoelectronics\n\nOptoelectronics is the study and application of electronic devices and systems that source, detect and control light, usually considered a sub-field of photonics. In this context, \"light\" often includes invisible forms of radiation such as gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet and infrared, in addition to visible light. Optoelectronic devices are electrical-to-optical or optical-to-electrical transducers, or instruments that use such devices in their operation. \n\"Electro-optics\" is often erroneously used as a synonym, but is a wider branch of physics that concerns all interactions between light and electric fields, whether or not they form part of an electronic device.\n\nOptoelectronics is based on the quantum mechanical effects of light on electronic materials, especially semiconductors, sometimes in the presence of electric fields.\n\n\nImportant applications of optoelectronics include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3306434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306434", "title": "Pike pole", "text": "Pike pole\n\nPike poles are long metal-topped wood, aluminum, or fiberglass poles used for reaching, holding, or pulling. They are variously used in construction, logging, rescue and recovery, power line maintenance, and firefighting.\n\nThe pole's original use in the fire service was to pull down walls and neighboring buildings to stop a fire's spread. Modern firefighting pike poles are usually of fiberglass, 4–12' long, and used to search for fires hidden behind walls and ceilings, to pull items from intense heat and flames, and to ventilate structures by breaking windows. Also known as a \"ceiling hook of the day\", the pike pole is the 'hook' referred to in 'hook and ladder' truck.\n\nIn construction pike poles (pick pole, spike pole) are used to lift the sides of timber framed structures, as in barn raising and utility poles. In log driving they are called rafters' hooks and are used to maneuver floating logs.\n\nIn lumbering they are used to control logs floating on a river in a log drive and constructing log rafts. Pike poles used in log rafting were originally made of wood, typically spruce or fir. In the mid-1960s they began to be made of aluminum tubing plugged with a wooden knob to maintain buoyancy. Specialized logging tools of similar appearance are peavey and cant hook.\n\nPike poles are also used for rescue work to grab people or objects floating in high and rough waters.\n\nLinemen use pike poles to maintain power lines. In the early days of line construction pike poles were used to stand up the utility poles.\n\nThe tool can also be used in salvage events in such things as constructing water chutes to displace water.\n\nIn the past, pike poles were used for ice fishing, known as \"bagrenye ryby\" ( \"fish pike-poling\"; \"bagor\" means \"pike pole\" in Russian). A number of ethnographers note that this way was specific to the Ural River. When fish starts to hybernate, fisherman \"artels\" in large numbers put pike poles into ice holes in places known for big fish to crowd, so that a dense forest is made of pike poles. When drifting fish hits a pole, a fisherman feels this and pulls the catch out.\n\nThe 1835 Russian \"Encyclopedic Lexicon\" describes a tradition of Ural Cossacks ice fishing for sturgeon. The pike-pole ice fishing of sturgeon was traditionally allowed some time after the Orthodox Christmas. On the day of \"bagrenye\", the Cossacks would break the river ice at the known sturgeon hibernating locations, and pull out the disturbed fish with the pike poles. A successful Cossack would sometimes catch as many as 50 sturgeon. Occasionally a beluga was caught, and pulled out by a crowd. Only active-duty Cossacks were allowed to take part in this enterprise.\n\nCompare this with gaff fishing.\n\nIn Heraldry pike poles are seen with all heraldry possible colors. \n\nWeitere:\n\n"}
{"id": "13324782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13324782", "title": "Project engineering", "text": "Project engineering\n\nProject engineering includes all parts of the design of manufacturing or processing facilities, either new or modifications to and expansions of existing facilities. A \"project\" consists of a coordinated series of activities or tasks performed by engineers, designers, drafters and others from one or more engineering disciplines or departments. Project tasks consist of such things as performing calculations, writing specifications, preparing bids, reviewing equipment proposals and evaluating or selecting equipment and preparing various lists, such as equipment and materials lists, and creating drawings such as electrical, piping and instrumentation diagrams, physical layouts and other drawings used in design and construction. A small project may be under the direction of a project engineer. Large projects are typically under the direction of a project manager or management team. Some facilities have in house staff to handle small projects, while some major companies have a department that does internal project engineering. Large projects are typically contracted out to engineering companies. Staffing at engineering companies varies according to the work load and duration of employment may only last until an individual's tasks are completed.\n\nThe role of the project engineer can often be described as that of a liaison between the project manager and the technical disciplines involved in a project. The distribution of \"liasing\" and performing tasks within the technical disciplines can vary wildly from project-to-project. This often depends on the type of product, it's maturity, and the size of the company, to name a few. It is important for a Project Engineer to understand that balance. The Project Engineer should be knowledgeable enough to be able to speak intelligently within the various disciplines, and not purely be a liaison -- such project engineers who only \"liaise\" can more accurately be characterized as \"lazy\". The project engineer is also often the primary technical point of contact for the consumer.\n\nA project engineer's responsibilities include schedule preparation, pre-planning and resource forecasting for engineering and other technical activities relating to the project. They may also be in charge of performance management of vendors. They assure the accuracy of financial forecasts, which tie-in to project schedules. They ensure projects are completed according to project plans. Project engineers manage project team resources and training and develop extensive project management experience and expertise. \n\nWhen project teams are structured so that multiple specialty disciplines report to the project engineer, then two important responsibilities of the project engineer are inter-discipline coordination and overall quality control of the work.\n\nWhen used, an engineering company is generally contracted to design a project to achieve some specific objective, ranging in scope from simple modifications to new factories or expansions costing hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars. The client usually provides the engineering company with a scoping document listing the details of the objective in terms of such things as production rate and product specifications and general to specific information about processes and equipment to be used and the expected deliverables, such as calculations, drawings, lists, specifications, schedules, etc. The client is typically involved in the entire design process and makes decisions throughout, including the technology, type of equipment to use, bid evaluation and supplier selection, the layout of equipment and operational considerations. Depending on the project the engineering company may perform material and energy balances to size equipment and to quantify inputs of materials and energy (steam, electric power, fuel). This information is used to write specifications for the equipment. The equipment specifications are sent out for bids. The client, the engineering company or both select the equipment. The equipment suppliers provide drawings of the equipment, which are used by the engineering company's mechanical engineers, designers and drafters to make general arrangement drawings, which show how the pieces of equipment are located in relation to other equipment. Layout drawings show specific information about the equipment, electric motors powering the equipment and such things as auxiliary equipment (pumps, fans, air compressors), piping and buildings. The engineering company maintains an equipment list with major equipment, auxiliary equipment, motors, etc. Electrical engineers are involved with power supply to motors and equipment. Process engineers perform material and energy balances and design the piping and instrumentation diagrams to show how equipment is supplied with process fluids, water, air, gases, etc. and the type of control loops used. The instrumentation and controls engineers specify the instrumentation and controls and handle any computer controls and control rooms. Civil and structural engineers deal with site layout and engineering and structural concerns like foundations, pads, structures, supports and bracing for equipment. Environmental engineers deal with any air emissions and treatment of liquid effluent.\n\nThe various fields and topics that projects engineers are involved with include:\n\n\nProject engineers are often project managers with qualifications in engineering or construction management. Other titles include field engineer, construction engineer, or construction project engineer. In smaller projects, this person may also be responsible for contracts and will be called an assistant project manager. A similar role is undertaken by a client's engineer or owner's engineer, but by inference, these often act more in the interests of the commissioning company.\n\nProject engineers do not necessarily do design work, but instead represent the contractor or client out in the field, help tradespeople interpret the job's designs, ensure the job is constructed according to the project plans, and assist project controls, including budgeting, scheduling, and planning. In some cases a project engineer is responsible for assisting the assigned project manager with regard to design and a project and with the execution of one or more simultaneous projects in accordance with a valid, executed contract, per company policies and procedures and work instructions for customized and standardized plants.\n\nTypical responsibilities may include: daily operations of field work activities and organization of subcontractors; coordination of the implementation of a project, ensuring it is being built correctly; project schedules and forecasts; interpretation of drawings for tradesmen; review of engineering deliverables; redlining drawings; regular project status reports; budget monitoring and trend tracking; bill of materials creation and maintenance; effective communications between engineering, technical, construction, and project controls groups; and assistance to the project manager.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12589733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12589733", "title": "Remote sensing software", "text": "Remote sensing software\n\nA remote sensing software is a software application that processes remote sensing data. Remote sensing applications are similar to graphics software, but they enable generating geographic information from satellite and airborne sensor data. Remote sensing applications read specialized file formats that contain sensor image data, georeferencing information, and sensor metadata. Some of the more popular remote sensing file formats include: GeoTIFF, NITF, JPEG 2000, ECW (file format), MrSID, HDF, and NetCDF.\n\nRemote Sensing applications perform many features including:\n\nMany remote sensing applications are built using common remote sensing toolkits, like GDAL and OSSIM.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40910332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40910332", "title": "Roedvig Shipmotor Museum", "text": "Roedvig Shipmotor Museum\n\nRoedvig (Rødvig) Shipmotor Museum is a Danish \"Self-owned Institution\" founded in 1987 in Rødvig, Zealand, Denmark. It is one of several technical museums in Denmark. As of 2013 the museum has a collection of approximately 400 different engines, produced mostly by now defunct Danish factories over the period 1898 to 1974. The engines range in size from small outboards up to one German MTU medium-sized diesel of 2 000 hp.\n\nAt one time or another there were about 140 different producers of marine engines in Denmark. In 2013, only five of those 140 companies are still active: Hundested Propeller, Burmeister & Wain, Grenaa Motor Fabrik, Callesen Diesel (merged with Bukh), & Bukh Diesel (merged with Callesen). Engines from over half of the former 140 Danish producers can be found at the museum. Some of these are in working order and can be run within the museum. Four such ready-to-run engines are hot-bulb semi-diesel types from: \"Tuxham\", \"Hein & Sons\", \"Dan\", and \"Danmark\" (Rudkøbing). The museum exhibits comprise a spectrum of marine engine development from 1898 onwards, as well as charting the simultaneous slow decline towards near extinction of marine engine manufacture in Denmark.\n\nThe museum's collection includes many other maritime articles besides engines. The museum also has an archive with extensive documention and technical material about various engines and their manufacturers. It commemorated its 25th anniversary in September 2012.\n\n\n \"Text in Danish, English, and German\"\n"}
{"id": "3154475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3154475", "title": "Shadow box", "text": "Shadow box\n\nA shadow box is an enclosed glass-front display case containing an object or objects presented in a thematic grouping with artistic or personal significance. The grouping of the objects and the depth effect created by their relative heights from the backing creates a dramatic visual result.\n\nWhile shadow boxes have a strong tradition in military history, they are also frequently created purely for artistic goals. Shadow boxes are sometimes built by amateur crafters, as a way of preserving and presenting artifacts of historic or personal nostalgic value.\n\nAmerican artist Joseph Cornell constructed many shadow boxes during his career, with the works evoking a strong sense of nostalgia, decay, or loss.\n\nBy tradition, shadow boxes are typically presented to members of the military upon retirement. These shadow boxes will usually contain the various medals and awards a person has earned through a military career, the flags of both their country and their military service branch, and their final badge of rank.\n\nTraditionally, military personnel would keep all their personal belongings in a trunk which would accompany them on their travels. During the retirement ceremony or upon retirement, many members of the military, particularly in the naval service, use the lift out tray found in a well-worn trunk as their shadow box. Some retirees also maximize the display space found in these trunks by also incorporating shadow boxes into the lid compartment as well. An added benefit by having a shadow box in an antique trunk is all of the storage space for uniforms, hats, photograph albums, and any other service memorabilia collected over the years.\n\nIn the United States, some businesses specialize in the construction and sale of shadow boxes, at prices ranging from just a few dollars to several hundred. People often purchase these in order to preserve and still enjoy viewing memorabilia. A similar case, called a uniform display case, displays an entire military uniform with correct insignia placement.\n\nMilitary shadow boxes were originally simple boxes in which sailors retiring from shipboard service carried their belongings ashore. Superstition held that if the sailor's shadow touched shore before he set foot upon it, he would suffer ill luck. By carrying his belongings, a metaphorical \"shadow\" of himself, enclosed within the box he could ensure he would touch land before his \"shadow\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19327994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19327994", "title": "Shop fitting", "text": "Shop fitting\n\nShop fitting (shopfitting) is the trade of fitting out retail and service shops and stores with equipment, fixtures and fittings. The trade applies to all kinds of outlets from small corner shops to hypermarkets. A shop fitter executes planning, designs shop layout and installs equipment and services. A shop fitting firm typically incorporates professional expertise in interior design, manufacturing of bespoke furniture, signage and fittings (with own or outsourced facilities) and purchasing of retail equipment.\n\nA shop fitting cycle begins with a survey and measurement of available space and preparing design drawings for submission to the client. Alternatively, the client may have their own drawings prepared by an independent interior designer. The shop fitter arranges for purchase of standard equipment and merchandise or production of bespoke furniture, delivers and physically installs them—until the shop is ready for daily operation.\n\nThere are different requirements to the different branches and types of shop. Fashion shop design requires up-to-the-minute awareness of current trends in colour and style to create stores that will draw customers in.\n\n\"'Shopfitting system\"' refers to a product range made to satisfy the needs of shopfitters and ultimately retailers for display and merchandising goods. A shopfitting system can be adapted from combinations of standardized components for a particular retail application. A manufacturer would normally launch new shopfitting systems on a 2-year basis. Leading manufacturers would offer design oriented systems, followers would reinterpret them making the display solution achievable with as many as existing items as possible, hoping that retailers will choose their product because of the cheap price.\n\nShopfitting systems are usually connected to a \"modular\" concept, meaning that each item has more than one use. This economically goes into the rules of \"network\", where one element has the value of three, if added to another element, because 1x1=1 but 2x2=4: an extra item designed and compatible with others, has very high value.\n\nShop Fitting is a profession that involves the fitting of retail outlets like corner shops, department stores, convenience stores, supermarkets and hypermarkets with equipment, fixtures and fittings. It’s carried out by a shop fitter who executes all planning, design, layout and installation of equipment and services. A shop fitter brings interior design expertise and assists in the design of bespoke furniture, fittings and signage and also with the buying of retail equipment.\n\nThe process begins with a survey of the retail premises and measurement of available space. The next stage is the preparation of design, which is then submitted to the client for review and approval. Some clients provide their own design drawings that are prepared by another interior designer. Finally, the shop fitter arranges for the purchase of standard equipment and the production of the bespoke furniture, which is delivered and installed – ready for the shop operation. \n\nShop fitting is a precision orientated profession that requires intricacy and exceptional attention to detail in order to meet client requirements. Visual elements heavily impact customer behaviour hence why shop fitting is now at the forefront of attracting new customers to stores across the globe.\n"}
{"id": "18654380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654380", "title": "Stone picker", "text": "Stone picker\n\nA stone picker (or rock picker) is an implement to sieve through the top layer of soil to separate and collect rocks and soil debris from good topsoil. It is usually tractor-pulled. A stone picker is similar in function to a rock windrower (rock rake); a stone picker generally digs to greater depths to remove stones and rocks.\n\nStone pickers are used in farming and landscaping, where stones need to be removed from the soil and ground surface to prevent damage to other farm machinery (such as hay balers, combines, and mowers), improve the soil for crop production, or improve the appearance of the ground surface in preparation for a lawn or a golf course. Surface stones and large rocks often left from plowing can damage a hay bailer, the header or reciprocating knives on a combine, and blades on a rotary mower. Land with rock instead of fine soil are often less useful for crops. Thus, removing stones from the soil also ensures a more consistent yield. Additionally, using stone pickers is particularly useful for crops forming tubers (such as potatoes) in the ground.\n\nA stone picker has digging teeth, a conveyor system, a sieve or screen, and a stone bin. The digging teeth are at the leading edge of the stone picker and removes soil, which is placed on the conveyor system. If the sieve is not combined with the conveyor system, the conveyor system transports the stones and large rocks to a bin or hopper for periodic dumping. Some stone pickers use a large tractor, generally over 100 horsepower, equipped with hydraulics and power take-off driven mechanisms. PTO pump driven equipment can use 60 horsepower tractors. The tractor's hydraulics control the depth to which the stone picker digs to excavate soil material; whereas, the PTO controls the movement of the conveyor and picking system.stone collecting machine made in college of agriculture engineering and technology in junagadh agriculture university junagadh.\n"}
{"id": "21006532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21006532", "title": "Sysload Software", "text": "Sysload Software\n\nSysload Software, was a computer software company specializing in systems measurement, performance and capacity management solutions for servers and data centers, based in Créteil, France. It has been acquired in September 2009 by ORSYP, a computer software company specialist in workload scheduling and IT Operations Management, based in La Défense, France.\n\nSysload was created in 1999 as a result of the split of Groupe Loan System into two distinct entities: Loan Solutions, a developer of financial software and Sysload Software, a developer of performance management and monitoring software.\n\nThe following products are developed by Sysload:\nSysload products are based on a 3-tiered (user interfaces, management modules and collection and analysis modules) architecture metric collection technology that provides detailed information on large and complex environments. Sysload software products are available for various virtualized and physical platforms including: VMware, Windows, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris, Linux, I-series, PowerVM, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "12225987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12225987", "title": "TAU (spacecraft)", "text": "TAU (spacecraft)\n\nTAU (Thousand Astronomical Units) was a proposed unmanned space probe that would go to a distance of one thousand astronomical units (1000 AU) from the Earth and Sun by NASA/JPL in 1987 using tested technology. One scientific purpose would be to measure the distance to other stars via stellar parallax. Studies continued into 1990, working with a launch in the 2005–2010 timeframe.\n\nIt was a proposed nuclear electric rocket spacecraft that used a 1 MW fission reactor and an ion drive (with a burn time of about 10 years) to reach a distance of 1000 AU in 50 years. The primary goal of the mission was to improve parallax measurements of the distances to stars inside and outside the Milky Way, with secondary goals being the study of the heliopause, measurements of conditions in the interstellar medium, and (via communications with Earth) tests of general relativity.\n\nOne of the tasks envisioned for TAU would be a flyby of Pluto. A Pluto flyby was achieved in 2015 by the New Frontiers program mission \"New Horizons\".\n\nSome of the instruments proposed for the design included a 1.5-meter telescope for observations and a 1-meter telescope for laser communication with Earth.\n\nAfter launch it would accelerate to about 106 km/s (about 22.4 AU/year) over 10 years, using xenon as propellant and a nuclear fission reactor for power.\n\n\nThe 25,000 kg (gross launch mass including 10,000 kg of xenon propellant) \"TAU\" spacecraft would have been launched into a low Earth orbit by the Space Shuttle in 2005-2010. Once deployed, a central boom would have telescoped the three main units listed above to a total 40 meter length to separate the payload from the nuclear reactor. The ion propulsion/xenon propellant module would have been positioned close to the center of gravity, its 250 km/s exhaust velocity ion engines providing an acceleration of 0.35 mm/s. \"TAU\" would have attained Earth escape velocity in 250 days in a spiralling orbit, followed by Solar System escape speed 700 days later.\n\nThe \"TAU\" payload module would have separated from the rest of the spacecraft after ten years of constant thruster firing at a distance of 12 billion km (80 AU) as the xenon propellant tanks would have been depleted. \"TAU\" would have reached 200 AU in 15 years after launch, 400 AU in 23 years, 600 AU in 32 years, 800 AU in 41 years and the full 1000 AU in half a century. Even so, it would have traversed less than 0.4% of the 4.3 light years to Alpha Centauri, the nearest star.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40309522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40309522", "title": "Thermomechanical cuttings cleaner", "text": "Thermomechanical cuttings cleaner\n\nThe thermomechanical cuttings cleaner (TCC) is a patented technology mainly used by service providers in the oil and gas industry to separate and recover the components of oil-contaminated drilling waste. A TCC converts kinetic energy to thermal energy in a thermal desorption process which efficiently transforms drilling waste into re-usable products. Using kinetic energy instead of indirect heating allows for very short retention times and as a consequence the quality of the separated components is not affected by the treatment. Thus the recovered water, base oil and solids can be re-used after the treatment process. \n"}
{"id": "27945120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27945120", "title": "Timeline of United States inventions", "text": "Timeline of United States inventions\n\nThe following articles cover the timeline of United States inventions:\n\n"}
{"id": "28297690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28297690", "title": "Transit Elevated Bus", "text": "Transit Elevated Bus\n\nThe Transit Elevated Bus (TEB) () was a proposed new bus concept where a guided bus straddles above road traffic, giving it the alternative names such as straddling bus, straddle bus, land airbus, or tunnel bus by international media.\n\nA trial was scheduled to begin in Beijing's Mentougou District by late 2010. However the project was not given authorisation by the district authorities because the technology was considered to be too immature, and further trials were subject to the development of a concept to prove the system actually works. The city of Manaus, Brazil, has also evaluated the option of installing a straddle bus in its city streets. At the time of the 2016 unveiling of the scale model, it was reported that a prototype would be deployed by mid 2016 in Qinhuangdao. Four other Chinese cities, Nanyang, Shenyang, Tianjin, and Zhoukou, had also signed contracts for pilot projects involving the construction of test tracks beginning in 2016.\n\nHowever a claimed test of a prototype design was heavily criticized in August 2016, appeared to be abandoned , and was scrapped in June 2017 over concerns about its viability.\n\nIn July 2017, 32 people involved into the project were detained by Chinese authorities on suspicion of investment fraud. The prototype bus was removed from the test track in early July.\n\nThe idea of Transit Elevated Bus was proposed in 1969 by two American architects, Craig Hodgetts and Lester Walker, as a public transport concept called the \"Bos-Wash Landliner\". Later, another version was designed by Shenzhen Hashi Future Parking Equipment Company (深圳華世未來泊車設備有限公司), and the concept, known as 3D Express Bus (立体快巴) at the time, was unveiled at the 13th Beijing International High-tech Expo in May 2010. A working scale model was showcased at the 2016 Beijing International High-Tech Expo.\n\nIn China there are four main modes of public transportation: subway, light rail, bus rapid transit (BRT), and normal buses. The express coach would be a substitute for BRT and augment its advantages. To modify the road for the bus, two options are available: rails can be laid on the edges of the lanes that the bus occupies, or two white lines can be painted on the road to facilitate use of autopilot technology. Rails would offer less wheel rolling resistance and better energy efficiency. For either option, it may be necessary to widen the lanes occupied by the bus to accommodate the bus wheels and undercarriage whilst allowing other vehicles to pass under the bus two abreast. Since the bus is no higher than a tractor-trailer, roadway overpasses will usually not be a problem.\n\nThe bus would run along a fixed route, its passenger compartment spanning the width of two traffic lanes. Its undercarriage rides along the edges of the two lanes it straddles and the overall height is . Vehicles lower than high will be able to pass underneath the bus, reducing the number of traffic jams caused by ordinary buses loading and unloading at bus stops.\n\nPassengers on board the bus are expected to experience a ride comparable to riding in the upper level of a double decker bus. They will board and alight at stations at the side of the road with platforms at the bus floor height similar to stations of an elevated railway, or via stairs descending through the roof of the bus from a station similar to a pedestrian overpass. The bus will be electrically powered using overhead lines or other roof electrical contact systems designed for it, supplemented with photovoltaic panels, batteries, or supercapacitors on board. It will travel at up to . Different versions will carry up to passengers, with the larger versions being articulated to facilitate going around curves. A working scale model of the now called Transit Explore Bus (TEB) was showcased at the 2016 Beijing International High-Tech Expo.\n\nThe bus would have alarms to warn cars traveling too close to it, and signals to warn other vehicles when it is about to turn. It would have inflatable evacuation slides similar to those of an aircraft. Optional features could include sensors to keep it from colliding with a person or object (such as an overheight vehicle in front), warning lights and safety curtains at the rear to keep drivers of overheight vehicles from going underneath, repeater traffic signals underneath to relay the indications of traffic signals up ahead, and animated light displays to simulate stationary objects to prevent disorientation of drivers underneath.\n\nAccording to the 2010 proposal, it would cost about 500 million yuan (~ million) to build the bus with a guideway. This is claimed to be at 10% of the cost of building an equivalent subway, and is estimated to reduce traffic congestion by 20–30%. The Chairman of the company has said that it would only take a year for one to be built.\n\nAt the 2016 unveiling of the Transit Explore Bus (TEB) scale model, Mr. Song claimed each bus will cost about 30 million renminbi, or about , now estimated at one-sixteenth the price of a subway train. According to China’s Xinhua News Agency, the bus can carry 300 people.\n\nThe cities of Shijiazhuang, in Hebei Province, and Wuhu, in Anhui Province, had applied to obtain financing. A total of of track was set for construction in the Mentougou District of Beijing for late 2010. The trial run was cancelled due to doubts about the project.\n\nThe city of Manaus, Brazil signed a letter of intent with the Chinese developers to create a straddling bus system.\n\nAt the time of the 2016 unveiling of the scale model, it was reported that a prototype would be deployed by mid-2016 in Qinhuangdao, a coastal city about east of Beijing. Song Youzhou, the designer of the bus, said in an interview that other four Chinese cities, Nanyang, Shenyang, Tianjin, and Zhoukou, have also signed contracts with his company for pilot projects involving the construction of hundreds of kilometres of tracks beginning in 2016.\n\nThe inaugural test of such a bus was carried out on a track in the city of Qinhuangdao, Hebei in August 2016, using the Transit Explore Bus 1 (TEB-1) model which was long, wide and high, with a capacity of 300 passengers.\n\nIn August 2016, China's state media \"People's Daily Online\" labelled the tested Transit Elevated Bus a complete scam, claiming that Qinghuangdao's government was unaware of the test.\n\nOn 9 December 2016, it was reported after the unveiling in August, investors withdrew, and the TEB \"has been left in a rusted-out barn — in the middle of a major road\".\n\nThe Straddling Bus was selected by \"Time\" magazine as one of the \"50 Best Inventions of the Year 2010\".\n\nCritics of the project when the concept was unveiled in 2010 have questioned whether the hovering bus could interact safely with other vehicles, particularly when drivers manoeuvre to change lanes. Critics had also argued that the tracks would require relatively straight roads not found in many older urban areas, and that the overhead boarding stations that the bus needed would take up too much space.\n\nAccording to Song Youzhou, the project’s chief engineer, guardrails would be constructed between the bus tracks and the car lanes that pass through the elevated bus to prevent traffic accidents. The rails would be able to absorb at least 70% of a collision’s impact to reduce damage to the bus and other vehicles. Lanes for the elevated bus would be limited to passenger vehicles no higher than , and the buses are designed to meet zoning and bridge height regulations in each city. He also said that the buses were fully capable of turning corners, though the cars underneath must wait until the buses have passed before turning themselves.\n\nIn 2016 Mr. Song said to Chinese media that he had arranged to have Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Institute of Automotive Engineering to assess the feasibility of the TEB design. However, the institute’s director denied that he had any involvement with Mr. Song. The institute’s vice director and two professors said in the same report that they had conducted a design analysis, but that it was a personal initiative. Based on their assessment, the professors said, the design was “basically feasible” but “not perfect.” Southwest Jiaotong University also denied the involvement of technical research and development. \"It is true that two researchers from Laboratory of Traction Power had a feasibility meeting with the company\", the deputy director of the lab Wang Kaiyun said, \"but the comment on it was 'suspicious' (悬).\"\n\nIn July 2017 the track was demolished after Qinghuangdao refused to extend the TEB developer’s land contract which was scheduled to expire in July. In July the bus was removed and police arrested 32 individuals for “illegally raising funds to finance the TEB” after complaints from 72 investors were filed with them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41615052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41615052", "title": "Tsinghua Holdings", "text": "Tsinghua Holdings\n\nTsinghua Holdings Corp., Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Tsinghua University, itself a public university of China. The company was established as an in-house asset management company for Tsinghua's subsidiaries that were established in 1990s by the technology transfer of research to business.\n\nHu Haifeng (), son of Hu Jintao, former Chinese President and General Secretary of the Communist Party, was appointed in 2009 as the Party Committee Secretary of Tsinghua Holdings, often regarded as the \"de facto\" highest role of the company.\n\nThe current Party Committee Secretary of Tsinghua Holdings was Long Dawei (), which also served as the vice-chairman. The current chairman was Xu Jinghong ().\n\nRong Yonglin () was the former chairman of the holding.\n\nTsinghua Holdings was formally formed in 2003 (but tested as a test bed in 2001) in response to the 2001 policy of setting firewall between university and university-owned enterprises; all the shares of those subsidiaries of Tsinghua University were transferred to Tsinghua Holdings. In the announcement of the State Council of China in 2001, the plan was aimed to separate ownership and management, which professional business manager would be employed, as well as separation of assets of operating business and non-operating business. The university itself did not invested in other company anymore, but through the holding. The role of the university was supervising the holding via nominating board of directors to supervise it business plan, major investment, salary structure and other roles.\n\nThe predecessor of Tsinghua Holdings was incorporated in 26 August 1992 (as ), which the university used an established company to become a new holding company in 2001 for its subsidiaries. According to 2010 Annual Report of Tsinghua Holdings, some assets that non related to its business scope were transferred back to the university.\n\nChengzhi Co., Ltd was set up in Jiangxi province; its controlling shareholder is Tsinghua Holdings, and it was part of the corporate structure used in the acquisition of Shijiashuang Yongsheng Huatsing Liquid Crystal Co.\n\nTsing Capital describes itself as the exclusive clean tech venture capital arm of Tsinghua Holdings.\n\nTsinghua Tongfang Co., Ltd. is widely involved in consumer electronics and energy, with interests ranging from software outsourcing, through the manufacture of PC hardware, to the use of fly ash and the manufacture of LEDs. A particular field was the Nuctech Container Inspection System.\n\nTsinghua Unigroup is 51% owned by Tsinghua Holdings and 49% owned by Beijing Jiankun Investment Group; this latter group is controlled by Zhao Weiguo who is also chairman and CEO of Tsinghua Unigroup. In late 2013 it made two acquisitions (Spreadtrum and RDA Microelectronics) each of which involved a payment larger than its market cap, suggesting that it is acting on behalf of a fund elsewhere. This is believed to be part of a Chinese-government attempt to consolidate the fabless semiconductor sector. In April 2016, Tsinghua Unigroup announced it accumulated a roughly 6 percent stake in Portland, Ore.-based Lattice Semiconductor through share purchases on the open market. In Nov. 30, 2016 Tsinghua Unigroup Ltd. announced an agreement to form a joint-venture with ChipMOS Taiwan.\n\nUnisplendour was one of the components merged into Tsinghua Holdings when it was created; it was founded in 1988 and renamed Unisplendour in 1993. It now appears to be another conglomerate, doing everything from operating a hotel at the East Gate of Tsinghua University to doing large-scale software development for municipal and provincial governments across China, constructing infrastructure for highways, and producing scanners, laptops and digital cameras. In 2015, Unisplendour acquired 15% of Western Digital, expanding into the storage market as well.\n"}
{"id": "1126435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126435", "title": "Voyage from Yesteryear", "text": "Voyage from Yesteryear\n\nVoyage from Yesteryear is a 1982 science fiction novel by British writer James P. Hogan.\n\nAccording to Hogan, the idea for the book originated around 1976 when he was asked by a friend about whether there was a solution to \"the Troubles\" in Northern Ireland. He said that there was no solution that he could see and that the only thing that might work was separating the children and the adults to prevent the prejudices from being taught at an early age. However, some years later he returned to the concept of a society free from conditioning, which formed part of the basis for \"Voyage from Yesteryear\".\n\nThe story opens early in the 21st century, as an automated space probe is being prepared for a mission to explore habitable exoplanets in the Alpha Centauri system. However, Earth appears destined for a global war which the probe designers fear that humanity may not survive. It appears that the only chance for the human species is to reestablish itself far away from the conflict but there is no time left for a manned expedition to escape Earth. The team, led by Henry B. Congreve, change their mission priority and quickly modify the design to carry several hundred sets of electronically coded human genetic data. Also included in this mission of embryo space colonization is a databank of human knowledge, robots to convert the data into genetic material and care for the children and construct habitats when the destination is reached, and a number of artificial wombs. The probe's designers name it the \"Kuan-Yin\" after the bodhisattva of childbirth and compassion.\n\nShortly after the launch, global war indeed breaks out and several decades later, Earthbound humanity is united under an authoritarian government. It is this government that receives a radio message from the fledgling \"Chironian\" civilization revealing that the probe found a habitable planet (Chiron) and that the first generation of children have been raised successfully.\n\nAs the surviving power blocs of Earth before the conflict are still evident, North America, Europe and Asia each send a generation ship to Alpha Centauri to take control of the colony. By the time that the first generation ship (the American \"Mayflower II\") arrives after 20 years, Chironian society is in its fifth generation.\n\nThe \"Mayflower II\" has brought with it thousands of settlers, all the trappings of the authoritarian regime along with bureaucracy, religion, fascism and a military presence to keep the population in line. However, the planners behind the generation ship did not anticipate the direction that Chironian society took: in the absence of conditioning and with limitless robotic labor and fusion power, Chiron has become a post-scarcity economy. Money and material possessions are meaningless to the Chironians and social standing is determined by individual talent, which has resulted in a wealth of art and technology without any hierarchies, central authority or armed conflict.\n\nIn an attempt to crush this anarchist adhocracy, the \"Mayflower II\" government employs every available method of control; however, in the absence of conditioning the Chironians are not even capable of comprehending the methods, let alone bowing to them. The Chironians simply use methods similar to Gandhi's \"satyagraha\" and other forms of nonviolent resistance to win over most of the \"Mayflower II\" crew members, who had never previously experienced true freedom, and isolate the die-hard authoritarians.\n\nFrustrated with their lack of success, the authoritarian faction stages a military coup on board the \"Mayflower II\" and launches the ship's heavily armed \"battle module\", threatening to attack unless they submit to a military dictatorship. Having isolated the authoritarians, the Chironians destroy the module with an antimatter particle beam weapon. The remainder of the crew dissolve their government and join Chironian society. The week after, the laser communications beam to the \"Mayflower II\" cuts off, having been destroyed in another global war that had taken place 4.5 years ago.\n\nThe epilogue is set five years after these events and shows that the Chironians also assimilated the crews of the Asian and European starships. Now united, the Chironians refit and recommission the \"Mayflower II\" with an advanced antimatter drive and rename it the \"Henry B. Congreve\". The \"Henry B. Congreve\" is sent back to Earth to rebuild human civilization (with the new drive, this journey will only take eight years), fulfilling the \"Kuan-Yin\"'s mission of preserving humanity.\n\nMuch of the reaction to the novel has been related to the creation of the Chironian society. Ken MacLeod praised the \"attractive and ... plausible depiction of a communist anarchy\" while John Clute compared it with the work of Eric Frank Russell. The strong libertarian themes in the novel led to it winning the Prometheus Award in 1983, the first of Hogan's two wins.\n\nHogan's essay \"What Really Brought Down Communism?\" explains the reception given to the book in the Soviet Union. In the mid-80's, Hogan was informed that the novel had been serialized in a Polish science fiction magazine, Fantastyka and, in the absence of a functioning exchange mechanism, paid for it in Polish złotys credited to an account taken out in Hogan's name. The story was republished in other Eastern European countries where its depiction of nonviolent resistance against authority proved popular.\n\nIn 1989, Hogan attended a convention in Kraków before travelling to Warsaw to meet the publishers of the magazine serial and draw out the money he had been paid. However, inflation following the collapse of the communist regime had reduced the value of the money in the account to just $8.43. Hogan concluded: \"So after the U.S. had spent trillions on its B-52s, Trident submarines, NSA, CIA, and the rest, that was my tab for toppling the Soviet empire. There's always an easy way if you just look.\"\n\n"}
