{"id": "13006875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006875", "title": "Aggressive Christianity Missionary Training Corps", "text": "Aggressive Christianity Missionary Training Corps\n\nThe Aggressive Christianity Missions Training Corps (abbreviated ACMTC; also known as the Holy Tribal Nation, the Free Love Ministries, or the Life Force Team) is a Christian fundamentalist, Biblicist, theocratic cult. The ministry, founded in 1981 by James and Deborah Green (sometimes collectively referred to as \"the Generals\"; James is often called \"General James\" and sometimes \"Jim\"; Deborah is referred to as \"General Deborah\", formerly \"Lila\"), still retains its military structure, partially based on the original pattern of the Salvation Army. Moving from its starting location in Sacramento, California, it has now settled east of the rural town of Fence Lake, in Cibola County, New Mexico, south of Gallup. They also have a branch in Colorado Springs, Colorado.\n\nThe organization has been classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nIn August 2017, Deborah Green and her son-in-law Peter Green were arrested on charges of sexual abuse of children. Peter Green, a manager at the ministry's Fence Lake location, has been charged with 100 counts of criminal sexual penetration of a child, while Deborah Green faces charges of child abuse, negligent abuse and criminal sexual penetration. Deborah Green's son Joshua Green was also arrested and charged with failure to register the birth of his son. \n\nFour other members of the ministry in New Mexico, Amos River, Victoria River, Ruth River and Timothy River, were also arrested in August 2017 on felony charges of failure to register the births of their 11 children.\n\nAs of August 2017, the ACMTC is under investigation by the Children, Youth and Families Department of New Mexico.\n\nJames Green was born in 1945 and was raised in Kentucky. As a teenager, he hitchhiked to California where he later became involved in a hippie lifestyle and the 1960s revolution, and met Deborah.\n\nDuring the Greens' time with the Bear Tribe in California, they went to scout out land in Montana. The Greens converted to Christianity in 1971.\n\nJames and Deborah moved to Kentucky where they started attending a local church. James soon began training for a ministerial position. He trained for four years under a pastor.\n\nAfter a missionary journey through Central America, the Greens ended up in Miami, Florida.\n\nIn the late 1970s, James and Deborah worked at the large Miami Salvation Army center, participating in inner-city mission work. ACMTC may have taken its name from a sermon by Salvation Army co-founder Catherine Booth titled \"Aggressive Christianity\".\n\nIn the early 1980s, the Greens moved into a house in Sacramento, California. The Greens' public ministry started out as the Greens taking people in, as well as printing and distributing Gospel tracts. ACMTC eventually secured more houses and started using the name \"Free Love Ministries\". \n\nIn 1988, Maura Schmierer and several others filed a lawsuit against Free Love Ministries for abusive treatment, asking for 20 million dollars in damages. \n\nThe Greens lost the case by not appearing in court and went on the run from the law. The court ordered ACMTC to pay Schmierer $1.02 million. After losing the lawsuit, all buildings they owned were seized by the court. The ministry destroyed the buildings, left Sacramento and settled in Klamath Falls, Oregon, and added another ministry name, \"Death Force Team\". \n\nIn 1993, ACMTC secured an old school building in Berino, and established another camp in Gallup, New Mexico.\n\nIn their 1987 \"Responsibilities of Command\" officer's manual, the ministry states its beliefs:\n\nWe Believe:\nThe ministry also states its spiritual beliefs that can be found in some of the earliest writings done in 1986 by James Green,\n\n(1) His grace is demonstrated that we might be free from captivity, but this freedom is to be used for and unto His ultimate intention.\n(2) God always asks that which is impossible to the natural man in order that His people will be dependent upon divine, spiritual resources.\n(3) God designs all things to function properly under His control. He is not content to merely set us free, but longs to \"turn our capacity\"; that is, He longs to bring us back into His captivity.\n(4) Man must either submit to God's purpose or become captive to some other law. God's plan will not allow us to live long in liberty apart from law.\n(5) God's pattern is not spurts of consecration and dedication, but a consistent walk leading into a continuous unfolding revelation of His plan and purpose.\n\nAggressive Christianity Missionary Training Corps has been described as a cult.\n\nApologetics Index says of the group:\nWhile it presents itself as a Christian movement it has a number of un-biblical and extra-biblical teachings, including several that militate against the Bible’s teachings on grace. It has an elitist view of itself and its members. It encourages unreasonable corporal punishment for children, and reported prevents members from seeking medical aid. \n\nIn 1989, Jodi Hernandez was part of a group of newspeople that reported on the Aggressive Christians from March to September through KOVR-TV, CBS channel 13 Sacramento. \n\nIn December 1999, Darren White, former secretary of the Department of Public Safety for New Mexico, and then reporter for KRQE, CBS channel 13, Albuquerque, reported on the Greens.\n\nOn November 4, 2005, Jim Maniaci, of the Gallup Independent's Cibola County Bureau in Grants, reported that a co-leader of a religious group was jailed on an aggravated battery with a deadly weapon charge. \n\nIn June, 2006, Annie McCormick of KRQE, CBS channel 13, Albuquerque, also investigated the Greens with reports from former members and families.\n\nIn April 2012, National Geographic Channel featured Maura Schmierer and her daughter Rebekah's accounts with the group. \n\nSeason 2, episode 4 of \"Dangerous Persuasions\" on Investigation Discover Channel tells Maura Schmierer's story. It is currently (2015) available on Amazon Video.\n\n"}
{"id": "814432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=814432", "title": "Amy (demon)", "text": "Amy (demon)\n\nAmy (also \"Auns\", \"Hanar\", \"Hanni\") is a Goetic demon described in the \"Lesser Key of Solomon\" (as the fifty-eighth spirit), the \"Dictionnaire Infernal\", in Thomas Rudd's version (as \"Auns\", again fifty-eighth), the \"Pseudomonarchia Daemonum\" (the sixtieth spirit), and (as \"Hanni\") in the \"Munich Manual of Demonic Magic\" as a President, appearing initially as a flame before turning to a human form. He is claimed to teach astronomy and liberal arts, give familiars, incite positive reactions from rulers, and (according to all sources except the Munich Manual) reveal treasures. According to all sources, he rules over thirty six legions of demons. According to Johann Weyer, he was of both the order of angels and \"potestates\" (powers), and holds the futile hope of returning to the seventh heaven after twelve centuries. According to Rudd, Amy is opposed by the Shem HaMephorash angel Ieialel.\n"}
{"id": "17879867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17879867", "title": "Atrocitus", "text": "Atrocitus\n\nAtrocitus (Atros) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by the DC Comics. Atrocitus is an enemy of the Guardians of the Universe and Sinestro, their former Green Lantern.\n\nAtrocitus first appears in \"Green Lantern\" vol. 4 #25 in a two-page \"War of Light\" spread and was created by Geoff Johns and Ethan Van Sciver.\n\nWhen the rogue Manhunters rampaged through Space Sector 666 Atros was one of only five beings in the entire sector to escape death, having been forced to witness his own wife and daughters killed by one of the rampaging robots. Renaming himself \"Atrocitus\", he and the other four survivors formed a terrorist cabal known as the Five Inversions, bent on the destruction of the Guardians of the Universe and all who served them, with Atrocitus serving as their leader. The Five Inversions performed a ritual which allowed them to peer into the future and discover the prophecy of the Blackest Night, which decreed that all life in the universe would end. Forming an \"Empire of Tears\", the Inversions attempted to destroy the Guardians, but were defeated and imprisoned on the planet Ysmault.\n\nSome time later, Abin Sur began making periodic visits to Ysmault, and began to ask questions regarding the Blackest Night. Sur even went so far as to free Atrocitus from his imprisonment so that he could lead the Green Lantern to Earth, the prophesied birthplace of \"the black\" that would one day end the universe. Taken to Earth by starship (due to fellow Inversion Qull predicting that Sur's ring would one day fail him when he most needed it) and bound by energy restraints created by Sur's ring, Atrocitus instilled fear in his captor, allowing the yellow impurity to seep into his willpower constructs and weaken them enough to allow him to break free. After slashing the Green Lantern in the chest, mortally wounding him, Atrocitus jumped from a point high in Earth's atmosphere to escape Sur's failing ship.\n\nAfter landing near an airbase, and killing an unspecified number of Air Force troopers, Atrocitus recited what would later become the oath of the Red Lantern Corps, and performed a ritual that told him the name of the herald of the Blackest Night: William Hand. Atrocitus created a device using stolen gun parts that acted as a cosmic divining rod, and used it to lead him to Hand. Once he tracked down the human who, it was said, would play a prominent role in the coming of the Blackest Night, he attacked, and planned to take Hand's innards back to Ysmault. Before his plan proceeded, however, Sinestro and rookie Green Lantern Hal Jordan intercepted him, spiriting William Hand to safety. Atrocitus used his newly constructed device to sap the power from their rings, leaving them with only their wits to defend them from the master of the Five Inversions. Sinestro was able to restore their rings' powers through his power battery, but Atrocitus still had the upper hand. Just as he was about to crush Sinestro with a power shovel, Jordan used his ring to blow up the yellow vehicle, which surprised Atrocitus greatly, as he believed Green Lantern rings did not work on anything colored yellow. Defeated, Atrocitus was contained by Sinestro, and brought to Oa. He was later returned to Ysmault by Sinestro, where he prophesied that Sinestro's home planet Korugar would soon erupt into chaos and disorder. Through this act, it was implied that it was Atrocitus who planted the seeds of Sinestro's later fall from grace.\n\nIn the aftermath of the \"Sinestro Corps War\", Atrocitus was seen forging a Red Lantern power battery, utilizing the power of rage. He said that his first new victim would be the one who called himself \"the greatest Green Lantern\": Sinestro, who had long since abandoned the Green Lantern Corps to forge a Corps in his own namesake. He also murdered Qull of the Five Inversions, a fellow member of the Empire of Tears and the one responsible for telling Abin Sur the prophecy of the Blackest Night (which caused the Guardians of the Universe to continue the Empire of Tears' incarceration on Ysmault, rather than transfer them to Oa's sciencells, closer to the enemies of the Five Inversions), by bludgeoning him with the power battery. In this way, the first power battery was christened with blood.\n\nAtrocitus murdered the other members of the Five Inversions, using their blood to create red power rings, power batteries, and a Red Central Power Battery on Ysmault. Atrocitus soon donned his new red power ring, becoming the first Red Lantern. He recruited many other individuals from across the universe who possessed great anger and hate, including former Green Lantern Laira. Many of them had been wronged by the Sinestro Corps, and Atrocitus promises them that the Red Lantern Corps will eradicate Sinestro himself. He led his new corps in an assault against Sinestro while he was being transferred by some members of the Green Lantern Corps from the Oan Sciencells to his home planet of Korugar for execution.\n\nThe Red Lanterns interrupted a deadly fight between Sinestro's forces and the Green Lanterns, killing members of both sides without discrimination. Atrocitus personally slew the long-standing Green Lantern Remnant Nod. Eventually Sinestro was captured and taken to Ysmault for execution, and Hal Jordan, who had faced Atrocitus before, was left for dead in space. After bringing Sinestro to Ysmault, Atrocitus nailed the former Green Lantern to a cross to await his execution at his own hands. However, unlike the Guardians, who preferred a quick execution, Atrocitus wished to make Sinestro suffer first by taking revenge on everything he has ever cared about. His targets included Korugar, and Sinestro's previously unknown and hidden daughter, whose identity Atrocitus had learned through his blood prophecies.\n\nWhen Hal Jordan and the Blue Lanterns arrived to recover Sinestro, Atrocitus revealed another prophecy to Jordan: that the Guardians will one day take his greatest love, and he will become a renegade once again because of their actions. Although Sinestro believes that Atrocitus' prophecy could be a form of reverse psychology to instill fear in Jordan of his past actions under the influence of Parallax. After rescuing Sinestro, the Blue Lanterns began to leave, but Jordan wanted to go back for Laira, whom Sinestro killed to save Jordan. In a burst of outrage, Jordan prepared to carry out Sinestro's death sentence himself, against the wishes of the Blue Lanterns. The rage that Jordan felt drew Laira's red ring to him, converting Jordan into the newest member of the Red Lantern Corps. Jordan attacked the Blue Lanterns and Sinestro, until Saint Walker managed to get a Blue power ring onto his finger. The blue ring negated the effects of the red ring, restoring Jordan to normal. Jordan then attacked Atrocitus, using the power of the blue and green rings to make the red one explode in his face. Defeated, the Red Lanterns retreated to the dark side of Ysmault, where Atrocitus performed another blood ritual, seeking to discover the location of the Blue Lanterns' homeworld.\n\nDuring the \"Blackest Night\" limited series the Lost Lanterns came to Ysmault to retrieve Laira's body, but were opposed by Atrocitus and the Red Lanterns. During the conflict, several black power rings descended onto Ysmault, reanimating the bodies of Laira and Atrocitus' fellow Inversions. The reanimated Qull ripped out Atrocitus' heart; However, because Red Lantern rings effectively replace their wearer's hearts, the attack did not kill Atrocitus.\n\nAtrocitus later appeared on Okaara to steal Larfleeze's power battery. However, Hal Jordan, Carol Ferris, Sinestro, Saint Walker, Ganthet, Sayd, and Indigo-1, save the two from Black Lanterns and stop Atrocitus. He was then brought back to Ryut, where his rage subsided into grief for his lost world. He agreed to help in the fight against the Black Lanterns, but promised to kill the Guardians when the conflict was over. Following the Black Lantern central power battery to Earth, the Corps leaders combined their lights to form the white light of creation, which, despite Indigo-1's claims, failed to destroy the battery, instead making the force behind it stronger. Ganthet then duplicated the leader's rings, in an attempt to bolster their forces. The duplicate of Atrocitus' ring found its way to Mera, temporarily inducting her into the Red Lantern Corps. When the Corps leaders and their deputies were being attacked by a Black Lantern Spectre, Atrocitus senses the spirit's true nature despite being influenced by the black ring; an embodiment of rage and vengeance. Atrocitus desires to harness the Spectre's powers for his vendettas against the Guardians after the spirit is free from the Black Lantern Corps. When Parallax frees the Spectre, Atrocitus attempts to convert him into his own rage entity, but fails, the Spectre warning him that the true rage entity is not to be trifled with.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Black Lanterns, Atrocitus returns to Ysmault, and is soon after approached by Ganthet and Guy Gardner, who ask him to join them in an as-yet unidentified mission. Despite his utter hatred for the Guardians, Atrocitus agrees, sending the Red Lantern Bleez to assist Guy.\n\nSometime later, he appeared in New York City with the feline Red Lantern Corps member, Dex-Starr in search of the emotional spectrum entities. They killed several criminals in the subway, while sparing the remaining riders in the subway car. When he performed his blood ritual, it revealed to him the location of the entities except for Ion and Parallax. Hal, Carol and Sinestro confronted Atrocitus for his murderous actions as he finished the ritual; however, Atrocitus justified them by claiming they did what they did to protect innocents. Carol confirmed Atrocitus' sincerity by detecting a spark of love in his heart with her powers that was not there during their previous encounter, only to have her words ignite his anger. Enraged, Atrocitus blasts the trio out of the subway, and engages in combat. During the brawl, it is revealed that Atrocitus has learned how to create constructs with his powers. Their fight is then interrupted as Lobo makes an appearance, incapacitating Hal. The Lanterns join together to fight off Lobo, with Atrocitus revealing that he is on Earth to stop the being who is capturing the Emotional entities. It is later revealed that Atrocitus had hired Lobo to attack him, in order to gain the others trust. During his search for the Rage Entity, known as the Butcher, Atrocitus incinerates a prison bus full of murderers, claiming that \"Those who take life do not deserve it.\"\n\nAtrocitus locates the Butcher, who is about to possess a man whose daughter had been killed by a death row inmate. Despite the Spectre's attempts to stop it, the Butcher succeeds, killing the criminal. The Butcher then attempts to possess Atrocitus, revealing that Atrocitus had a wife and children who were killed in the Manhunters' attack. With the Spectre's help, Atrocitus wards off the Butcher and imprisons it within his power battery. The Spectre attempts to judge the man that the Butcher possessed, but Atrocitus argues that his method of judgment is flawed. The Spectre calls off his judgment, and is unable to judge Atrocitus, discovering that his mission is a \"holy\" one.\n\nHe returns to Jordan and the other New Guardians (Hal Jordan, Carol Ferris, Sinestro, Larfleeze/Agent Orange, Saint Walker, Indigo-1, and himself) just as a robed figure gained the upper hand in their fight. Catching him off guard with a burst of his napalm-acidic blood, Atrocitus vented his long suppressed rage against the Guardians upon Krona, knowing of his Maltus origins and how he was once connected to the Guardians of the Universe. Without the rage entity to control Atrocitus' powers, Krona fell victim to his attack as the Red Lantern viciously bites him in the jugular. Using the Ion entity to counterattack, Krona used Ophidian to disrupt the New Guardians from fighting back (including Atrocitus). Learning that Atrocitus had trapped the Butcher inside of his lantern, Krona exorcized the rage entity from its prison, and made him his own. Atrocitus and the New Guardians were utterly defeated, and once again stuck together to find Krona using Larfleeze to track down the avarice entity.\n\nAtrocitus and the rest of the New Guardians make their way to Ryut, where Larfleeze has detected Ophidian. Krona and the entities are nowhere to be found but the group does come upon the Book of the Black. Inside they discover that it was Krona who purposefully reprogrammed the Manhunters to wipe out all life in Sector 666. Atrocitus reveals that he already knew this. Former Sinestro Corps member Lyssa Drak appears and quickly subdues the New Guardians trapping all but Hal in the Book of the Black.\n\nWhen Hal meets up with Guy Gardner at the \"Green House\", Guy reveals the pact made between him, Ganthet, and Atrocitus. It is revealed that part of the pact was that once Krona had been defeated he would be turned over to Atrocitus to face justice. Hal told Guy that this most likely means executing Krona. In the final battle, Atrocitus is freed from the book by Kyle Rayner, and his red ring returns to him. Although outraged at losing the chance to kill Krona due to Hal Jordan, Atrocitus is unable to vent his fury, as the Guardians of the Universe teleport him back home. Afterwards, Atrocitus was confronted by Ganthet, who brings Krona's corpse to him to do what he wishes.\n\nFollowing his return to Ysmault, Atrocitus feels his rage dimming, and fears that he may lose control over the Red Lantern hordes. Using Krona's innards to perform a blood ritual, Atrocitus sees many acts of evil across the universe. He resolves to lead his Red Lanterns in punishing the guilty. However, feeling his control over the rampaging, animalistic Red Lanterns dimming, he also decides to uplift one of them to be his equal and helper. He settles for Bleez, restoring her mind and naming her his new right-hand. It is later revealed that he has kept Krona's corpse as a 'confidant', talking to the body when he needs to give voice to his feelings about the Red Lantern Corps and his plans to upgrade their intelligence. However, after granting intellects to three additional Red Lanterns to act as a check to Bleez, Atrocitus returns to the place where he has left Krona's body only to find it gone. Although Atrocitus attempts to find Krona's body, he is left to consider both the worrying possibility that Krona has come back to life and, when faced with a revolt from Bleez, Atrocitus starts to wonder if the loss of Krona's body has robbed him of the focus of his rage, as he has begun to try and justify his actions where he used to consider his mere identity enough of a justification. He briefly regains his focus and unbridled rage when he discovers how Krona did not resurrect: instead Abysmus, one of his early experiments at creating life by the use of necromancy and shamanic rituals, had stolen Krona's body, eaten and flayed him and used his skin to empower himself and similar demonic creatures, known as the Abysmorphs. Abysmus and the Abysmorphs manage to overpower Atrocitus, wounding him grievously, causing Atrocitus to summon John Moore, the new backup Red Lantern of the sector 2814.\n\nLearning that Kyle is attempting to acquire the power of the seven Corps, Atrocitus agrees to train Kyle to harness the red ring of rage to use that power against the Guardians. He attempts to provoke Kyle's rage by reminding him of the death of his girlfriend Alex after he got the ring, but when this fails (Kyle instead feels grief rather than anger), he takes Kyle to witness a group of people being threatened and executed in another country, Kyle's anger at this provoking the activation of the red power within him.\n\nDuring a confrontation with the First Lantern, Atrocitus is shown a world where the massacre of Sector 666 never took place, but witnesses a life where he became a brutal dictator after overthrowing his world's government, even killing his wife before he is finally killed by his own son. Horrified at this vision, Atroctius rejects the First Lantern's 'offer' to make that world the reality, believing that even the loss of his entire sector is better than being killed by his own son. Although he briefly orders the other Red Lanterns to kill him as he blames himself for the massacre, Atrocitus later decides to use this experience to reconnect with the rage that drives his Corps, and leads them in the final assault against the First Lantern, which culminates in him killing one of the last Guardians of the Universe after a Parallax-possessed Sinestro kills the others.\n\nIn the aftermath of \"Wrath of The First Lantern\", Atrocitus loses his ring to Guy Gardner, who has been recruited by Hal Jordan as a mole, and has his severely beaten body to be carried away by Dex-Starr. After drifting in space for a while, he manages to merge with the Butcher, the red light living embodiment of rage which he then loses to Kyle Rayner during the fight against Relic. Atrocitus and Dex-Starr then find another feral Red Lantern, kill it and take its ring. He then captures Rankorr and forces a bug inside him to make him feral. He then poisons the blood on Ysmult and using a second lake on Styge Prime he creates hundreds of rings and sends them to Earth. He then uses these new formed reds from Earth to fight Guy Gardner, but Gardner bears him by proving his rage greater than Atrocitus' and takes away his ring along with Dex-Starr's and all the new formed red's as well. Although it is presumed he is dead, Gardner still refers to him as alive.\n\nIn DC Rebirth, Atrocitus resumes his reign over the Red Lanterns. He begins by enacting the prophecy of the Red Dawn on Earth. To do this, he began infecting humanity with rage and constructed a Hell Tower.\n\nAtrocitus wields a Red Lantern power ring similar to that of a Green Lantern's, except it is powered by rage rather than willpower. The full extent of a red power ring's powers has not been revealed, but it is stated in \"Final Crisis: Rage of the Red Lanterns\" that the red ring acts as their heart and pumps their rage-tainted blood out of their body through their mouth. While initially unable to do so, Atrocitus learned to create red light constructs after observing the other lanterns during the Blackest Night. It is also shown that the ring's red energy corrupts the auras of other power rings and burns them away, possibly corrupting the ring beyond the ability of a Lantern to use. Unlike the other members of the Red Lantern Corps, whose rings reduce them to being mindless raging beasts, leaving them unable to create and maintain energy constructs as do Green and Blue Lanterns, Atrocitus is in full control of his mental faculties while wearing his ring and may not be affected in the same manner. However, the Red Lantern's corruptive energy can be overcome and purified by the Blue Lantern's energies. Atrocitus can deliberately override the corruptive influence of the red energy on his followers by using his magic, but never chooses to do so.\n\nAtrocitus possesses superhuman strength and durability; strong enough to toss a 14+ ton construction digger and durable enough to withstand knife attacks.\n\nAtrocitus' association with the Empire of Tears granted him a great deal of shamanistic magic, which he used to forge the Red Lantern rings and divine the location of William Hand.\n\nAtrocitus is highly intelligent, able to construct the energy-draining device later used by Black Hand from simple gun and computer parts. Before the Manhunters destroyed sector 666, Atrocitus was a psychologist.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\" storyline, dialogue states that Atrocitus, though still a Red Lantern, succeeded in killing William Hand, unleashing Nekron and the Black Lanterns. For this, Atrocitus was captured and crucified on planet Ysmault. Atrocitus is later visited by Sinestro (still a Green Lantern in this timeline), who had hoped to understand the meaning of the \"Flashpoint\". Atrocitus tells the \"Flashpoint\" prophecy is a moment when all of history will be changed and the \"Flash\" who changed history and use his power to reset the universe to what he believes it should be. Sinestro killed him after what Atrocitus told him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19535017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535017", "title": "Aumism", "text": "Aumism\n\nAumism is a minor religious sect founded in 1969 by Gilbert Bourdin (1924-1998). Centered on the \"holy city\" of Mandarom, near Castellane in the French Alps, it has approximately 400 members, down from 1200 at its peak. It is a synthesis of a number of religions, notably buddhism. Its name derives from the mystical \"aum\" sound used in Hindu meditation.\n\nGilbert Bourdin (1924-1998), also known as Hamsah Manarah self-proclaimed \"Cosmoplanetary Messiah of Synthesis\" founded the movement in 1969 after immersing himself in many oriental religions.\n\nThe holy city of Mandarom Shambhasalem was founded in 1969, about 50 kilometres northwest of Cannes. Bourdin progressively built a number of temples and statues. Amongst these is a 22-metre statue of Buddha Maitreya, constructed in 1981, and a 21-metre statue of \"Cosmic Christ\" wielding a sword and shield, constructed in 1987. In 1990, a 33-metre statue of Bourdin was constructed at Mandarom. The legitimacy of the building permit was later challenged, and eventually, in June 2000, the statue was deemed illegal after a long legal dispute. As a result, it was demolished by the authorities on 6 September 2001. The sect denounced the demolition of Bourdin's statue, saying that it was comparable to the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamyan by the Taliban in Afghanistan earlier in the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "25067204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25067204", "title": "Bhaktavijaya", "text": "Bhaktavijaya\n\nMaha Bhakta vijaya is a Marathi text by Mahipati that extols the deeds of the saint-poets of the Varkari sect of Hinduism. It has been translated into various languages in India and is widely read. It forms an important part of the prayer for devotees of Vithoba at Pandharpur.\n\nIt gives a short biographic account of the various devotees of Lord Krishna, such as\n"}
{"id": "4101246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4101246", "title": "Brenda Chenowith", "text": "Brenda Chenowith\n\nBrenda Chenowith is a fictional character on the HBO television series \"Six Feet Under\" played by Rachel Griffiths. She was first introduced in the pilot, and remained until the series finale.\n\nBrenda is the oldest daughter of a wealthy psychiatrist, Bernard Chenowith, and psychologist Margaret Chenowith. During her childhood, Brenda's parents were sexually open to their children, along with being promiscuous, often deviating from their respective marital partner. Also during her childhood, Brenda was discovered to have an IQ of 185, and, as a result, was the subject of a study by psychiatrist Gareth Feinberg, published as the best-selling book \"Charlotte Light and Dark\", a book that would repeatedly haunt Brenda throughout her life. In fact, as a child Brenda realized she was being observed and began studying mental disorders and would fake symptoms to spite the doctors. At one point in her life, Brenda planned on attending Yale University, but opted to remain at home in California and attend UCLA when her troubled brother, Billy, ostensibly attempted suicide.\n\nBrenda is first seen exiting the Los Angeles airport with Nate Fisher. The two have sex in a janitor's closet before Nate receives news that his father has died. The two part ways but continue their sexual relationship. She is now a shiatsu massage therapist, operating out of her home. Her relationship with Nate continues to grow more serious until Billy emotionally invades her relationship. Billy is a photographer who is often in and out of mental institutions. He exhibits extreme possessiveness over Brenda and even begins stalking her and Nate. The two share matching tattoos on their lower backs, Brenda's baring the name Nathaniel, Billy's being Isabel. These names are taken from their favorite childhood book series \"Nathaniel and Isabel\". Billy's obsession with Brenda eventually spirals out of control when he quits taking his medication and removes his tattoo by cutting his skin off. He attempts to remove Brenda's tattoo before she knocks him unconscious and has him institutionalized.\n\nThe next summer Brenda decides to return to college and begins the process of writing a novel. Her attraction to Nate has dwindled and she soon finds herself fantasizing about men outside of her relationship. Nonetheless, she proposes to Nate mid-season, and opts to stay with him, despite his admitting to a brain condition that may cause him to have a stroke at any time. Sex with Nate has all but subsided when Brenda begins a friendship with a client who is a prostitute. Brenda finds herself inspired by her new friend and eventually performs a handjob on one of her clients. Brenda then begins having more random encounters with men outside of her relationship with Nate until it escalates into sexual addiction. Later Nate admits that he cheated on Brenda with Lisa, an old friend from Seattle, and the infidelity resulted in Lisa becoming pregnant. Brenda begins having sex in public areas, attending sex-themed parties and inviting strangers into her home. She details all of these accounts in her novel and Nate eventually discovers that Brenda's writings are not fictional. The two argue before Nate ends the engagement and storms off. Nate and Brenda have one last meeting, Brenda admits her sexual addiction and asks Nate if she can be there when he undergoes brain surgery. He refuses. Brenda packs up her things and leaves her home.\n\nBrenda is next seen returning to Los Angeles after a lengthy absence. The reason for her return is initially unknown, but Brenda seems to be fully cured of her addictions. She makes amends with Nate, but discovers that he is now married to Lisa. Later, Brenda's father dies of cancer, three months after being diagnosed. Nate attends the funeral with his new daughter, Maya, much to Lisa's chagrin. Brenda is staying with her mother, but soon moves out and moves in with Billy, however, she quickly departs from Billy's when he attempts to kiss her. She begins a friendship with Joe, a man who lives across the courtyard from her at her new apartment complex. Things grow complicated when Nate and Brenda share a kiss and even more complicated when Lisa goes missing without a trace. During this time, Brenda assists Nate's sister, Claire, in receiving an abortion. Lisa eventually turns up dead and Nate shows up at Brenda's doorstep badly beaten.\n\nBy this point, Brenda and Joe have developed a relationship. Things escalate quickly and the two move in together and begin trying to have a child. Brenda reverts to old habits when she begins sleeping with Nate out of fear of committing to Joe. She admits to sleeping with another man to Joe, and the two attempt to stay together despite Brenda's infidelity. Joe walks in on Brenda and Nate about to have sex and breaks it off with Brenda, permanently. Shortly after, she and Nate get back together and Nate moves in with her. Brenda becomes a surrogate mother to Maya but still desires a child of her own. Nate shows little interest in having another child. Lisa's sister, Barbara, shows considerable distaste in Brenda assisting Nate in raising Maya and eventually learns that Nate may have filled Lisa's urn with different ashes. She threatens to take Maya away, but it is revealed that her husband may be linked to Lisa's death before he shoots himself. Following these events, Nate proposes that he and Brenda get married and have a child.\n\nBrenda soon becomes pregnant, but miscarries the day before her wedding to Nate. She opts to continue with the wedding, but soon begins to have doubts if she will ever be able to have the normal family she desires, due to her past indiscretions. Brenda begins work as a therapist. Conflict arises when Brenda debates revealing to Maya that she is not her biological mother. Nate believes it is too early to expose Maya to such things. Brenda becomes pregnant again and this time the baby is seemingly healthy, until the doctors begin to worry that the baby may develop Down syndrome or spina bifida. Nate pressures Brenda into having an amniocentesis and if the results are positive, considering an abortion, but Brenda resists. She and Nate face even more turbulence when Nate begins a friendship with Maggie Sibley and shows an interest in Quakerism, much to Brenda's displeasure. Nate soon begins an affair with Maggie, but suffers a hemorrhage after his first encounter with her. He goes into a coma, but wakes up with Brenda at his side. He seems to be doing better, and breaks up with Brenda, most likely with the intention of beginning a relationship with Maggie. He dies before he leaves the hospital, leaving Brenda pregnant and alone. She grows scared and leaves Maya with Ruth, which later leads to conflict when Brenda wants Maya back. Brenda then confides in Billy, who had recently broken up with Claire. She soon feels uncomfortable with the incestuous overtones of their relationship and asks him to leave. She gives birth to a premature baby girl, Willa Fisher Chenowith, who eventually grows healthy enough to leave the hospital.\n\nBrenda later becomes a professor and scholar, particularly in the development of gifted children. She marries a man named Daniel Nathanson and has another child, Forrest Nathanson. She seemingly remains close friends with Claire Fisher throughout her life. She dies at the age of 82 in 2051 of natural causes, suffering from early signs of Parkinson's disease. The audio commentary jokingly suggests that Billy bores Brenda to death as he is heard still talking about his failed relationship with Claire.\n\nShe remained an open, outspoken atheist throughout the entirety of the series.\n"}
{"id": "46235677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46235677", "title": "Brendan Hoban", "text": "Brendan Hoban\n\nFr. Brendan Hoban is an Irish Catholic priest in the Killala Diocese, columnist and author of a number of books. Fr. Hoban was born in Ballycastle, Co. Mayo in 1948. Educated in Ballycastle Boys National School, St Muredach¹s College, Ballina and entered St Patrick's College, Maynooth in 1968 and was ordained for the diocese of Killala in 1973. He writes a weekly column in the Western People.\n\nHe co-presents radio show \"Faith Alive\" on MidWest Radio each Sunday.\n\nFr. Brendan is a founding member of the Association of Catholic Priests in 2010 and is states and publishes many controversial opinions which conflict with the mainstream church.\n\nFr. Hoban ministered in Ballina and now serves as Parish Priest in Moygownagh, Co Mayo.\n\nFr. Hoban has published a number of books.\n"}
{"id": "8475537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8475537", "title": "Christian library", "text": "Christian library\n\nChristian Theological libraries have their origins in the Jewish religion whose practice and transmission depended on the keeping and duplication of sacred texts. Like Judaism, Christianity depends fundamentally on the preservation and study of a sacred text. From this it follows that the texts and the secondary literature will be collected for the use of the literate members of the religious communities and passed on to succeeding generations.\n\nThe integral relationship between Christianity and its texts has always ensured a central place for books, for learning, and for libraries among Christians. The passing of two millennia has witnessed changes in the manner and intensity of Christian scholarship, yet it has always been the case that theological learning is inconceivable without libraries and librarians doing the work both of collecting the theological insights of the past and anticipating future theological and religious trends.\n\nThe establishment of the Christian canon has classically been a subject of central interest to the Christian religion (though in more recent years it has become a special study for theologians and textual critics). It also has a direct bearing on the origins of Christian libraries. As preliminary consensus in the formation of a canon was arrived at, early Christian communities would typically entrust to a member of the community the task of providing care and security for those documents that authentically represented the identity and cohesion of each community in this upstart (and frequently embattled) religion.\n\nThe impulse to keep valued texts and documents safe but accessible shaped the patterns of early collections, and the first recorded mention of early Christian library activity comes down to us from a context of hostility. Under the Emperor Diocletian (3rd-century), a series of edicts against the Christians included orders that Christian books be seized and destroyed. From this it can reasonably be inferred that it was typical for a local Christian assembly to possess a collection of texts of one kind or another, and that the authorities considered the destruction of such materials to be an essential part of suppressing the Christian faith.\n\nBishop Alexander of Jerusalem established a library during his tenure (first half of the 3rd century): this is known from the records of an actual “reader”, Eusebius of Caesarea, who mentions some of the works he found there. Possibly Alexander’s library had as its model the notable Classical collection of Alexandria: it may be that while still in the Egyptian city, Origen encouraged his student Alexander to initiate a center for study in Jerusalem.\n\nOrigen had a hand also in the establishment of the early Christian library of greatest renown, that at Caesarea, based on his own private collection. The great Jerome was later associated with this library, although a lot of the specific library work appears to have been the task of Pamphilus who, according to Jerome, “searched throughout the world for examples that were true and eternal monuments of gifted writers.” Through these efforts, the library grew to include thousands of volumes, a staggering accomplishment when one considers the labor involved in copying by hand. The breadth and quality of this collection is attested by the range of sources cited by Eusebius, who relied on this library in research for his works. Primary collections included all the works of Origen, as well as contemporaries such as Clement of Alexandria, Apollinaris, Justin, Irenaeus, and virtually all the important ecclesiastical writers of the period. Since the library performed the critical functions of copying, revising and gathering texts into usable selections, scriptural texts were present in abundance.\n\nPreservation issues also presented themselves: we have record of there having been projects to “convert” the library (or at least its most heavily used segments) from papyrus to parchment. It needs to be emphasized that Caesarea’s was, in almost every modern sense, principally a research rather than a congregational or liturgical library. In this setting ambitious critical works were housed, and ever more ambitious and critical works were written, and it would be some time before any Christian library again rose to the standard set in Caesarea. (Regrettably, we cannot be certain what became of the collection, except that it is lost almost without a trace).\n\nOf a specifically Christian library in Alexandria (as distinct from the renowned Classical library of Alexandria of earlier centuries) less is known. Given the prominence of the city within the Greek world of letters, it is quite possible that authoritative teaching figures such as Pantaenus and Clement put their personal libraries at the disposal of students, and that over time a Christian library took shape.\n\nIt was not until the 4th and 5th centuries, when political conditions permitted, that “episcopal” libraries took shape in Rome, situated in the Lateran Palace. Here were housed not only theological works, but, in keeping with the administrative function, archives as well.\n\nOf all the Christian libraries in the West in the first six centuries, we know most about the library at Hippo, home of Augustine. No distinction is made in the contemporary accounts between his personal library and that of the church, so it is probable that the two were housed together The librarian recorded over a thousand items under Augustine’s personal authorship, and the collection is certain to have included scriptural books, the works of other Latin and Greek Christian writers, and a rich selection of “secular” works. We know that the collection was fully catalogued (perhaps Augustine himself had a hand in this), but along with the rest of the collection this index is lost.\n\nWhen it was safe to do so, Christianity made the most of the accomplishments of Roman civilization with respect to books and libraries: if the possession of a well-stocked library was considered an enviable adornment to a Roman house, it is probable that a similar element of prestige was conferred on those Christian gathering places which possessed the premier collections of letters and texts. Jerome (4th and 5th century), for example, was able to assume that wherever there was a congregation, books would be found. In the course of things, those churches that became regional administrative centers tended to develop the best collections.\n\nOf early Christian libraries in the East, far less is known. The Imperial Library of Constantinople encompassed at its peak over 100,000 items but in no sense was it primarily a theological library.\n\nThe earliest examples come from Egypt. Monasteries under the direction of Pachomius (4th century) and Shenouda (5th century) required that members learn to read, and it was further expected that they would borrow and study texts from the community’s collection. (Twentieth-century archeological discoveries—Phobaimmon and Nag Hammadi, for example–-have indicated that there was a tremendous amount of activity in writing and copying texts, and one library “catalog” from the period lists eighty titles.) Collections were composed of biblical texts, lectionaries, church canons, hagiography/biography, etc.\n\nIn Eastern Christendom, monastic libraries developed on a similar pattern. “Catalogs” were simply inventories of items held by the community. On those rare occasions when a community's benefactor would give donate a personal collection, the tendency was not to dispose of questionable or even heretical works: given the short supply of texts, almost any item would be considered a “rare book.” The common practice in monastic life was for the abbot (or equivalent) to be charged with the responsibility for securing and caring for the collection.\n\nIt is from southern Italy that we receive the most enduring image of early Christian (and monastic) libraries and librarianship, in the person of Cassiodorus. Like no one else of his time, he leaves us a compendious work of bibliography, the Institituiones divinarum et saecularum litterarum, which surveys first Christian and then secular texts, providing notes and commentary along the way. An earlier attempt at Rome to establish a theological school had been frustrated, and so on his family’s estate at Calabria he established the “Vivarium”, as a setting in which “to incorporate systematic theological study into monastic life.” (Gamble, 1990) With this in view he assembled a large library of both Christian and Classical texts and designed a curriculum of study. He undertook his monastic and bibliographic work only after a long and well-rewarded career in the service of the Goths, and hence the work we remember him for can be seen as aspiring “to combat the growing chaos of the world” (Southern, “ Benedictine,” 167). We learn from the Institutiones how he had these sub-collections housed, what they included, together with how they were obtained.\n\nCassiodorus may have been aware of the inception of the library at Monte Cassino under the influence of St. Benedict (LeJay and Otten, “Cassiodorus.”) In any event, with the Imperial City increasingly under attack, the locus of library activity shifted increasingly to the rural monastic houses. Benedict supported and energized the place of the library in the community by delegating one or two senior brothers to walk on “patrol” at a set hour, to ensure that no one is engaged in idle chatter, rather than being diligent in his reading. (Thurston, “Libraries,” 228-32.)\n\nDuring the succeeding centuries, such libraries played an increasingly strategic role in defending the tradition of learning from decay, pillage, and even disappearance. By the standards of the later Middle Ages, a monastery collection numbering more than a thousand would have been considered very large. Quality and utility rather than mass were most to be desired. Catalogs varied in complexity and in volume, and “chained books” were common enough to indicate that security was a lively concern.\n\nWe know a little about the physical design of some libraries of the period from extant documents. Typically a large, pillared hall would serve as a reading room, with built-in cupboards to store the books. Carrels for study were often set around the perimeter to exploit available light. An additional floor might house a scriptorium.\n\nThe same period saw the flowering of monastic libraries in Britain. Once the Roman occupation ended in the mid-Fifth century, Columba founded the meditation and copying center at Iona off the coast of Scotland. A century later witnessed the arrival of Augustine of Canterbury, sent to England by Gregory the Great, and this set in motion the establishment of greater conformity to the will of Rome on the part of the English church. A side-effect of this harmony was a marked increase in monastic library development in England, and a key figure in this maturing was Benedict Biscop of Wearmouth on the North Sea Coast. In the tradition of Pamphilius and Cassiodorus, Biscop traveled far to get the works he required: “he sought [books] where they were best to be found among the desolate remains of ancient civilization in Italy.” (Southern, 168) Most importantly, what he retrieved from the Continent contained everything that was necessary for understanding the main outlines of the Christian learning of the ancient world (Southern, 168). The perfect testimony to the value of his diligent endeavors is that they supported the scholarship of [Bede], “the greatest example of Benedictine scholarship and of the use to which a Benedictine library can be put.” (Southern, 170)\n\nThe rise of universities and their libraries was energized greatly by bequests: Bp. Robert Grosseteste to Oxford, Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester to Cambridge, Robert de Sorbon to the University of Paris, etc. The emerging university libraries, small though they may have been at first, rapidly assumed a different function than the monastic libraries. Research activity, rather than copying and preservation, predominated. And it is fair to say that the advent of new technology - the printing press - in the late 14th century helped take this distinction (the beginnings of a “demand” model) still further.\n\nIn France, prior to 1200 all of the major theological schools had all grown up in the environs of cathedrals: St. Victor, Ste. Genevieve, Notre Dame. This association of the cathedral and academy proved to have a decisive influence in determining both where and how theological research and education were to be carried out for centuries to come.\n\nBy 1500 there were between 75 and 85 universities in Western Europe. Most began without formal libraries, but over the course of time the user of private tutors’ collections in faculties of theology and elsewhere gave way to more methodical and sustainable collection schemes.\n\nIf the later Middle Ages were characterized by the “rescue and preservation” of Christian texts by monastics on the fringes of the world, the Renaissance (14th-17th centuries) was an era of recovery. It is doubtful whether the history of Western Civilization has ever seen, before or since, such a hunger for ancient texts and their contents. Admittedly, this appetite was more for Greek and Latin classical texts than for Christian works, but the general effect was a positive one for libraries.\n\nThe advent of the printing press had a direct and rapid effect on libraries, for it offered not only the prospect of more copies of more volumes being on the market, but made the unprecedented range of available editions a consideration: “the desired classics were appearing in versions more reliable than their predecessors because of the Humanist scholarship, and far more stable once in print than anything the manuscript age could have produced.”\n\nThis change-of-focus showed itself first in Italy: Petrarch, Boccacio, Salutati and others rediscovered, aggressively collected, and copied manuscripts from all-but-lost collections during the 14th century. Significantly, when this appetite turned into something of a “gold-rush”, it was almost invariably to places such as the Benedictine library of Monte Cassino where text-hunters turned. For economic and other reasons, Florence became the center of such activity. Across Europe the focus for library expansion and activity became the royal or princely libraries: aggressive activity in collecting, gathering and protecting texts from their scattered locations was characterized by individuals rather than churches or even universities.\n\nThe greatest of these book-hunters were personal agents of wealthy noblemen. Perhaps this is why the greatest legacy for theological librarianship of this essentially humanist cultural movement was the effect it had on the Vatican Library. Its earlier collection had been dispersed during the interval at Avignon, so that on his accession Pope Nicholas found only 350 volumes extant. The library of the Vatican was brought back to health essentially as a combination of personal library collections, such as that of the Duke of Urbino (1120 volumes added to the Vatican Library after his death).\n\nIn the Low Countries and in England the effect of the Renaissance was somewhat different: Erasmus in Rotterdam was not only a fine and aggressive collector in his own right, but with great erudition brought together the best of the specifically Christian tradition with the emergent humanism of the Continent. The effects of such efforts on the Reformation period and beyond are impossible to calculate.\n\nThe turmoil generated by the English monarchy’s break with Rome in the 16th century had a devastating effect on theological library collections. In Yorkshire alone, for example, under the aegis of various religious orders, there may have been more than fifty abbeys, priories, etc., each of them having at least a modest library. Yet within the space of little more than a generation, this whole structure was crudely dismantled. State-authorized visitations during the reigns of Henry VIII and Edward VI meant the break-up of collections not only in the monasteries but also at the Universities as well. Insofar as this process was guided by any principle, it was to suppress that which was medieval and to elevate that which was Classical and Humanist in character. In large measure this had the desired effects of cutting British libraries loose from the literary tradition associated with Rome, and of turning interest toward the Anglo-Saxon church. There is some evidence that the abrupt “change of fashion” in theological literature and learning brought in by the Henrician Reformation had the curious effect of extracting significant portions of monastic collections from purely religious surroundings. So quickly did materials intrinsic to the Catholic tradition become devalued (the monarchy was aggressive and quite ruthless in moving the Church in the direction of Protestant humanism) that it was not uncommon for displaced monks, friars and abbots to be able to take with them, gratis, items from monastic libraries.\n\nAdditionally, some private collectors (John Leland, Matthew Parker, William Cecil, Robert Cotton, etc.) were able to save some of the monastic holdings from destruction. It was in the spirit of such private generosity that efforts to overturn the Reformation’s more destructive impulses that moved Thomas Bodley to help re-establish the library at Oxford.\n\nSimilar currents can be observed in the Continental Reformation, with some books taken from the monasteries moved to Lutheran churches. A more enduring effect was the shift of surviving monastic collections to the universities. Many universities which were founded in the 16th century had their libraries enriched tremendously by works taken from Dominican and Jesuit libraries, especially. Leipzig’s collection, for example, received 1500 manuscripts and 4,000 printed books in this fashion. Basel received the contents of both the city’s cathedral library and a nearby Dominican library. This can hardly have been what the monks and scribes had in mind amid their earlier toils, but at least the works lived on in active use. Many libraries suffered damage or disruption during the Thirty Years’ War in the 17th century, but in general the 17th and 18th centuries were a period of remarkable growth in theological collections of Continental Europe: again, the uniform trend was away from the cloisters and into the academy.\n\nReligious dissent in England had the effect of prompting some dissenters to leave for America, where their views on Church, State and education found expression in new colleges. Many of those who remained in England found themselves denied access to the universities by the Acts of Uniformity (1549 and after). Their response was to found their own “academies”, 35 of which were established between 1680 and 1780. Library resources for these schools were chiefly supplied by the private collections of the academies’ benefactors.\n\nDuring the same time period were also established endowed libraries for the use of parishioners. In this case it appears that literature was made available to keep readers from lapsing into the “easy moral ways” thought to be characteristic of the Restoration era.\n\nThe labors of Rev. Thomas Bray demonstrate how far a “philanthropic” vision for Christian libraries could sometimes extend. It came to Bray’s attention that many ministers, both Anglican and Dissenting, in Britain and in the Colonies, simply lacked the means to procure theological books, and were effectively consigned to rural parishes where they were not within reasonable distance of books to borrow. The result was the formulation of “Parochial and Lending Libraries”. He drafted a six-page list of titles to be included, and aimed to set up such a collection for every deanery in England, and appealed for donations of books and money to the aristocracy. Eventually the SPCK (which he helped found late in the 17th century) thought well enough of the enterprise to undertake its sponsorship.\n\nThe new idea of a regional, or even a lending library of theological literature was taken even further by a Non-Conformist Scot, James Kirkwood, who proposed the support of such ventures with a property tax. Kirkwood won the support of the scientist Robert Boyle for the translation and distribution of Gaelic Bible translations in the north of Scotland. In this formerly deprived region he also helped establish 77 “lending libraries” in the early decades of the 18th century.\n\nBy contrast, the paroxysm that rocked France at the end of the 18th century was felt first by the libraries of the Jesuits. Whether impelled by the jealousy of other orders, or whether anti-clerical sentiment was simply an explosion looking for a place to occur, the Jesuits took the brunt. A series of edicts meant to rein in their influence and holdings culminated with the actual dissolution of the order in 1773. Most French universities, having close ties with the Church, did not survive the Revolution. As was the case in the Reformation, their book and manuscript collections were dispersed mostly to university or private libraries, in Vienna, Graz, Innsbruck, etc.\n\nThe French Revolution brought similar changes to ecclesiastical libraries, though there seemed to be a more overtly destructive impulse at the root of changes. The idea was to confiscate collections, and redistribute them for the benefit of the public. One contemporary estimate put the number of books seized at 12 million. The urge to protect one’s own literary property had its effect once again, however, and many of the items made their way into clandestine or private collections.\n\nTheological collections had almost always been a component part, often indeed the central part, of cathedral or university libraries. In North America this situation was altered forever by several factors:\n\n1. After the Enlightenment, theology was reassessed to the status of one subject of inquiry among many, rather than retaining its place as the “Queen of the Sciences.\n2. Emigration to American afforded the opportunity to reconsider the entire system of theological education.\n3. In North America, theological education would no longer be driven, dominated or informed by a state church. Other factors – new schools of thought as well as “market forces”, personal philanthropy, etc. - would play a stronger role than previously.\n\nIt is true that the idea of an independent seminary had occasional antecedents in Europe, but the model that emerged in America was in almost every respect unique. Harvard and Yale and other colleges were established for the training of clergy, but at the time this was not considered to be a specialized and professional education. The lines of demarcation between secular and theological learning were not clear. Of the 400 books donated by John Harvard shortly after the founding of the college, about two thirds were theological, and since the collection’s growth depended largely on donations from clergy, this proportion did not change rapidly. The Harvard “shelf-list” was compared with a recommended-list of the time, Richard Baxter’s Christian Directory, which indicated that the collection at Harvard was at best meager. (Baxter, as well as Samuel Willard’s \"Brief Directions to a Young Scholar\", Cotton Mather's’ \"Manductio ad Ministerium\", \"Directions for a Candidate of the Ministry\", and Jonathan Edwards’s \"The Preacher, as Discourse ... to which is added a Catalogue of Some Authors were some of the conspectuses for theological literature which were used at the time\".)\n\nIn 18th-century America, consensus on theology and theological training came under considerable strain. Traditionally, it was thought that theological training was best carried out through a rigorous program in academic subjects. But revivalist trends outside the academy and theological ferment within it led to increasing distrust.\n\nThe option of personal apprenticeship in the home of a respected clergyman—what came to be called the “Schools of the Prophets”–-grew in popularity in the aftermath of the Second Great Awakening (1740 and after) Joseph Bellamy of Bethlehem, CT, was probably the best example: his personal library consisted of approximately 100 books and at least 350 pamphlets (an essential medium for “broadcasting” sermons at the time). There is some irony in the fact that, though it removed many of the best divinity students from the academy, this “unorthodox” approach produced more than its share of highly learned pastors, on the strength of the erudition of the \"Prophets”, the power of example, and perhaps sometimes of the quality of their personal libraries.\n\nThis “un-orthodox” trend in the training of Protestant ministers helped prepare the ground for another development in theological libraries: the institution of “free-standing” schools of theology. Some of these (Harvard, Yale) remained affiliated with the original colleges, others (Andover, Princeton, Pittsburgh) became independent entities. But what is of signal importance in all cases is that here were assembled collections for theology and divinity and nothing else. Again, donations of private theological collections provided the foundation Several seminary libraries were formed on this basis by the end of the 18th century (New Brunswick, Service Seminary in PA, St. Mary’s-Baltimore). The first part of the 19th century saw excellent theological collections being gathered at Andover (later merged with the Harvard Divinity Collection), Hartford (sold much later to Candler School of Theology at Emory University), Yale, Auburn/Union in New York, Colgate-Rochester (and subsequent mergers from Bexley Hall and Crozer Theological Seminary), General, Drew, Princeton, Gettysburg, St. Charles Borromeo, etc. In the midwest, the St. Mary of the Lake Seminary was founded in 1844, and on the west coast what is now the Pacific School of Religion came into existence in 1866.\n\nIn North America, both denominational and non-denominational schools of theology had seen remarkable proliferation by the middle of the 19th century. When, in 1924, the first comprehensive study of ministerial education was undertaken, 161 Protestant schools were listed. This number had increased to 224 by a decade later. In his important survey of theological libraries in 1930, Yale’s Raymond Morris indicated that theological libraries ranged in collections from a few hundred volumes up to almost 200,000. This was impressive numerical growth, but he found that libraries were almost always under-supported financially, with repercussions being felt in collections, facilities and staffing.\n\nWithin the Catholic communion in North America, growth patterns had also been phenomenal. An overview in 1960 listed 93 diocesan seminaries (50 considered “major”), as well as 294 “houses of study”, with a total of almost 20,000 students in preparation. While at that time none of the Catholic collections were on the same scale as the largest Protestant libraries, many contained more than 100,000 items.\n\nIt is clear now that by the time the surveys by Beach and Harrington were carried out (1960), a watershed had been crossed, and that demographics of theological education and of church attendance were in the process of rapid change. Among Catholic seminaries, the number of candidates for the priesthood has fallen drastically in the past thirty years (by 2/3, according to some estimates). On the Protestant side, while the overall number of students has remained strong, at the same time attendance patterns have been in sharp decline, and this has drastically reduced the number of graduates who end up serving in parishes. The second half of the 20th century contrasted sharply with the first, and the number of theological colleges and libraries had grown too quickly and too broadly to correspond with trends in the last three decades of the century. This has posed enormous, complex challenges for seminaries and their librarians: serious dislocation, and too many, unevenly distributed, schools.\n\nThe magnificent wealth of resources now in evidence is the result of a complex and lengthy development process. Which is another way of saying that there have been slightly different routes taken to attain the caliber enjoyed by many collections today. Some have relied principally on rapid denominational growth (which generated demand for clergy and brought in funding required from denominations and benefactors); some have prospered from the skill and vision of exceptional library leadership; some libraries have built their reputations on exquisite collections purchased and then donated by private individuals; still others have excelled in cultivating niche collections or services.\n\nThe individual collections are unique, and the product of many sets of circumstances, so summarizing adequately here would be difficult. (Though dated, earlier overviews by Allison, Walker, Gapp, and Hadidian still provide useful outlines of the distinctive strengths of most collections. A useful, centralized source for current information on seminaries and their libraries is American Theological Library Association index\n\nAs the 21st century begins, it is fair to say that the legacy remains strong, but the structure which supports it is showing signs of strain.\n\nFor example:\n\nNo one can predict what effect these developments might have on theological libraries in the 21st Century. In cases where the parent institutions have found it impossible to remain in operation, libraries have been sold intact or dispersed. Where there are a number of reasonably compatible schools in a specific area, on some occasions libraries have been merged outright, or retained separate libraries but established a consortial arrangement. In the latter case, efficiencies result from reciprocal borrowing privileges and from avoiding duplicate acquisitions where possible.\n\nIt seems a foregone conclusion that there will be further such retrenchments in the coming years, quite likely on a more widespread basis. With trends like these emerging in recent years, the role of the American Theological Library Association (founded 1947) has been of vital importance. The primary function of the association has been to offer coordination and support of theological library activity in the USA and Canada.\n\nATLA’s other notable contributions have been the development and production of the Religion Indexes (1949 ff.) in print and more recently in electronic versions, its preservation initiatives in assembling core theological collections in microform (1973 and after)\n\nThe most recent initiative from ATLA has been the ATLAS serials project, which will bring fifty key theological periodicals to market in an alternative, electronic format. ATLA has ongoing relationships with sister agencies, such as the CONSEIL (International Council of Theological Library Associations) and ANZTLA (Australian and New Zealand Theological Library Association).\n\nDepending upon one’s perspective, trends during the 20th century can be seen as evidence of a bright or an uncertain future for theological libraries.\n\nIn Europe, by the end of the 19th century theological education and training for the ministry had come almost universally under the auspices of the universities. Among other things this usually meant the demise of discrete theological collections within separate facilities, though this did not necessarily mean the devaluation of such collections. Indeed, it is fair to say that as the 20th century opened, not only the finest theological collections but the most erudite and distinguished centers of theological research were in Germany and in Britain (Heidelberg, Tübingen, Göttingen, Berlin, Oxford and Cambridge, to name only a few).\n\nWhat no one could have predicted was the devastation brought by wars, from the beginning to the end of the century. The University of Nancy in France lost its library in 1914, as did Louvain in the same year. Great libraries of theology at Monte Cassino, at Dresden, and at Caen were wrecked in 1944. As recently as 1992 the state library at Sarajevo fell victim to a rocket attack. The numerical losses here and elsewhere were high: Hamburg and Frankfurt each lost 600,000 vols., Würzburg 350,000, and so on.\n\nPolitical as well as military upheavals have had an adverse effect on European theological library collections and activity. Libraries in Eastern Europe illustrate this vividly: collection priorities in places such as Jena, Rostock and Leipzig could hardly be said to have been favorable to theological research during the years 1945-1990. Moreover, since the reunification of the two German states, the massive amounts of money and personnel which it would take to bring theological collections back to acceptable standards has not been easy to come by.\n\nOf all Continental theological collections, few managed to navigate the various catastrophes of the century better than the Vatican Library. Steadily enriched by a sequence of outstanding gifts over several centuries, even the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era did little lasting harm. By the end of the 19th century the Library encompassed close to half a million books, and tens of thousands of manuscripts. Several of the Popes (Leo XIII and Pius XI) have taken a keen and active interest in the library, and great effort and expense has been taken to ensure that the collections not only continue to grow but are well cared-for. Like many of Europe’s great theological libraries, bibliographic searching is now enabled globally via the WWW. Increasingly, well-financed libraries such as the Vatican’s are working aggressively to develop plans for mounting digital versions of some of their treasures (most often archival materials) on web-servers.\n\nThis overview has demonstrated that the role and function of theological libraries have always been characterized by continuity amid turmoil, resourcefulness amid frequently inadequate resources, and advocacy of that which is of lasting value within a setting of constant ecclesiastical, societal and political change. In the words of Cassiodorus:\n\nWe aim both to preserve what is old and to build something new; we desire to raise up things that are modern without diminishing the works of our ancestors. (cited in Southern, 169)\n\nOnly on very rare occasions have the legacy and contributions of theological libraries been noticed, and then usually long after the fact. (Thomas Cahill’s \"How the Irish Saved Civilization\" provides a pleasant exception.) But lasting acclaim is quite beside the point: from Pamphilius of Caesarea onward, theological libraries have most often been energized by the efforts of those who savor a degree of anonymity.\n\nThe “Age of Information” is commonly considered as posing a dire threat (or at least a plausible alternative) to the perpetuity of printed texts and paper-based library collections. But of course it also holds out the promise of unprecedented collaboration between the excellent collections and the astute librarians who work in them. Hence there is reason for hope that the best days for theological libraries lie not in the past but in the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7382488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7382488", "title": "Christina von Stommeln", "text": "Christina von Stommeln\n\nBlessed Christina of Stommeln (24 July 1242 – 6 November 1312), also known as \"Christina Bruso\" and \"Christina Bruzo\", was a Roman Catholic mystic, ecstatic, and stigmatic.\n\nChristina is believed to have been born on July 24, 1242, to farmers Heinrich and Hilla Bruso in the village of Stumbeln (now Stommeln), northwest of Cologne. At the age of five, she began to experience religious visions. When she was twelve her parents wished to arrange her marriage, but she left home without their permission and joined a Beguine community in Cologne. At the age of fifteen, she manifested stigmata on her hands, feet, and head. This, combined with other mystic experiences, convinced others in the community that she was insane and she was treated with contempt, leading her to return to her home village in 1267.\n\nOn her return to Stommeln, she was taken in by the parish priest, Johannes. While in his care, Christina met Peter of Dacia, a Dominican, who became a lifelong friend. Following Peter's death in 1288, Christine's mystic experiences ceased. She left the priest's household and moved into a small cloister, where she lived a quiet life until her death at the age of 70 on November 6, 1312. She was first buried in the Stommeln churchyard, but her remains have been moved several times: first into the church, then in 1342 to Nideggen, and finally in 1569 to the Propsteikirche (Provost's Church) in Jülich, where a monument to Christine still exists. Her relics survived the destruction of the Provost's Church during the Allies' air raid on Jülich on November 16, 1944.\n\nPope Pius X beatified her on 8 November 1908 and her liturgical feast was affixed to the date of her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2640385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2640385", "title": "Criobolium", "text": "Criobolium\n\nCriobolium is the ritual sacrifice of a ram in the cult of Attis and the Great Mother of the Gods. It seems to have been a special ceremony instituted after the rise, and on the analogy of the taurobolium, which was performed in honor of the Great Mother, for the purpose of giving fuller recognition to Attis in the duality which he formed with the Mother. There is no evidence of its existence either in Asia or in Italy before the taurobolium came into prominence (after AD 134). When the criobolium was performed in conjunction with the taurobolium, the altar was almost invariably inscribed to both the Mother and Attis, while the inscription was to the Mother alone when the taurobolium only was performed. The celebration of the criobolium was widespread, and its importance such that it was sometimes performed in place of the taurobolium (Corp. Inscr. Lat. vi. 505, 506). The details and effect of the ceremony were no doubt similar to those of the taurobolium.\n\n"}
{"id": "79408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79408", "title": "Dryad", "text": "Dryad\n\nA dryad (; , \"sing\".: ) is a tree nymph or tree spirit in Greek mythology. \"Drys\" signifies \"oak\" in Greek, and dryads are specifically the nymphs of oak trees, but the term has come to be used for all tree nymphs in general. They were normally considered to be very shy creatures except around the goddess Artemis, who was known to be a friend to most nymphs.\n\nThese were nymphs of the laurel trees.\n\nThe Maliades, Meliades or Epimelides were nymphs of apple and other fruit trees and the protectors of sheep. The Greek word \"melas\"--from which their name derives--means both apple and sheep. Hesperides, the guardians of the golden apples were regarded as these type of dryad.\n\nDryads, like all nymphs, were supernaturally long-lived and tied to their homes, but some were a step beyond most nymphs. These were the hamadryads who were an integral part of their trees, such that if the tree died, the hamadryad associated with it died as well. For these reasons, dryads and the Greek gods punished any mortals who harmed trees without first propitiating the tree-nymphs. (associated with Oak trees)\n\nThe dryads of ash trees were called the Meliae. The ash-tree sisters tended the infant Zeus in Rhea's Cretan cave. Gaea gave birth to the Meliae after being made fertile by the blood of castrated Uranus. The Epimeliad were nymphs associated with apple trees, and the Caryatids were associated with walnut trees.\n\nSome of the individual dryads or hamadryads are:\n\n\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "33416179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416179", "title": "Du-Ku", "text": "Du-Ku\n\nDu-Ku or \"dul-kug\" is an Akkadian word for a sacred place.\n\nAccording to Wasilewska et al., du-ku translates as \"holy hill\", \"holy mound\" [...E-dul-kug... (House which is the holy mound)], or \"great mountain\"\n\nThe location is otherwise alluded to in sacred texts as a specifically identified place of godly judgement.\n\nThe hill was the location for ritual offerings to Sumerian god(s).\nNungal and the Anunna dwell upon the holy hill in a text written from Gilgamesh.\n\nGöbekli Tepe\n\nEkur\n\nHymn to the E-kur\n\nlibation\n\nShamash\n\nSumerian religion\n\nJeremy Black (Assyriologist) & Anthony Green (Near Eastern archaeologist)\n\nAdam Falkenstein\n"}
{"id": "4570282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570282", "title": "Graeme Edge", "text": "Graeme Edge\n\nGraeme Charles Edge (born 30 March 1941) is an English musician, songwriter and poet best known as the drummer and one of the songwriters for the English band the Moody Blues. Edge is the only remaining original member of the Moody Blues still performing in the band. In addition to his work with the Moody Blues, Edge has worked as the bandleader of his own outfit, the Graeme Edge Band. He has contributed his talents to a variety of other projects throughout his career. In 2018, Edge was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Moody Blues.\n\nGraeme Edge is one of the original members of The Moody Blues, alongside singer/guitarist Denny Laine, singer/bassist Clint Warwick, singer/keyboardist Mike Pinder and singer/flautist/harmonica player Ray Thomas. Edge provided a foundation for the original R&B and rock-flavoured band fronted by Laine, playing on all their Decca singles, including the UK chart-topping \"Go Now\" (January 1965), and other 1965 hit songs; \"I Don't Want To Go On Without You\", \"Everyday\", and \"From The Bottom of my Heart (I Love You)\", which were additionally released in that year.\n\nAfter the departure of Laine and Clint Warwick and the later recruitment of Justin Hayward and John Lodge in 1966, the band continued initially to play the R&B style material; however, after an irate fan dismissed one of their concert performances as poor, Edge is quoted as speaking up to say to his bandmates: \"That guy was right ... we WERE rubbish!\" leading the band to decide henceforth to drop the blues-style covers and begin writing and recording their own songs only.\n\nEdge initially was a poet for the band, contributing \"Morning Glory\" and \"Late Lament\" to \"Days of Future Passed\" in 1967 (narrated by Pinder). Edge himself opened \"In Search of the Lost Chord\" (1968) with his brief poem \"Departure\", though Justin Hayward narrated his \"The Word\" poem later on that set. Further poems provided by Edge included \"In The Beginning\" (co-narrated by Hayward, Edge and Pinder in turn) and \"The Dream\" (spoken by Pinder) for \"On The Threshold of A Dream\" (1969). Edge says that the reason why most of his poetry was recited by Pinder was because he smoked so many cigarettes and drank so much whisky that he had the best voice for it.\n\nLater in 1969, as the Moodies launched their own label, Threshold Records, Edge began contributing songs; his \"Higher and Higher\" (a spoken lyric over music with a dramatic 'rocket blast off' opening; as usual, it was recited by Pinder) commenced \"To Our Children's Children's Children\", which also featured his instrumental composition \"Beyond\".\n\nEdge whispered the lyrics to his song \"Don't You Feel Small\" over band-sung vocals (Pinder, Thomas, Lodge and Hayward) on \"A Question of Balance\" (1970), on which he also contributed a closing poem/song co-written with Ray Thomas, \"The Balance\" (recited by Pinder).\n\nEdge co-wrote and claims pole position as 'lead grunt' on the unusual band-composed opening track \"Procession\" on their album \"Every Good Boy Deserves Favour\" in 1971, on which his song \"After You Came\" features the four lead vocalists (Thomas, Pinder, Hayward and Lodge) both together and taking brief solo lead lines in turn. Edge's song was later used as UK B-side to the chart hit \"Isn't Life Strange?\" in 1972. The first electronic drum is said to have been created by Edge in collaboration with Sussex University Professor Brian Groves. The device was used in the song \"Procession\" from the 1971 album \"Every Good Boy Deserves Favour\".\n\nFor their 1972 \"Seventh Sojourn\" album, Edge co-wrote \"You And Me\" with Hayward, who took lead vocal. In 2013 Edge said of \"Seventh Sojourn\":\n\nI didn't [listen to] that album, because I was going through a divorce at the same time and so it was very, very painful for me. Once it was finished, I didn't play it for years and years and years. \"Never\" played it. Not that I play our stuff very much anyway, but I never ever played that one. And I hadn't really heard it apart from the [singles] from it, until [2007 when] it came out first time on CD and I had to listen to it digitalised just to sort of say \"Yeah, that's fine by me.\" And I thought, \"Well actually, that's not too bad an album!\" That's the closest I'll ever be to hearing a Moodies album for the first time. \nAfter the Moodies' world tour ended in 1974, the band members took a break, during which, between his two solo albums, Edge sailed on a round-the-world voyage with a small crew in his yacht \"Delia\".\n\nEdge returned to recording later in 1974, forming his studio-based The Graeme Edge Band (featuring guitarist/vocalist Adrian Gurvitz)and Paul Gurvitz, which first issued a non-album single, \"We Like To Do it\", on Threshold (TH 18) in July 1974 (this was later added to his first Graeme Edge Band album as a bonus track on the CD release). The Graeme Edge Band then released two albums in the mid 1970s. The first was \"Kick Off Your Muddy Boots\" in September 1975 on the Threshold record label, a subsidiary of Decca Records, catalogue number THS 15. It was released as a gatefold with album art by Joe Petagno and featured Adrian Gurvitz and Paul Gurvitz, plus a guest appearance co-drumming with Edge by Ginger Baker (on 'Gew Janna Woman'), and backing vocals by fellow Moodies member Ray Thomas. This first album reached No. 107 in the US on the \"Billboard\" chart. Their second album was \"Paradise Ballroom\" in 1977, on the main Decca label, catalogue number TXS 121, and in the US on the London Records label, catalogue number PS 686 The album charted in the US reaching No. 164 on the \"Billboard\" chart. It was also released as a gatefold with album art by Joe Petagno, again featuring Adrian and Paul Gurvitz. He also appeared as himself in the 2016 film comedy Characterz.\n\nA single, \"Everybody Needs Somebody\" (taken from the latest album), was issued on Decca (F.13698) with the non-album B-side \"Be My Eyes\" in June 1977.\n\nAfter the Moodies' reunion in 1978, Edge provided \"I'll Be Level With You\" (sung by the group, led by Hayward) for the album \"Octave\" on Decca. After the album was released, Pinder declined to tour with the band and was replaced by ex-Yes keyboardist Patrick Moraz.\n\nFor \"Long Distance Voyager\" in 1981 Edge contributed \"22,000 Days\"—the length of an average human lifespan in days—sung by Thomas, Lodge and Hayward; this was also used as the UK B-side of the single \"Gemini Dream\".\n\nEdge's \"Going Nowhere\" (sung by Ray Thomas) was his lone composition on \"The Present\"' album in 1983, and he teamed with Moraz for \"The Spirit\" (sung by the group's vocalists in harmony) on \"The Other Side of Life\" album in 1986.\n\nEdge was not featured as a songwriter or poet on either \"Sur La Mer\" (1988) or \"Keys of the Kingdom\" (1991) and was not drummer on every track on the latter album; however, he contributed the closing poem/song \"Nothing Changes\", which was initially narrated by himself and then sung by the Moodies (Hayward featured) on the \"Strange Times\" album issued in 1999.\n\nEdge has been joined onstage by Gordon Marshall as second drummer for Moodies concerts from 1991 to 2015, and by Billy Ashbaugh since 2016. In addition to drums, Edge has provided varied assorted percussion instrumentation, plus additional piano to the Moodies' works, and featured his electronic drum kit from the early '70s onwards on Moodies albums, his drumming style being recognisable and distinctive.\n\nEdge participated in the 2011 Moody Blues bluegrass tribute album \"Moody Bluegrass TWO ... Much Love\", providing the lead vocal on a bluegrass-tinged version of his poem \"Higher And Higher\".\n\nEdge once admitted on \"Rockline\" that his second wife Susan would not marry him because she did not want to be named 'Sue Edge' (sewage).\n\nEdge is a fan of \"\". An article about him said he has \"plenty of time for overseeing some rental properties, doing charity work, playing lots of golf and watching \"Deep Space Nine\" at his Sarasota home on Florida's Gulf Coast\".\n\nIn 2013 Justin Hayward spoke of Edge's learning Transcendental Meditation in 1967, along with other members of the Moody Blues.\n\nEdge is the only remaining original member of The Moody Blues still performing in the band. However, Justin Hayward and John Lodge, from the best-known version of the band, are also still with the band.\n\nEdge uses DW drums, Zildjian cymbals and Regal Tip drumsticks, namely their 5A model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6826515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6826515", "title": "Hinduism in Kenya", "text": "Hinduism in Kenya\n\nHinduism is a minority faith in Kenya,constituting 0.14% of the population of Kenya.Kenya is also the only African Country after Mauritius and South Africa to recognise Hinduism.Hinduism become recognised in Kenya ,only by the activities of Hindu Council of Kenya.\n\nUnlike north and northeast African countries which do not allow construction of Hindu temples or open practice of Hinduism, Kenya allows religious freedom to practice Hinduism; several of Kenyan cities have a number of Hindu temples from different schools of Hinduism. The Hindu temples in Kenya are mostly of north and west Indian architectural style.\n\nHinduism in Kenya mainly comes from coastal trade routes between primarily between Gujarat, Marwar and Odisha in India and East Africa.\n\nThe influence of Hinduism in Kenya began in early 1st millennium AD when there was trade between East Africa and Indian subcontinent. Archaeological evidence of small Hindu settlements have been found mainly in Zanzibar and coastal parts of Kenya, Swahili coast, Zimbabwe and Madagascar. Many words in Swahili language have their etymological roots in Indian languages associated with Hinduism.The origin of the Kenyan Gujarati dates back to the late 1800s (early 1900s), when British colonialists brought laborers from India to build the Uganda–Kenya railway. Many of the laborers, rather than travel back to the Indian subcontinent, simply settled in Kenya, and slowly brought with them a host of hopefuls willing to start afresh.\nOne percent of Kenyan population practiced Hinduism as reported by IRF. But according to the 2009 Census ,there are 53,393 Hindus in Kenya,who constitute 0.14% of the population.\n\nAccording to the Pew Research Center estimates there were 60,000 Hindus in Kenya in 2010, or less than 0.25% of the total Kenyan population.\n\nToday, the Gujarati community in Kenya is estimated at over ninety thousand, and is dispersed throughout the country. Despite varying degrees of acculturation, most have retained their strong Gujarati ties.\n\nHSS (RSS) and ISKCON are the main contributors to the society in large by organizing public events and introducing many welfare programs such as the food relief programs and other services which has attracted many Kenyans and created a good reputation of the Hindu community at large.\n\nPushtimarg Vaishnav Sangh and Brahma Kumaris are also active in Kenya.\n\nThere are approximately more than 40 Hindu Temples in Kenya.\n\nA few well known are:\n\nHindu Council of Kenya is an umbrella body of Hindus in Kenya. The Council is recognized by the Government. Until a few years back, the Hindus were described in the voter’s register as 'Non-Muslims'. Due to the efforts of the Council, they are now described as 'Hindus'. The Council has been busy in preparing syllabus and books for Hindu religious education. \n\nThe International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) also known as Gaudiya Vaishnavism or \"The Hare Krishna Movement\" has successfully established 4 Temples in Kenya till date. With all efforts and hard work, they preach the glories of Lord Sri Radha Krishna, love of godhead (Bhakti Yoga), the message of Bhagavad-Gītā as It Is and also other Vedic scriptures. Also organize wonderful festivals such as Krishna Janmashtami, Radhastami, Rama Navami, Gaura-purnima, Narasimha Chaturdashi and many.\n\nThe most famous is the Jagannath Ratha-Yatra also known as the \"Festival of Chariots\" which attracts over 5000 Kenyans to dance and sing the holy names of Lord Sri Jagannath (The Lord of the Universe).\n\nHare Krishna Food for Life is the world's largest vegetarian non-profit food relief organization. Its efforts span the globe, with projects occupying over 108 countries, including Kenya. Volunteers in Kenya provide up to 20,000 free meals daily. Food For Life does not only tackle one form of hunger but reaches out to all in need, including; the homeless and disadvantaged children.\n\nFood for Life project is a modern-day revival of the ancient Vedic culture of hospitality with its belief in the equality of all beings.\n\nThe popular nickname of \"Hare Krishnas\" for Krishna Devotees comes from the vedic mantra that devotees sing aloud (Kirtan) or Chant (Japa) on Tulsi-mala. This mantra, known also as the Maha Mantra comes from the ancient Vedic Scriptures.\n\nThe Maha Mantra: \n\nAlways Chant and be Happy!\n\nHSS is part of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). HSS is known to have started in 14 November 1947 in Nairobi, and since then it has developed and has its centers in different cities like Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu and Meru.\n\nIts main aims have been known to preserve, practice and promote Hindu ideals and values and encourages in maintaining Hindu cultural identity in harmony with the prevailing diversity in the world.\n\nSince its main moto is to \"Serve the Society\" (Seva) it carries out many humanitarian activities such as Feeding the needy, provides Wheel Chairs and Artificial Limbs to amputees, organizes medical camps for free medical services and for blood donation, and is mainly famous for its Tree Planting Program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2237784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2237784", "title": "Homosexuality and the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "Homosexuality and the Bahá'í Faith\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith takes no position on the sexual practices of those who are not adherents. Within the Bahá'í community, where membership is freely chosen, permissible sexual relations are limited to those between a man and a woman in marriage. Adherents are expected to abstain from sex outside of matrimony, thus premarital, extramarital, or homosexual intimacy are excluded from allowable Bahá'í practices.\n\nThe scriptural basis for Bahá'í practices comes from the writings of Bahá'u'lláh (1817-1892), the faith's founder, who forbade fornication, adultery, and sodomy. The Bahá'í position towards homosexuality became more refined with the writings of Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'u'lláh's great grandson and appointed head of the religion from 1921 to 1957. He answered specific questions and described homosexuality as an affliction that should be overcome, while leaving Bahá'í membership open to anyone regardless of sexual orientation. This position leaves Bahá'ís with a same-sex orientation under the same guidance as a heterosexual person, that is, if they find themselves unable to contract a marriage with someone of the opposite sex, they should remain celibate.\n\nThe supreme governing institution of the Bahá'í Faith is the Universal House of Justice, first elected in 1963, which has written more extensively on the subject of homosexuality. For example, they have clarified that Bahá'ís should not single out homosexuality over other transgressions of Bahá'í conduct, should not treat those with a homosexual orientation with disdain or prejudice, should not expect that non-Bahá'ís follow Bahá'í standards, and should neither promote nor necessarily oppose efforts to legalize same-sex marriage.\n\nBahá'í teachings stress the importance of absolute chastity for any unmarried person, and focus on personal restraint. The Bahá'í Faith, however, leaves the application of laws of social conduct largely up to the individual, and Bahá'ís do not advocate for or discriminate against homosexual people.\n\nWhile in authoritative teachings homosexuality is described as a condition that an individual should control and overcome, Bahá'ís are left to apply the teachings at their own discretion, and are discouraged from singling out homosexuality over other transgressions, such as the consumption of alcohol, or heterosexual promiscuity. Membership in the Bahá'í community is therefore open to lesbian and gay adherents.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has been described as a religion \"ambiguous or contested on the issue of LGBT inclusion\". The religion has a strong emphasis on traditional values found in Abrahamic religions, which discourage liberal sexuality. \n\nBahá'í teachings state that Bahá'ís should not treat homosexual people as condemned outcasts, nor expect people who are not Bahá'í to follow Bahá'í laws. The Bahá'í writings teach adherents to treat everyone with respect and dignity, and to eschew an attitude of discrimination and social intolerance toward homosexuals.\n\nThe opportunity for civil same-sex marriage was mentioned in a 2010 letter by the Universal House of Justice as being a public issue that is not in keeping with the Bahá'í teachings, but one that Bahá'ís \"would neither promote nor necessarily oppose.\"\n\nIndividuals with a same-sex orientation are not prevented from entering the religion and joining in community life; however, someone involved in a same-sex marriage or union will be prevented from registering as a Bahá'í. Like other Abrahamic religions, Bahá'í teachings make a distinction between those who have a same-sex attraction and those who practice homosexual relations.\n\nThe faith's guidelines recommend not emphasizing Bahá'í standards of conduct to new believers, but gradually introducing the idea of fully accepting all Bahá'í practices. Spiritual Assemblies, the local elected bodies that manage the affairs of the religion, are instructed to act patiently and persuade members to accept principles inwardly and “out of pure conviction and desire.” Although Bahá'ís are forbidden to have sexual relationships outside of marriage, heterosexual or homosexual, new converts who are already engaged in such a relationship will be expected to make a sincere effort to conform to the Bahá'í teachings over a period of time.\n\nAs a general rule, the Spiritual Assemblies do not get involved in the private lives of believers, unless their actions are considered flagrantly immoral or to be causing some harm to the community. \n\nAn individual may be subject to administrative sanctions if a Spiritual Assembly decides that they are openly disregarding the Bahá'í teachings and their actions are damaging to the image of the Bahá'í Faith. This response removes the right to contribute to funds, vote in elections for spiritual assemblies, hold office, or attend the Nineteen Day Feast. It may be applied to extreme cases of alcoholism, sexual promiscuity, and anything that is considered flagrant immorality. However, this consequence is meant only to be applied in cases of \"public scandal\", \"very flagrant cases\", or if the conduct of the Bahá'í is \"seriously injuring the Faith in the eyes of the public\". In cases of Bahá'ís who are flagrantly promiscuous, they are to be approached by a Spiritual Assembly and informed of the teachings on personal conduct. If after a probational period the person continues to present a disregard towards the laws in a public way, then the assembly may remove the person's administrative rights, \"administratively expelled from membership in the Bahá'í community\", though this action is not the same as ex-communication, as there is no directive to avoid fellowship with the individual.\n\nEarly letters written by Shoghi Effendi's secretaries on his behalf described those with a homosexual orientation as having a handicap that can be overcome \"through the advice and help of doctors, through a strong and determined effort, and through prayer\".\n\nThe reference to overcoming or reversing a sexual orientation has garnered considerable criticism from those who regard it as innate and unchangeable. Conversion therapy has been largely condemned by many medical organizations, particularly in the United States and United Kingdom, who see it as unethical to view a heterosexual orientation as preferable to a homosexual orientation.\n\nThe Universal House of Justice has written its own correspondence to individuals, encouraging them to divert thoughts into spiritual channels and the nature of man, and to \"resist wayward impulses each time they arise\". The Universal House of Justice has responded to research that claims that homosexuality is innate and not changeable by asserting that homosexuality is one of\n\nIt also argues that statistics may be distorted due to under-reporting, that other genetic predispositions to undesirable behaviors exist, and that other types of bias may exist in the present-day research.\n\nIn one passage of the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", Bahá'u'lláh writes \"we shrink, for very shame, from treating the subject of boys.\" In the context of the original Arabic text, this passage implies pederasty, or erotic relations between adult males and adolescent boys. Such practices were not uncommon during the time of Bahá'u'lláh in the Islamic world, and in some cases were socially acceptable (see bacha bazi). Bahá'u'lláh condemned such relations, and Shoghi Effendi, the authorized interpreter of the Bahá'í writings, has more clearly defined a prohibition on all homosexual relations, stating that, \"No matter how devoted and fine the love may be between people of the same sex, to let it find expression in sexual acts is wrong. To say that it is ideal is no excuse. Immorality of every sort is really forbidden by Bahá'u'lláh, and homosexual relationships, He looks upon as such, besides being against nature.\" \n\nBahá'u'lláh clearly forbade fornication and adultery, referring to any form of premarital or extramarital sexual intercourse. He also forbade sodomy and lechery. The Universal House of Justice, in its notes on the text of the \"Kitab-i-Aqdas\", stated that the Baha'i laws restrict \"permissible sexual intercourse to that between a man and the woman to whom he is married\".\n\nThe head of the Bahá'í Faith, the Universal House of Justice, has addressed the issue in letters in recent years and brief excerpts:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2973594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2973594", "title": "International New Thought Alliance", "text": "International New Thought Alliance\n\nThe International New Thought Alliance (INTA) is an umbrella organization for New Thought adherents \"dedicated to serving the New Thought Movement’s various branches, organizations and individuals\".\n\nThe antecedents of the International New Thought Alliance date back to an 1899 New England convention of the Metaphysical Club, one of the first New Thought organizations, formed in Boston, Massachusetts in 1895 by, among others, L. B. Macdonald, J. W. Lindy and Frederick Reed. The first public lecture sponsored by the club was an address by Julia Ward Howe. This convention led to the founding of the International Metaphysical League the following year. This League held the \"International New Thought Convention\" in Chicago in 1903, which was followed by similar conventions in 1906 and 1907. In 1908, the organization was renamed the \"National New Thought Alliance\". This organization held national conventions annually through 1914. The first international convention, held in London, England June 21–26, 1914, saw the renaming and re-organizing of the National New Thought Alliance into the International New Thought Alliance. The \"New Thought Bulletin\" was the newsletter for the organization.\n\nThe Panama-Pacific International Exposition held a New Thought Day on August 28, 1915. The following day opened the First International New Thought Congress, held until September 5. The first International New Thought Alliance Annual World Congress was held here, with a variety of New Thought luminaries leading the organization, such as James A. Edgerton, Annie Rix Militz, Thomas Troward, and many others. Throughout its history, other New Thought notables such as William Walker Atkinson, Clara Bewick Colby, Florence Crawford, Horatio W. Dresser, George Wharton James, Edgar L. Larkin, Orison Swett Marden, and Elizabeth Towne were involved in the INTA.\n\nThe organization continues to conduct its Annual World Congress, publishes \"New Thought magazine\", and asserts that it houses the largest New Thought Archives known.\n\nDr. Blaine C. Mays\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1310377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1310377", "title": "Irving Penn", "text": "Irving Penn\n\nIrving Penn (June 16, 1917October 7, 2009) was an American photographer known for his fashion photography, portraits, and still lifes. Penn's career included work at \"Vogue\" magazine, and independent advertising work for clients including Issey Miyake and Clinique. His work has been exhibited internationally and continues to inform the art of photography.\n\nPenn was born to a Russian Jewish family on June 16, 1917 in Plainfield, New Jersey, to Harry Penn and Sonia Greenberg. Penn's younger brother, Arthur Penn, was born in 1922 and would go on to become a film director and producer. Penn attended the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Art (now the University of the Arts) from 1934 to 1938, where he studied drawing, painting, graphics, and industrial arts under Alexey Brodovitch. While still a student, Penn worked under Brodovitch at \"Harper's Bazaar\" which published several of Penn's drawings.\n\nPenn worked for two years as a freelance designer and making his first amateur photographs before taking Brodovitch's position as the art director at Saks Fifth Avenue in 1940. Penn remained at Saks Fifth Avenue for a year before leaving to spend a year painting and taking photographs in Mexico and across the US. When Penn returned to New York, Alexander Liberman offered him a position as an associate in the \"Vogue\" magazine Art Department. Penn worked on layout for the magazine before Liberman asked him to try photography.\n\nPenn's first photographic cover for \"Vogue\" magazine appeared in October 1943. The art department of the Office of War Information in London offered him a job as an \"artist-photographer\" but he volunteered with the American Field Service instead. After arriving in Naples with a boatload of American troops in November 1944. Penn drove an ambulance in support of the British Eighth Army as it alternately waited out weather and slogged its way north through a miserable winter in the Italian Apennines. In July 1945, he was transferred from Italy to India. He photographed the soldiers, medical operations, and camp life for the AFS, and various subjects while bivouacked in India. He sailed back to New York in November 1945.\n\nPenn continued to work at \"Vogue\" throughout his career, photographing covers, portraits, still lifes, fashion, and photographic essays. In the 1950s, Penn founded his own studio in New York and began making advertising photographs. Over the years, Penn's list of clients grew to include General Foods, De Beers, Issey Miyake, and Clinique.\n\nPenn met Swedish fashion model Lisa Fonssagrives at a photo shoot in 1947. In 1950, the two married at Chelsea Register Office, and two years later Lisa gave birth to their son, Tom Penn, who would go on to become a metal designer. Lisa Fonssagrives died in 1992. Penn died aged 92 on October 7, 2009 at his home in Manhattan.\n\nBest known for his fashion photography, Penn's repertoire also includes portraits of creative greats; ethnographic photographs from around the world; Modernist still lifes of food, bones, bottles, metal, and found objects; and photographic travel essays.\n\nPenn was among the first photographers to pose subjects against a simple grey or white backdrop and he effectively used it's simplicity. Expanding his austere studio surroundings, Penn constructed a set of upright angled backdrops, to form a stark, acute corner. Subjects photographed with this technique included Martha Graham, Marcel Duchamp, Pablo Picasso, Georgia O'Keeffe, W. H. Auden, and Igor Stravinsky.\n\nPenn's still life compositions are sparse and highly organized, assemblages of food or objects that articulate the abstract interplay of line and volume. Penn's photographs are composed with a great attention to detail, which continues into his craft of developing and making prints of his photographs. Penn experimented with many printing techniques, including prints made on aluminum sheets coated with a platinum emulsion rendering the image with a warmth that untoned silver prints lacked. His black and white prints are notable for their deep contrast, giving them a clean, crisp look.\n\nWhile steeped in the Modernist tradition, Penn also ventured beyond creative boundaries. The exhibition \"Earthly Bodies\" consisted of series of posed nudes whose physical shapes range from thin to plump; while the photographs were taken in 1949 and 1950, they were not exhibited until 1980.\n\n\nThe Art Institute of Chicago holds the Irving Penn Paper and Photographic Archives, which were donated to the Ryerson and Burnham Libraries and the Department of Photography in 1995. In addition, the Art Institute of Chicago has more than 200 of Penn's fine art prints in its collection, and has mounted several exhibitions of work by the artist including the retrospective \"Irving Penn: A Career in Photography\" (1997–98) which traveled internationally as well as \"Irving Penn: Underfoot\" (2013).\n\nThe Smithsonian American Art Museum (SAAM) possesses a large collection of Penn's works, including a silver gelatin print of Penn's \"The Tarot Reader\", a photograph from 1949 of Jean Patchett and surrealist painter Bridget Tichenor. In 2013, the museum received 100 images as a gift from the Irving Penn Foundation, significantly increasing the number of Penn's works in the collection to 161 images. The Irving Penn Foundation's gift forms the basis of the exhibition, \"Irving Penn: Beyond Beauty\", which is on view at SAAM before traveling to other museum venues around the United States.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50550066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50550066", "title": "Islamopolitan", "text": "Islamopolitan\n\nIslamopolitan is a term that combine the words “Islam” and “Cosmopolitan”. It sets out to examine multiculturalism and diversity through a traveling exhibition which started from its origin in the UAE then went to Turkey and Milan. An ironic approach that encourages the local and the global in their philosophies and at the same time explores the tensions between the two worlds.\n\nThe term “Islamopolitan” was coined in 2014 by the Italian artist Giuseppe Moscatello and the Emirati designer Khalid Shafar. They co-curated an art exhibition at Maraya Art Centre with the same name to highlight the universal topic and dialogue between Islam and design. The structure of work and daily life, religion, architecture, rituals and decoration have been interpreted in relation to the present day. Designers of twelve different nationalities present works that take a contemporary look at the rituals of an ancient culture, through the media of furniture, jewellery, photography, video, art, installations, objects, upholstery, carpets, fashion, ceramics and sound. The individual pieces each highlight the Islamic spirit but leave the issue of interpretation up to the viewer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3034440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3034440", "title": "Jacques Duchaussoy", "text": "Jacques Duchaussoy\n\nJacques Duchaussoy is a French author of books on religion and literature. Among his works are \"Bacon, Shakespeare ou Saint-Germain\" (1962), a non-fiction book that discussed the possibility of Francis Bacon ghost writing for Shakespeare and Cervantes; \"Le Bestiaire divin ou la Symbolique des animaux\" (1993, ); and \"La tradition primordiale dans les religions\" (1990, ). He also wrote for the magazine \"Atlantis.\n\n"}
{"id": "24761767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24761767", "title": "LaMerhav", "text": "LaMerhav\n\nLaMerhav () was a Hebrew language daily newspaper published in Israel between 1954 and 1971.\n\nThe paper was owned by the Ahdut HaAvoda party and later HaKibbutz HaMeuhad, and was edited by Yisrael Even-Nur, Moshe Carmel and David Padhatzor, though most of its articles were written by Yisrael Galili.\n\nThe paper's first edition was released on 2 June 1954, when it was defined as a political magazine. In December 1954 it became a daily newspaper following the party's separation from Mapam. In 1968 control of the newspaper passed to HaKibbutz HaMeuhad following the merger of Ahdut HaAvoda into the Labor Party. The last edition was published on 31 May 1971, with the paper merged into the Histadrut-affiliated Davar, which was officially renamed \"Davar - Meuhad Im LaMerhav\" (lit. \"Davar - united with LaMerhav\").\n"}
{"id": "7157633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7157633", "title": "Lachoneus", "text": "Lachoneus\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Lachoneus () was the chief judge of the Nephites during the time of the birth of Christ, or AD 1, the 92nd year of the reign of the judges. His reign started at a date unknown but not earlier than about 23-20 BC, the approximate time of the assassination of chief judge Cezoram ().\n\nNo record of his life prior to the year AD 16 exists. In this year Giddianhi, leader of the band of Gadianton robbers at the time, sent Lachoneus a letter demanding that the Nephites surrender or be destroyed. Lachoneus rejected the demands and began preparations for war. He commanded his people to gather together in one place and there build fortifications against the robbers, appointed captains including Gidgiddoni, \"great commander all the armies of the Nephites.\" Both Lachoneus and Gidgiddoni were great prophets, and both preached repentance to the Nephites (). The people accepted the leadership and counsel of these two great prophet-leaders, and the Nephites were eventually victorious ().\n\nLachoneus died about AD 30 and was succeeded by his son, also named Lachoneus.\n\nLachoneus II, son of the above Lachoneus, succeeded his father as chief judge. He reigned for one year before the king-men assassinated him as part of an attempt to establish a monarchy. The monarchy was never established nor a new judge instated; the central government instead crumbled to be replaced by a tribal structure (, ).\n\nLachoneus II is the last Nephite ruler specifically identified in the Book of Mormon. \n"}
{"id": "23467506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23467506", "title": "Liberal Catholic movement", "text": "Liberal Catholic movement\n\nThe Liberal Catholic Movement refers to those churches whose foundation traces back to the founding bishops of the Liberal Catholic Church. It is different from the Roman Catholic Church. The Liberal Catholic Movement is one of the most recognized Old Catholic groups in the United States, with an estimated total worldwide membership of 45,000.\n\nThe founding bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church was J. I. Wedgwood who was ordained as a priest in the Old Catholic movement on July 22, 1913 by Arnold Harris Mathew (whose membership in the Union of Utrecht was terminated in 1910). Thus all Liberal Catholic churches claim to trace their apostolic succession back to Rome through Old Catholicism.\n\nIn 1941, there was a schism in the Liberal Catholic Church in the United States, surrounding a controversy involving Bishop Charles Hampton who, while he was himself a Theosophist, wished to keep adherence to Theosophical tenets optional for the clergy. This was in keeping with what was taken to be the original intent of the church's founders who, although they were Theosophists, wanted the church to remain primarily open to everyone.\n\nThe controversy surrounding Bishop Hampton led to a legal battle in the United States which eventually split into two different divisions, both of which claimed to be the Liberal Catholic Church. Frank W. Pigott, the church's 3rd Presiding Bishop in England, who held to a more Theosophical ideal for the church, removed Hampton and then ordered the confiscation of certain church property at the regionary headquarters in California and forced the resignation of those clergy under Hampton who refused to support his new episcopal replacement. At the time the majority of Liberal Catholics in the United States supported Hampton and saw his removal from the office of regionary and the other subsequent proceedings as a breach of canon law and a violation of some of the laws of California under which the church had been incorporated in America. These clergy continued on their own and won the right to be called the Liberal Catholic Church in the United States (while being called the Liberal Catholic Church International in the rest of the world). Those who followed Bishop Pigott in England became known in America as The Liberal Catholic Church, Province of the United States of America. Both divisions have similar structures of government and administration.\n\nAfter Frank W. Pigott retired as the Presiding Bishop, and after attempts at a reconciliation, some of the clergy in the LCCI returned to the Liberal Catholic Church, Province of the United States of America. Bishop Hampton died before the litigation was settled. While some clergy wish for more cooperation between the two divisions, they still exist independently.\n\nIn 2003 the issue of the limitation of the right of a bishop to ordain candidates of his choice gave rise to a schism into two groups: a 'conservative' and a more 'liberal' one. The ordination of women was the primary point of conflict.\n\nThe 'liberal' parishes in the Dutch, Belgian and Canadian provinces elected their own Episcopal Synod under the presidency of the Right Reverend Tom Degenaars, continuing to use the name 'the Liberal Catholic Church'. In 2003 the new General Episcopal Synod declared that women may be ordained. As of 2007 this Synod was represented in the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, Austria, Denmark, Germany, Cameroon, both Congos, and Sweden.\n\nThe 'conservatives' remained under the presidency of the Right Reverent Ian Hooker. In 2002 the 'conservative' wing opened 'The Order of Our Lady' as an alternative for women seeking ordination. Representation of the original Synod continues its presence worldwide.\n\nSince both groups call themselves The Liberal Catholic Church, distinguishing between the two may be confusing. It has been suggested that the 'liberal' synod be known as the 'reform' synod.\n\nRight Reverend Ernest W.Jackson had been the Regionary Bishop of The Liberal Catholic Church Province of Canada. The GES of the LCC deposed Jackson and dissolved the Province of Canada. Jackson then founded the Liberal Catholic Church Theosophia Synod, 1982.\n\nFounded by a small autocephalous group of Christians in 1999, it was first called the British Liberal Free Church and then later the Society of the Divine Spirit (SDS). Subsequent developments saw the evolution of the SDS into the English Liberal Free Church (ELFC). In 2006, it underwent a major change. Specifically, those on its ministerial team set in place a reorganization and renewal of its mission. Having used the name Independent Old Catholic Church of the Utrecht Succession (IOCCUS) in the interim period, the Presiding Bishop announced on 1 January 2007 that the denomination would bear the name The Liberal Rite.\n\nIn 2008, following a year of significant growth, in which John Kersey was consecrated to the episcopacy for the Apostolic Episcopal Church by Archbishop Bertil Persson and the addition of the orders of the Ancient Catholic Church of Archbishop Harold Percival Nicholson, The Liberal Rite was renamed the Liberal Catholic Apostolic Church (LCAC). In 2010, a major split took place. The more esoteric members formed under the Ecclesia Apostolica Divinorum Mysteriorum, with Archbishop Kersey becoming the Prince-Abbot of the Abbey-Principality of San Luigi. The remaining members of the LCAC continued working in the denomination before changing the name of the church to the Old Catholic Apostolic Church in 2012 to reflect its now dominant Old Catholic membership. The current Presiding Bishop is Adrian Glover, consecrated to the episcopacy in 2009 by John Kersey. He was joined in 2015 by Bridget Wilson Hall, consecrated by Adrian Glover and Bishop Louise Lombard. Later Brishop Bridget founded The Liberal Catholic Universalist Church.\n\nThe Old Catholic Church of British Columbia was established in 1921 as in independent communion. They use the Liberal Rite in their church. In 2006, the church was granted conditional status as a member of the Utrecht Union. This lasted only a short period, as they withdrew from the Union the following year due to differences of opinion.\n\nIn the United Kingdom another Liberal Catholic Jurisdiction exists under the leadership of Bishop Richard Palmer. This Church was founded by mandate in May 1999 and is known as 'The Reformed Liberal Catholic Church (Old Catholic)'. The RLCC does not emphasise theosophy, vegetarianism nor belief in the Masters as it holds that the individual has the right to choose whether to subscribe to these beliefs and practices.\n\nPalmer was consecrated to the episcopate in the 'conservative' wing in 1997 and subsequently consecrated Professor Elizabeth Stuart of the University of Winchester as a bishop in the Open Episcopal Church on 10 April 2003 at the chapel of Royal Holloway, Egham assisted by Bishop Jonathan Blake and Bishop Michael Wilson. Stuart has since left the Open Episcopal Church and has been appointed the regionary bishop for the British Province of the Liberal Catholic Church International.\n\nAnother Liberal Catholic Jurisdiction exists under the leadership of Bishop David D.La Rochelle (David Lindley). This Church was founded by mandate in May 2009 and is known as The Church of Saint Thomas Int. (Old Catholic)'. The CSTI does not emphasise theosophy, vegetarianism nor belief in the Masters as it holds that the individual has the right to choose whether to subscribe to these beliefs and practices.\n\nBishop La Rochelle was consecrated to the episcopate March 7, 2009 in Southampton,UK by Bishop Palmer (RLCC)\n\nBishop La Rochelle holds the RLCC USA mandate as an ordaining body. The St.Thomas jurisdiction also serves as the North American Province of The EVCL.\n\nIn April 2007, former LCCI Presiding Bishop Dean Bekken, Bishop Alain Miller, several Priests and St Francis Parish of San Diego left the LCCI to form the Liberal Catholic Church of California, later renamed the Universal Catholic Church. In 2008 Bishop Bekken elevated Father Robert Winzens to the Episcopate.\n\nIn 2006 another reform resulted in the formation of a new group called the Young Rite. The past Presiding Bishop of the \"mother\" Liberal Catholic Church, Johannes van Alphen, who had resigned from the LCC in 2002, had consecrated Mario Manuel Herrera (in 2002) who in turn had consecrated Benito Rodriguez Cruz (in 2005). These three bishops consecrated to the episcopacy + Marcus van Alphen, a former priest of the Dutch Liberal Catholic Church, in June 2006 in Hilversum, The Netherlands. Bishop Johannes subsequently joined the Young Rite and remained active in it until his death on the 25th of January 2009. In March 2008 the bishops of the Young Rite and bishop (Aristid Havilcek of Slovenia) to the episcopacy. In 2012, +Domen Kocevar was consecrated bishop at Celje in Slovenia, by +Marcus van Alphen, +Aristid Havilcek, +Alistair Bate and +Bruno Pedrini.\n\nBishop Marcus started the Young Rite as an autocephalous group operating within the Liberal Catholic tradition, yet separate from any of the Liberal Catholic Church organizations. Although the Young Rite shares many beliefs and customs with the Liberal Catholic Church and derives its apostolic succession from it, they are not affiliated with any of the Liberal Catholic Church organizations. The major difference between the traditional LCC and the Young Rite lies in the abolition of the separation between clergy and congregation. Everyone is allowed to request and receive ordination up to and including the priesthood. The book expounds further on the doctrine and philosophy regarding this rite. The Young Rite operates in Slovenia, South Africa, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Belgium, Greece, the Netherlands, Canada and the United States of America.\n\nIn 2014 the Liberal Orthodox Church Universal changed its name to The Ascended Church of Christ. In 2009 Bishop Teklemariam Gezahagne, presiding Patriarch of the Ethiopian Apostolic Church, commissioned and ordained the Rev. Didymos Judas Thomas(W. L. Vincent) as the presiding Patriarch of North American branch of the EAC. The EAC draws its Apostolic succession from a unique line descending from the Apostle Philip and being passed forward in the Ethiopian Churches. As newly appointed Patriarch D. Judas Thomas changed the name of the North American Church to the Liberal Orthodox Church Universal. In 2014 Patriarch Didymos Judas Thomas was appointed as the reigning patriarch of all Churches in the LOCU and forthwith changed the name of the Church to the Ascended Church of Christ. The Church has since focused on establishing communities and training ministers to expand the Church worldwide. Also in 2014 the ACC opened Alpha & Omega Institute, a distance learning Seminary with the mission of training laymen and clergy for service in the Church.\n\nThe Liberal Catholic Union is an autocephalous branch of the Liberal Catholic Movement formed after the Consecration of Tau Meinrad(Michael Robert Lawrence) McDonald, OSM/EBOE to the office of Bishop in the old/Liberal Catholic and Gnostic lineages of Apostolic succession held by Tau Michael Bertiaux through Tau Allen H. Greenfield.\nAlong with several Bishops and Clergy the Liberal Catholic Union formed as a vehicle for reintroducting Theosophical context that they felt had been stripped from common Liberal Catholic Practice. The LCU creates a distinct practice through the incorporation and infusion of not only Theosophical but French Gnostic theological concepts. The Church is active in several states with its largest community established in Indiana. The LCU does not have a seminary and instead relies on the \"apprentice\" method that they believe was originally the model of training used in the early Christian community.\nThe Liberal Catholic Union is seen as a heavily esoteric order and promotes such practices as open communion offered to Christians as well as Non Christians without distinction.\n\n\nThe International Liberal Catholic Church was founded in 1966 by Bishop Edmund Walter Sheehan and others who left the Liberal Catholic Church branch led by Bishop Edward M. Matthews. He had previously served as an auxiliary bishop under Bishop Charles Hampton. His disagreement with Matthews concerned administrative matters.\n\nSheehan linked the International Liberal Catholic Church to the Brotherhood of the Blessed Sacrament, a Dutch group which had broken with the British headquarters of the Liberal Catholic Church. The Brotherhood had originally sided with Matthews but had broken relations with him in 1962.\n\nThe International Liberal Catholic Church followed the Matthews faction in doctrinal and liturgical matters. While reporting 9 bishops, 25 clergy, and 3,000 members in 1969, the International Church dwindled to only a few parishes during the 1970s, and in the early 1980s was disbanded.\n\nThe Independent Catholic Church International was formed in 1981 as both a new jurisdiction out of the Anglican heritage and an ecumenical body which related a variety of independent episcopal bodies, some out of the theosophical Liberal Catholic tradition. The first primate was Peter Wayne Goodrich. Goodrich resigned in 1983 and was succeeded by R. V. Bernard Dawe (b. 1925), who had been consecrated in 1980 and had served as the church's international legate.\n\nAs constituted, the small jurisdiction has freely developed interchanges with a variety of Old Catholic and Anglican jurisdictions and has remained open to theosophical currents. It is a member of the Synod of Independent Sacramental Churches.\n\nThe Free Liberal Catholic Church was founded in 1975 by a group of Liberal Catholic priests including Bishops Donald M. Berry (1935- ) and John Russell (1920–1985). Bishop Berry was consecrated by Bishop William H. Daw of the Liberal Catholic Church International. Bishop Russell was consecrated by Bishop William A. Henley of the American Orthodox Catholic Church. Archbishop John Shelton Davis, vicar general at the time of the formation of the Free Liberal Catholic Church, is currently the presiding bishop. Davis was consecrated by Berry in 1979.\n\nThe Free Liberal Catholic Church follows the Liberal Catholic tradition. The Bible is accepted as the guide and rule of life by members and priests, but no one is required to subscribe to a creedal summary or to a particular formulation of faith. Freedom of inquiry is encouraged. There are seven sacraments that operate by the power of the Holy Spirit and depend for their efficacy on the clear conscience of the supplicant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24736976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24736976", "title": "List of Armenian churches in Russia", "text": "List of Armenian churches in Russia\n\nList of Armenian Apostolic churches in Russia.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2007 in the province there were at least 15 Armenian churches and chapels.\n\n\n\n\nFor the year 2007 in the province operated 7 Armenian religious institutions and one built.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSurb Astvatsatsin, Novosibirsk\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31555376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31555376", "title": "List of Christian holy sites in the Holy Land", "text": "List of Christian holy sites in the Holy Land\n\nThe list Christian holy sites in the Holy Land outlines sites within cities located in the Holy Land that are regarded as having a special significance to Christians, usually by association with Jesus or other persons mentioned in the New Testament.\n\nThe identification of these are sites became important during the Crusades, when Christian pilgrims often sought out \"holy places\" in the Outremer, especially in early 12th century immediately after the capture of Jerusalem.\n\nThe search for the Christian holy sites was the foundation of 19th-century European Biblical archaeology in Ottoman Syria and later Mandate Palestine.\n\nThe holy sites in cities for Christians of all denominations are:\n\n"}
{"id": "14304028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14304028", "title": "List of Christmas television specials", "text": "List of Christmas television specials\n\nThe following is a list of Christmas television specials and miniseries, as well as Christmas-themed episodes of regular television series.\n\nNotes: Prior to 1990, RÚV did not produce and air any Christmas calender's series. In 1994, 20010-2011, 2013-present RÚV did only air Scandinavian produced Christmas calender series.\n\nNote: All Rankin/Bass Christmas specials were written and designed in the United States, and then animated in Japan; both in the stop-motion \"Animagic\" and traditional animation. Some of the holiday classics aired on television networks and were also available on VHS tapes, LaserDiscs, DVDs and Blu-Ray Discs in Japan every Christmas season, like \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\", which aired on the NHK network in 1967.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7889245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7889245", "title": "List of SVD missions", "text": "List of SVD missions\n\nThe Society of the Divine Word or SVD missionaries work primarily where the Gospel has not been preached at all, or only insufficiently, and where the local Church is not yet viable on its own. The SVD's membership reflects the international nature of the congregation and representative of the areas of the world they serve. The SVD missionaries serve according to the needs of the local Church and the particular expertise they bring to the task.\n\nIn Asia, the SVDs are involved in education, especially in the Philippines and Japan. They are also involved in pastoral and developmental work, and other specialized ministries such as Bible apostolate, the youth, communications, and refugee apostolate in Africa and South America. Their work in the United States involves the minority communities, especially African-American and Hispanic communities, as well as poor areas such as Appalachia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18162", "title": "Lists of atheists", "text": "Lists of atheists\n\nAtheism is, in a broad sense, the lack of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is simply the absence of belief that any deities exist. This is a compilation of the various lists of atheists with articles in Wikipedia. Living persons in these lists are people whose atheism is relevant to their notable activities or public life, and who have publicly identified themselves as atheists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56694211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56694211", "title": "Mariadas Kagithapu", "text": "Mariadas Kagithapu\n\nMariadas Kagithapu (7 September 1936 – 26 February 2018) was a Roman Catholic archbishop.\n\nArchbishop Kagithapu Mariadas was born on 7 September, 1936 in Gnanapuram in Visakhapatnam Diocese. He was ordained a priest on 10 June, 1961 in the Congregation of Missionaries of Francis de Sales. Pope Paul VI appointed him as the fourth Bishop of Roman Catholic Diocese of Guntur on 19 December, 1974 and ordained as Bishop on 5 May, 1977 by Cardinal Duraisamy Simon Lourdusamy. Pope John Paul II appointed him as the Bishop of Visakhapatnam on 10 September 1982 and he was installed on 26 January, 1983.\n\nWith the elevation to the Archdiocese on 16 October 2001 he was appointed Archbishop of Visakhapatnam. Before becoming a prelate, Archbishop Mariadas was a professor at St. Peter’s Seminary in Bangalore. On 3 July, 2012, Pope Benedict XVI accepted his resignation from the pastoral care of the Diocese of Visakhapatnam. He was a priest for 56 years and a bishop for 40 years.\n\nAs a tradition Archbishop Kagithapu Mariadas's burial took place in St. Peter's Cathedral in Gnanapuram, Visakhapatnam on 28 February, 2018. \n"}
{"id": "23774955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23774955", "title": "Moslem League of the Western Province", "text": "Moslem League of the Western Province\n\nThe Moslem League of the Western Province was a political party in the Western Province, Eritrea. The party was founded by Sheikh Ali Mohammed Mussa Radai, whose family originally migrated from the Hejaz region in Western Saudi Arabia and later became the President of the Eritrean Assembly. The party was formed after a split away from the Moslem League in 1949. The Moslem League of the Western Province was able to overtake half of the party membership of the pre-split Moslem League.\n\nThe historian Okbazgi Yohannes claims that the split was caused intrigues of behalf of the British Military Administration, who was able to convince Muslim chiefs that the Moslem League leader Ibrahim Sultan Ali was an Italian agent. However this assertion is contested, as it overlooks internal social and political cleavages within the Eritrean Muslim community.\n\nBy late 1949, following the defection of the Independent Moslem League, the party left the Independence Bloc. The Muslim League of the Western Province became the second of various factions that departed from the Independence Bloc. The party sought to exclude Italian-Eritreans from the political process in the country, a policy that sharply contradicted the line of the Moslem League.\n\nThe party won 14 out of 68 seats in the 1952 Eritrean Assembly election (which was held through direct suffrage in some cities, and indirect vote in other areas).\n\nInitially the Moslem League of the Western Province had called for continued British governance for a period of ten years, after which the future of the Western Province could be decided. In June 1953, nine months after the Federation between Ethiopia and Eritrea had come into effect, the party began calling for the creation of an independent Beja state, formed out of the Western Province of Eritrea and the Eastern Province of Sudan. However, as it became clear to the party that the British would not support creating an independent state out of the Western Province the party began supporting unification with Ethiopia. At this point integration into Ethiopia appeared more favourable to the party than a possible integration into Sudan, as it feared domination from Sudanese rival clans.\n"}
{"id": "19273047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19273047", "title": "Multiculturalism and Christianity", "text": "Multiculturalism and Christianity\n\nMulticulturalism and Christianity have a long historical association. Christianity originated as a sect of Judaism in the Middle East, as Jesus, the founder and central figure of Christianity, lived and held his ministry in the Middle East. Paul the Apostle, an ethnic Jew who was born and lived in the Middle East, holds such importance to Christianity that some call him the religion's \"Second Founder\". The greatest influence on Christianity after Paul, Augustine of Hippo, a Church Father, a Doctor of the Church, and an eminent theologian, was North African. Under the influence of Paul, Christianity soon spread widely among non-Jews (Gentiles) of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe Roman Emperor Galerius issued an edict permitting the practice of the Christian religion under his rule in April 311. In 313 Constantine I and Licinius announced toleration of Christianity in the Edict of Milan. Constantine would become the first Christian emperor. By 391, under the reign of Theodosius I, Christianity had become the most popular, or state religion. Constantine I, the first emperor to embrace Christianity, was also the first emperor to openly promote the newly legalized religion. As the political boundaries of the Western Roman Empire diminished and then collapsed, Christianity spread beyond the old borders of the Empire and into lands that never had been Romanized.\n\nThe Age of Discovery began with the voyage of Christopher Columbus \"c\". 1492. It is characterized by European colonization of missionary activity.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, the Roman Catholic Church established a number of Missions in the Americas and other colonies in order to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the indigenous peoples. At the same time, missionaries such as Francis Xavier as well as other Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans and Dominicans were moving into Asia and the Far East. The Portuguese sent missions into Africa. While some of these missions were associated with imperialism and oppression, others (notably Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China) were relatively peaceful and focused on integration rather than cultural imperialism.\n\nThe most famous colonization by Protestants in the New World was that of English Puritans in North America. Unlike the Spanish or French, the English colonists made surprisingly little effort to evangelize the native peoples. The Puritans, or Pilgrims, left England so that they could live in an area with Puritanism established as the exclusive civic religion. Though they had left England because of the suppression of their religious practice, most Puritans had thereafter originally settled in the Low Countries but found the licentiousness there, where the state hesitated from enforcing religious practice, as unacceptable, and thus they set out for the New World and the hopes of a Puritan utopia.\n\nChristianity is a religion open to all humanity that counts one out of every three people on earth among its members. The Christian world encompasses a greater area of land than that of any other religious territory. In terms of both population and geography, Christianity is the world's largest religion. As such, Christianity contains a great diversity, and has followers from a wide range of ethnicities, nationalities, and cultures. Both Europeans and non-Hispanic Whites are shrinking minorities in the Church.\n\nIn his book \"Enlarging the Story: Perspectives on Writing World Christian History\", Richard Fox Young views the connection between Christianity and Eurocentrism as tenuous, and points to the postcolonial and non-European nature of the emerging Church and its impact on the development of World Christianity. In the postcolonial world, Christianity has lost its association with the West.\n\nAt the turn of the millennium, 60% of the world's two billion Christians lived in Africa, Latin America, or Asia, and by 2025, those demographics will shift to an estimated 67% of the world's three billion Christians. The rise of Christianity in the southern hemisphere, especially northern Africa and Latin America, in the late 20th and early 21st centuries is a \"grassroots movement\" that has generated new forms of Christian theology and worship, and shifted the cultural and geographic focal point of the Church away from the West. The prominence of the southern hemisphere's Christianity has brought with it a cultural and intellectual diversity to World Christianity, and contributed such ideas as Liberation Theology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3856207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3856207", "title": "Nema (occultist)", "text": "Nema (occultist)\n\nDied January 9, 2018.\nNema Andahadna was an occultist and writer best known for her magical writings about the Ma'atian current. She practiced and wrote about magick (magical working, as defined by Aleister Crowley) for over twenty-five years. From her experience with Thelemic magick (a system designed by Crowley), she developed her own system of magic called Maat Magick which has the aim of transforming the human race. Her writings have appeared in many publications, including the \"Cincinnati Journal of Ceremonial Magick\", \"Aeon\", \"Starfire\", and others.\n\nIn 1974, she channelled a short book called \"\". Her ideas have been featured in the writings of Kenneth Grant. In 1979, she co-founded the Horus-Maat Lodge. According to Donald Michael Kraig:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29478378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29478378", "title": "Opus Sanctorum Angelorum", "text": "Opus Sanctorum Angelorum\n\nOpus Sanctorum Angelorum (English: \"Work of the Holy Angels\"), more commonly known as Opus Angelorum (English: \"Work of the Angels\"; German: \"Engelwerk\"), is a Roman Catholic association which promotes devotion to angels. According to Pope Benedict XVI (2008) it was a public association of the Church in conformity with traditional doctrine and with the directives of the Holy See. It spreads devotion to the Holy Angels among the faithful, exhorts them to pray for priests, and promotes love for Christ in His Passion and union with it.\n\nThe association is active particularly in Austria, where it originated, and in Germany, but also in Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, India, the Philippines, Italy and the United States.\n\nIt includes lay members, religious sisters and priests. Critics keep calling it a sect inside the Roman Catholic Church in spite of having been approved papally in 2008. It was often linked to the Catholic Scouts of Europe.\n\nThe association was founded in 1949 by a group of priests and seminarians in Innsbruck, Austria, to seek the aid of the angels in support of the Church and the priesthood and for the salvation of souls.\n\nThe association drew inspiration from the accounts that Gabriele Bitterlich (1896-1978) gave of her private revelations. She claimed to have received visions of the angels, including their names and their functions.\n\nSome of Mrs Bitterlich's followers were circulating sensational theories of \"spiritual warfare\" between angels and demons, based on her writings. In view of the controversy over these theories, Cardinal Joseph Höffner, Archbishop of Cologne, wrote on 1 December 1977, shortly before the death of Mrs Bitterlich, to ask the Holy See to institute an enquiry.\n\nThe Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith carried out the requested investigation and responded on 24 September 1983 with a letter, known by its incipit, \"Litteris diei\", which laid down:\n\nThis was followed up by a decree of 6 June 1992, which repeated the contents of the 1983 letter and, in view of incorrect interpretation and application of that letter, laid down the following rules:\n\nThe Delegate chosen was the Dominican priest, Father Benoit Duroux, who handed over to another Dominican priest, Father Daniel Ols, in March 2010.\n\nUntil 2018 there were two reported cases of consummated murder linked legally to the \"Work of the Holy Angels\". Both murders were related to sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn India’s state of Kerala, an exorcism performed by Opus Sanctorum Angelorum’s priests led to a case of murder in 1990. The involved priests had failed to report the exorcized person, who had committed sexual abuse of minors, to Indian police although the report was mandatory according to Indian Penal Code. The OSA tried to justify abuse and murder with the fictitious \"demons Dragon, Varina and Selithareth\".\nIn 1994, the high-ranking Brazilian OSA member Frederico Cunha ORC was found guilty of first degree murder and sexual abuse of minors. Several Opus Sanctorum Angelorum priests had tried to cover up his crimes committed on the Portuguese Madeira Island in May 1992, bribing witnesses and instigating perjury. In April 1998 Cunha fled to Rio de Janeiro, where he still lived in March 2018.\n\nUntil 2014 several attempts of killing a German priest, who had left the OSA before, have failed. He returned to common Roman Catholic spiritual welfare after his survival.\n\nOn 31 May 2000, a revised form of the Act of Consecration to the Angels was approved by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.\n\nIn the year 2002, a female branch of the Canons Regular, which is known as the Sisters of the Holy Cross, was established in Innsbruck.\n\nIn the following year, 2003, the Congregation for Institutes of Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life granted definitive approval to the Canons Regular of the Holy Cross of Coimbra, a religious institute founded in 1131 and, after becoming defunct in the 19th century, refounded in 1977, receiving the formal approval of the Holy See in 1979. To it, in accordance with canons 677 §2 and 303 of the Code of Canon Law, the care of \"Opus Angelorum\" movement is committed.\n\nOn 7 November 2008, the same Congregation approved the statutes of the Opus Angelorum as a public association of the faithful.\n\nOn 4 November 2010, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith declared: \"Today, thanks to the obedience of its members, the Opus Angelorum can be considered to be living loyally and serenely in conformity with the doctrine of the Church and with canonical and liturgical law. Therefore, in its present state, the Opus Angelorum is a public association of the Church in conformity with traditional doctrine and with the directives of the Holy See.\"\n\nSome news sources presented the Holy See's statement of approval of the association as instead a warning to beware of it. An example was the BBC's news item \"Vatican warns of 'wayward' Opus Angelorum sect\". The warning issued was not against the association but against some ex-members, who had either been expelled or who had left of their own accord, and who were endeavouring to form a rival movement that would reject the norms issued by the Holy See.\n\n"}
{"id": "32277767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32277767", "title": "Order of Kantakuzina Katarina Branković", "text": "Order of Kantakuzina Katarina Branković\n\nThe Order of Kantakuzina Katarina Branković is an honor given by the Metropolitanate of Zagreb and Ljubljana in recognition of special merits to the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, Slovenia and Italy. The award was established in 2007 on the occasion of the celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the enthronement of Metropolitan Jovan Pavlović of Zagreb. For this occasion the Metropolitanate commissioned a special limited edition collection of medals and diplomas that are made at the Monastery of St. Roman in South Serbia close to the city of Niš. It was decided that the medal will be named for the Orthodox Countess Kantakuzina Katarina Branković who lived in Zagreb in the 15th century.\n\nThe award consists of a forged medal, diploma and order certificate. The award can be awarded to individuals for special merits according to pronouncement of Metropolit Jovan. The order is divided into Medal of Kantakuzina Katarina Branković of first-order and Medal of Kantakuzina Katarina Branković of second-order.\n\n\"list of holders is not complete\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100237", "title": "Rakshasa", "text": "Rakshasa\n\nA Rakshasa (, ') is a mythological being in Hindu mythology. As this mythology influenced other religions, the rakshasa was later incorporated into Buddhism. Rakshasas are also called \"Maneaters\" (\"Nri-chakshas,\" \"Kravyads\"). A female rakshasa is known as a Rakshasi. A female Rakshasa in human form is a Rakshesha\"'. The terms \"Asura\" and Rakshasa are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nRakshasas were believed to have been created from the breath of Brahma when he was asleep at the end of the Satya Yuga. As soon as they were created, they were so filled with bloodlust that they started eating Brahma himself. Brahma shouted \"Rakshama!\" (Sanskrit for \"Protect me!\") and Vishnu came to his aid, banishing to Earth all Rakshasas (named after Brahma's cry for help).\n\nTheir literary origins can be traced to Vedic sources through Hymn 87 of the tenth mandala of the \"Rigveda\". They are classified amongst the \"Yatudhanas\", mythological beings that consume raw flesh.\n\nRakshasas were most often depicted as ugly, fierce-looking and enormous creatures, with two fangs protruding from the top of the mouth and having sharp, claw-like fingernails. They are shown as being mean, growling like beasts, and as insatiable cannibals that could smell the scent of human flesh. Some of the more ferocious ones were shown with flaming red eyes and hair, drinking blood with their palms or from a human skull (similar to representations of vampires in later Western mythology). Generally they could fly, vanish, and had \"Maya\" (magical powers of illusion), which enabled them to change size at will and assume the form of any creature. The female equivalent of rakshasa is rakshasi.\n\nIn the world of the Ramayana and Mahabharata, Rakshasas were a populous race. There were both good and evil rakshasas, and as warriors they fought alongside the armies of both good and evil. They were powerful warriors, expert magicians and illusionists. As shape-changers, they could assume different physical forms. It was not always clear whether they had a true or natural form. As illusionists, they were capable of creating appearances which were real to those who believed in them or who failed to dispel them. Some of the rakshasas were said to be man-eaters, and made their gleeful appearance when the slaughter on a battlefield was at its worst. Occasionally they served as rank-and-file soldiers in the service of one or another warlord.\n\nAside from its treatment of unnamed rank-and-file Rakshasas, the epics tell the stories of certain members of the \"race\" who rose to prominence, some of them as heroes, most of them as villains.\n\nThe Battle of Lanka pitted an army of Rakshasas under Ravana against an army of Vanaras, or monkeys, under Rama and Sugriva.\n\n\nOther Rakshasas that are featured in the Ramayana include Kabandha, Tataka (sometimes called Taraka), Shurpanakha, Maricha, Subahu, Khara, Prahasta, Akshayakumara, Atikaya, and Indrajit - the most powerful son of Ravana.\n\nThe Pandava hero Bhima was the nemesis of forest-dwelling Rakshasas who dined on human travellers and terrorized human settlements.\n\nIn the \"Mahabharata,\" Ghatotkacha was summoned by Bhima to fight on the Pandava side in the Kurukshetra War. Invoking his magical powers, he wrought great havoc in the Kaurava army. In particular, after the death of Jayadratha, when the battle continued on past sunset, his powers were at their most effective (at night). After performing many heroic deeds on the battlefield and fighting numerous duels with other great warriors (including the Rakshasa Alamvusha, the elephant-riding King Bhagadatta, and Aswatthaman, the son of Drona), Ghatotkacha encountered the human hero Karna. At this point in the battle, the Kaurava leader Duryodhana had appealed to his best fighter, Karna, to kill Ghatotkacha, as the entire Kaurava army was near annihilation due to his ceaseless strikes from the air. Karna possessed a divine weapon, Shakti, granted by the god Indra. It could be used only once and Karna had been saving it to use on his arch-enemy Arjuna, the best Pandava fighter. Unable to refuse Duryodhana, Karna used the Shakti against Ghatotkacha, killing him. This is considered to be the turning point of the war. After his death, the Pandava counselor Krishna smiled, as he considered the Pandava prince Arjuna to be saved from certain death, as Karna had used the \"Shakta\" divine weapon. A temple in Manali, Himachal Pradesh, honors Ghatotkacha; it is located near the Hidimba Devi Temple.\nRakshasa heroes fought on both sides in the Kurukshetra war.\n\n\nIn the Maha Samaya Sutta, Mara (also known as \"Namuci\" or the \"Dark One\") is the defeated antagonist of the Buddha. He is described as a corrupted Asura, whose army consisted of \"Sensual passions, Discontent, Hunger and Thirst, Craving, Sloth and Drowsiness, Terror, Uncertainty, Hypocrisy and Stubbornness, Gains, Offerings, Fame and Status wrongly gained, and whoever would praise self and disparage others\" (Sn 3.2 Padhana Sutta). The Asuras try to capture the Devas and bind them. However, not all Asuras are Rakshasas.\n\nThe Alavaka Sutta (SN 10.12) of the Pāli Canon recounts a story in which the Buddha was harassed by a Rakshasa. The latter asked him to leave and then to return, over and over. When the Buddha refused to leave, the Rakshasa threatened to harm him if he could not answer his questions. The rest of the sutta concerns the question and answer dialogue. At the end, the rakshasa is convinced of the Buddha's holiness and becomes a follower. Sri Lankan (Sinhala) ancestral legends refer to Yakshas as well.\n\nOne of Buddha's ten titles is “Purisa Dama Sarati sata deva manusanam Buddho baghavati” meaning the teacher of gods, men, animals and Rakshasas.\n\nChapter 26 of the Lotus Sutra includes a dialogue between the Buddha and a group of Rakshasa daughters, who swear to uphold and protect the Lotus Sutra. They also teach magical dhāraṇīs to protect followers who also uphold the sutra. In \"The Lotus-Born: The Life Story of Padmasambhava, recorded by Yeshe Tsogyal,\" Padmasambhava receives the nickname of \"Rakshasa\" during one of his wrathful conquests to subdue Buddhist heretics.\n\nIn Chinese tradition Rakshasas are known as \"Luo Sha\" (羅剎), pronounced as \"La-Ksha\" in ancient China.\n\nJain accounts vary from the Hindu accounts of Rakshasa. According to Jain literature, Rakshasa was a kingdom of civilized and vegetarian people belonging to the race of Vidyadhara, who were devotees of Tirthankara.\n\nThe artists of Angkor in Cambodia frequently depicted Ravana in stone sculpture and bas-relief. The \"Nāga bridge\" at the entrance to the 12th-century city of Angkor Thom is lined with large stone statues of Devas and Asuras engaged in churning the Ocean of Milk. The ten-headed Ravana is shown anchoring the line of Asuras.\n\nA bas-relief at the 12th-century temple of Angkor Wat depicts the figures churning the ocean. It includes Ravana anchoring the line of Asuras that are pulling on the serpent's head. Scholars have speculated that one of the figures in the line of Devas is Ravana's brother Vibhishana. They pull on a serpent's tail to churn the Ocean of Milk. Another bas-relief at Angkor Wat shows a 20-armed Ravana shaking Mount Kailasa.\n\nThe artists of Angkor also depicted the Battle of Lanka between the Rakshasas under the command of Ravana and the Vanaras or monkeys under the command of Rama and Sugriva. The 12th-century Angkor Wat contains a dramatic bas-relief of the Battle of Lanka between Ravana's Rakshasas and Rama's monkeys. Ravana is depicted with ten heads and twenty arms, mounted on a chariot drawn by creatures that appear to be a mixture of horse, lion, and bird. Vibhishana is shown standing behind and aligned with Rama and his brother Lakshmana. Kumbhakarna, mounted on a similar chariot, is shown fighting Sugriva.\n\nThis battle is also depicted in a less refined bas-relief at the 12th-century temple of Preah Khan.\n\nIn Indonesian and Malay, \"raksasa\" now means \"giant\", \"gigantic,\" \"huge and strong,\" or \"monster\" in colloquial usage. Indonesian and Malay are closely related languages with significant Sanskrit influence.\n\nIn Bengali, \"rakhosh\" (রাক্ষস) is used as term for a person who eats incessantly and without need to stop. This derivation also occurs in Malay and Indonesian as \"rakus,\" which means \"greedy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36162849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36162849", "title": "Ram Raksha Stotra", "text": "Ram Raksha Stotra\n\nShri Rama Raksha Stotram (Sanskrit: श्रीरामरक्षास्तोत्रम्) is a Sanskrit stotra, hymn of praise, used as a prayer for protection to Lord Rama.\n\nThe composer of the Rama Raksha Stotra is \"Budha Kaushika Rishi\". Special public recitation of the stotra is organized during religious festivals, especially during Navaratri celebrations, when continuous recitation takes place from Gudi Padwa till Rama Navami day, the birthday of Lord Rama.\n"}
{"id": "17913270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17913270", "title": "Reconstructionist Rabbinical Association", "text": "Reconstructionist Rabbinical Association\n\nThe Reconstructionist Rabbinical Association (RRA) founded in 1974, is the professional association of rabbis affiliated with Reconstructionist Judaism. It has approximately 300 members, most of whom are graduates of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, near Philadelphia. The association is a member of a number of national coalitions including the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations. \n\nIn 2007 Rabbi Toba Spitzer became the first openly lesbian or gay person chosen to head a rabbinical association in the United States when she was elected president of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical Association. Its current president as of June 2017 is Rabbi Seth Goldstein.. Its executive director is Rabbi Elyse Wechterman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2252810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252810", "title": "Richard Carlile", "text": "Richard Carlile\n\nRichard Carlile (8 December 1790 – 10 February 1843) was an important agitator for the establishment of universal suffrage and freedom of the press in the United Kingdom.\n\nBorn in Ashburton, Devon, he was the son of a shoemaker who died in 1794; leaving Richard's mother struggling to support her three children on the income from running a small shop. At the age of six he went for free education to the local Church of England school, then at the age of twelve he left school for a seven-year apprenticeship to a tinsmith in Plymouth.\n\nIn 1813 he married, and shortly afterwards the couple moved to Holborn Hill in London where he found work as a tinsmith. Jane Carlile gave birth to five children, three of whom survived.\n\nSome time after 1829, Carlile met Eliza Sharples and she became his common law wife. Together they had at least four children.\n\n \nHis interest in politics was kindled first by economic conditions in the winter of 1816 when Carlile was put on short-time work by his employer creating serious problems for the family: \"I shared the general distress of 1816 and it was this that opened my eyes.\" He began attending political meetings where speakers like Henry Hunt complained that only three men in a hundred had the vote, and was also influenced by the publications of William Cobbett.\n\nAs a way of making a living he sold the writings of parliamentary reformers such as Tom Paine on the streets of London, often walking \"thirty miles for a profit of eighteen pence\". In April 1817 he formed a publishing business with the printer William Sherwin and rented a shop in Fleet Street. To make political texts such as Paine's books \"The Rights of Man\" and the \"Principles of Government\" available to the poor he split them into sections which he sold as small pamphlets, similarly publishing \"The Age of Reason\" and \"Principles of Nature\". He issued unauthorized copies of Southey's \"Wat Tyler\" and after the radical William Hone's arrest in May, he reissued the parody of parts of the Book of Common Prayer for which Hone was to be tried, then was himself arrested in August and held without charge until Hone was acquitted in December.\n\nHe took on distributing the banned Radical weekly \"The Black Dwarf\" at a time when the government was prosecuting publishers: \"The Habeas Corpus Act being suspended ... all was terror and alarm, but I take credit to myself in defeating the effect of these two Acts upon the Press... Of imprisonment I made sure, but I felt inclined to court it than to shrink from it\".\n\nCarlile then brought out a radical journal, \"Sherwin's Political Register\", which reported political meetings and included extracts from books and poems by supporters of the reform movement such as Percy Bysshe Shelley and Lord Byron. The popularity of this helped to soon bring his profit from his publishing venture to £50 a week.\n\nCarlile was one of the scheduled main speakers at the reform meeting on 16 August 1819 at St. Peter's Fields in Manchester. Just as Henry Hunt was about to speak, the crowd was attacked by the yeomanry in what became known as the Peterloo massacre. Carlile escaped and was hidden by radical friends before he caught the mail coach to London and published his eyewitness account, giving the first full report of what had happened, in \"Sherwin's Weekly Political Register\" of 18 August 1819. His placards proclaimed \"Horrid Massacres at Manchester\".\n\nThe government responded by closing \"Sherwin's Political Register\", confiscating the stock of newspapers and pamphlets. Carlile changed the name to \"The Republican\" and in its issue of 27 August 1819 demanded that \"The massacre... should be the daily theme of the Press until the murderers are brought to justice... Every man in Manchester who avows his opinions on the necessity of reform, should never go unarmed – retaliation has become a duty, and revenge an act of justice.\"\n\nCarlile was prosecuted for blasphemy, blasphemous libel and sedition for publishing material that might encourage people to hate the government in his newspaper, and for publishing Tom Paine's \"Common Sense\", \"The Rights of Man\" and the \"Age of Reason\" (which criticised the Church of England). In October 1819 he was found guilty of blasphemy and seditious libel and sentenced to three years in Dorchester Gaol with a fine of £1,500. When he refused to pay the fine, his premises in Fleet Street were raided and his stock was confiscated. While he was in jail he continued to write articles for \"The Republican\" which was now published by Carlile's wife Jane, and thanks to the publicity it now outsold pro-government newspapers such as \"The Times\".\n\nTo curb newspapers the government had raised the ½d tax on newspapers first imposed in 1712 to 3½d in 1797 then 4d in 1815. From December 1819 it set a minimum price of 7d and further restrictions. At a time when workers earned less than 10 shillings (120d.) a week this made it hard for them to afford radical newspapers, and publishers tried various strategies to evade the tax. Groups would pool their resources in reading societies and subscription societies to purchase a book or journal in common, and frequently read it aloud to one another as was the case with James Wilson.\n\nBy 1821, Carlile was a declared atheist (having previously been a Deist) and published his \"Address to Men of Science\", in favour of materialism and education. In the same year Jane Carlile was in turn sentenced to two years imprisonment for seditious libel, and her place as publisher was taken by Richard Carlile's sister, Mary. Within six months she was imprisoned for the same offence. The process was repeated with eight of his shop workers, and over 150 men and women were sent to prison for selling \"The Republican\". Carlile's sentence ended in 1823 but he was immediately arrested and returned to prison for not paying his £1,500 fine, so the process continued until he was eventually released on 25 November 1825. In the next edition of \"The Republican\" he expressed the hope that his long confinement would result in the freedom to publish radical political ideas. An example of the support he received from around the country is the £1.5.1 sent to him in Dorchester jail by forty working men in the West Yorkshire village of Hunslet, accompanied by a noble letter on behalf of those \"few Friends to Truth and Justice\".\n\nHe then published further journals, \"The Lion\" which campaigned against child labour and \"The Promptor\". He argued that \"equality between the sexes\" should be the objective of all reformers, and in 1826 published \"Every Woman's Book\" advocating birth control and the sexual emancipation of women. Cobbett denounced this book as \"so filthy, so disgusting, so beastly, as to shock even the lewdest men and women\".\n\nCarlile was an advocate of the Christ myth theory. He did not believe that Jesus existed. He debated Unitarian minister John Relly Beard in \"The Republican\", 1826.\n\nHe joined up with the radical and sceptical clergyman Robert Taylor and set out on an \"infidel home missionary tour\" which reached Cambridge on Thursday 21 May 1829 and caused a considerable upset to the University of Cambridge where a young Charles Darwin was a second-year student.\n\nAt their meeting in Bolton, Lancashire, Carlile met Eliza Sharples, who was to become his long term mistress.\n\nCarlile then opened a ramshackle building on the south bank of the River Thames, the Blackfriars Rotunda, and in widespread public unrest in July 1830 this became a gathering place for republicans and atheists. Taylor staged infidel melodramas, preaching outrageous sermons which got him dubbed \"The Devil's Chaplain\". Thousands of copies of these sermons were circulated in a seditious publication, \"The Devil's Pulpit\".\n\nIn 1831 he was jailed, under the charge of seditious libel, given two and a half years for writing an article in support of agricultural labourers campaigning against wage cuts and advising the strikers to regard themselves as being at war with the government. He left prison deeply in debt, and government fines had taken from him the finances needed to publish newspapers.\n\nHis political and social opinions never altered, but his philosophy underwent a change in the 1830s. In 1837 H. Robinson published the results of his later thinking in the book \"Extraordinary Conversion and Public Declaration of Richard Carlile of London to Christianity\".\n\nAfter living for some years in extreme poverty in Enfield, Carlile returned to Fleet Street in 1842, dying there the following year. He donated his body for medical research. Large numbers of people attended his funeral in Kensal Green Cemetery on Sunday 26 February 1843, where his sons protested at the Christian burial rite being administered in the common grave he was being buried in - citing that he \"passed his life in opposition to all priestcraft.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48394509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48394509", "title": "Rishivanshi", "text": "Rishivanshi\n\nRishivanshi Rajputs are considered to be progeny of Rishi (saints) and Kshatriya, also known as Brahmin(yogis) Kshatriya.\n\nThere are several theories regarding the origin of the Rishivanshi Rajputs, According to A. H. Bingley, Caste, tribes & culture of Rajputs, Ess Ess Publications, 1978 which is also substantiated by the folklore narratives of Rishivanshi Rajputs, that they are the descendants of the Rishi Shringa and his wife Shanta. As per the folk traditions, Shanta was from Raghuvansha clan and was a princess of Raghukul, therefore, the son of Rishi Shringa and Shanta became a Rishivansha Kshtriya. Henceforth, 'Sengar' clan of Rajputs which is of 'Shringya' or its further delineation into 'Sengar', thus, 'Sengar' are considered to be Rishivanshi Kshtriyas.\n\nAnother Rajput tradition believes that Sengar come from Gautam gotra, where rishi Gautam who is one of the seven Saptarishi was their ancestor, therefore, Sengar claim to have Gautam gotra.\n"}
{"id": "49599987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49599987", "title": "Robert Miranda", "text": "Robert Miranda\n\nThe Most Rev. Robert Miranda (born 10 April 1952) is the first bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Gulbarga. He was born in Mangalore in 1952 and was educated at local Catholic schools and St. Aloysius College, Mangalore He was ordained as a priest on 4 May 1978 and as a bishop on 18 August 2005.\n"}
{"id": "22713849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22713849", "title": "Saint Ruru", "text": "Saint Ruru\n\nSaint Ruru is a hermit famous in the Hindu Puranas.\n\nAccording to Devi Bhagavata (Skandha 2), Puloma was the wife of Bhrgu. He got the son Chyavana by Puloma. Chyavana married Sukanya. Pramati was born to them. The hermit Pramati married the beautiful damsel Pratapi and got a son named Ruru. He grew up to become a famous hermit.\n\nRuru happened to encounter exceedingly beautiful Pramadvara, the daughter of the king of gandharvas and Menaka and momentously fell in love with her. The father of Pramadvara came to know of this and decided to give her in marriage to him. During the marriage preparations, Pramadvara was bitten by a snake and fell down dead.\n\nRuru was greatly sad and disappointed. By his determination and sacrifising half of his life to her, Pramadvara came to life again and Ruru married her.\n\nAccording to Mahabharata (Adi Parva), Ruru developed relentless hatred against serpents. He wandered about destroying every serpent he came across. Finally he confronted Dundubha, he was given exhortations and good advice regarding righteousness. Saint Ruru had taken a lively interest in the snake sacrifice known as Sarpa Satra held by king Janamejaya which was meant to exterminate all serpents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1326752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326752", "title": "San Francisco Peaks", "text": "San Francisco Peaks\n\nThe San Francisco Peaks () are a volcanic mountain range in north central Arizona, just north of Flagstaff and a remnant of the former San Francisco Mountain. The highest summit in the range, Humphreys Peak, is the highest point in the state of Arizona at in elevation. The San Francisco Peaks are the remains of an eroded stratovolcano. An aquifer within the caldera supplies much of Flagstaff's water while the mountain itself is in the Coconino National Forest, a popular recreation site. The Arizona Snowbowl ski area is on the western slopes of Humphreys Peak, and has been the subject of major controversy involving several tribes and environmental groups.\n\nThe six highest individual peaks in Arizona are contained in the range:\n\nThe mountain provides a number of recreational opportunities, including wintertime snow skiing and hiking the rest of the year. Hart Prairie is a popular hiking area and Nature Conservancy preserve located below the mountain's ski resort, Arizona Snowbowl.\n\nHumphreys Peak (latitude 35°20'47\" N) and Agassiz Peak (latitude 35°19'33\" N) are the two farthest south-lying mountain peaks in the contiguous United States which rise to a height of more than 12,000 feet above sea level.\n\nPrior to its collapse due to a lateral eruption to the northeast (around 200,000 years ago) and subsequent glacial erosion, the San Francisco Peaks fully matured elevation is estimated to have been around 16,000 feet.\n\nIn 1629, 147 years before San Francisco, California, received that name, Spanish friars founded a mission at a Hopi Indian village in honor of St. Francis, 65 miles from the peaks. Seventeenth century Franciscans at Oraibi village gave the name San Francisco to the peaks to honor St. Francis of Assisi, the founder of their order.\nThe mountain man Antoine Leroux visited the San Francisco Peaks in the mid-1850s, and guided several American expeditions exploring and surveying northern Arizona. Leroux guided them to the only reliable spring, one on the western side of the peaks, which was later named Leroux Springs.\n\nAround 1877, John Willard Young, a son of the Mormon leader Brigham Young, claimed the area around Leroux Springs, and he built Fort Moroni, a log stockade, to house railroad tie-cutters for the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad, which was then being built across northern Arizona.\n\nIn 1898, U.S. President William McKinley established the San Francisco Mountain Forest Reserve, at the request of Gifford Pinchot, the head of the U.S. Division of Forestry. The local reaction was hostile—citizens of Williams, Arizona, protested and the \"Williams News\" editorialized that the reserve \"virtually destroys Coconino County.\" In 1908, the San Francisco Mountain Forest Reserve became a part of the new Coconino National Forest.\n\nIn 2002, Arizona Snowbowl, the ski resort on the peaks, proposed a plan to expand and begin snowmaking using reclaimed water made of treated sewage effluent. A coalition of Indian tribes and environmental groups sued the Coconino National Forest, which leases the land to the ski resort, in an attempt to stop the proposed expansion, citing serious impacts to traditional culture, public health, and the environment. In 2011, construction began on a wastewater pipeline to the peaks. In response, there has been an ongoing series of protest actions including demonstrations and lockdowns in which protesters have chained themselves to construction equipment. Notable protesters include Navajo musician Klee Benally, singer/guitarist for the punk rock band Blackfire, who has been arrested for disorderly conduct during his ten years of protests. In 2012, a federal appeals court ruled in favor of Arizona Snowbowl, and wastewater to snow conversion began in the 2012-2013 ski season.\n\nThe biologist Clinton Hart Merriam studied these mountains and surrounding areas in 1889, describing a set of six life zones found from the bottom of the Grand Canyon to the summit of the mountains, based on elevation, latitude, and average precipitation. He designated their characteristic flora, as follows:\n\nMerriam considered that these life zones could be extended to cover all the world's vegetation types with the addition of only one more zone, the tropical zone.\n\nThe San Francisco Peaks themselves contain four of the six life zones. The four life zones which are found along the slopes of the San Francisco Peaks are listed below along with their approximate elevation ranges, dominant tree species found within each of the four life zones, and average annual precipitation of each life zone:\n\n\nThe San Francisco Peaks have considerable religious significance to thirteen local American Indian tribes (including the Havasupai, Navajo, Hopi, and Zuni.) In particular, the peaks form the Navajo sacred mountain of the west, called . The peaks are associated with the color yellow, and they are said to contain abalone inside, to be secured to the ground with a sunbeam, and to be covered with yellow clouds and evening twilight. They are gendered female.\n\nFor the Hopi people, the San Francisco Peaks are associated with the intercardinal direction southwest. They constitute ritually pure sacred spaces, and are used as sources for ceremonial objects. The alignment of the sunset from the peaks to Hopi villages on Black Mesa is used to calculate the winter solstice, signifying \"the beginning of a new year, with a new planting season and new life.\" The peaks are seen as the home of the katsinam or kachina spirits, ancestors who have become clouds following their death. \"Katsinam\" are invited to Hopi villages to serve as ethical and spiritual guides to the Hopi community from midwinter to midsummer. \"Aaloosaktukwi\" or Humphrey's Peak holds particular religious significance and is associated with the deity \"Aaloosaka\", a symbol of the Two-Horn Society, a religious group among the Hopi dating to the occupation of the Awat’ovi village on Antelope Mesa. Depiction of the peaks in association with calendar-keeping is attested in a kiva at the Hisatsinom settlement of Homol'ovi, which was occupied from 1250 to 1425; katsinam imagery dates to the 13th century as well. Other Native American peoples also relate kachina spirits to heavy snowfalls on the peaks.\nThere are several names for the San Francisco Peaks in local languages:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29048891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29048891", "title": "Satya Dharma", "text": "Satya Dharma\n\nSatya Dharma is a humanistic and monotheistic religion of Bangladesh and West Bengal, India, which developed from Liberal Hinduism. \n\nIt is influenced by Islam, Humanism, Brahmo Samaj, Buddhism, Baul, Secularism, the Bhakti movement and Bengali culture. It was founded by Mohatma Gurunath Sengupta who was a great spiritual personality and a famous Bengali Sanskrit scholar and philosopher. He wrote many books about religion, humanity, philosophy, and ethics. \n\n\"There are 500,000 to 800,000 followers of this religion, scattered throughout West Bengal and Bangladesh. The shrine of Mohatma Gurunath Sengupta at Goalgram, Muksudpur, Gopalganj in Bangladesh is considered as one of the holy places by the followers. Some followers are in Maharashtra, India.\" \n\nThe religion is created by Mahatma Gurunath Sengupta and it is spread by Mahatma Nibaran Chandra Pandey.\n\nIt talks about the rule of living life and improve your qualities through pray to God.It tells God is one and we are the followers.\n\nMahatma Gurunath Sengupta(1848-1914) Sanskrit scholar, was born at Narail in the district of jessore. Having passed his triannual examinations from Kolkata Normal School in 1867, he obtained the title of Kaviratna (A gem among poets). He taught at Ahiritola Bangabidyalay in Kolkata. He wrote several volumes of poems, commentaries and annotations, religious discourse and philosophy, novels and collections of essays in Sanskrit and Bangla. Among his important books in Sanskrit are Satyadharma (Eternal religion), Gunaratnam (Virtues), Satyamrta (The nectar of truth), Gunasutram (Aphoristic texts on virtues), Dharmajijnasa (Religious discourse), Shriramacharitam (an epic on Rama), Shrigaurabrttam (epic), Baridutam (The rain messenger), Patnishatakam (Verses on wives), Shiksashatakam (Verses on education) etc. Among his books in Bangla, Tattvajnan (Philosophy), Dampatidharmalap (Religious discourse of a couple), Adbhut Upakhyan (A strange story), Kamalini (epic) and Subhadraharan (epic) are admired. \n\nGurunath Sengupta was also known as a votary of spiritualism. After austere ascetic practice and self-persuasion stretching for a period of over thirty years, he reached attainment and preached a new religious creed called satyadharma (eternal religion), which professed self-elevation through practice of virtues in the form of the worship of God.\n\n8 times in a year followers from this religion met and pray to god they called it Utsab(Occasion) 6 of them invented by Mahatma Nibaran Chandra pandey.Every tuesday people from this religion met together and pray to God this one is created by Paresh chandra pandey son of Mahatma Nibaran Chandra pandey.\n\nSongs are written and composed by Mahatma Gurunath Sengupta ,Gourpriyo sarkar.\n\nSatyadharma mahamondal is the organization which is responsible for this religions activities.Mahatma Nibaran smriti rakhsa samiti,Satyadharma seva trust (Gujarat branch)are other responsible organization for taking this religion forward.\n\nA special Mantra of this religion is \"Satya Sanatana Patito Pavana Nitya Niranjana Bibhu Jay Jay\" Created by Mahatma Nibaran Chandra Pandey.\n"}
{"id": "92754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92754", "title": "Sedna (mythology)", "text": "Sedna (mythology)\n\nSedna (, \"Sanna\") is the goddess of the sea and marine animals in Inuit mythology, also known as the Mother of the Sea or Mistress of the Sea. Sedna is also known as Arnakuagsak or Arnaqquassaaq (Greenland) and Sassuma Arnaa (\"Mother of the Deep\", West Greenland) and Nerrivik (\"Table\", northern Greenland) or Nuliajuk (District of Keewatin, Northwest Territories, Canada). She is sometimes known by other names by different Inuit groups such as Arnapkapfaaluk (\"Big Bad Woman\") of the Copper Inuit from the Coronation Gulf area and Takánakapsâluk or Takannaaluk (Igloolik). The story of Sedna, which is a creation myth, describes how she came to rule over Adlivun, the Inuit underworld.\nMore than one version of the Sedna legend exists. In one legend Sedna is a giant, the daughter of the creator-god Anguta, with a great hunger that causes her to attack her parents. Angered, Anguta takes her out to sea and throws her over the side of his kayak. As she clings to the sides, he chops off her fingers and she sinks to the underworld, becoming the ruler of the monsters of the deep. Her huge fingers become the seals, walruses, and whales hunted by the Inuit.\n\nIn another version of the legend, she is dissatisfied with men found for her by her father and so marries a dog. Her father is so angry at this that he throws her into the sea and, when she tries to climb back into the boat, he cuts off her fingers. Her fingers become the first seals and she becomes a mighty sea goddess. When she is angered, the shaman travels to wash and comb her hair for her, after which she is placated and releases the animals to the hunters.\n\nIn the Netsilik region, the story states that Nuliayuk was a mistreated orphan. One day the people tried to get rid of her by attempting to drown her by chopping off her finger tips. But the fingertips would transform to seals and walruses. Eventually Nuliayuk marries a sculpin and lives in the sea controlling all sea mammals.\n\nOther versions of the legend depict Sedna as a beautiful maiden who rejects marriage proposals from the hunters of her village. When an unknown hunter appears, Sedna's father agrees to give her to him as wife in return for fish. Sedna's father gives Sedna a sleeping potion and gives her to the hunter who takes her to a large nest on a cliff, revealing his true form: a great bird-spirit (variously described as a raven, a fulmar or a Kokksaut/petrel-spirit). She wakes surrounded by birds. Her father attempts to rescue her, but the bird-spirit becomes angry, causing a great storm. In desperation, Sedna's father throws her into the raging sea. Attempting to cling to the kayak, her hands freeze and her fingers fall off becoming the creatures of the sea. She falls to the bottom of the sea and grows a fish tail.\n\nSedna is kidnapped by a different bird creature in yet another version. Her father then leaves in his kayak to rescue her from the floating ice-island where she is imprisoned while the bird creature is away. The creature, enraged by her disappearance, calls to a spirit of the sea to help him. The sea spirit locates the kayak with the two humans aboard and creates huge waves to kill them. Her father throws Sedna overboard in the hope that this will appease the angry god. Sedna clings to the kayak but her father grabs a little axe and chops three of her fingers off before striking her on the head. The three fingers each become a different species of seal. The stroke to her head sends Sedna to the ocean floor where she resides, commanding the animals of the sea.\n\nThe varying legends each give different rationales for Sedna's death. Yet, in each version, her father takes her to sea in his kayak, chopping off her fingers. In each version she sinks to the bottom of the sea, worshiped by hunters who depend on her goodwill to supply food. She is generally considered a vengeful goddess, and hunters must placate and pray to her to release the sea animals from the ocean depths for their hunt.\n\n90377 Sedna, a trans-Neptunian object discovered by Michael Brown (Caltech), Chad Trujillo (Gemini Observatory) and David Rabinowitz (Yale University) on November 14, 2003, is named for her.\n\nSouth Carolina based experimental folk band Apricot Blush released an album about the myth of Sedna in May of 2018. The album is entitled \"Where Blew a Flower, May a Flower No More\" The songs on the record follow Sedna's journey and plight as it relates to the spiritual practice of helping others in order to save oneself. \n\nHeather Dale's album \"The Road to Santiago\" includes a song called \"Sedna\", which relates a version of the myth.\n\nOne of Legenda Aurea's album \"Sedna\" is named after her and contains a song of the same name which tells a version of her myth.\n\nIn the Deep Dive Daredevils webcomic \"Secret of the Beaufort Sea\", Sedna appears as an Inuit goddess who has control over a werewhale. The crew of the Custer must create a perfume made from the ambergris of the werewhale to satisfy Sedna and have her release the curse which is causing the werewhale to rampage.\n\nA version of Sedna's origin is recounted in Dan Simmons's novel \"The Terror\", as part of the backstory for the novel's main antagonist, an Inuit demon called the Tuunbaq.\n\nSedna is mentioned in Douglas Orgill's and John Gribbin's novel \"The Sixth Winter\": according to Inuit legend, she is responsible for the ice tornadoes that herald the coming of the new Ice Age.\n\nIn William T. Vollmann's sixth's volume of his \"\" series, \"The Rifles\", Sedna's myth is recounted, with the Inuit woman Reepah transforming into Sedna at one point.\n\nSedna appears in the Fimbulwinter Game during the events of the Niven & Barnes novel \"The Barsoom Project\". A team of live-action role players must rid the ailing goddess's hair of pestilent manifestations of mortal sins, as her damaged fingers prevent Sedna from combing them away herself.\n\nA sculpture of Sedna by Kiugak Ashoona appeared on a Canadian postage stamp in 1980.\n\nAn article based on Sedna and the legends surrounding her, notably her marriage to a bird spirit, appears in the SCP Foundation collaborative fiction project.\n\nThe 2013 Canadian film, The Legend of Sarila, has the goddess prominently featured as she took the animals away from an Inuit clan as punishment for the shaman who turned away from her.\n\n"}
{"id": "1343247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343247", "title": "Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee", "text": "Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee\n\nThe Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (or SGPC) is an organization in India responsible for the management of gurdwaras, Sikh places of worship in three states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh and union territory of Chandigarh. SGPC also administers Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar.\n\nThe SGPC is governed by the chief minister of Punjab. The SGPC manages the security, financial, facility maintenance and religious aspects of Gurdwaras as well as keeping archaeologically rare and sacred artifacts, including weapons, clothes, books and writings of the Sikh Gurus.\n\nBibi Jagir Kaur became the first woman to be elected president of the SGPC for the second time in September 2004. She had held the same post from March 1999 to November 2000.\n\nIn 1920 the emerging Akali leadership summoned a general assembly of the Sikhs holding all shades of opinion on 15 November 1920 in vicinity of the Akal Takht in Amritsar. The purpose of this assembly was to elect a representative committee of the Sikhs to administer the Harimandir Sahib Complex and other important historical gurdwaras. Two days before the proposed conference the British government set up its own committee consisting of 36 Sikhs to manage the Harimandir Sahib. Sikhs held their scheduled meeting and elected a bigger committee consisting of 175 members and named it Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. The members of the government appointed committee were also included in it. Harbans Singh Attari became vice president and Sunder Singh Ramgarhia became secretary of the committee. By that time Master Tara Singh had started taking interest in Sikh religious affairs. He was one of the 175 members elected to the committee. The formation of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee provided a focal point for the movement for the reformation of Sikh religious places. The Committee began to take over management of gurdwaras one by one, and were resisted by incumbent mahants.\n\nStarting in late 1920, a large number of reformers both in urban and rural Punjab had joined to form separate and independent religious orders called jathas. The primary purpose of a jatha was to gain control over local gurdwaras. A jatha under the command of a jathedar would occupy a shrine and try to take over management in its favor from its current incumbents. Sometimes the transfer went peacefully especially in the case of smaller Gurdwaras with less income resources. This was done sometimes with the threat of force.\n\nThe Sikh leadership was fully aware of the importance of the press for the success of any movement. It enlisted the active support and sympathy of some of the important nationalist papers in the country like 'The Independent', Swaraj (Hindi), The Tribune, Liberal, Kesri (Urdu), Milap (Urdu), Zamindar (Urdu) and Bande Matram (Hindi).Two of the vernacular dailies Akali (Pbi.) and the Akali-te-Pardesi (Urdu), edited by Master Tara Singh also played an important role. It brought the necessary awakening among the Sikh masses and prepared them to undertake the struggle for reform.With the direct and indirect support of the Central Sikh League, the Indian National Congress and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, the Shiromani Akali Dal started a non-violent struggle against the government for the control of the Gurdwaras. The reports of some immoral acts perpetrated at Tarn-Taran reached the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee at its meeting on 14 January 1921. A fortnight earlier a local jatha was beaten up and not allowed to perform kirtan at the gurdwara. It decided to send a jatha from Amritsar under Jathedar Teja Singh Bhuchar. Jathedar Kartar Singh Jhabbar with Akalis from 'Khara Sauda Bar' joined him. On 25 January, a group of about forty workers took over the control of Sri Darbar Sahib Tarn-Taran from its Mahant. In the ensuing conflict two Akalis were killed and several others wounded by the henchmen of the Mahants. The Mahants were ousted from the Gurdwara and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee appointed a managing committee.\n\nAt the same time Malcolm Hailey, the governor of the Punjab showed his readiness to assist the Sikhs in taking possession of all the important Gurdwaras in the province through a five-member committee constituted by the Sikh members of the legislative council. Hailey presented a draft of a new Gurdwara Bill to the Akali leaders imprisoned in Lahore fort. Master Tara Singh, Bhag singh Advocate, gurcharn singh Advocate, Teja Singh Akerpuri(Jathedar AkalTakht Sahib) Sohan Singh Josh and Sardar Teja Singh Samundri studied each clause of the bill carefully. The bill met all the Akali demands and was passed into law on 28 July 1925 by the Governor General of India after its ratification by the Punjab legislative council. The Act came into force on 1 November 1925 with a gazette notification from the government of Punjab. According to the Act a Central Gurdwara Board elected by the Sikhs was to be the custodian of all-important Sikh places of worship. The first meeting of the Gurdwara board passed a resolution that its designation be changed to Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, which was accepted by the government. Thus ended what came to be known in common parlance as the 'Third Sikh War'. The Punjab government withdrew its orders declaring the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and other Akali organs as unlawful associations and recognized the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee as a representative body of the Sikhs. In making the Punjab government agree to such recognition, the Akali leadership undoubtedly scored a victory over the bureaucracy. The Sikh Gurdwara bill met most of the demands of the Sikhs, but the government was willing to release the prisoners conditionally i.e. on the understanding to be given by the Akalis that they would agree to work for the Gurdwara Act. The Shiromani Akali Dal and the executive declared conditions imposed for the release of prisoners as wholly unnecessary, unjust and derogatory. Among the prominent Akalis, Mehtab Singh and Giani Sher Singh along with twenty other Akali leaders accepted the conditional release. Master Tara Singh, Bhag Singh Advocate, Teja Singh Samundari, Teja singh Akerpuri (Jathedar Akal Takht)and Fifteen other Akalis did not come out as government emphasis on eliciting written assurance and acceptance was to Master Tara Singh, an attack on the self-respect of the Sikhs. He said, \"We ourselves have enacted this Act and we are responsible for implementing it, then why this condition?\" Teja Singh Samundari died of a heart attack in the jail after some time. The Punjab Government failed to prove the charges against Master Tara Singh and the remaining Akalis, few months later they all were released unconditionally. The courage and sacrifice shown by the Akalis during the trial very soon drove the Mehtab Singh's group out of the political field and led to a rift in the Akali ranks, as the newly released Akalis condemned Mehtab Singh's group as collaborators. Mehtab Singh's group was also known as 'Rai Bahadur Party'. This group had majority in the committee and Mehtab Singh was elected its President. The Akali Party launched a campaign against the conditionally released leaders. When the new elections for the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee were held, the Akali Party won majority and the newly elected Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elected Kharak Singh as the President and Master Tara Singh as the Vice President. Since Baba Kharak Singh had not yet been released the responsibility of the president fell on the shoulders of Master Tara Singh.\n\nIn 1953, an amendment to the 1925 act allowed the reservation of 20 out 140 seats on the SGPC for the members of the Sikh scheduled castes\n\nThe 2016 amendment to the act by the Indian parliament stripped around 7 million ‘Sehajdhari’ Sikhs of voting in the SGPC elections\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4907523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4907523", "title": "The New Church (Swedenborgian)", "text": "The New Church (Swedenborgian)\n\nThe New Church (or Swedenborgianism) is the name for several historically related Christian denominations that developed as a new religious movement, informed by the writings of scientist and Swedish Lutheran theologian Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772). Swedenborg claimed to have received a new revelation from Jesus Christ through continuous heavenly visions which he experienced over a period of at least twenty-five years. In his writings, he predicted that God would replace the traditional Christian Church, establishing a \"New Church\", which would worship God in one person: Jesus Christ. The New Church doctrine is that each person must actively cooperate in repentance, reformation, and regeneration of one's life.\n\nThe movement was founded on the belief that God explained the spiritual meaning of the Scriptures to Swedenborg as a means of revealing the truth of the Second Coming of Jesus Christ. Swedenborg claimed divine inspiration for his writings and followers believe that Swedenborg witnessed the Last Judgment in the spiritual world, along with the inauguration of the New Church.\n\nThe New Church is seen by members of New Church organizations as something which the Lord is establishing with all those who believe that the Lord Jesus Christ is the one God of heaven and Earth, and that obeying his commandments is necessary for salvation. Therefore, it is thought that any Christian holding these beliefs is part of this New Church movement. New Church organizations also acknowledge the universal nature of the Lord's church: all who do good from the truth of their religion will be accepted by the Lord into heaven, as God is goodness itself, and doing good conjoins one to God. Adherents believe that the doctrine of the New Church is derived from scripture and provides the benefit of further enlightenment concerning the truth, and that this leads to diminished doubt, a recognition of personal faults, and thus a more directed and happier life.\n\nOther names for the movement include Swedenborgian, New Christians, Neo-Christians, Church of the New Jerusalem, and The Lord's New Church. Those outside the church may refer to the movement as Swedenborgianism; however, some adherents seek to distance themselves from this title, since it implies a following of Swedenborg rather than Jesus Christ. Swedenborg published some of his theological works anonymously, and his writings promoted one Church based on love and charity, rather than multiple churches named after their founders based on belief or doctrine.\n\nSwedenborg spoke of a \"New Church\" that would be founded on the theology in his works, but he himself never tried to establish an organization. In 1768, a heresy trial was initiated in Sweden against Swedenborg's writings and two men who promoted these ideas. It essentially concerned whether Swedenborg's theological writings were consistent with the Christian doctrines. A royal ordinance in 1770 declared that Swedenborg's writings were \"clearly mistaken\" and should not be taught even though his system of theological thought was never examined.\n\nSwedenborg's clerical supporters were ordered to cease using his teachings, and customs officials were directed to impound his books and stop their circulation in any district unless the nearest consistory granted permission. Swedenborg then begged the King for grace and protection in a letter from Amsterdam. A new investigation against Swedenborg stalled and was eventually dropped in 1778.\n\nAt the time of Swedenborg's death, few efforts had been made to establish an organized church, but on May 7, 1787, 15 years after Swedenborg's death, the New Church movement was founded in England. It was a country Swedenborg had often visited and where he died. By 1789 a number of Churches had sprung up around England, and in April of that year the first General Conference of the New Church was held in Great Eastcheap, London. New Church ideas were carried to United States by missionaries. One famous missionary was John Chapman, also known as Johnny Appleseed.\n\nEarly missionaries also traveled to parts of Africa. Swedenborg himself believed that the \"African race\" was \"in greater enlightenment than others on this earth, since they are such that they think more \"interiorly\", and so receive truths and acknowledge them.\" At the time these concepts of African enlightenment were judged highly liberal; Swedenborgians accepted freed African converts to their homes as early as 1790. Several of them were also involved in abolitionism.\n\nIn the 19th century, occultism became increasingly popular especially in France and England. Some followers blended Swedenborg's writings with theosophy, alchemy and divination. What fascinated these followers most was Swedenborg's mystical side. They concentrated on his work \"Heaven and Hell\" which tells of Swedenborg's visit to Heaven and Hell to experience and report the conditions there. In structure, it was related to Dante's \"The Divine Comedy\". Some continue to combine the theology of the New Church with ideas from other systems, including Jungian psychology and Spiritualism.\nIn the US, the church was organized in 1817 with the founding of the \"General Convention of the New Church\" (sometimes referred to as the Convention), now also known as the \"Swedenborgian Church of North America\".\n\nThe movement in the United States grew stronger until the late 19th century. There was a \"New-Church Theology School\" in Cambridge. A controversy about doctrinal issues and the authority of Swedenborg's writings caused a faction to split off to form the Academy of the New Church. It later became known as the General Church of New Jerusalem (sometimes referred to as the General Church,) with headquarters in Bryn Athyn, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia. Other congregations felt doctrinally compelled to join the General Church at its inception. Two Convention congregations in Canada, one in Toronto and another in Kitchener, as well as two congregations from the British Conference, Michael Church in London and Colchester New Church joined the General Church at this point.\n\nIn the 1930s, a doctrinal issue about the authority of Swedenborg's writings arose in the General Church. Members in the Hague branch of the General Church saw Swedenborg's theological writings as the Word of the Third Testament, which they wrote about extensively in their Dutch magazine \"De Hemelsche Leer\". Faced with discipline by the leading Bishop of the General Church, those holding this new doctrinal view split off to form the Lord's New Church Which Is Nova Hierosolyma.\n\nThe Swedenborgian Church of North America, with headquarters in Newton, Massachusetts, now has 37 active churches with about 1,500 members in the US today. The General Church of the New Jerusalem, with headquarters in Bryn Athyn, has about 5,000 members in 33 churches. The Lord's New Church Which Is Nova Hierosolyma, also in Bryn Athyn, now has about 28 active churches with about 1900 members worldwide.\n\nThe Lord's New Church is primarily associated with South Africa, although roughly 200 members are found in the United States. It is noted for its concern for social justice. Australia and Germany are estimated to have 504 and 200 members, respectively. Counting additional members in Asia, Africa, and South America, current sources put the total number of Swedenborgians between 25,000 and 30,000.\n\n the most recent membership figures for the Four Church Organizations were:\n\n\nMembership in the New Church has always been small, and the different organizations have been heavily involved in publishing activities. In terms of doctrine, there is a striking similarity between the New Church and the Oneness Pentecostalism movement of the 20th century, which developed quite independently of the writings of Swedenborg. Although the movement is completely separate, some members make some acknowledgement of Emanuel Swedenborg, who preceded the foundation of their church by over 150 years.\n\nThere are two essential doctrines of the New Church: the first is that one God as one person in Jesus Christ is to be worshipped, and the second is that one must live according to His commandments. \"There are two essentials which constitute the church, and hence two principal things of doctrine—one, that the Lord's Human is Divine; the other, that love to the Lord and charity toward the neighbor constitute the church, and not faith separate from love and charity.\" These \"two things, the acknowledgment of the Lord, and a life according to the precepts of the Decalogue, which are the two essentials of the New Church.\"\n\nIt is by these two essential doctrines that conjunction with the Lord and salvation is effected. \"All things of the doctrine of the New Church have reference to these two, because they are its universals, on which all the particulars depend, and are its essentials, from which all the formalities proceed\" If one is unaware of these two essential doctrines of the New Church and yet has believed in one God and lived a good life, they will be taught this by angels after death.\n\nSwedenborg held that God is one person revealed in Jesus Christ, which was later independently expressed by modern-day Oneness Pentecostalism. He stated that the doctrine of a trinity of three persons originated in the fourth century with the adoption of the Nicene Creed to combat the heresy of Arianism, but this was unknown to the early Apostolic Church, as shown by the Apostles' Creed which preceded the Nicene Creed.\n\nThe universal principle of faith of the New Church is that the \"Lord from eternity, who is Jehovah, came into the world to subjugate the hells and to glorify His Human; and without this no mortal could have been saved; and those are saved who believe in Him.\" Further, \"It is a universal principle of faith that God is one in essence and in person, in whom is a Divine trinity, and that He is the Lord God the Savior Jesus Christ. It is a universal principle of faith that no mortal could have been saved unless the Lord had come into the world. It is a universal principle of faith that He came into the world to remove hell from man, and that He did remove it by means of contests with it and victories over it, and thereby He subdued it and reduced it to order and made it obedient to Himself. It is a universal principle of faith that He came into the world to glorify His Human which He took on in the world, that is, to unite it with the Divine from which [are all things], and thereby He eternally holds hell in order and under obedience to Himself. As this could be accomplished only by means of temptations admitted into His Human, even to the last of them, which was the passion of the cross, He endured even that.\"\n\nFrom this universal principle of faith of the New Church, the Divine Trinity is defined as \"the three essentials of one God, and they make one as soul, body, and operation make one in man. Before the world was created this Trinity was not; but after creation, when God became incarnate, it was provided and brought about; and then in the Lord God the Redeemer and Savior Jesus Christ.\" As a trinity of soul, body and spirit exists in every man, so in Jesus this became the Holy Trinity. It is this doctrine of one God as one person which distinguishes the New Church from other Christian churches, most of which define the Trinity as three persons existing from eternity. The doctrine of three persons is regarded as inherently illogical by the New Church: \"In the ideas of thought a Trinity of Divine Persons from eternity, or before the world was created, is a Trinity of Gods; and these ideas cannot be effaced by a lip-confession of one God.\"\n\nIn the New Church, monotheism is defined as one God who is one in person, and the immediate consequence of this doctrine is that only the Lord is worshipped, who is Jehovah. Worship and faith in Jesus is not placing worship in a created being: although born with a human body, His soul was the Divine from eternity. When He rose from the dead, He put off the human body he inherited from Mary, and put on a human body from the Divine within Him, which is known in the New Church as the \"Divine Human\".\n\nThe Father is the inmost Divine which became outwardly manifest in a human form, known as the Son. As the Lord is one with the Father, the Lord's Prayer is directed to the Lord only. In the phrase \"Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be Thy name\" the word \"name\" is everything by which God is worshipped, especially His Divine Human, the Son, by which He is approached.\n\nIn scripture it is known that Jesus at times prayed to the Father, and at other times declared Himself one with the Father. This was because during His life Jesus progressed towards God by gradually making the human body he inherited at birth one with the Divine: the progress towards union with the Divine was his state of \"exinanition\" (see Kenosis), and the unification itself was His state of \"glorification\". It was this progress towards unification, completed by the passion on the cross, that is the means by which all of humanity was saved from hell.\n\nA saving faith is in Jesus Christ, who is God and man, as he who approaches Jesus approaches the Father in Him. A faith in Jesus is a faith in a visible God, in whom is the invisible. Jesus is the image and form of the invisible God, by which focus can be retained on a finite form for the human mind. Without such an image or form for the thought, a belief in God falls into nothing and cannot be retained. The New Church takes this further, and states that God is Man Himself. Inasmuch as a person is in good and follows the truth, so far God abides in that person who becomes closer to being an image and likeness of Him. Whereas formerly the invisible God was worshipped, or God was worshipped by means of angelic intermediaries, or God was improperly divided into three persons, the revelation of the New Church is said to be the \"crown of all churches which preceded it\" as in it the one invisible God is worshipped in visible human form.\n\nThe sum of faith is that he who lives well and believes alright is saved by the Lord. Faith is not mere persuasive belief: faith without charity is not faith, nor is charity without faith charity, for faith and charity make one in good works. Faith and charity are one in the same way the will and the understanding in every person makes one: but they only become one in acts of good works or repentance. The union of faith and charity is a central tenet of the New Church, for all things of substance and form have relation to the Divine Love and the Divine Wisdom, and the will and understanding in each person is a symbolic form or receptacle of God's Love and Wisdom. \n\nThus a person must not only through self-effort learn and accept the truths of faith, but also live by them, and in this manner a person becomes a receptacle and an abode of the Lord's presence. In this union between man and the Lord the faith becomes a living spiritual faith. All the precepts of how one should live is contained in the precepts of the Decalogue. The first act of faith is repentance, which is a self-examination and acknowledgement of one's sins, and turning away from evil.\n\nAll of sacred scripture concerns the Lord and his kingdom, and the Lord Himself is the Word. As a corollary doctrine, there are thus three essential doctrines or pillars of the New Church: the acknowledgment of the Divinity of the Lord, the acknowledgment of the holiness of the Word, and a life according to charity. Holy Scripture is Divinely inspired, as the literal sense contains a spiritual sense, which has been unveiled in the New Church through a series of symbolic correspondences. The literal sense, similar to a parable, hides the inner spiritual sense: \"The truths of the sense of the letter of the Word are in part not naked truths, but are appearances of truth, and like similitudes and comparisons are taken from such things as are in nature; and thus are such as have been accommodated and adapted to the capacity of the simple and also of children.\"\n\nScripture will not be properly understood without doctrine, and doctrines of the church should be confirmed from scripture. True doctrine can only be known to those who are in enlightenment from the Lord, and those who are not can derive heresies from it. The literal sense of scripture contains the Divine truth in all of its fullness and power, thus a person becomes conjoined with the Lord and His angels when reading it.\n\nThere are two primary sacraments of the New Church: Baptism and the Eucharist (also Communion, or Holy Supper). These are external rituals that are symbolic of the inner spiritual life. Baptism signifies one's entry into Christianity, and signifies the reformation of the mind, where falsity is washed away by truth. The baptism ritual should be done when one has reached the age of reason to make the decision to follow Jesus Christ, and yet, Swedenborg states that infants who are baptized are assigned a guardian angel until they reach the proper age, to guide them into the Christian faith. The Holy Supper, or Communion, signifies the regeneration of one's will in accordance with God's commandments, which causes the Lord to commune closely with man in his heart. Thus everyone should examine his or her life before partaking in the Holy Supper, in order for the ritual to fulfill its purpose.\n\nA personal sacrament of the New Church is the rite of marriage, as administration by a priest is considered more of an expediency rather than a necessity. It is not mentioned as a sacrament along with Baptism and the Holy Supper. However elsewhere Swedenborg states that marriage should be administered by a priest \"because marriages, considered in themselves, are spiritual, and thence holy; for they descend from the heavenly marriage of good and truth, and things conjugial correspond to the divine marriage of the Lord and the church; and hence they are from the Lord himself.\"\n\nMoreover, true marriage love is founded in religion, as they both originate from God. Without a religious foundation, a marriage can turn cold. Marriage that is truly spiritual lasts forever, even in heaven after death. There, the two remain male and female as to form, and become one angel as to their soul. As a couple they live a life of useful service in the Lord's Heavenly Kingdom, which is perfected to eternity. If a person dies unmarried he or she will find a spouse in heaven.\n\nMan is a form of truth, and woman is a form of love, and the two make one. Marriage love comes directly from the sphere of heaven into all humans, and a life of celibacy interferes with this. Thus marriage is to be preferred to a state of remaining celibate.\n\nBefore the universe was created, there was no space and time, and the realm where there is no space and time is the spiritual world. The spiritual world, which is divided between heaven and hell, is where the internal states of the soul become immediate realities. \"All who die and become angels put off those two things proper to nature, which...are space and time; for they enter then into spiritual light, in which the objects of thought are truths, and the objects of sight are similar to the objects in the natural world, but correspondent to their thoughts.\"\n\nInstead of time, there are states of being, and instead of space or distance, there are affections and love. The more two souls love each other and are similar to each other, the closer they will appear to each other. God Himself is love itself, and the more one is in love towards God and others, the closer that person is to heaven, and the more one is into the love of self and the world, the closer they are to hell.\n\nThe soul is the recipient of life from God, and the body its natural clothing. The beginning of life, or the origin of one's soul, comes from the seed of the father, and the external body comes from the mother. Given this, as Jesus was born of a virgin by the Holy Spirit, His soul was the Divine itself, and He had a pre-existence as Jehovah who always existed As souls originate from the seed of the father, for others there is no such thing as the pre-existence of souls, and thus there is no such thing as reincarnation or metempsychosis.\n\nAssociated with each person during their life are spirits and angels by which one obtains conjunction with heaven or hell, depending on how one lives their life. Generally, communication between spirits and man is not permitted, however in ancient times this communication was more open. Angels and spirits do retain their memories, and under certain mental states when communication is opened, a person may remember that spirit's memory as if it was one's own. In modern times this kind of mental state can be achieved under hypnosis and is known as \"past life regression\". It is from these types of experiences that some of the ancients derived a belief in the pre-existence of souls and reincarnation. However this is not true, one only lives once, and how one lives this life determines one's eternal destiny. At death, the soul sheds the physical body, after which one becomes aware of the spiritual society one's soul was associated with. Thus Jesus said, \"The kingdom of God is inside of you\" (Luke 17:21).\n\nThere is no such thing as purgatory, a state after death where one suffers temporal punishments before entry into heaven. Punishment only takes place in hell. However immediately after the death of the body, one enters the world of spirits, an intermediate state where one awaits judgment to enter heaven or hell. Insofar as the evil feign false appearances to appear good, or those who are good retain false ideas, one remains in this intermediate state until an exploration takes place. Those who are good and at the same time in truth pass immediately to heaven, and those who are in evil and the same time in falsity pass to hell. Otherwise, one gradually withdraws from exterior appearances and fallacies into one's interior intentions and affections in the world of spirits.\n\nThis process is completed when one acts in complete freedom without any exterior restraint, and everything of a person's character is then made open and manifest. \"Thus hidden things are laid open and secret things are uncovered, according to the Lord's words: \"There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known: whatsoever ye have said in the darkness, shall be heard in the light, and what ye have spoken in the ear in closets, shall be preached on the housetops\" (Luke xii. 2, 3). And in another place: \"I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment\" (Matt. xii. 36).\"\n\nWhen all external restraints are removed in the world of spirits, nothing remains to stop evil spirits except punishment. As evil spirits act according to their nature, they are then drawn downward towards similar evil societies in hell. \"Every evil brings with itself punishment, the two making one; whoever therefore is in evil, is also in the punishment of evil. But still no one in the other world suffers punishment on account of the evils which he had done in this world, but on account of the evils which he then does. Yet it amounts to the same, and is the same thing, whether it be said that men suffer punishment on account of their evils in the world, or that they suffer punishment on account of the evils which they do in the other life, inasmuch as every one after death returns into his own life, and thus into similar evils, his nature remaining the same as it had been in the life of the body. That they are punished, is because the fear of punishment is the only means of subduing evils in this state. Exhortation is no longer of any avail, neither instruction, nor the fear of the law and loss of reputation, since every one now acts from his nature, which cannot be restrained nor broken except by punishments.\" God casts no one to hell: as hell is the internal state of evil, and heaven is the internal state of good, each person enters a state that matches his or her internal nature. Each person will remain to eternity according to his will or ruling love.\n\nThe Lord is the God of heaven, and heaven is made of the Divine which proceeds from Him. In heaven the Lord is seen by the angels as a Sun which provides light to all of heaven, and at times He appears in the midst of heaven in the form of an angel. Thus Jesus stated that He is the light of the world, and at one time the apostles saw the face of Jesus shining like a sun. It is for this reason the ancients aligned their temples to the east to the rising sun. In heaven there are innumerable societies each fulfilling a particular office, each arranged according to one's love. Altogether the form of heaven is that of a human form. Each angel has a spiritual body also in human form, and is a heaven in its least microcosmic form.\n\nAll angels and demons in heaven and hell originated from the human race, and this is why angels have human form. There is no individual spirit known as the devil or satan: \"in the whole heaven there is not one angel who was so created from the beginning, nor in hell any devil who was created an angel of light and cast down; but that all, both in heaven and in hell, are from the human race; in heaven those who lived in the world in heavenly love and faith, in hell those who lived in infernal love and faith; and that hell taken as a whole is what is called the devil and satan.\"\n\nFree will to choose between good and evil originates from the spiritual equilibrium that exists between heaven and hell. Hell continually influences man to do evil, and heaven continually influences man to do good. It is from this spiritual equilibrium that man has freedom to think rationally, and it is from this freedom that one can be spiritually reformed by acknowledging evil in one's self, then ceasing to do evil, and finally to hold that evil in aversion. The reason why this choice is spiritual in origin is there is a constant spiritual influx into the soul and mind with every thought and action.\n\nInasmuch as one does good one becomes conjoined with angels, and inasmuch as one does evil one becomes conjoined with evil spirits. One must become reformed and saved by means of Divine truth: for it is truth which fights against what is evil and false. When the truth is accepted and one sees an internal evil selfish desire, combat or temptation results. One must resist against evil temptation from one's own effort, which appears as a remorse of conscience, but in reality this is a combat that takes place between the Lord and the devil or hell. Thus \"he who thinks that he fights from himself against the devil is enormously deceived.\"\n\nSalvation or condemnation is a result of one's moral choices in life, based on one's intentions. Good is only considered good once evils are removed, not before. Good must be done for the sake of the Lord out of love, and not for profit or self-honor. And, one must acknowledge that all good comes from the Lord only, and only the Lord can conquer temptation. This is a continuous process during one's lifetime. If this is the case, the question then arises, why was it necessary for Jesus Christ to come to save the human race? The answer to that is before the time of Jesus, the spiritual equilibrium between heaven and hell had become imbalanced, and hell began to gain control and influence over humanity: more people began to choose evil, and an eternal damnation threatened the entire human race.\n\nBy becoming incarnate in human form, Jehovah could fight directly against all of hell, as Jesus suffered enormous temptations from the body He inherited from His human mother. This process continued until Jesus conquered all temptations, and thus all of hell, even to the point where His physical body was made one with the Divine. From His body the Divine proceeded forth as the Holy Spirit, by which He can directly operate through each person's will for reformation, so that each person can become conjoined directly with the Lord.\n\nRemission of sins is nothing more than their removal after repentance. This is the other point where the New Church differs from the older Christian churches. \"The belief that the passion of the cross was redemption itself is a fundamental error of the church; and that error, together with the error concerning three Divine persons from eternity, has perverted the whole church, so that nothing spiritual is left in it.\" The passion of the cross was simply the last temptation that was endured before the human was made Divine. There is no such thing as vicarious atonement, where sins are transferred from one person to another. Passages from scripture that refer to the body and blood of Jesus refer to the Divine Good and Divine Truth which proceeds from his Divine Human; and these are imbibed or imputed by a life of charity and faith.\n\nThe Word of God is contained in the Bible, which has a symbolic spiritual meaning hidden in its literal sense. Swedenborg's visions primarily explain how and why the Bible is divinely inspired, and it is methodically delineated word by word in his massive multi-volume work, the Arcana Coelestia (meaning \"Heavenly Secrets\"). The symbolic language, where each passage follows the other in a coherent logical series, is what Swedenborg called \"correspondences.\" This inner meaning was kept hidden, and could only have been discovered through revelation, which was made available when mankind was ready to receive it. It is this hidden inner meaning that separates the Bible from other books, and each statement Swedenborg makes is supported through numerous quotations of Biblical passages. The books that have this inner spiritual meaning is what forms the true Biblical canon, as follows:\n\nAccording to Swedenborg, the original text of the Old Testament is preserved in the Hebrew Masoretic edition, where letters were counted by the Masorites to ensure that the scripture remained accurate and free from corruption. Similar to Judaism, Swedenborg divides the Old Testament into three main divisions: the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms. The same divisions were specified by Jesus Christ in the gospel of Luke (Luke 24:44). The books of the Bible that have an internal spiritual sense, and are thus divinely inspired, include the Law of Moses (Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings), the Prophets (Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi) and the Psalms.\n\nSwedenborg's groupings differ from Judaism's, as he assigned Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings to the Law of Moses, while according to the Jewish biblical canon the Law of Moses (the Torah) refers to the first five books, and these four books belong to the Prophets (\"Nevi'im\"). However, in other passages Swedenborg states that Moses and Elijah represent the Law and the Prophets respectively, and as Elijah appears in the book of Kings that would indicate that this book should belong among the Prophets.\n\nThe other books of the Old Testament, which are not believed to be divinely inspired, include those that are generally grouped by the Jews under the \"Writings\" (\"Ketuvim\"). In the Greek Septuagint these works were mixed in with the rest of scripture, which largely determined the Biblical book order for all of Christianity. Moreover, the Greek Septuagint introduced other writings among the Hebrew scripture, which Martin Luther removed and placed among the Apocrypha. Among the Writings the Jews included Lamentations, Daniel, and sometimes the Psalms, which the New Church states are divinely inspired and are considered as primary sacred scripture. Of the other books in the Writings, Swedenborg takes special note of the Book of Job and the Song of Songs. These books do indeed contain symbolic representations similar to divinely inspired scripture, but not in a complete series.\n\nThe New Church regards the words of Jesus as divinely inspired, and thus the canon of sacred scripture, and among the books of the New Testament includes only the four Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke, John) and the Book of Revelation. Only these books contain an internal symbolism in a series, and are thus divinely inspired.\n\nAlthough this leaves out the Book of Acts and the letters of the apostles, the New Church holds them in esteem similar to that of the Jews for the Writings of the Old Testament. Swedenborg stated that these books were included as an act of divine providence, as books explaining Christian doctrine were needed for the general public. Paul's letters, although not containing a word for word symbolic correspondence, was still Divinely influenced: \"Paul indeed spoke from inspiration, but not in the same way as the prophets, to whom every single word was dictated but that his inspiration was that he received an influx, according to those things which were with him, which is quite a different inspiration, and has no conjunction with heaven by correspondences.\"\n\nSwedenborg stated that there were a set of sacred texts among an \"Ancient Church\" in the Middle East which preceded Judaism, but the texts became lost over time. Some of these are quoted in the Bible, such as \"The Wars of Jehovah\" (Num. 21:14–15) and another book similar to those in the Prophets (Num. 21:27–30). Another work that Swedenborg said belonged to the Ancient Church was the Book of Jasher, which is also quoted in the Bible (Josh. 10:12–13, 2 Sam. 1:17–18), which Swedenborg stated was still extant in Tartary.\n\nA Hebrew midrash called Jasher (see Sefer haYashar) was published in Venice in 1625 and an English translation was published in 1840. The Hebrew text was examined by the 19th-century biblical scholar George Bush (a relative of the Bush political family), who later became a Swedenborgian minister. Although the New Church has no official position on this Hebrew text, Swedenborg stated that the first portions of Genesis was taken from the Ancient Word, and these portions do happen to be found in the book of Jasher. Scholars, however, have identified late additions to this Hebrew text.\n\nIn the doctrines of the New Church, there is a complete review and assessment of the doctrines of the former churches. Before the New Church can be received, the doctrines of the older churches must be exposed in the open and rejected. This is because the faith of the New Church is so opposite to the doctrines of the older Christian churches that they cannot coexist. An assessment of other beliefs also helps to clarify the position of the New Church, and explains why a revelation was needed to correct the theological direction of the Christian churches.\n\nIn the New Church, authority is based on divine revelation, not on creeds or church councils. All doctrine should be confirmed by scripture. However, one's interpretation of scripture is also determined by doctrine, and one should seek enlightenment from the Lord when reading the Word. As the New Church was established to correct errors that have been accepted as true throughout the history of Christianity, the following is an assessment of the foundational creeds and ecumenical councils of the Christian church:\n\nThe Apostles' Creed is the Creed of the Apostolic Church, which contains no explicit statement of a trinity of persons, as indicated in the phrase, \"I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth; and in Jesus Christ His only Son our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary: also in the Holy Spirit.\" This creed is in agreement with the doctrines of the New Church, as it does not mention a Son who existed from eternity, but rather the Son born in time to the virgin Mary. In the New Church, the Son is not a separate person, but the human born in time to the virgin Mary by which God became man and man became God.\n\nThe Nicene Creed, along with the Athanasian Creed, introduced an idea of a trinity of persons, and perverted the entire Christian Church. The Nicene Creed is a modified version of the Apostles' Creed, and in the view of the New Church a trinity of persons is equivalent to a trinity of Gods, nor does the explanation that the three persons are of one substance or essence remove this idea of three Gods from the thought. The Nicene Creed also introduces the concept of a Son \"begotten from eternity\", and in the New Church the idea of a Son born from eternity assuming a human body is not only erroneous, but is the source of several theological errors. In the New Church, \"the Human, by which God sent Himself into the world, is the Son of God.\"\n\nAs with the Nicene Creed, the Athanasian Creed is incorrect when it defines a trinity of persons. Despite this, in the New Church the Athanasian Creed can be corrected as long as a Trinity of one person in the Lord is understood when the creed speaks of a trinity of persons. Moreover, the Athanasian Creed expresses the correct doctrine of the Divine Human of the New Church, as it states: \"That our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is both God and Man; and although He is God and Man, still there are not two, but there is one Christ. He is one, because the Divine took to itself the Human; yea, He is altogether one, for He is one Person: since as the soul and the body make one man, so God and Man is one Christ.\" In the doctrine of the New Church, the human nature of the Lord was fully glorified and was made Divine.\n\nThe Council of Chalcedon declared that Jesus has two natures, the Divine and the human, and is thus contrary to the doctrine of the New Church. As for this particular council, Swedenborg stated that it was revealed to him in a vision from heaven that \"those who had the greatest influence in the council, and who were superior to the rest in rank and authority, came together in a dark room and there concluded that both a Divine and a human nature should be attributed to the Lord; principally for the reason, that otherwise the papal sway could not be maintained. For if they had acknowledged the Lord to be one with the Father, as He Himself says, no one could have been recognized as His vicar on earth; and schisms were arising at that time, by which the papal power might have fallen and been dissipated, if they had not made this distinction. Then to give their decision strength, they sought out confirmations from the Word, and persuaded the rest.\" Whereas most other churches still maintain that Jesus has two natures, the New Church states that His Human was made Divine. The position of the New Church is thus similar or the same as the Monophysite theology of the ancient Christian Churches of the Middle East, which was suppressed by the western Chalcedonian churches.\n\nIn Socinianism the Divinity of Jesus is denied, and Jesus is considered to be no different than any other man. Arianism is similar, which states that Jesus was a created being. As the acknowledgement of Jesus as the God-Man or Divine Human is a central tenet of the New Church, this type of theology is regarded as the worst and most abominable of all heresies. The Divine Human is the means by which all of humanity is saved, and as all those who are in heaven are in His presence, those in the Christian church who have denied His Divinity have no other place to go than hell. This condemnation, however, does not apply to those who have been born and lived outside the Christian church. In the revelation of the New Church it was shown that many within the Christian church are Socinian at heart, denying that Jesus is Divine and are thus hypocrites. The reason why this is so is that this thought can be derived from a doctrine of three persons, from dividing Christ into two natures, and from calling Jesus as the mere son of Mary.\n\nThe religion of Islam was established according to Divine Providence, in order to eliminate the idolatrous worship of many nations. It is regarded as a partial or introductory revelation, as Islam worships one God, teaches one to live well and to shun evil, teaches that Jesus was a great prophet and the son of the virgin Mary but not the son of God, as in Christianity, and the Quran contains teachings from portions of scripture. \n\nIslam is a religion adapted to societies where polygamy is permitted. As polygamy is an opposite love from monogamous marriage, and a marriage between a husband and wife corresponds to the marriage of the Lord and the church, internal spiritual matters were not revealed or allowed to be known in Islam to prevent what is holy from being profaned. It is thus regarded differently from Socinianism or Arianism, because only those within the Christian church can profane what is holy by distorting scripture, and those outside the church such as Muslims cannot. Muslims will oppose any Christian church where a trinity of three Divine persons is accepted. The New Church teaches that there is a society of Muslims in heaven, but only those who reject polygamy in favor of monogamy can be taught the true nature of the Lord.\n\nAccording to Swedenborgian teaching, the Roman Catholic Church has perverted scripture for the purpose of obtaining primacy and dominion in spiritual matters. Specifically, the intent of the decision at the Council of Chalcedon to declare that Jesus has a Divine and human nature was so that the Papacy could claim to be the Vicar of Christ, and appropriate spiritual powers to the priesthood which belongs to Divinity alone. Thus authority is often claimed by the Papacy and the priesthood over that of scripture. The desire to spiritually rule over others or appearing pious for the sake of self-honor and reputation originates from self-love which is opposite to the love of God and others.\n\nPapal primacy is claimed by the Catholic Church from a false interpretation of Matt. 16:18–19, where the apostle Peter is declared to be the rock on which the church will be built, and he is given the keys of heaven. In the New Church, this passage is understood spiritually: the \"rock\" signifies the truth that Jesus is the Lord, \"Peter\" signifies faith in the Lord, and the \"keys of the kingdom of heaven\" signifies the power from faith that allows one to enter heaven. It was from Divine Providence that the Catholic Church was allowed to have spiritual dominion, as it helped spread the gospel and prevented the Christian church from being destroyed by Arianism or Socinianism.\n\nThose within the Catholic church who do not read scripture are in external worship only, but this again is from Divine Providence to prevent holy scripture from being profaned. Catholics who have avoided idolatrous worship, and out of a sincere heart adored the Lord alone and have done good works, can receive spiritual truth from scripture more easily than others. The New Church is in agreement with the Catholic Church insofar as both do not separate faith from charity.\n\nAlthough the Protestant churches have broken away from the Catholic Church and rejected many of its traditions, surprisingly on further analysis the basic theology has remained the same. For the most part, Catholics and Protestants agree on the belief of a trinity of three persons, original sin, the imputation of the merit of Christ, and justification by faith. The main difference is that the Protestants believe that faith alone saves, without works of charity. The reason why the leading reformers separated faith from charity was for the sake of obtaining complete separation from the Catholic Church. Despite this, Protestants do adjoin good works to charity, but in man as a passive subject, whereas in the Catholic Church good works can be done by man as an active subject.\n\nIn the New Church good works must also be done according to faith in man also as an active subject, with the acknowledgment that all good originates from God and not from self. The Protestant doctrine of separating faith from good works is derived from a single verse from the apostle Paul, where he states that man is justified by faith without \"works of the law\" (Rom. 3:28). However this is a false interpretation, for by \"works of the law\" Paul had meant the external rituals of the Mosaic law, not the Decalogue or the ten commandments, nor works of charity. When it is recognized that the doctrine of faith alone is false, and true faith is joined to how one lives one's life, the rest of the theology falls apart.\n\nThus there is no instantaneous salvation by paying lip service to a belief in Christ, at which time \"imputed righteousness\" is transferred to the believer. Rather, everyone acquires a nature according to their works, and thus everyone must repent of their sins by refusing to do evil. \"The faith of the former church is, that repentance, remission of sins, renewal, regeneration, sanctification, and salvation, follow of themselves the faith that is given and imputed, without any thing of man being mingled or joined with them: but the faith of the New Church teaches repentance, reformation, regeneration, and thus remission of sins, with man's cooperation. The faith of the former church teaches the imputation of Christ's merit, and the imputation embraced in the faith that is given: but the faith of the New Church teaches the imputation of good and evil, and at the same time of faith, and that this imputation is according to the Sacred Scripture, while the other is contrary to it.\"\n\nInsofar as Protestant churches withdraw from the doctrine of faith alone (see \"Sola fide\"), they tend to be in greater light than other churches, for \"the Word is read by them, and the Lord is worshipped, and hence with them there is the greatest light; and spiritual light, which is from the Lord as the Sun, which in its essence is Divine love, proceeds and extends itself in every direction, and enlightens even those who are in the circumferences round about, and opens the faculty of understanding truths, so far as they can receive them in accordance with their religion.\"\n\nThere is no \"end of the world\" where the visible heaven and earth will disappear. Instead, the church has passed through different ages or dispensations, each ending with a Last Judgment that occurs in the spiritual world. The last of these took place in the year 1757. Previous last judgments had occurred at the time of Noah's Flood, and at the passion of the cross by Jesus Christ. The purpose of these last judgments is to separate the good from the evil in the intermediate spiritual world, which lies between heaven and hell. As a result of these periodic judgments, a new age or New Church begins among the people on earth. The Second Coming of the Lord is not a coming in person as the Word incarnate, but His coming is the revelation of the spiritual symbolism in the Bible, and the formation of a New Church as a result of this revelation.\n\nThere have been four Churches or dispensations preceding the New Church on this earth: the first was the \"Most Ancient Church\" before the flood, where contact with heaven was direct. The second was the \"Ancient Church\" which followed the flood, which was destroyed by idolatry. The third was Judaism, which began with the revelation of the Decalogue to Moses on Mount Sinai. The fourth is Christianity established by Jesus and his apostles, which over time became divided primarily into the Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church, and Protestantism.\n\nThe New Church, which is the final phase or dispensation, is a renewal of Christianity based on the Lord's Second Coming. The New Church is the fulfillment of the prophecy of the heavenly New Jerusalem which descends out of heaven in the book of Revelation. Swedenborg stated that the establishment of the New Church would happen gradually, and not in a moment, as the false beliefs of the former Church had to first be set aside.\n\nSome Christians of other denominations have criticised the church's beliefs, due to the denial of a Holy Trinity of three persons and the denial of blood atonement. The New Church believes that there is one God in one person, Jesus Christ, and it is this doctrine which causes some Christian theologians to classify the Church as a cult.\n\nOthers reject the teachings on the basis that Swedenborg claimed to have visions. The late Walter Martin, a well known Evangelical author and apologist, quoted an authority that his spiritual experiences \"were admittedly of such a character, that in an ordinary man they would have sufficed to qualify him for an asylum.\" In contrast, Martin stated that his theological writings were so systematic that \"no one can reasonably say that Swedenborg was insane.\" Instead, Martin argued that \"Swedenborg was a rationalist, and paradoxically, a mystic. He was one who absorbed the introspective and subjective philosophy of Rene Descartes, and the empiricism of John Locke, which he combined with the transcendentalism of lmmanuel Kant, thus forming a mold into which Christian theology was poured, and what would not go into the mold (selected Old Testament works, the Pauline epistles, Acts, James, Peter, Jude, etc.), he simply discarded. What emerged was a deeply speculative philosophical system of theology, couched in a redefined Christian terminology, and buttressed with mystical visions, trances, and dreams.\"\n\nThe earliest and most well known example of a dual treatment of Swedenborg came from German philosopher Immanuel Kant, who was a contemporary of Swedenborg. Swedenborg was relatively unknown until 1759 when a fire broke out in Stockholm, Sweden, which threatened to burn down his house and all his writings. At the time Swedenborg was at a dinner in Gothenburg, 480 kilometres away. He suddenly turned pale and described to the guests exactly what was happening, until the fire was put out three houses down from his house. This was investigated by Kant who wrote \"Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\", in which he criticized Swedenborg and knowledge derived from dreams and visions. In private letters Kant stated that he clothed his views in irony, and had great admiration for Swedenborg, but did not publicly admit it for fear of ridicule.\n\nSome Christians argue that Swedenborg was someone who channeled spirits, and that although he himself warned against such, he felt he had been given permission from God to do, and that the spirits Swedenborg contacted were \"good spirits.\" As many of Swedenborg's teachings disagree with what has been established as orthodox theology, they state that he received his information from evil spirits and that the revelation that Swedenborg's New Church has promoted is \"among the most antibiblical and anti-Christian material ever printed.\"\n\nMartin stated that Swedenborg \"was apparently well aware of the fact that Pauline theology, if accepted at face value, would vitiate almost en toto his own. So he began with the basic assumption that he was right, and that the apostle Paul was wrong! In some of his visions and dreams, he stated that he actually argued with Paul, Luther, Calvin, and others. And, as ego triumphed, these great thinkers all retreated before Swedenborg’s new revelations. However, one factor must never be forgotten, and that is the statement that the New Testament is the criterion for measuring all subsequent revelations, and whatever is found to be contrary to it, must be and always has been, rejected by the Christian church.\"\n\nThese Christians emphasize that in distinguishing an evil spirit from an angel of light, true angels must glorify Christ and any teaching must be based on scripture. In response, Swedenborg's apologists argue that Swedenborg would agree, as he stated no evil spirit in hell can even utter the name of Jesus, as the name \"Jesus\" signifies salvation and those in the spiritual world must speak as they think.\n\nThey also contend that, unlike many spiritualists, Swedenborg consistently elevates Jesus Christ as the God of heaven and earth, and all doctrines are derived from numerous scriptural references. Moreover, Swedenborg states that none of the teachings originated from any angel or spirit, and that the spiritual world was revealed to him so that humanity may know that there is life after death: \"…when I think of what I am about to write and while I am writing, I enjoy a complete inspiration, for otherwise it would be my own; but now I know for certain that what I write is the living truth of God.\"\n\n\"That the Lord manifested Himself before me His servant, and sent me to this office, and that He afterward opened the sight of my spirit, and so has admitted me into the spiritual world, and has granted to me to see the heavens and the hells, also to converse with angels and spirits, and this now continuously for many years, I testify in truth; likewise, that from the first day of that call I have not received any thing which pertains to the doctrines of that church from any angel, but from the Lord alone while I read the Word.\"\n\nIn response to claims of a Scriptural basis, Christian apologists point out that Swedenborg only held to 36 books of the Bible as being wholly inspired, and that one of the devil's tactics is to masquerade as an entity of light, and Swedenborg's allegorical and esoteric interpretations and paranormal encounters (of a type which are seen as occultic), contradict Scripture and render as spurious any claim to be Scriptural.\n\nIn his day Swedenborg had distributed his books to many of the bishops of England, and to the nobility, but although considered well-written they did not think them valuable and instructed as many as they could not to read them. Censorship in the form of omission was claimed by Eric J. Sharpe in the evangelical biographies of Indian missionary Sadhu Sundar Singh (1889–1929). Singh was said to have a number of gifts, including healing and having visions. Although Singh claimed to have seen Emanuel Swedenborg in his visions, Sharpe discovered that all the evangelical biographies would omit this fact, due to the fact they considered the teachings of Swedenborg as unorthodox (see \"Biographical Controversies\" in Sadhu Sundar Singh). Swedenborg apologists complain that censorship continues to this day as several Swedenborg websites on the internet are classified as a \"malicious site\" in web filtering software (see \"Religious, anti-religious, and political censorship\" in Content-control software).\n\nThe writings of Swedenborg cover a wide area of subjects. Thus Swedenborg and the New Church have had influence in a number of other areas.\n\nThe researcher D. Michael Quinn suggests that Joseph Smith Jr., the founder of Mormonism, was influenced by the writings of Swedenborg. Like Swedenborg, Mormons believe in eternal marriage, but require that the ritual be performed in a Mormon temple (see Celestial Marriage). Also Joseph Smith's idea of three heavens is similar to Swedenborg's view that there are three heavens (see Heaven and Hell (Swedenborg)). Both Swedenborg and Joseph Smith refer to the highest heaven as \"celestial\", in concert with the usage of the apostle Paul (see 2 Corinthians 12:2) when he described a visit to the \"third heaven\". Other historians, including William J. Hamblin, seriously doubt whether Joseph Smith, living in rural upstate New York, could have had access to Swedenborg's book and so find Quinn's assertions problematic. However, Edward Hunter, a Swedenborgian who later became a Mormon, reported that in 1839 Joseph Smith told him he was familiar with the writings of Swedenborg.\n\nNew Thought is a spiritual movement that began in the United States in the late 19th century which promotes positive thinking and healing. One of its earliest proponents was Phineas Parkhurst Quimby, a healer who said that illnesses in the body originated from false beliefs in the mind. One of the people he healed was Warren Felt Evans, a Swedenborgian minister, who himself became a healer and published several books promoting New Thought and explaining it in terms of New Church doctrines. Swedenborg had stated that there was a correspondence of heaven with all things on earth, and thus there is a correspondence between the mind and the body. In general, the organized churches based on New Thought (e.g., Unity Church, Religious Science, Church of Divine Science) have developed their own teachings separate from those of Swedenborg and the New Church.\n\nCarl Jung, founder of analytical psychology and a contemporary of Sigmund Freud, was familiar with the works of Swedenborg. He mentioned Swedenborg's clairvoyance of the fire of Stockholm in 1759 as an example of synchronicity, writing \"“When . . . the vision arose in Swedenborg’s mind of a fire in Stockholm, there was a real fire raging there at the same time, without there being any demonstrable or\neven thinkable connection between the two”\".\n\nNotable persons influenced either by Swedenborg's writing or by the New Church include:\n\nThere are 25 churches left in England and a handful of ministers. The denomination in the 19th century had over a hundred churches in the UK, often very grand churches very Anglican in style with large chancels, side pulpits and altars. Nearly all of these churches have closed or were rebuilt in the late 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49449081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49449081", "title": "Thomas Aubrey (Methodist minister)", "text": "Thomas Aubrey (Methodist minister)\n\nThomas Aubrey (1808–1867) was a Welsh Wesleyan Methodist minister. \n\nAubrey was born at Cefn-coed-y-cymmer on 13 May 1808. His parents were Thomas and Anne Aubrey of Cefn-coed-y-cymmer. He was schooled on the Arminianism, within the context of the Wesleyan faith, by an elder and at about the age of 14, when he had a religious conversion. By the age of 15, he was preaching and became a Wesleyan Methodist minister by 1826 and ordained a full-time minister in 1830. He married Elizabeth Williams of Ruthin on 6 April 1831.\n\nBeginning in 1826, he preached in London, Liverpool, on circuits in North Wales, and in Merthyr Tydfil for 39 years. He was the chairman of the North Wales district meeting for eleven years beginning in 1854. Within four years, he had become the superintendent minister of the Bangor circuit, where he ran a series of successful revival meetings and \"sparked\" a revival movement in Wales. In 1865, he became a supernumerary. \n\nAccording to biographer Albert Hughes Williams, he was \"one of the outstanding figures in Welsh Wesleyan Methodist history\", excelling as an administrator and an orator. He was instrumental in the creation of the North Wales District Chapel Fund and the home mission fund. He established revival meetings, circuit manses, and meetings within churches to discuss their spiritual condition. \n\nHe died 16 November 1867 at Rhyl.\n"}
{"id": "7912947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912947", "title": "Traditional African masks", "text": "Traditional African masks\n\nRitual and ceremonial masks are an essential feature of the traditional culture of the peoples of a part of Sub-Saharan Africa, e.g. roughly between the Sahara and the Kalahari Desert. While the specific implications associated to ritual masks widely vary in different cultures, some traits are common to most African cultures. For instance, masks usually have a spiritual and religious meaning and they are used in ritual dances and social and religious events, and a special status is attributed to the artists that create masks to those that wear them in ceremonies. In most cases, mask-making is an art that is passed on from father to son, along with the knowledge of the symbolic meanings conveyed by such masks. African masks come in all different colours, such as red, black, orange, and brown. \n\nTraditional African masks are one of the elements of great African art that have most evidently influenced Europe and Western art in general; in the 20th century, artistic movements such as cubism, fauvism and expressionism have often taken inspiration from vast and diverse heritage of African masks. Influences of this heritage can also be found in other traditions such as South- and Central American masked Carnival parades.\n\nIn most traditional African cultures, the person who wears a ritual mask conceptually loses his or her human life and turns into the spirit represented by the mask itself( it is sad). This transformation of the mask wearer into a spirit usually relies on other practices, such as specific types of music and dance, or ritual costumes that contribute to conceal the mask-wearer's human identity. The mask wearer thus becomes a sort of medium that allows for a dialogue between the community and the spirits (usually those of the dead or nature-related spirits). Masked dances are a part of most traditional African ceremonies related to weddings, funerals, initiation rites, and so on. Some of the most complex rituals that have been studied by scholars are found in Nigerian cultures such as those of the Yoruba and Edo peoples, that bear some resemblances to the Western notion of theatre. \nSince every mask has a specific spiritual meaning, most traditions comprise several different traditional masks. The traditional religion of the Dogon people of Mali, for example, comprises three main cults (the \"Awa\" or cult of the dead, the \"Bini\" or cult of the communication with the spirits, and the \"Lebe\" or cult of nature); each of these has its pantheon of spirits, corresponding to 78 different types of masks overall. It is often the case that the artistic quality and complexity of a mask reflects the relative importance of the portrayed spirit in the systems of beliefs of a particular people; for example, simpler masks such as the \"kple kple\" of the Baoulé people of Côte d'Ivoire (essentially a circle with minimal eyes, mouth and horns) are associated to minor spirits.\n\nAfrican masks are usually shaped after a human face or some animal's muzzle, albeit rendered in a sometimes highly abstract form. The inherent lack of realism in African masks (and African art in general) is justified by the fact that most African cultures clearly distinguish the essence of a subject from its looks, the former, rather than the latter, being the actual subject of artistical representation. An extreme example is given by \"nwantantay\" masks of the Bwa people (Burkina Faso) that represent the flying spirits of the forest; since these spirits are deemed to be invisible, the corresponding masks are shaped after abstract, purely geometrical forms.\nStylish elements in a mask's looks are codified by the tradition and may either identify a specific community or convey specific meanings. For example, both the Bwa and the Buna people of Burkina Faso have hawk masks, with the shape of the beak identifying a mask as either Bwa or Buna. In both cases, the hawk's wings are decorated with geometric patterns that have moral meanings; saw-shaped lines represent the hard path followed by ancestors, while chequered patterns represent the interaction of opposites (male-female, night-day, and so on)\n\nTraits representing moral values are found in many cultures. Masks from the Senufo people of Ivory Coast, for example, have their eyes half closed, symbolizing a peaceful attitude, self-control, and patience. In Sierra Leone and elsewhere, small eyes and mouth represent humility, and a wide, protruding forehead represents wisdom. In Gabon, large chins and mouths represent authority and strength. The Grebo of the Ivory Coast carve masks with round eyes to represent alertness and anger, with the straight nose to represent unwillingness to retreat.\n\nAnimals are common subjects in African masks. Animal masks might actually represent the spirit of animals, so that the mask-wearer becomes a medium to speak to animals themselves (e.g. to ask wild beasts to stay away from the village); in many cases, nevertheless, an animal is also (sometimes mainly) a symbol of specific virtues. Common animal subjects include the buffalo (usually representing strength, as in the Baoulé culture), crocodile, hawk, hyena, warthog and antelope. Antelopes have a fundamental role in many cultures of the Mali area (for example in Dogon and Bambara culture) as representatives of agriculture. Dogon antelope masks are highly abstract, with a general rectangular shape and many horns (a representation of abundant harvest. Bambara antelope masks (called \"chiwara\") have long horns representing the thriving growth of millet, legs (representing roots), long ears (representing the songs sung by the working women at harvest time), and a saw-shaped line that represents the path followed by the Sun between solstices. A 12th/13th century mural from Old Dongola, the capital of the Nubian kingdom of Makuria, depicts dancing masks decorated with cowrie shells imitating some animal with long snouts and big ears.\n\nA common variation on the animal-mask theme is the composition of several distinct animal traits in a single mask, sometimes along with human traits. Merging distinct animal traits together is sometimes a means to represent unusual, exceptional virtue or high status. For example, the Poro secret societies of the Senufo people of the Ivory Coast have masks that celebrate the exceptional power of the society by merging three different \"danger\" symbols: antelope horns, crocodile teeth, and warthog fangs. Another well-known example is that of \"kifwebe\" masks of the Songye people (Congo basin), that mix the stripes of a zebra (or okapi), the teeth of a crocodile, the eyes of a chameleon, the mouth of an aardvark, the crest of a rooster, the feathers of an owl and more.\n\nAnother common subject of African masks is a woman's face, usually based on a specific culture's ideal of feminine beauty. Female masks of the Punu people of Gabon, for example, have long curved eyelashes, almond-shaped eyes, thin chin, and traditional ornaments on their cheeks, as all these are considered good-looking traits. Feminine masks of the Baga people have ornamental scars and breasts. In many cases, wearing masks that represent feminine beauty is strictly reserved to men.\n\nOne of the well-known representations of female beauty is the \"Idia\" mask of Benin. It is believed to have been commissioned by a king of Benin in memory of his mother. To honor his dead mother, the king wore the mask on his hip during special ceremonies.\n\nAs the veneration of defunct ancestors is a fundamental element of most African traditional cultures, it is not surprising that the dead is also a common subject for masks. Masks referring to dead ancestors are most often shaped after a human skull. A well-known example is the \"mwana pwo\" (literally, \"young woman\") of the Chokwe people (Angola), that mixes elements referring to feminine beauty (well-proportioned oval face, small nose and chin) and other referring to death (sunken eye sockets, cracked skin, and tears); it represents a female ancestor who died young, venerated in rites such as circumcision rites and ceremonies associated to the renewal of life. As veneration of the dead is most often associated to fertility and reproduction, many dead-ancestor masks also have sexual symbols; the \"ndeemba\" mask of the Yaka people (Angola and DR Congo), for example, is shaped after a skull complemented with a phallic-shaped nose.\n\nA special class of ancestor masks are those related to notable, historical or legendary people. The \"mwaash ambooy\" mask of the Kuba people (DR Congo), for example, representing the legendary founder of the Kuba Kingdom, Woot, while the \"mgady amwaash\" mask represents his wife Mweel.\n\nThe most commonly used material for masks is wood, although a wide variety of other elements can be used, including light stone such as steatite, metals such as copper or bronze, different types of fabric, pottery, and more. Some masks are painted (for example using ochre or other natural colorants). A wide array of ornamental items can be applied to the mask surface; example include animal hair, horns, or teeth, sea shells, seeds, straws, egg shell, and feathers. For example, animal hair or straws are often used for a mask's hair or beard.\n\nThe general structure of a mask varies depending on the way it is intended to be worn. The most common type applies to the wearer's face, like most Western (e.g., carnival) masks. Others are worn like hats on the top of the wearer's head; examples include those of the Ekhoi people of Nigeria and Bwa people of Burkina Faso, as well as the famous \"chiwara\" masks of the Bambara people. Some masks (for example those of the Sande society of Liberia and the Mende people of Sierra Leone, that are made from hollow tree stumps) are worn like helmets covering both the head and face. Some African cultures have mask-like ornaments that are worn on the chest rather than the head of face; this includes those used by the Makonde people of East Africa in \"ndimu\" ceremonies.\n\nAs African masks are largely appreciated by Europeans, they are widely commercialized and sold in most tourist-oriented markets and shops in Africa (as well as \"ethnic\" shops in the Western World). As a consequence, the traditional art of mask-making has gradually ceased to be a privileged, status-related practice, and mass production of masks has become widespread. While, in most cases, commercial masks are (more or less faithful) reproductions of traditional masks, this connection is weakening over time, as the logics of mass-production make it harder to identify the actual geographical and cultural origins of the masks found in such venues as curio shops and tourist markets. For example, the Okahandja market in Namibia mostly sells masks that are produced in Zimbabwe (as they are cheaper and more easily available than local masks), and, in turn, Zimbabwean mask-makers reproduce masks from virtually everywhere in Africa rather than from their own local heritage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263741", "title": "Vepar", "text": "Vepar\n\nIn demonology, Vepar is a strong Great Duke of Hell, and rules twenty-nine legions of demons. He governs the waters and guides armoured ships laden with ammunition and weapons; he can also make, if requested, the sea rough and stormy, and to appear full of ships. Vepar can make men die in three days by putrefying sores and wounds, causing worms to breed in them, but if requested by the conjurer he can heal them immediately.\n\nVepar is depicted as a mermaid.\n\n\"Other spellings\": Separ, Vephar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10872871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10872871", "title": "WLGI", "text": "WLGI\n\nWLGI, known as \"Radio Bahá'í\", is licensed to Hemingway, South Carolina, and broadcasts at 90.9 FM. The station broadcasts a variety of programming, both religious and secular. The station is licensed by the FCC for noncommercial Class C operation and is operated by the Louis G. Gregory Bahá'í Institute, named after Hand of the Cause Louis George Gregory, a prominent African-American Bahá'í.\n\nSee The Bahá'í Faith in South Carolina.\n\n"}
