{"id": "25499788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25499788", "title": "40 (record producer)", "text": "40 (record producer)\n\nNoah James Shebib (born March 31, 1983), better known as 40, is a Canadian record producer and former child actor from Toronto, Ontario. He is best known for his musical collaborations with Canadian rapper Drake; he has produced all of Drake's albums. Shebib's style of production, which is often down-tempo and ambient, has become heavily associated with Drake's music. \n\nShebib and Drake are two of the three co-founders of the OVO Sound label. Shebib has also produced for artists including Lil Wayne, Alicia Keys, Action Bronson, and Jamie Foxx.\n\nNoah James Shebib is the son of director Donald Shebib and actress Tedde Moore, who is known for appearing in the 1983 film \"A Christmas Story\"; she was pregnant with him during the production of that film. On his mother's side, he is the grandson of actor and educator Mavor Moore, the great-grandson of Canadian theatre figure Dora Mavor Moore, and the great-great-grandson of Scottish-born economist James Mavor. His father is of Lebanese and Irish descent. He has one sibling, a younger sister, Anna Oniell.\n\nShebib began as a child actor, playing roles in television shows and films. His first role was in the 1996 \"Go Eat Worms\" episode of the \"Goosebumps\" television series. He also played a consistent role on the Gemini Award-winning television series, \"Wind at My Back\". His best-known role came in his teen years, when he was featured as one of the lead males in the critically acclaimed \"The Virgin Suicides\". He also had smaller roles in \"The Last Don\" and \"Perfect Pie\"; the latter was his last movie before he retired from acting.\n\nEarly in Noah's career, before he started crafting beats, he DJ'd under the name DJ Decibel and performed alongside MC Elite (Everett MacLean). Shebib eventually made the shift from DJ to music producer, working with local Toronto artists like Empire, Knamelis, Stolenowners, and Christopher Morales, and Saukrates. He earned the nickname \"40 Days & 40 Nights\" (which was later reduced to \"40\") early on in his career, as he would work in the studio throughout the night, with no sleep. \n\nHe began working with then \"\" star Aubrey Graham (Drake) in 2005. He was shown producing with Drake on \"Degrassi Unscripted\". When Shebib first started working with Drake, he was originally just a recording and mixing engineer, providing no songwriting or production input at all. However, after the third day of work, Shebib decided to build an exclusive relationship with Drake, proclaiming that they were \"going to take over the world together.\" \n\nShebib's big break came in 2009, when he executive produced Drake's mixtape \"So Far Gone\" with Toronto-based producer, Boi-1da. He recorded and mixed every song off the mixtape, and also produced a few notable tracks such as \"The Calm\", \"Houstatlantavegas\", \"Bria's Interlude\" and \"Successful\", all of which ended up defining Drake's sound going forward. He also worked on Drake's debut album \"Thank Me Later\", and second album \"Take Care\". On the latter, Shebib co produced almost every song, alongside his usual duties of recording and mixing the entire album. Shebib also produced the song \"I'm Single\" from Lil Wayne's \"No Ceilings\" mixtape, \"Un-Thinkable (I'm Ready)\" for Alicia Keys and \"Demonstrate\" for JoJo. \n\nShebib, along with Drake and Oliver El-Khatib, founded the OVO record label in 2012. Music produced under the imprint is uploaded to the label's blog site for streaming, before the album is officially released. One example is the single \"Marvins Room\", which was first posted to the blog site five days after its conception, before it was even slated to be a single off the album. Recently Shebib has helped produce Drake's newer material, co producing the lead single \"Started from the Bottom\", among other records. \n\nShebib also worked on Drake's third album, \"Nothing Was the Same\", his 2015 surprise release mixtape \"If You're Reading This It's Too Late\" and his fourth studio album \"Views\".\n\nShebib has been instrumental in creating Drake's music, and together their \"atmospheric, brooding sound has revitalised hip-hop.\" Shebib's production is described as \"sparse, ambient, slow-jam-like tracks dominated by brooding synths, minimalist piano or guitar parts, stripped-down, often muffled drums, and cinematic atmospheric treatments.\" An example is the song \"Marvins Room\", where Shebib mixed the record so that it is \"very dark and quiet and muddy and with the vocals cutting through like a razor\" and is notorious for being heavy on the low end.\n\nIn 2005, at the age of 22, Shebib was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. His personal story is prominently featured on the National Multiple Sclerosis Society website, where he outlines his experiences with the disease, hoping that by creating awareness and \"improving connections and knowledge about MS, we can end the disease\". His mother was also diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.\n\nThe Grammy Awards are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. 40 has won one award out of nine nominations.\n"}
{"id": "11310472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11310472", "title": "Abercius of Hieropolis", "text": "Abercius of Hieropolis\n\nAbercius of Hieropolis (Greek , died c. 167) was a bishop of Hierapolis (modern Castabala) at the time of Marcus Aurelius, also known as Abercius Marcellus. He was supposedly the successor to Papias.\n\nAbercius is said to have evangelized Syria and Mesopotamia, and is on that basis referred to as one of the Equals-to-the-Apostles. He was imprisoned under Marcus Aurelius, and died about 167.\n\nAbercius' feast day is celebrated on October 22 (for those churches which follow the Julian Calendar, October 22 occurs on the Gregorian Calendar date of November 4).\n\nSeveral works are ascribed to Abercius:\n\nAbercius is also the subject, and probable author, of the Inscription of Abercius, preserved in the Vatican Museum.\nIn 1881 Scottish classical scientist William Ramsey, established that in Phrygia in ancient times there were two cities, called the Hieropolis. One of them, modern Pamukkale, was further to the northeast, near the modern village of Kochhisar (this region in ancient times was called Pentapolis - 'five cities,' one of which was Hieropolis). This Ramsey discovered the remnants of an ancient tomb that is said to be made by Abercius before his death with inscriptions on it. The fragment of this tomb can be found at the Vatican museum. \n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "789610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789610", "title": "Aloysius Stepinac", "text": "Aloysius Stepinac\n\nAloysius Viktor Stepinac (, 8 May 1898 – 10 February 1960) was a Croatian prelate of the Catholic Church. A cardinal, Stepinac served as Archbishop of Zagreb from 1937 until his death, a period which included the fascist rule of the Ustaše over the Axis puppet state the Independent State of Croatia ( or NDH) from 1941 to 1945 during World War II. He was tried by the communist Yugoslav government after the war and convicted of treason and collaboration with the Ustaše regime. The trial was depicted in the West as a typical communist \"show trial\", biased against the archbishop; In a verdict that polarized public opinion both in Yugoslavia and beyond, the Yugoslav authorities found him guilty on the charge of high treason (for collaboration with the fascist Ustaše regime), as well as complicity in the forced conversions of Orthodox Serbs to Catholicism. He was sentenced to 16 years in prison, but served only five at Lepoglava before being transferred to house arrest with his movements confined to his home parish of Krašić.\n\nIn 1952 he was appointed cardinal by Pope Pius XII. He was unable to participate in the 1958 conclave due to the house arrest to which he had been sentenced. On 10 February 1960, still under confinement in Krasic, Stepinac died of polycythemia and other illnesses he contracted while imprisoned. On 3 October 1998, Pope John Paul II declared him a martyr and beatified him before 500,000 Croatians in Marija Bistrica near Zagreb.\n\nHis record during World War II, conviction, and subsequent beatification remain controversial. On 22 July 2016, the Zagreb County Court annulled his post-war conviction due to \"gross violations of current and former fundamental principles of substantive and procedural criminal law\". However, some claim the trial against A. Stepinac was \"carried out with proper legal procedure\".\n\nStella Alexander, author of \"The Triple Myth\", a sympathetic biography of Stepinac, writes about him that \"Two things stand out. He feared Communism above all (especially above fascism); and he found it hard to grasp that anything beyond the boundaries of Croatia, always excepting the Holy See, was quite real. ... He lived in the midst of apocalyptic events, bearing responsibilities which he had not sought. ... In the end one is left feeling that he was not quite great enough for his role. Given his limitations he behaved very well, certainly much better than most of his own people, and he grew in spiritual stature during the course of his long ordeal.\"\n\nCroatian historian Jozo Tomasevich wrote that while Stepinac is to be commended for his actions on behalf of individuals and groups, as well as his general proclamations of human rights, Stepinac's failure to publicly condemn the genocide against the Serbs, “cannot be defended from the standpoint of humanity, justice and common decency”. The historian Robert McCormick states, “for all the Archbishop’s hand wringing, he continued to be a tacit participant in the Independent State of Croatia (NDH). He repeatedly appeared in public with the Poglavnik (the Ustaše leader Ante Pavelić), and issued Te Deum's on the anniversary of the NDH’s creation. His failure to publicly denounce the Ustaše's atrocities in the name of the NDH, was tantamount to accepting Pavelić's policies\".\n\nAlojzije Viktor Stepinac was born in Brezarić, a village in the parish of Krašić in the Austro-Hungarian Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia on 8 May 1898, to a wealthy viticulturalist, Josip Stepinac, and his second wife Barbara (). He was the fifth of nine children, and he had three more siblings from his father's first marriage.\n\nHis mother, a devout Roman Catholic, prayed constantly that he would enter the priesthood. The family moved to Krašić in 1906, and Stepinac attended primary school there, then attended high school in Zagreb from 1909–15, boarding at the Archdiocese of Zagreb orphanage. This was followed by study at the lycée of the archdiocese, as he was seriously considering taking holy orders, having sent in his application to the seminary at the age of 16.\n\nHe was conscripted into the Austro-Hungarian Army for service in World War I, and had to accelerate his studies and graduate ahead of schedule. Sent to a reserve officers school in Rijeka, after six months training he was sent to serve on the Italian Front in 1917 where he commanded Bosnian soldiers. In July 1918, he was captured by Italian forces who held him as a prisoner of war. His family was initially told that he had been killed, and a memorial service held in Krašić. A week after the service, his parents received a telegram from their son telling them he had been captured. He was held in various Italian prisoner-of-war camps until 6 December 1918.\n\nAfter the formation of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs on 1 December 1918, he was no longer treated as an enemy soldier, and he volunteered for the Yugoslav Legion that had been engaged on the Salonika Front. As the war had already ended, he was demobilized with the rank of second lieutenant and returned home in the spring of 1919.\n\nAfter the war he enrolled at the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Zagreb, but left it after only one semester and returned home to help his father in his vineyards. His father wanted him to marry, and in 1923 he was briefly engaged to a teacher, Marija Horvat, but the engagement was broken off. In 1922, Stepinac was part of the politically-conservative Catholic \"Hrvatski orlovi\" (Croatian Eagles) youth sport organisation, and traveled to the mass games in Brno, Czechoslovakia. He was at the front of the group's ceremonial procession, carrying the Croatian flag.\n\nOn 28 October 1924, at the age of 26, Stepinac entered the Collegium Germanicum et Hungaricum in Rome to study for the priesthood. During his studies there he befriended the future Austrian cardinal Franz König when the two played together on a volleyball team. Granted an American scholarship, he went on to study for doctorates in both theology and philosophy at the Pontifical Gregorian University. Along with Croatian, he was fluent in Italian, German and French.\n\nHe was ordained on 26 October 1930 by Archbishop Giuseppe Palica, Vicegerent of Rome, in a ceremony which also included the ordination of his eventual successor as Archbishop of Zagreb, Franjo Šeper. On 1 November, he said his first mass at the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore. Stepinac wanted to serve the common people, and wanted to be a parish priest.\n\nHe celebrated his first mass in his home parish of Krašić on 1 July 1931, but instead of being appointed to a parish he was appointed as liturgical master of ceremonies to the Archbishop of Zagreb Antun Bauer on 1 October. He also established the archdiocesan branch of the Catholic charity Caritas in December of that year, and initiated and edited the Caritas magazine. He also temporarily administered the parishes of Samobor and Sveti Ivan Zelina. By this time, Stepinac had become a strong Croatian nationalist, but was not active in Catholic Action or the politically-conservative Croatian Catholic movement. He was considered \"conscientious and devoted to his work\".\n\nStepinac was appointed coadjutor bishop to Bauer on 28 May 1934 at the age of 36 years, having been a priest for only three-and-a-half years, being selected after all other candidates had been rejected. Both Pope Pius XI and King Alexander I of Yugoslavia agreed with his appointment, and although the king wanted to withdraw his assent after he received further information about Stepinac, he was dissuaded by Bauer. According to some sources, Stepinac was the fifth or even eighth candidate to be considered for the role, which brought with it the right to succeed Bauer. Stepinac's decision to join the Yugoslav Legion in 1918 made him a more acceptable candidate to King Alexander.\n\nAccording to Stepinac's biographer, Friar Šimun Ćorić, Bauer asked Stepinac if he would give his formal consent to being named as Bauer's successor, but after considering the issue for several days, Stepinac refused, saying that he considered himself unfit to be appointed as a bishop. In this version of events, Bauer persisted, and once it was clear that King Alexander had agreed to his appointment, Stepinac consented. Upon his naming, he took \"In te, Domine, speravi\" (I place my trust in You, my Lord) as his motto.\n\nAt the time of his consecration on 24 June 1934, Stepinac was the youngest bishop in the Catholic Church, and was completely unknown to the Croat people. Two weeks after his consecration, he led a 15,000-strong pilgrimage to the old Marian shrine of the Black Madonna at Marija Bistrica. Stepinac followed this with annual pilgrimages to the site. Bauer delegated many tasks and responsibilities to Stepinac, and he travelled widely within the country.\n\nStepinac's appointment came at a time of acute political turmoil in Yugoslavia. In June 1928, the popular leader of the Croatian Peasant Party (, HSS) Stjepan Radić and several other Croatian deputies had been shot by a Serb deputy in the Yugoslav Parliament. Two had died immediately and Radić had succumbed to his wounds two months later, the incident causing widespread outrage among Croats. In January of the following year, King Alexander had prorogued Parliament and had effectively become a royal dictator.\n\nIn April 1933, the new leader of the HSS Vladko Maček had been sent to prison for three years on charges of separatism after he and other opposition figures had issued the Zagreb Points condemning the royal regime and its policies. While Maček was in prison, his deputy Josip Predavec was apparently murdered by the police. When Stepinac wanted to visit Maček in prison to thank him for his well-wishes on Stepinac's appointment as coadjutor bishop, his request was denied.\n\nIn response to the many messages of support, Stepinac \"was sincerely thankful for all the congratulations, but said that he was not enthusiastic about the appointment because it was too heavy a cross for him\".\n\nOn 30 July 1934, Stepinac received the French deputy Robert Schuman, whom he told: \"There is no justice in Yugoslavia. [...] The Catholic Church endures much\". Throughout 1934, Stepinac spoke with veteran Croatian politician and de facto head of the HSS Ante Trumbić on several occasions. On his views regarding the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Trumbić recorded that Stepinac had \"loyalty to the state as it is, but with the condition that the state acts towards the Catholic Church as it does to all just denominations and that it guarantees them freedom\". After his consecration, Stepinac visited Belgrade to pledge his allegiance to King Alexander. The journalist Richard West quotes Stepinac: \"I told the King that I was not a politician and that I would forbid my clergy to take part in party politics, but on the other hand I would look for full respect for the rights of Croats. I warned the King that the Croats must not be improperly provoked and even forbidden to use the very name of Croat, something which I had myself experienced.\" \n\nOn 9 October 1934, King Alexander was assassinated in Marseilles by a Bulgarian gunman backed by the Croatian nationalist organisation, the Ustaše. Stepinac, along with Bishops Antun Akšamović, Dionizije Njaradi and Gregorij Rožman, were given special permission by the Papal Nuncio in Belgrade to attend the Serbian Orthodox funeral. Less than a month after the assassination, Stepinac was among those who signed what became known as the \"Zagreb Memorandum\", which listed a number of demands, including the exoneration of Maček, a general amnesty, freedom of movement and association, restrictions on the activities of government-authorised paramilitaries, and free elections. The key demand of the Memorandum was that the regency that had succeeded the king should address the \"Croatian question\", the desire of many Croats for self-determination.\n\nIn 1936, he climbed Mount Triglav, the tallest peak in Yugoslavia. In 2006, the 70th anniversary of his climb was commemorated with a memorial chapel being built near the summit. In July 1937, he led a pilgrimage to the Holy Land (then the British Mandate of Palestine). During the pilgrimage, he blessed an altar dedicated to the martyr Nikola Tavelić, who had already been beatified at that time, and was later canonised as a saint. After his return from Palestine, Stepinac began a campaign for the canonisation of Tavelić, and proposed that a monument to him be built in the Velebit mountains overlooking the Adriatic Sea.\n\nOn 7 December 1937, Bauer died, and though still below the age of forty, Stepinac succeeded him as Archbishop of Zagreb. Presaging the Ustaše reign of terror during World War II, Stepinac addressed a group of university students during Lent in 1938, saying, \"Love for one's own nation must not turn a man into a wild animal, which destroys everything and calls for reprisal, but it must enrich him, so that his own nation respects and loves other nations.\" In 1938, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia held its last election before the outbreak of war. Stepinac voted for Maček's opposition list, while Radio Belgrade spread the false information that he had voted for Milan Stojadinović's Yugoslav Radical Union. In the latter half of 1938, Stepinac had an operation for acute appendicitis.\n\nIn 1940, Stepinac received the regent Prince Paul at St. Mark's Church as he arrived in Zagreb to garner support for the 1939 Cvetković–Maček Agreement, which had created the autonomous Banovina of Croatia within Yugoslavia. The Agreement was intended to address the \"Croatian question\", but did not satisfy those demanding full independence. Pope Pius XII declared the period from 29 June 1940 to 29 June 1941 as a jubilee year to celebrate 1300 years of Christianity among the Croats. In 1940, the Franciscan Order celebrated 700 years in Croatia and the order's Minister General Leonardo Bello came to Zagreb for the event. During his visit, Stepinac joined the Third Order of Saint Francis, on 29 September 1940. After the death of Bauer, Stepinac attempted to remain aloof from politics, and tried to unify Croatian Catholic organisations and subordinate them directly to his authority. He was unable to achieve this, probably because he was young and relatively inexperienced, and did not command the level of respect and authority usually accorded an Archbishop of Zagreb.\n\nThe historian Mark Biondich observes that the Catholic Church had historically been on the fringes of Croatian mass politics and public life, and that the influence of the Church had been further eroded during the interwar period due to the royal dictatorship and the popularity of the anti-clerical HSS.\n\nDuring his period as coadjutor archbishop and as Archbishop of Zagreb up to the German-led Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, Stepinac made his views clear on a number of political and religious issues. Foremost among these statements were those regarding Protestantism, Eastern orthodoxy, communism and Freemasonry.\n\nStepinac criticized Protestantism, stating in a speech in 1938 that \"the Catholic Church was the greatest civilising force in human history\", but railed against those that wanted to deprive the Catholic Church of any influence in public life. He referred to the Reformation as the \"Deformation\", and denounced Luther as a false prophet who \"demolished the principles of legal authority given by the Lord\". He went on to blame Protestantism for the \"hell in which human society suffers today\", and said that it had opened the road to \"anarchy in all forms of human life.\" Stepinac was also highly critical of Eastern orthodoxy, seeing it as a serious danger to both the Catholic Church and Croats in general. The day after the Yugoslav coup d'état of 27 March 1941, he wrote in his diary:\nAll in all, Croats and Serbs are two worlds, the north and south poles, which will never become close except by a miracle of God. The schism is the greatest curse of Europe, almost greater than Protestantism. In it there is no morality, no principle, no truth, no justice, no honesty.\nOn the same day he issued an encyclical to his clergy, calling on them to pray for the young king, and that Croatia and Yugoslavia would be \"spared the horrors of war\". This was consistent with long-standing practice of the Catholic Church to show loyalty to the state and its leadership.\n\nStepinac was well aware of the fact that an estimated 200,000 mostly Croatian Catholics had converted to the Serbian Orthodox Church in the interwar period. He later claimed that Catholics were forced to convert to Orthodoxy during the period between the wars, but according to the historian Jozo Tomasevich, the principal reason for their conversions was the pro-Serb public policy in the Serb-dominated Yugoslav state meant that it was advantageous both politically and for career prospects to be a member of the dominant religion. Stepinac viewed the Yugoslav state as essentially anti-Catholic, particularly after the failure of the Yugoslav government to ratify the Concordat with the Vatican, which would have put the Catholic Church on a more equal footing with the Orthodox Church. He was also sensitive to the fact that the Concordat had been vetoed in the Yugoslav parliament partly due to pressure exerted by the Serbian church.\n\nIn 1940, Stepinac had told Prince Paul:\n\nThe most ideal thing would be for the Serbs to return to the faith of their fathers, that is, to bow the head before Christ's representative, the Holy Father. Then we could at last breathe in this part of Europe, for Byzantinism has played a frightful role in the history of this part of the world.\"\n\nOf all the threats he perceived to the Croatian people and the Catholic Church, Stepinac railed most against the dangers of communism. In August 1940, in response to the recent establishment of diplomatic relations between Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union, Stepinac sermonised that there could be no co-operation between the Church and communists, stated that the Church was not afraid of communists, and that communists would make Croatia \"a nation of killers and robbers, debauchees, and thieves\".\n\nStepinac was particularly obsessed with Freemasonry, which was closely associated with the unity of Yugoslavia, and was opposed to the \"authoritarianism and antiliberal ideology\" of the Catholic Church. In 1934 he wrote in his diary: \"In Yugoslavia, today, Freemasonry rules. Unfortunately, in the heart of the Croatian nation also, in Zagreb, this hellish society has entrenched itself, a lair of immorality, corruption, and all kinds of dishonesty, the sworn enemy of the Catholic Church and therefore also of the Croatian nation. Without the knowledge and approval of the Freemasons, nobody can be appointed to any influential position. It is no joke to join battle with it, but it must be done in the interests of the church, the Croatian people, and even the state of Yugoslavia if it wants to continue to exist, because the violence that rules today is supported by Freemasonry.\"\n\nTomasevich observes that the highly critical views expressed by Stepinac on these matters were quite common among conservative senior churchmen prior to the Second Vatican Council in the early 1960s. He further claims that despite papal encyclicals against fascism in 1931, and Nazism in 1937, Stepinac never mentioned, criticised or condemned either of those political currents, noting that in 1938, the Catholic Church was supporting the same side as Italy and Germany in the Spanish Civil War, and public criticism of their political systems would not have been helpful. Finally, he states that the Vatican saw Germany as the most important opponent of communism. Nevertheless, Stepinac was a member of the Yugoslav Catholic Bishops' Conference that issued warnings against both Nazism and Communism after the 1937 papal encyclical against Nazism ideology. Stepinac feared both Nazism and communism, and even distrusted western democracy. This can be seen from his diary entry of 5 November 1940, when he wrote, \"If Germany wins [the war], there will be appalling terror and the destruction of little nations. If England wins, the masons, [and] Jews will remain in power... If the USSR wins, then the devil will have authority over both the world and hell.\"\n\nWest describes Stepinac as a \"puritanical zealot\", who gathered together those opposing communism, liberalism, secular education, divorce reform, profanity, sexual intercourse outside of marriage, and birth control, under the umbrella of the Croatian Catholic movement. Stepinac even railed against \"mixed sunbathing and swimming\". West also observes that by 1934, Stepinac had developed into an \"ardent, almost obsessive, Croatian nationalist whose bigotry was softened only by his piety and a measure of human kindness\". According to the journalist Marcus Tanner, by the time he became coadjutor bishop, Stepinac had become a determined opponent of the Serb-centric approach of the Yugoslav government, and by the time he became archbishop he was a strong supporter of the HSS, making it clear that he had voted for Maček in the 1938 elections.\n\nAfter the outbreak of war in September 1939, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia declared its neutrality, and the United Kingdom worked hard to help Yugoslavia maintain its stance. In the face of steadily mounting pressure from Germany and Italy, by March 1941 Yugoslavia had been completely surrounded by members of the Axis. In this situation, some senior government figures were advocating for Yugoslavia to also join the Tripartite Pact.\n\nAfter a number of delays, Prince Paul and Prime Minister Cvetković signed the Pact on 25 March, but the following day there were demonstrations in Belgrade, with protesters chanting \"Better the grave than a slave, better a war than the pact\". In the early hours of 27 March a bloodless military \"coup d'état\" was executed. In the wake of the coup, the new government refused to ratify Yugoslavia's signing of the Tripartite Pact, but did not openly rule it out. The coup found little support with the Croatian population, and on the day after the invasion commenced Maček resigned from the government and returned to Zagreb in anticipation of unrest.\n\nHitler was furious when he learned of the coup, and later on 27 March 1941 he ordered the invasion of Yugoslavia. Commencing on 6 April, a German-led Axis invasion force began its assault from multiple directions, quickly overcoming the limited resistance. During the fighting, several Croat units mutinied and others performed poorly or defected. On 10 April 1941, with the assistance of the Germans, the senior Ustaše figure in the country, Slavko Kvaternik, proclaimed the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia (, NDH). German tanks entered Zagreb later that same day and were greeted by cheering crowds.\n\nBefore the war the Ustaše were a fascist, ultranationalist, racist and terrorist organization, fighting for an independent Croatia. Ustaše terrorists set off bombs on international trains bound for Yugoslavia, and were convicted in the 1934 assassination of the Yugoslav King and French foreign Minister in Marseilles. Ante Pavelić, Kvaternik and other Ustaše leaders were sentenced to death in absentia by French courts, as the true assassination ringleaders. The Ustaše “17 Principles” proclaimed that those who were not of Croat blood (i.e. Serbs and Jews), will not have any political role in the future Croat state. In his 1936 tract, “The Croat Question”, the Ustaše leader, Pavelić, spouted anti-Serb and anti-Semitic hatred, calling Jews the enemy of the Croat people.\n\nOn 12 April, Stepinac visited Kvaternik and pledged his loyalty to the NDH. The following day, when the Ustaše leader Ante Pavelić arrived in Zagreb, Stepinac did not participate in the welcome, but he did visit Pavelić on 16 April. These meetings and a radio broadcast all occurred prior to the capitulation of the Yugoslav armed forces on 17 April. During this meeting, Pavelić stated that he would not be tolerant toward the Serbian Orthodox Church because it was a political organisation rather than a church. That evening, Stepinac hosted a dinner party for Pavelić and the leading Ustaše. On 27 April, Stepinac recorded in his diary that Pavelić appeared to be \"a sincere Catholic and that the Church would enjoy freedom to carry out its work\", although he recognised that difficulties lay ahead. On the same day, the official Croatian Catholic newspaper \"Nedelja\" praised both Pavelić and Hitler, saying:\n\nGod, who directs the destiny of nations and controls the hearts of kings, has given us Ante Pavelić and moved the leader of friendly and allied people, Adolf Hitler, to use his victorious troops to disperse our oppressors and enable us to create an Independent State of Croatia. Glory be to God, our gratitude to Adolf Hitler, and infinite loyalty to our Poglavnik, Ante Pavelić.\n\nOn 28 April, Stepinac issued a \"rapturous\" encyclical to his diocese regarding the creation of the \"young Croatian state\", which included the words: Our people has come face to face with its age-old and ardently desired dream. The times are such that it is no longer the tongue which speaks but the blood with its mysterious links with the country, in which we have seen the light of God, and with its people from whom we spring. Do we need to say that the blood flows more quickly in our veins, that the hearts in our breasts beat faster?... It is easy to see God's hand at work here.\n\nStepinac urged the clergy of his archdiocese to fulfill their duty to the new Croatian state and pray that the head of state, i.e. the Ustashe leader Pavelić, \"may have the spirit and wisdom in order to fulfill noble and responsible office for the glory of God and the salvation of the people in truth and justice\". Stepinac's letter captured what was a common sentiment among Croatian nationalists and much of the Catholic Church in the new state. Considering the marginal role of the Church in the political arena during the interwar period, the creation of the NDH appeared to offer the Church and the Croatian Catholic movement an opportunity. The leaders of the new state appeared willing to work with Church leaders, and thus reduce the marginalisation the Church had been subject to under the Yugoslav state.\n\nStepinac's immediate visits to Kvaternik and Pavelić, and his diocesan letter all assisted the Ustaše in consolidating their control of the new state, and enhanced its credibility with the Croatian people. Cornwell notes that this letter was issued on the same day that nearly 200 Serbs were massacred by the Ustaše near Bjelovar. Even prior to Stepinac’s letter, Ustaše and Volksdeutche had already destroyed the Osijek synagogue (April 14), and on April 17 Pavelić had issued the Decree on the Protection of the Nation and the State, the first of the acts that placed Serbs, Jews and Roma outside the law, leading to their persecution and destruction. The Ustaše had opened and started filling their first concentration camp (April 15), and had instituted additional discriminatory edicts against Jews and Serbs (14, 19, 22 and 25 of April). Stepinac already knew of the planned racial laws, which Pavelić signed only 2 days after Stepinac issued his letter praising Pavelić and the Ustaše state.\n\nOn 30 April 1941, Pavelić signed the main Race Laws - the \"Legal Decree on Racial Origins\", and the \"Legal Decree on the Protection of Aryan Blood and the Honor of the Croatian People\". In May 1941 Pavelić visited the Pope. Phayer writes that Stepinac arranged the audience with Pius XII, and “recommended the dictator to the Holy See”. Ester Gitman writes that “Stepinac chose not to join Pavelić” and that he was given a private audience with the Pope. Pavelić put pressure on Archbishop Stepinac to write to Pope Pius XII, via Cardinal Maglione, to request official recognition of the Independent State of Croatia. The answer came back in July - in accordance with long-standing tradition during wartime, no Vatican recognition of the NDH was forthcoming. But the Pope did send Abbot Giuseppe Marcone as apostolic visitor, who acted as papal nuncio, which satisfied Stepinac, since he felt \"the Vatican had de facto recognized the new state”.\n\nPavelić met Hitler for the first time on 7 June 1941, and told him that many younger clergy were supportive of the Ustaše regime, but mentioned that Stepinac had advised him that he could only rule if he was \"as forebearing as possible\". Biondich notes that Stepinac was unhappy that many younger priests were overtly supporting the Ustaše. On 26 June 1941, Stepinac met with the Archbishop of Vrhbosna and the bishops of Belgrade, Banja Luka, Split, Hvar, Šibenik and Senj-Modruš. The Bishop of Mostar sent a friar to the meeting. The group decided to go to Pavelić to express their devotion and trust. At the reception with Pavelić, Stepinac stated that \"love of religion and country spring only from God\", then promised Pavelić their loyalty and co-operation.\n\nDespite initially welcoming the Independent State of Croatia, Stepinac subsequently condemned the Nazi-aligned state's atrocities against Jews and Serbs. He objected to the persecution of Jews and Nazi laws, helped Jews and others to escape and criticized Ustaše atrocities in front of Zagreb Cathedral in 1943. Despite this, Stepinac never broke with the Ustaše regime and continued to attend public gatherings at their side. After the invasion and Italian annexation of much of the Dalmatian coast, the ecclesiastical province of the Zagreb archbishopric included the Archdiocese of Zagreb, as well as the dioceses of Đakovo and Senj-Modruš, and the Greek Catholic Bishopric of Križevci. Stepinac had very limited formal authority over the suffragan bishops of his province, being more of a \"first among equals\" than a superior. He did not have the power to dictate policy or control the behaviour of the Sarajevo-based Archbishop of Vrhbosna or the other bishops in the NDH.\n\nAccording to John Fine, Stepinac enjoyed close associations with the Ustaše leaders, as he was the archbishop of the capital. In contrast to this view, in mid-May 1941, Maglione was already noting that Stepinac and other bishops were treading cautiously with the NDH authorities to avoid \"compromising themselves\" with the Ustaše leadership. In July 1941, no Te Deum was sung at the Zagreb Cathedral in celebration of Pavelić's birthday, which contributed to tension between Stepinac and the Ustaše leader. In October 1941, shortly after the destruction of the main synagogue in Zagreb, Stepinac preached a sermon in which he said, A House of God, of whatever religion, is a holy place. Whoever touches such a place will pay with his life. An attack on a House of God of any religion constitutes an attack on all religious communities.\n\nIn November 1941, Stepinac chaired a bishop's conference, during which he heard reports from various bishops within the NDH. What he heard made his enthusiasm wane for the new Croatian state. On 20 November he wrote to Pavelić including some of the reports he had received. He stated that he believed that the worst of the atrocities were over, and that he believed they were the work of individuals. The letter did challenge Pavelić, stating that \"no-one can deny that these terrible acts of violence and cruelty have been taking place\", pointing out that Pavelić himself had condemned the atrocities committed by the Ustaše. He said, \"The Croatian nation has been proud of its 1000-year-old culture and Christian tradition. That is why we wait for it to show in practice, now that it has achieved its freedom, a greater nobility and humanity than that displayed by its former rulers\". In December 1941, Pavelić met with the Italian foreign minister, Count Galeazzo Ciano, and told him that the lower levels of Catholic clergy displayed a very positive attitude towards the Ustaše regime, but that some of the bishops were openly hostile to the government. Cornwell states that Stepinac was \"wholly in accord with the general goals of the new Croatian state\".\n\nOn more than one occasion, the archbishop professed his support for the Independent State of Croatia and welcomed the demise of Yugoslavia, and continued to do so throughout the war. On 10 April each year during the war he celebrated a mass to celebrate proclamation of the NDH. Pavelić attended services at Zagreb Cathedral only once in the four years he was in power, and Stepinac did not greet him at the entrance on that occasion. Stepinac lost control of the Archdiocese's publication \"Katolički List\" under the new regime. In 1942, officials from Hungary lobbied to ecclesiastically attach Hungarian-occupied Međimurje to a diocese in Hungary. Stepinac opposed this and received guarantees from the Holy See that diocesan boundaries would not change during the war. On 26 October 1943, the Germans killed the archbishop's brother Mijo. In 1944, Stepinac received the Polish Pauline priest Salezy Strzelec, who wrote about the archbishop, Zagreb, and Marija Bistrica upon his return to Poland.\n\nAccording to Tanner, Stepinac remained naive about politics and the nature of the Ustaše regime. In 1943, Stepinac travelled to the Vatican and came into contact with the Croatian artist Ivan Meštrović. According to Meštrović, Stepinac asked him whether he thought Pavelić knew about the killings of Serbs. When Meštrović replied that Pavelić must know everything, Stepinac went pale and burst into tears.\n\nThe historian Martin Gilbert wrote that despite initially welcoming the Independent State of Croatia, Stepinac later \"condemned Croat atrocities against both Serbs and Jews, and himself saved a group of Jews in an old age home\". According to West, Stepinac and the entire Catholic Church remained loyal to Pavelić and the NDH. West states that Stepinac was one of the priests and father-confessors to senior Ustaše such as Pavelić, Budak, Kvaternik and Artuković.\n\nIn May 1943, Stepinac wrote to the Vatican secretary of state, Cardinal Luigi Maglione, and the contents of the letter reveal aspects of the attitude of the Croatian Catholic Church towards the NDH. Stepinac referred to complaints made by the Yugoslav government-in-exile to the Vatican claiming that the Church had not done its duty towards persecuted members of the Orthodox Church, and also that the Catholic Church had approved and arranged measures such as forced conversions. Stepinac described these complaints as \"enemy propaganda\" aimed at bringing the NDH into disrepute in the eyes of the Vatican. He admitted that atrocities had been committed against Serbs by irresponsible people without the sanction of the NDH authorities, and claimed that many of those responsible had been executed by the government. He deplored and condemned the atrocities, but stated that they were a reaction to Serb behaviour during the interwar period during which, he claimed, Serbs had violated all the rights of the Croatian people. He also reminded the Cardinal of the assassination of the Croatian deputies in the Parliament in 1928. His letter pointed out that the NDH authorities had taken a lot of actions that were seen as positive by the Church, including opposing abortion, pornography, Freemasonry and communism. Other actions of benefit to the Church mentioned by Stepinac included the Christian education of soldiers, religious education in schools, financial support for seminaries, church-building and maintenance, increased salaries for the clergy, and support for Church charitable work.\n\nIn 1944, the NDH Ministry for Justice and Religion proposed, and Stepinac accepted the Order of Merit medal from Pavelić, for ”having as archbishop unmasked inside and outside the country the opponents of the Independent State of Croatia”\n\nThe Catholic Church in the NDH then began to criticise actions taken by the government, and attempted to distance itself to some extent from the authorities. It had no real alternative, given that the likely alternate governments were led by Serb-chauvinist Chetniks or communists. Instead, the Church maintained its support of the NDH government to the bitter end. This is demonstrated by the pastoral letter issued after the episcopal conference of 24 March 1945, in which the Croatian Catholic Church maintained its formal support for the puppet state and its rulers, despite the fact that most senior regime figures were preparing to flee the country. The Catholic press in the NDH also maintained its support of Pavelić right to the end.\n\nBiondich concludes that claims that Stepinac was an Ustaše sympathiser, and even the spiritual leader of the regime are unfounded. He further states that while Stepinac supported independence, he \"began privately to distance himself from the regime within weeks, and certainly within months of the Croatian state's formation.\" He also observes that while Stepinac continued to attend to his ceremonial duties at official state events, he was privately raising his concerns with the Ustaše leaders.\n\nOn the other hand, historian Robert McCormick states, “for all the Archbishop’s hand wringing, he continued to be a tacit participant in the Independent State of Croatia (ISC). He repeatedly appeared in public with the Poglavnik (the Ustaše leader Ante Pavelić), and issued Te Deum’s on the anniversary of the NDH’s creation. His failure to publicly denounce the Ustaše’s atrocities in the name of the NDH, was tantamount to accepting Pavelić’s policies\".\n\nOn April 10, 1945, Stepinac held a mass in the Zagreb Cathedral for the 4th anniversary of the NDH’s founding, and Te Deum’s were sung for what was left of the Ustaše state. Richard West writes that, on 15 April, as Pavelić and other Ustaše leaders were getting ready to flee, “Archbishop Stepinac devoted his sermon to what he believed was Croatia’s worst sin, not mass murder, but swearing.”\n\nThe atrocities committed by the Ustaše can be categorised into four broad areas, all of which fell largely on the Serb population of the NDH; racial laws, mass killings and concentration camps, deportations, and forced conversions to Catholicism.\n\nStepinac protested Ustaše Race Laws, yet at as the historian Ivo Goldstein notes, at first he seemed to concede the validity of these laws, while seeking to modify them. Thus, on 23 April 1941, Stepinac wrote to the Ustaše Interior Minister, Artuković, \"on the occasion of the announced passage of anti-Jewish laws”, to caution of “good Catholics who are of the Jewish race and who have converted from the Jewish religion...I consider that it would be necessary, in passing the necessary laws, to take converts of this kind into account.\" Thus, Stepinac viewed Race Laws as “necessary”, but that they should not apply to Jewish converts to Catholicism (Stepinac knew the Ustaše were preparing Race Laws when he supported the Ustaše and Pavelić in his letter of April 28, 1941, issued 2 days before Pavelić signed the race laws)\n\nStepinac again wrote to Artuković on 22 May to protest the Race Laws and their application to converted Jews, telling him that members of other races should not be discriminated against \"through no fault of their own.\" He wrote, \"We... appeal to you to issue regulations so that even in the framework of antisemitic legislation, and similar legislation concerning Serbs, the principles of human dignity be preserved.\". Stepinac added: “Everyone will certainly approve the attempt for the economy to be in national hands, not to allow a non-national and anti-national element to amass capital, or foreign elements to decide about the State and the people. But to take away any possibility of existence from members of other peoples or other races, and to brand them with the stamp of shame, this is an issue of humanity and a question of morality”.\n\nAs Goldstein notes, Stepinac seemingly argued for “humane” Race Laws. On 24 May 1942, Stepinac condemned racial persecution in general terms, although he did not mention Serbs. He stated in a diocesan letter:All men and all races are children of God; all without distinction. Those who are Gypsies, Black, European, or Aryan all have the same rights (...) for this reason, the Catholic Church had always condemned, and continues to condemn, all injustice and all violence committed in the name of theories of class, race, or nationality. It is not permissible to persecute Gypsies or Jews because they are thought to be an inferior race.\n\nIn a sermon on 25 October 1942, he further commented on racial acceptance:We affirm then that all peoples and races descend from God. In fact, there exists but one race ... The members of this race can be white or black, they can be separated by oceans or live on the opposing poles, [but] they remain first and foremost the race created by God, according to the precepts of natural law and positive Divine law as it is written in the hearts and minds of humans or revealed by Jesus Christ, the son of God, the sovereign of all peoples.\n\nIn his homily of 31 October 1943, described as his most direct critique of the Ustaše, Stepinac first inveighed against abortion, the “pagan fashions of today’s female world” and “all the licentiousness ...that has been observed... at sea beaches and other bathing spots”. He blames these \"sins\" for the fact that \"God like thunder today brings down not just cities and villages, but entire peoples”. The speech’s primary theme is the defense of the Church’s actions, against those who “accuse us of not having arisen in timely or appropriate fashion against the crimes in parts of our homeland”. Stepinac states that “the Church cannot force others to behave according to God’s laws” and cannot be responsible for “the hotheads in its own priestly ranks” (i.e. the priests who supported or participated in Ustaše crimes). He proclaims it was not the Church that \"created in the souls of people the dissatisfaction and insatiability which has produced such sad consequences\", instead he blames \"certain circles, organizations, and members of other national groups\".\n\nStepinac then criticizes at length Communism, its denial of private property rights, its approval of divorce, negation of God, refusal to allow religious education in schools, etc. Only after this does he refer to Ustaše crimes, stating “The Catholic Church does not know races that lord over others, or slave races. The Catholic Church knows only races and peoples as the creatures of God, and if it values some more, it is those of noble heart, and not of stronger fist. For her, a king in the royal palace is a man, in the same way as the last pauper and gypsy under a tent ... The system of shooting hundreds of hostages for a crime in which no culprit can be found is a pagan system that never yielded a good fruit”.\n\nIn this speech Stepinac condemns “all the wrongdoing, all the killing of the innocent, all the burning of villages”. Much of his public criticism was spoken after most of the genocides were already completed, and it became clear the Nazis and Ustaše would lose. These belated speeches were made before limited audiences, unlike his pastoral letter, condemning the Communists, that he ordered read from all the pulpits across Croatia, only 4 months after the Communists seized power. In a letter to the Vatican of May 1943, Stepinac still praised the Ustaše for the “good things” they had done, including the “strict ban on all pornographic publications, which were first and foremost published by Jews and Orthodox!”. Stepinac continued to support until the very end the same Ustaše state that continued to maintain Nazi-style Race Laws, and continued to kill people based on these laws.\n\nStepinac was involved directly and indirectly in efforts to save Jews from persecution. Amiel Shomrony (Emil Schwartz), was the personal secretary of Miroslav Šalom Freiberger (the chief rabbi in Zagreb) until 1942. In the actions for saving Jews, Shomrony acted as the mediator between the chief rabbi and Stepinac. He later stated that he considered Stepinac \"truly blessed\" since he did the best he could for the Jews during the war. Allegedly the Ustaša government at this point agitated at the Holy See for him to be removed from the position of archbishop of Zagreb, this however was refused due to the fact that the Vatican did not recognize the Ustaše state (despite Italian pressure). \n\nStepinac and the papal nuncio to Belgrade mediated with Royal Italian, Hungarian and Bulgarian troops, urging that the Yugoslav Jews be allowed to take refuge in the occupied Balkan territories to avoid deportation. He also arranged for Jews to travel via these territories to the safe, neutral states of Turkey and Spain, along with Istanbul-based nuncio Angelo Roncalli. He sent some Jews for safety to Rev Dragutin Jeish, who was killed during the war by the Ustaše on suspicion of supporting the Partisans.\n\nThe Ustaše unleashed a reign of terror in which 80% of the Jews (30.000 people) in the NDH were killed, as well as practically all the Roma (25.000 people), and almost 20% of the Serb population (340.000 people – see: Number of victims). Stepinac initially responded to these mass killings with private letters of protest. Thus, on 14 May 1941, Stepinac received word of an Ustaše massacre of Serb villagers at Glina. On the same day, he wrote to Pavelić saying:\n\nJust now I received news that the Ustaše in Glina executed without trial and investigation 260 Serbs. I know that the Serbs committed some major crimes in our homeland in these last twenty years. But I consider it my bishop's responsibility to raise my voice and to say that this is not permitted according to Catholic teaching, which is why I ask that you undertake the most urgent measures on the entire territory of the Independent State of Croatia, so that not a single Serb is killed unless it is shown that he committed a crime warranting death. Otherwise, we will not be able to count on the blessing of heaven, without which we must perish.\n\nAccording to Biondich, in the first weeks or even months after the establishment of the NDH, Stepinac may have not known that the atrocities perpetrated by the Ustaše were a key component of their plan. This view supposes that Stepinac considered the atrocities were either spontaneous or the result of so-called \"irresponsible elements\" who would be held to account by the authorities. His correspondence with Pavelić tends to suggest he did not believe that the Poglavnik would have sanctioned such actions. Although Stepinac was firmly opposed to the idea of Ustaše to establish a concentration camp within the borders of the Đakovo Bishop's domain, the Đakovo concentration camp was established in the deserted flour mill owned by the Diocese of Đakovo on 1 December 1941.\n\nOn the other hand, Phayer writes, \"it is impossible to believe that Stepinac and the Vatican did not know that the Ustasha murders amounted to genocide\", given the \"repression and terrorism of the Ustasha regime were without parallel in the history of Southeastern Europe\". Stepinac clearly knew of the May 1941 Glina massacre, and early on that the Ustaše state was sending Jews, Serbs and others to concentration camps. Initially, Stepinac did not oppose these deportations of Jews and others to concentration camps as a matter of principle, but pleaded they be carried out “humanely”, by proposing to Pavelić, on July 21, 1941, the introduction of “some particulars to mitigate the procedure: a) for people to be sent to camp in such a way to allow them to prepare what would be the most essential, to allow them to arrange their most urgent obligations both to their families and their jobs; b) for transport not to be in crowded sealed railway cars, especially to distant places; c) to give internees enough food; d) to provide those who are ill with medical treatment; e) to allow the most necessary food to be sent to them, and enable them to correspond with their families.\".\n\nAfter the release of left-wing activist Ante Ciliga from Jasenovac in January 1943, Stepinac requested a meeting with him to learn about what was occurring at the camp. After seven Slovene priests were killed at Jasenovac, Stepinac wrote to Pavelić on 24 February 1943, saying:\n\nThis is a shameful blot and crime which cries to heaven for revenge, as the whole Jasenovac camp is a shameful fault for the Independent State of Croatia... the entire public, and especially the relatives of the killed priests, ask for compensation and satisfaction and ask that the killers, who are the greatest misfortune for Croatia, be brought before a court of justice.\n\nThese were still private protest letters. Although later in 1942 and 1943, Stepinac started to speak out more openly against the Ustaše genocides, this was after most of the genocides were already committed, and it became increasingly clear the Nazis and Ustaše will be defeated. Additionally, Stepinac never publicly condemned the numerically greatest Ustaše genocide, that against the Serbs, and Stepinac continued to support until the very end the Ustaše state that had committed these crimes. Addressing defenders of Stepinac’s more private approach, Ivo Goldstein notes that “relatively more persecuted Jews were saved when high church dignitaries openly, energetically and in a principled manner opposed this persecution – as in France (especially the Archbishops of Toulouse and Lyon), the Netherlands, Italy and Denmark, and for a time even in Germany itself. Catholic bishops in Slovakia strongly opposed Nazi demands for radical deportations and thus saved the lives of many converted Jews, and the Orthodox Metropolitan Stefan in Sofia, by tireless public defense of Jewish lives, played a fundamental role in preventing even one Jew from being deported to the Nazi camps from Bulgaria.”. In nearly all these cases a much greater percent of the Jewish population survived, compared to the nearly 80% of Jews exterminated in the Independent State of Croatia, along with practically the entire Roma population, and nearly one-fifth of Serbs.\n\nStepinac again wrote to Pavelić on 21 July 1941 in the wake of mass deportations of Serbs from the NDH and the attendant massacres, stating he was sure that Pavelić was not aware of the atrocities, and that others might not be willing to tell him about them. He wrote that this situation meant there was an even greater obligation on Stepinac to bring them to Pavelić's attention. Further, he said he had received information from different sources regarding \"inhumane and brutal treatment... during the deportations and at the camps, and even worse, that neither children, old people or the sick are spared.\" Having heard that some of the deportees were recent converts to Catholicism, he had a duty to show greater concern regarding them. He asked that \"humane and Christian consideration... be shown especially to weak old people, young and innocent children, and the sick.\" According to Biondich, it is highly likely that Stepinac shared these concerns with the Vatican.\n\nWhen deportation of Croatian Jews began, Stepinac and the papal envoy Giuseppe Marcone protested to Andrija Artukovic. Pope Pius XII had dispatched Marcone as Apostolic Visitor to Croatia, reportedly in order to assist Stepinac and the Croatian Episcopate in \"combating the evil influence of neo-pagan propaganda which could be exercised in the organization of the new state\". Marcone served as Nuncio in all but name. Mancone reported to Rome on the deteriorating conditions for Croatian Jews, made representations on behalf of the Jews to Croatian officials, and transported Jewish children to safety in neutral Turkey.\n\nIn a circular letter to his clergy, Stepinac initially insisted that conversion had to be done freely, and only after religious instruction. While this and subsequent regulations were designed to protect “the church hierarchy against charges of promoting forced conversions”, they also indicated “the church was willing to cooperate with regime’s forced conversions, provided the canonical rules were followed”. On 3 December 1941, Stepinac sent the pope a report, wherein he notes “the best prospects exist for the conversions”.\n\nHowever, the churches instructions were ignored by the Ustaše authorities. The authorities not only conducted forcible conversions, but on occasion they used the prospect of conversion as a means to gather Serbs together so they could kill them, which is what occurred at Glina. Some Serbs demanded that the local Catholic clergy convert them in order to save their lives. Later Stepinac advised individual priests to admit Orthodox believers to the Catholic Church if their lives were in danger, such that this conversion had no validity, allowing them to return to their faith once the danger passed.\n\nOn 18 May 1943, Stepinac wrote a letter to the pope, in which he estimated 240.000 conversions to date (despite some disputes Tomasevich states this letter is authentic). The Catholic Church in Croatia has also had to contend with criticism of what some have seen as a passive stance towards the Ustaša policy of religious conversion whereby some Serbs – but not the intelligentsia element – were able to escape other persecution by adopting the Catholic faith. According to Cornwell, through his role in the forced conversions, Stepinac displayed a \"moral dislocation\" that \"endorsed a contempt for religious freedom tantamount to complicity with the violence\".\n\nWhile Stepinac did suspend a number of priests, including Ivo Guberina and Zvonko Brekalo, he only had the authority to do so within his own diocese; he had no power to suspend other priests or bishops outside of Zagreb, as that power was reserved for the Vatican. Due to the arbitrary nature of justice in the NDH and the absence of proper systems for complaint and redress, people such as Stepinac developed an approach of intervening personally with senior government figures on behalf of victims.\n\nIn addition to forced conversions, Tomasevich describes other elements of the “Ustaše massive attack against the Serbian Orthodox Church”. The Ustaše killed 157 Orthodox priests, among them 3 Serb Orthodox bishops (cutting the throat of the bishop of Banja Luka and killing the archbishop of Sarajevo), while they jailed and tortured . The Ustaše expelled to Serbia 327 Orthodox priests and one bishop, while 2 other bishops and 12 priests left on their own. Thus 85% of the Orthodox priests in the Independent State of Croatia were either killed or expelled by the Ustaše, in order to “leave the Orthodox population without spiritual leadership so the Ustašas’ policy of forced or fear-induced conversions to Catholicism would be easier to carry out” \n\nThe Ustaše destroyed and desecrated numerous Orthodox Churches, forbade the Cyrillic script and Julian calendar (both used in the Orthodox Church), even prohibited the term “Serbian Orthodox Church”. Orthodox schools were shut down, and the Church was prohibited from collecting contributions from believers, robbing it of income. Orthodox Church properties were confiscated by the Ustaše, some turned over to the Croatian Catholic Church. Finally, to destroy the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Ustaše tried to create its own, alternative Croatian Orthodox Church, with an imported Russian priest. but failed to gain adherents.\n\nDespite these many actions by the Ustaše to destroy the Serbian Orthodox Church, Tomasevich found no condemnations of these crimes, public or private, by Stepinac or any other members of the Croatian Catholic Church. On the contrary, he states that this massive Ustaše attack on the Serbian Orthodox Church “was approved and supported by many Croatian Catholic priests”, and that the Croatian Roman Catholic Church hierarchy and the Vatican “regarded Ustaše policies against the Serbs and Serbian Orthodox Church as advantageous to Roman Catholicism”.\n\nTomasevich assesses Stepinac's wartime words and deeds in three categories : (1) Private actions to help certain individuals and groups, where he states Stepinac \"deserves highest praise, although his actions were not always successful”, (2) Proclamations of general human rights, expressed in his sermons at first “occasionally and mildly”, but more strongly after 1943 (after the Ustashe had already perpetrated most of the genocides, and it was clear the Nazis and Ustashe would be defeated), also deserve praise, and (3) Statements dealing with overall Church policy toward the wartime Croatian state. Here Tomasevich states “there are serious shortcomings in Stepinac’s statements and actions toward the Ustashe regime and its genocidal actions against the Serbs and the Serbian Orthodox Church”\n\nThus, despite the Ustashe genocide against the Serbs, the ethnic cleansing and forced conversions, the killings and expulsions of most Orthodox priests, the destruction and desecration of many Orthodox Churches, “neither Archbishop Stepinac, nor any other Catholic bishop in the state...uttered one word of public protest” against these crimes. “This was not a mere oversight. It was a deliberate policy” as stated by the papal legate Abbot Marcone, when he wrote in 1943 that given the fact that most guerrillas were “schismatics” (i.e. Eastern-Orthodox Serbs) “our Croatian episcopate does not have any special motive to protest publicly against the government in favor of the schismatics” In Stepinac's case this was compounded by his “dim view of Orthodoxy and thought that an unbridgeable gulf existed between Croats and Serbs”. Additionally, given both Stepinac's and the Vatican’s desire to see a Catholic state in Croatia and have a legate there, “the Church had to refrain from publicly criticizing the government’s policies”.\n\nTomasevich concludes \"the policy of the Croatian Catholic Church hierarchy and the Vatican of not publicly condemning the Ustasha regime's actions during the war will probably remain controversial. From the standpoint of humanity, justice and common decency, it cannot be defended. But Stepinac was not the only one responsible for it, the Vatican was too\".\n\nAfter the war, on 17 May 1945, Stepinac was arrested. On 2 June, Yugoslav leader Josip Broz Tito met with representatives of the Archdiocese of Zagreb, during which he advocated the idea that \"the Catholic Church could do more for the people if it was independent of the Vatican\" and more \"national\", like the Serbian Orthodox Church. The following day, Stepinac was released from custody. One day later, Stepinac met with Tito, during which Tito's prime goal was to promote the idea of an autonomous Catholic Church for Yugoslavia with its own primate. This was consistent with the policy of the Yugoslav government in the immediate post-war period.\n\nOn 22 June, the bishops of Croatia released a public letter accusing the Yugoslav authorities of injustices and crimes towards them. On 28 June, Stepinac wrote a letter to the government of Croatia asking for an end to the prosecution of Nazi collaborationists (collaboration having been widespread in occupied Yugoslavia). On 10 July, Stepinac's secretary, Stjepan Lacković, traveled to Rome. While he was there, the Yugoslav authorities forbade him to return. In August, a new land reform law was introduced which legalized the confiscation of 85 percent of church holdings in Yugoslavia.\n\nDuring the same period the archbishop almost certainly had ties with the post-war Ustaše guerrillas, the \"Crusaders\", and actively worked against the state. After fleeing with Pavelić, Erih Lisak, the last Ustaše chief of police, secretly returned to Croatia in September 1945, to organize remaining Ustaše forces hiding in forests, and he established contact with Stepinac’s office and Stepinac himself. Ante Moškov, a former Ustaše general, also contacted Stepinac, and the police discovered Ustaše files and gold hidden in the archbishopric cellars.\n\nIn September 1945, a synod of the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia was held in Zagreb which discussed the confrontation with the government. On 20. September, Stepinac published a pastoral letter in which he stated that \"273 clergymen had been killed\" since the Partisan take-over, \"169 had been imprisoned\", and another \"89 were missing and presumed dead\". The bishops also criticized the virtual suppression of the Catholic press, the fact that religious education was restricted, the confiscation of the majority of church lands, and the confiscation of seminaries. They condemned all ideologies based on a materialist atheistic philosophy. They strongly condemned the introduction of civil marriages, in addition to church marriages.\n\nThis pastoral letter was read in Catholic churches across Yugoslavia. The letter repeatedly condemned the Communists by name, in great detail, while Stepinac never condemned the Ustaše by name, making only brief, general references to their crimes, to very limited audiences. The letter’s extensive criticism of Communist actions against the Catholic Church, also contrasted with Stepinac’s complete silence, noted by Tomasevich, regarding the massive Ustaše attacks on the Serbian Orthodox Church - e.g. the Ustaše killing and exiling of 85% of Orthodox priests, efforts to entirely eliminate the Serbian church and replace it with an Ustaše-created Orthodox church, etc.\n\nIn response to this letter Tito spoke out publicly against Stepinac for the first time by writing an editorial on 25 October in the communist party's newspaper \"Borba\" accusing Stepinac of declaring war on the fledgling new Yugoslavia. Consequently, on 4 November a crowd of Partisans threw stones at Stepinac in Zaprešić. Tito had established \"brotherhood and unity\" as the federation's overarching objective and central policy, one which he did not want threatened by internal agitation. In addition, with the escalating Cold War conflict and increased concerns over both Western and Soviet infiltration (see Tito-Stalin split), the Yugoslav government did not tolerate further internal subversion within the potentially fragile new federation.\n\nIn an effort to put a stop to the archbishop's activities, Tito attempted to reach an accord with Stepinac, and achieve a greater degree of independence for the Catholic Church in Yugoslavia and Croatia. Stepinac refused to break from the Vatican, and continued to publicly condemn the communist government. Tito, however, was reluctant to bring him to trial, in spite of condemning evidence which was available. Abandoning the strive towards increased Church independence, Tito first attempted to persuade Stepinac to cease his activities. When this too failed, in January 1946 the federal government attempted to solicit his replacement with the Papal Nuncio in Belgrade, a request that was denied. Finally, Stepinac was himself asked to leave the country, which he refused. In September 1946 the Yugoslav authorities indicted Stepinac on multiple counts of war crimes and collaboration with the enemy during wartime. Milovan Đilas, a prominent leader in the Party, stated that Stepinac would never have been brought to trial \"had he not continued to oppose the new Communist regime.\" Stella Alexander suggests that Yugoslav authorities wished to balance the arrest and execution of Serb leader Draža Mihailović by moving against a prominent Croat; and in the words of the Public Prosecutor, \"to unmask before the world a concerted conspiracy by the western imperial powers against the new Yugoslavia\".\n\nStepinac publicly condemned the new Yugoslav government and its actions during and after World War II, especially for murders of priests by Communist militants.\n\nBy September of the same year the Yugoslav authorities indicted Stepinac on several counts—collaboration with the occupation forces, relations with the Ustaše regime, having chaplains in the Ustaše army as religious agitators, forced conversions of Serb Orthodox to Catholicism at gunpoint and high treason against the Yugoslav government. Stepinac was arrested on 18 September 1946 and his trial started on 30 September 1946, where he was tried alongside former officials of the Ustaše government including Erih Lisak (sentenced to death) and Ivan Šalić. Altogether there were 19 defendants.\n\nThe prosecution presented their evidence for the archbishop's collaboration with the Ustaše regime. Numerous witnesses were heard concerning the killings and forced conversions members of Aloysius Stepinac's military vicariate performed, explaining that \"forced conversions\" were more often than not followed by the slaughter of the new \"converts\". In relation to these events the prosecution pointed out that even if the archbishop did not explicitly order them, he also did nothing to stop them or punish those within the church who were responsible. They also pointed out the disproportionate number of chaplains in the NDH armed forces and attempted to present in detail his relationship with the Ustaše authorities.\n\nOn 3 October as part of the fourth day of the proceedings, Stepinac gave a lengthy 38-minute speech during which he laid down his views on the legitimacy of the trial. He claimed that the process was a \"show trial\", that he was being attacked in order for the state to attack the Church, and that \"no religious conversions were done in bad faith\". He went on to state that \"My conscience is clear and calm. If you will not give me the right, history will give me that right\", and that he did not intend to defend himself or appeal against a conviction, and that he is prepared to take ridicule, disdain, humiliation and death for his beliefs. He claimed that the military vicariate in the Independent State of Croatia was created to address the needs of the faithful among the soldiers and not for the army itself, nor as a sign of approval of all action by the army. He stated that he was never an Ustaša and that his Croatian nationalism stemmed from the nation's grievances in the Serb-dominated Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and that he never took part in any anti-government or terrorist activities against the state or against Serbs.\n\nStepinac also mentioned 260–270 priests were summarily executed by the Allied Yugoslav army for collaboration, which was widespread among the Catholic clergy in many parts of the NDH, and that these summary death sentences \"uncivilized\". He also spoke against the nationalization of Church property and the newly implemented division of church and state (prevention of Church involvement in education, press, charitable work, and teaching of religion in school), as well as alleged intimidation and molestation of clergy. He also complained against atheism, spoke out against evolution, materialism, and communism in general.\n\nStepinac was arrested on September 18, and was only given the indictment on the 23rd−meaning his defense were given only six to seven days to prepare. Stepinac's defense counsel were only allowed to call twenty witnesses—while the prosecution was allowed to call however many they pleased. The President of the Court refused to hear fourteen witnesses for the defense without giving any reason why.\n\nOn 11 October 1946, the court found Stepinac guilty of high treason and war crimes. He was sentenced to 16 years in prison. He served five years in the prison at Lepoglava until he was released in a conciliatory gesture by Tito, on condition that he either retire to Rome or be confined to his home parish of Krašić. He chose to stay in Krašić, saying he would never leave \"unless they put me on a plane by force and take me over the frontier.\"\n\nAccording to Biondich, Stepinac's conviction for high treason was political, given that the Yugoslav authorities had a vested interest in it. Professor Bogdan Kolar of the University of Ljubljana notes that the chief trial prosecutor, Jakov Blažević, admitted in a 1985 interview with the Slovenian magazine \"Polet\" that \"Stepinac's only crime was not partaking in the separation of the Church in Croatia from the Vatican.\"\n\nIn the escalating Cold War atmosphere, and with the Vatican putting forward worldwide publicity, the trial was depicted in the West as a typical communist \"show trial\", in which the testimony was all false. The trial was immediately condemned by the Holy See. All Catholics who had taken part in the court proceedings, including most of the jury members, were excommunicated by Pope Pius XII who referred to the process as the \"saddest trial\" (\"tristissimo processo\").\n\nIn the United States, one of Stepinac's biggest supporters was the Archbishop of Boston, Richard Cushing, who delivered several sermons in support of him. U.S. Acting Secretary of State Dean Acheson on 11 October 1946 bemoaned the conditions in Yugoslavia and stated his regret of the trial.\n\nThe National Conference of Christians and Jews at the Bronx Round Table adopted a unanimous resolution on 13 October condemning the trial:\nThis great churchman has been charged with being a collaborator with the Nazis. We Jews deny that. We know from his record since 1934, that he was a true friend of the Jews ... This man, now the victim of a sham trial, all during the Nazi regime spoke out openly, unafraid, against the dreadful Nuremberg Laws, and his opposition to the Nazi terrorism was never relaxed.\n\nIn Britain, on 23 October 1946, Richard Stokes MP declared in the House of Commons that,[T]he archbishop was our constant ally in 1941, during the worst of the crisis, and thereafter, at a time when the Orthodox Church, which is now \"comme il faut\" with the Tito Government, was shaking hands with Mussolini...\n\nOn 1 November 1946 Winston Churchill addressed the House of Commons on the subject of the trial, expressing \"great sadness\" at the result.\nThis trial was prepared in the political sphere. It was for the purpose of dividing the Catholic Church in Croatia from its leadership at the Vatican. Tito has openly expressed this purpose...The trial was not based on justice, but was an outrage on justice. Tito's regime has no interest in justice. It seeks only to stifle opposition...\n\nOn 22 July 2016, Zagreb County Court annulled the verdict in the review process, as requested by the Archbishop's nephew Boris Stepinac, \"due to gross violations of current and former fundamental principles of substantive and procedural criminal law\". While explaining the verdict, Judge Ivan Turudić stated that the verdict had violated the principle of the right to a fair trial, appeal and a reasoned court decision, as well as the principle of the prohibition of forced labour and the rule of law, adding that it was enough to read some parts of the minutes of the trial, which demonstrated that the court mainly analyzed evidence that instructed witnesses for the prosecution to charge the defendant and that the actual decision in reality was not made by the court but by prosecutor Jakov Blažević. In conclusion, Turudić stated that the verdict has been revised after nearly 70 years which has a profound significance for the history of the Croatian people.\n\nIn Stepinac's absence, the Archbishop of Belgrade Josip Ujčić became acting president of the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia, a position he held until Stepinac's death. In March 1947 the president of the People's Republic of Croatia Vladimir Bakarić made an official visit to Lepoglava prison to see Stepinac. \n\nHe offered that he sign a plea for amnesty to Yugoslavia's leader Josip Broz, who would, in turn, allow Stepinac to leave the country. Instead, Stepinac gave Bakarić a request to Broz that he be retried by a neutral court. He also offered to explain his actions to the Croatian people on the largest square in Zagreb. A positive response was not received from either request. During his imprisonment, Stepinac condemned the \"clerical societies\" being encouraged by the government as a way of developing more \"nationally-aligned\" churches.\n\nThe 1947 pilgrimage to Marija Bistrica attracted 75,000 people. Dragutin Saili had been in charge of the pilgrimage on the part of the Yugoslav authorities. At a meeting of the Central Committee on 1 August 1947 Saili was chastised for allowing pictures of Stepinac to be carried during the pilgrimage, as long as the pictures were alongside those of Yugoslav leader Josip Broz. Marko Belinić responded to the report by saying, \"Saili's path, his poor cooperation with the Local Committee, is a deadly thing\".\n\nIn February 1949, the United States House of Representatives approved a resolution condemning Stepinac's imprisonment, with the Senate following suit several months later. Aloysius Stepinac eventually served five years of his sixteen-year sentence for high treason in the Lepoglava prison, where he received preferred treatment in recognition of his clerical status. He was allocated two cells for personal use and an additional cell as his private chapel, while being exempt of all hard labor.\n\nIn 1950, a group of United States senators made foreign aid to Yugoslavia conditional on Stepinac's release. On 11 November 1951, Cyrus L. Sulzberger from \"The New York Times\" visited Stepinac in Lepoglava. He won the Pulitzer Prize for the interview.\n\nA visiting congressional delegation from the United States, including Clement J. Zablocki and Edna F. Kelly, pressed to see Stepinac in late November 1951. Their request was denied by the Yugoslav authorities, but Josip Broz Tito assured the delegation that Stepinac would be released within a month. Stepinac was released as a precondition for American aid, on the condition that he either retire to Rome or be confined to his home parish of Krašić. He refused to leave Yugoslavia and opted to live in Krašić under a form of house arrest, to which he was transferred on 5 December 1951. He lived in the parish presbytery and was able to say Mass in the adjacent church. He stated that: \"They will never make me leave unless they put me on a plane by force and take me over the frontier. It is my duty in these difficult times to stay with the people.\"\n\nAt a meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Croatia on 5 October 1951, Ivan Krajačić said, \"In America they are printing \"Crvena ruža na oltaru\" [\"Red Roses on the Altar\"] of 350 pages, in which is described the entire Stepinac process. Religious education is particularly recently being taught on a large scale. We should do something about this. We could ban religious education. We could ban religious education in schools, but they will then pass it into their churches\". On 31 January 1952 the Yugoslav authorities abolished religious education in state-run public schools, as part of the programme of separating church and state in Yugoslavia. In April, Stepinac told a journalist from Belgium's \"La Libertea\", \"I am greatly concerned about Catholic youth. In schools they are carrying out intensive communist propaganda, based on negating the truth\".\n\nOn 29 November 1952, his name appeared in a list of cardinals to be newly created by Pope Pius XII; the day coincided with Yugoslavia's Republic Day. (Stepinac would never go to Rome to receive the red hat and titular church.) Yugoslavia then severed diplomatic relations with the Vatican in October 1953. In 1954, Stepinac received a rare visit from a Swedish journalist, to whom he said, \"I tried to save, and did save, thousands of lives\", and \"[a]s for the massacres in the churches, what could I do?\" The government also expelled the Catholic Faculty of Theology from the University of Zagreb, to which it was not restored until the first democratic elections were held in 1990, and was finally formalized in 1996.\n\nPius XII wrote to Cardinal Stepinac and three other jailed prelates (Stefan Wyszyński, József Mindszenty and Josef Beran) on 29 June 1956 urging their supporters to remain loyal. Stepinac was unable to participate in the 1958 Papal conclave due to his house arrest, despite calls from the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia for his release. On 2 June 1959 he wrote in a letter to Ivan Meštrović: \"I likely will not live to see the collapse of communism in the world due to my poor health. But I am absolutely certain of that collapse.\"\n\nIn 1953, Stepinac was diagnosed with polycythemia, a rare blood disorder involving the excess of red blood cells, causing him to joke \"I am suffering from an excess of reds.\" On 10 February 1960 at the age of 61, Stepinac died of a thrombosis. Pope John XXIII held a requiem mass for him soon after at St Peter's Basilica. He was buried in Zagreb during a service in which the protocols appropriate to his senior clerical status were, with Tito's permission, fully observed. Cardinal Franz König was among those who attended the funeral. Yugoslav government relations with the Vatican improved after Stepinac's death, and developed further after the Second Vatican Council of 1962–65. Diplomatic relations were restored in 1966.\n\nNotwithstanding that Stepinac died peacefully at home, he quickly became a martyr in the view of his supporters and many other Catholics. In 1998, traces of arsenic were detected in Stepinac's bones, leading many to believe he had been poisoned by his captors. But administration of arsenic along with bloodletting was a standard treatment for polycythemia in the early 1950s.\n\nMeštrović did not return to Yugoslavia until 1959 and upon his return met again with Stepinac, who was then under house arrest. Meštrović went on to sculpt a bust of Stepinac after his death which reads: \"Archbishop Stepinac was not a man of idle words, but rather, he actively helped every person─when he was able, and to the extent he was able. He made no distinctions as to whether a man in need was a Croat or a Serb, whether he was a Catholic or an Orthodox, whether he was Christian or non-Christian. All the attacks upon him be they the product of misinformation, or the product of a clouded mind, cannot change this fact...\".\n\nIn 1970, \"Glas Koncila\" published a text on Stepinac taken from \"L'Osservatore Romano\" which resulted in the edition being confiscated by court decree. Stepinac's beatification process began on October 9, 1981. The Catholic Church declared Stepinac a martyr on November 11, 1997, and on October 3, 1998 Pope John Paul II, while on pilgrimage to Marija Bistrica to beatify Stepinac, declared that Stepinac had indeed been martyred. John Paul had earlier determined that where a candidate for sainthood had been martyred, his/her cause could be advanced without the normal requirement for evidence of a miraculous intercession by the candidate. Accordingly, he beatified him.\n\nMany non-Catholics have remained unconvinced about Stepinac's martyrdom and about his saintly qualities in general. The beatification re-ignited old controversies between Catholicism and Communism and between Serbs and Croats. The Jewish community in Croatia, some members of which had been helped by Stepinac during World War II, did not oppose his beatification but the Simon Wiesenthal Center asked for it to be deferred until his wartime conduct of had been investigated further. The Vatican had no reaction, though some Croats expressed irritation.\n\nAccording to Ljubojević, Gavrilović and Perica, the mythology regarding Stepinac was created during the Cold War and newly independent Croatia with the cardinal's beatification in 1998. Their assessment is that this myth positioned Stepinac as the primary character in Croatian mythology, crediting him as a hero and martyr who was politically impartial. This myth alleges that Stepinac resisted all forms of totalitarianism in equal measure. The authors claim that Stepinac was a much greater opponent of communism than he was of Nazism and fascism, but his story was used by Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to legitimise Croatian independence and to bolster the role of the Catholic Church as a central pillar of Croatian statehood.\n\nOn 14 February 1992, Croatian representative Vladimir Šeks put forth a declaration in the Croatian Sabor condemning the court decision and the process that led to it. The declaration was passed, along with a similar one about the death of Croatian communist official Andrija Hebrang. The declaration states that the true reason of Stepinac's imprisonment was his pointing out many communist crimes and especially refusing to form a Croatian Catholic Church in schism with the Pope. The verdict has not been formally challenged nor overturned in any court between 1997 and 1999 while it was possible under Croatian law. In 1998, the Croatian National Bank released commemoratives 500 kuna gold and 150 kuna silver coins.\n\nIn 2007, the municipality of Marija Bistrica began on a project called \"Stepinac's Path\", which would build pilgrimage paths linking places significant to the cardinal: Krašić, Kaptol in Zagreb, Medvednica, Marija Bistrica, and Lepoglava. The Aloysius Stepinac Museum opened in Zagreb in 2007.\n\nCroatian football international Dario Šimić wore a T-shirt with Stepinac's image on it under his jersey during the country's UEFA Euro 2008 game against Poland, which he revealed after the game.\n\nIn 2008, a total of 119 streets in Croatia were named after Alojzije Stepinac, making him the tenth most common person eponym of streets in the country.\n\nToday, name Alojzije is one of the quite common names (among the top thousand) in Croatia, with over a thousand namesakes living there. The name Alojzije was the most popular from years 1932 to 1938. The peak year was 1938. It was the least popular from years 1970 to 1980.\nAbout 160 people with faimily name Stepinac live in Croatia today, in 60 households. There were 140 of them in the middle of the past century, and their number increased by 20 percent.\nThey are located in 6 Croatian counties, in 12 cities and 10 other places, mostly in Brezaric in Jastrebarsko area (60), Zagreb (50), Duga Resa (<10), Krasic in Jastrebarsko area (<10), and in Karlovac (<10).\n\nStepinac was unsuccessfully recommended on two occasions by two individual Croatian Jews to be added to the list of the Righteous Among the Nations. Amiel Shomrony (previously known in Croatia as Emil Schwarz), the secretary to the war-time head rabbi Miroslav Šalom Freiberger, nominated Stepinac in 1970. He was again nominated in 1994 by Igor Primorac. Esther Gitman, a Jew from Sarajevo living in the USA who holds a PhD on the subject of the fate of Jews in the Independent State of Croatia, stated that, for her, \"Stepinac is holy man who saved many Jews\". However the reason stated by Yad Vashem for denying the requests were that the proposers were not themselves Holocaust survivors, which is a requirement for inclusion in the list; and that maintaining close links with a genocidal regime at the same time as making humanitarian interventions would preclude listing.\n\nAlthough Stepinac's life has been the subject of much writing, there are very few primary sources for researchers to draw upon, the main one being the \"Katolički List\", a diocesan weekly journal. Stepinac's diary, discovered in 1950 (too late to be used in his trial), was confiscated by the Yugoslav authorities; it currently resides in Belgrade in the archives of the Federal Ministry of Justice, but only the extracts quoted by Jakov Blažević, the public prosecutor at Stepinac's trial, in his memoir \"Mač a ne Mir\" are available. Father Josip Vranković kept a diary from December 1951 to 10 February 1960, recording what Stepinac related to him each day; that diary was used by Franciscan Aleksa Benigar to write a biography of Stepinac, but Benigar refused to share the diary with any other researcher. The diocesan archives were also made available to Benigar, but no other researcher.\n\nThe official transcript of Stepinac's trial \"Suđenje Lisaku, Stepincu\" etc. was published in Zagreb in 1946, but contains substantial evidence of alteration. Alexander's \"Triple Myth\" therefore relies on the Yugoslav and foreign press—particularly \"Vjesnik\" and \"Narodne Novine\"—as well as \"Katolički List\". All other primary sources available to researchers only indirectly focus on Stepinac.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "98534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98534", "title": "Asphyxia", "text": "Asphyxia\n\nAsphyxia or asphyxiation is a condition of severely deficient supply of oxygen to the body that arises from abnormal breathing. An example of asphyxia is choking. Asphyxia causes generalized hypoxia, which affects primarily the tissues and organs. There are many circumstances that can induce asphyxia, all of which are characterized by an inability of an individual to acquire sufficient oxygen through breathing for an extended period of time. Asphyxia can cause coma or death.\nIn 2015 about 9.8 million cases of unintentional suffocation occurred which resulted in 35,600 deaths. The word asphyxia is from Ancient Greek \"without\" and , \"squeeze\" (throb of heart).\n\nSituations that can cause asphyxia include but are not limited to: the constriction or obstruction of airways, such as from asthma, laryngospasm, or simple blockage from the presence of foreign materials; from being in environments where oxygen is not readily accessible: such as underwater, in a low oxygen atmosphere, or in a vacuum; environments where sufficiently oxygenated air is present, but cannot be adequately breathed because of air contamination such as excessive smoke.\n\nOther causes of oxygen deficiency include \nbut are not limited to:\n\nSmothering is the mechanical obstruction of the flow of air from the environment into the mouth and/or nostrils, for instance, by covering the mouth and nose with a hand, pillow, or a plastic bag. Smothering can be either partial or complete, where partial indicates that the person being smothered is able to inhale some air, although less than required. In a normal situation, smothering requires at least partial obstruction of both the nasal cavities and the mouth to lead to asphyxia. Smothering with the hands or chest is used in some combat sports to distract the opponent, and create openings for transitions, as the opponent is forced to react to the smothering.\n\nIn some cases, when performing certain routines, smothering is combined with simultaneous compressive asphyxia. One example is overlay, in which an adult accidentally rolls over onto an infant during co-sleeping, an accident that often goes unnoticed and is mistakenly thought to be sudden infant death syndrome. Other accidents involving a similar mechanism are cave-ins or when an individual is buried in sand or grain.\n\nIn homicidal cases, the term burking is often ascribed to a killing method that involves simultaneous smothering and compression of the torso. The term \"burking\" comes from the method William Burke and William Hare used to kill their victims during the West Port murders. They killed the usually intoxicated victims by sitting on their chests and suffocating them by putting a hand over their nose and mouth, while using the other hand to push the victim's jaw up. The corpses had no visible injuries, and were supplied to medical schools for money.\n\nCompressive asphyxia (also called chest compression) is mechanically limiting expansion of the lungs by compressing the torso, hence interfering with breathing. Compressive asphyxia occurs when the chest or abdomen is compressed posteriorly. In accidents, the term traumatic asphyxia or crush asphyxia usually refers to compressive asphyxia resulting from being crushed or pinned under a large weight or force. An example of traumatic asphyxia includes cases where an individual has been using a car-jack to repair a car from below, and is crushed under the weight of the vehicle. Pythons, anacondas, and other constrictor snakes kill through compressive asphyxia. In cases of co-sleeping (\"overlay\"), the weight of an adult or large child may compress an infant's chest, preventing proper expansion of the chest. Risk factors include large or obese adults, parental fatigue or impairment (sedation by drugs or alcohol) of the co-sleeping adult and a small shared sleeping space (for example, both adult and infant sharing a couch).\n\nIn fatal crowd disasters, compressive asphyxia from being crushed against the crowd causes the large part of the deaths, rather than blunt trauma from trampling. This is what occurred at the Ibrox disaster in 1971, where 66 Rangers fans died; the 1979 The Who concert disaster where 11 died; the Luzhniki disaster in 1982, when 66 FC Spartak Moscow fans died; and at the Hillsborough disaster in 1989, 96 Liverpool fans were crushed to death in an overcrowded terrace, 95 of the 96 victims died from compressive asphyxia, with 93 dying directly from it and 2 others dying from related complications. In confined spaces, people push and lean against each other; evidence from bent steel railings in several fatal crowd accidents have shown horizontal forces over 4500 N (equivalent to a weight of approximately 450 kg, or 1014 lbs). In cases where people have stacked up on each other forming a human pile, estimations have been made of around 380 kg (838 lbs) of compressive weight in the lowest layer.\n\n\"Positional\" or \"restraint\" asphyxia is when a person is restrained and left alone prone, such as in a police vehicle, and is unable to reposition himself or herself in order to breathe. The death can be in the vehicle, or following loss of consciousness to be followed by death while in a coma, having presented with anoxic brain damage. The asphyxia can be caused by facial compression, neck compression, or chest compression. This occurs mostly during restraint and handcuffing situations by law enforcement, including psychiatric incidents. The weight of the restraint(s) doing the compression may contribute to what is attributed to positional asphyxia. Therefore, passive deaths following custody restraint that are presumed to be the result of positional asphyxia may actually be examples of asphyxia occurring during the restraint process.\n\nChest compression is also featured in various grappling combat sports, where it is sometimes called wringing. Such techniques are used either to tire the opponent or as complementary or distractive moves in combination with pinning holds, or sometimes even as submission holds. Examples of chest compression include the knee-on-stomach position; or techniques such as leg scissors (also referred to as body scissors and in budō referred to as \"do-jime\"; 胴絞, \"trunk strangle\" or \"body triangle\") where a participant wraps his or her legs around the opponent's midsection and squeezes them together.\n\nPressing is a form of torture or execution that works through asphyxia e.g. burking.\n\nPerinatal asphyxia is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen (hypoxia) to a newborn infant long enough to cause apparent harm. It results most commonly from a drop in maternal blood pressure or interference during delivery with blood flow to the infant's brain. This can occur as a result of inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. There has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4513339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513339", "title": "Astellas Pharma", "text": "Astellas Pharma\n\nAstellas is a member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFJ) keiretsu.\n\nFujisawa Shoten was started in 1894 by Tomokichi Fujisawa in Osaka, and was renamed Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co. in 1943. Yamanouchi Yakuhin Shokai was started in 1923 by Kenji Yamanouchi in Osaka. The company was renamed Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co. in 1940 and moved to Tokyo in 1942. Both companies started their overseas expansion at about the same time, opening offices in Taiwan in 1962 and 1963, respectively, and in the United States and Europe from 1977 onwards.\n\nFujisawa acquired Lyphomed in 1990 and thereafter established its US R&D center in Deerfield, Illinois. Yamanouchi's R&D center in Leiderdorp was established with the acquisition of the pharmaceutical division of Royal Gist Brocades in 1991. Fujisawa and Yamanouchi combined in a \"merger of equals,\" forming Astellas Pharma on 1 April 2005. At least some of its older products continue to be distributed under the original brand, ostensibly due to high brand-name recognition. Astellas had a collaboration agreement with CoMentis from 2008 to 2014 focused on development of beta-secretase inhibitor therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease.\n\nOn June 9, 2010, Astellas acquired OSI Pharmaceuticals for $4.0 billion. In December 2014, Astellas expanded its 18-month-old collaboration with Cytokinetics, focusing on the R&D and commercialization of skeletal muscle activators. The companies announced they will advance the development of CK-2127107 (a fast skeletal troponin activator) into Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy and possibly other neuromuscular conditions. The companies have extended their R&D program focusing on the discovery of additional skeletal sarcomere activators through into 2016. The collaboration is expected to generate more than $600 million for Cytokinetics as well as $75 million in milestone payments. In November 2015 the company announced its move to acquire Ocata Therapeutics (formerly Advanced Cell Technology) for $379 million. As of January 14, 2016, Astellas has not been able to acquire a majority of Ocata's common stock, which is necessary to complete the acquisition. The first deadline in the acquisition was November 17, 2015, and due to Astellas' failure to acquire a majority of Ocata's common stock, the deadline was extended to January 21, 2016. Many long-term stockholders have vowed to fight this acquisition by every legal means available to them, because they claim that the Astellas offer represents a huge discount - not a premium - to what they say is Ocata's true value. The deal was finally completed in February 2016. Later in November 2015 the company announce it would sell its dermatology business to LEO Pharma for $725 million. In October 2016 Astellas announced it would acquire Ganymed Pharmaceuticals for $1.4 billion\n\nIn April 2017, the company announced it would acquire Belgium-based drug discovery firm Ogeda for up to a total €800 million, strengthening its late-stage pipeline with Ogeda's drug candidate, fezolinetant. In November 2017, the company announced that it exercised an option to purchase Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Mitobridge, which is developing treatments for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and age-related diseases.\n\nIn 2016, the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry gave Astellas a year-long suspension, after complaints it had \"purposely misled the PMCPA.\" Audits afterwards found that Astellas was not adequately overseeing and training nurses, and had failed to provide complete prescribing information for several medicines. The company was suspended for a second year, and threatened with permanent expulsion in June 2017 for breaches of guidelines of the UK’s pharmaceutical industry trade body.\n\nIn August 2018, Astellas announced it would acquire Quethera Limited for $109 million\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nAstellas' franchise areas are urology, immunology (transplantation), cardiology, and infectious disease. Priority areas for R&D are infectious diseases, diabetes, gastrointestinal diseases, oncology, and diseases of the central nervous system.\n\nSome of the key products produced by Astellas include:\n\nThe company's headquarters are in Tokyo, with research centers in Tsukuba and Osaka. Clinical development is centered in Northbrook, Illinois, La Jolla, California, and Leiden, Netherlands. Combined revenues of the two pre-merger companies were $7.9 billion in 2004. Worldwide the company employs about 17,000 people. The United States subsidiary of Astellas is Astellas US LLC.\n\nThe company's advertising slogans are:\n"}
{"id": "1456626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456626", "title": "Autonomous agent", "text": "Autonomous agent\n\nAn autonomous agent is an \"intelligent agent\" operating on an owner's behalf but without any interference of that ownership entity. An Intelligent agent, however appears according to a multiply cited statement in a no longer accessible IBM white paper as follows:\n\nIntelligent agents are software entities that carry out some set of operations on behalf of a user or another program with some degree of independence or autonomy, and in so doing, employ some knowledge or representation of the user's goals or desires.\n\nSuch an agent is a system situated in, and part of, a technical or natural environment, which senses any or some status of that environment, and acts on it in pursuit of its own agenda. Such an agenda evolves from drives (or programmed goals). The agent acts to change part of the environment or of its status and influences what it sensed.\n\nNon-biological examples include intelligent agents, autonomous robots, and various software agents, including artificial life agents, and many computer viruses. Biological examples are not yet defined.\n\nLee et al. (2015) post safety issue from how the combination of external appearance and internal autonomous agent have impact on human reaction about autonomous vehicles. Their study explores the humanlike appearance agent and high level of autonomy are strongly correlated with social presence, intelligence, safety and trustworthy. In specific, appearance impact most on affective trust while autonomy impact most on both affective and cognitive domain of trust where cognitive trust is characterized by knowledge-based factors and affective trust ls largely emotion driven \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054394", "title": "Autothysis", "text": "Autothysis\n\nAutothysis (from the Greek roots \"autos-\" αὐτός \"self\" and \"thysia\" θυσία \"sacrifice\") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin. The term was proposed by Ulrich Maschwitz and Eleonore Maschwitz in 1974 to describe the defensive mechanism of \"Camponotus saundersi\", a species of carpenter ant. It is caused by a contraction of muscles around a large gland that leads to the breaking of the gland wall. Some termites (such as the soldiers of \"Globitermes sulphureus\") release a sticky secretion by rupturing a gland near the skin of their neck, producing a tar effect in defense against ants.\n\nGroups of termite whose soldiers have been found to use autothysis to defend their colonies include: \"Serritermes serrifer\", \"Dentispicotermes\", \"Genuotermes\" and \"Orthognathotermes\". Several species of the soldierless Apicotermitinae, for example those of the \"Grigiotermes\" and \"Ruptitermes\" genera, have workers that can also use autothysis. This is thought to be one of the most effective forms of defense that termites possess as the ruptured workers block the tunnels running into the nest and it causes a one-to-one exchange between attackers and defenders, meaning attacks have a high energy cost to predators.\n\nThe soldiers of the neotropical termite family Serritermitidae have a defense strategy which involves front gland autothysis, with the body rupturing between the head and abdomen. When outside the nest they try to run away from attackers, and only use autothysis when in the nest, to block tunnels up, preventing attackers entering.\n\nOld workers of \"Neocapritermes taracua\" develop blue spots on their abdomens that are filled with copper-containing proteins. These react with a secretion from the labial gland upon autothysis to form a mixture which is toxic to other termites.\n\nSome ants belonging to the genus \"Camponotus\" have adapted to using autothysis as an altruistic defensive trait to better fight against arthropods and to possibly deter vertebrate predators for the benefit of the colony as a whole. These ants use autothysis as a self-destructive defense to protect their territory, but they use it differently from termites, in that their primary uses for autothysis do not include blocking the tunnels of their territory from attackers, but more so for combat purposes during territorial battles.\n\nEarly ants used mechanical means of stinging to defend themselves, but the stings showed to be more useful against large vertebrate predators and not as successful against other arthropods. So selection for autothysis in ants evolved as a way to more effectively kill arthropod enemies. The products of autothysis in ants are sticky and corrosive substances, released by the ants' contraction of their gasters, leading to a burst at an intersegmental fold, as well as the mandibular glands. The ants use this self-sacrifice to kill one or more enemies which entangle themselves in this sticky substance. The worker ant has been observed to wrap itself around an opponent, placing its dorsal gaster onto the opponent's head before expelling sticky corrosive material from its mouth and gaster, permanently sticking to the opponent while killing itself and the enemy, as well as any other enemies that become stuck to the products.\n\nThese ants mostly use autothysis against other arthropods, like invading ant colonies or against termite colonies, and are rather ineffective towards larger vertebrate predators such as lizards or birds. This self-sacrifice is most useful against arthropods because the sticky adhesives in the products work best against the bodies of other arthropods. The compounds used in autothysis, however, have also been explained to have some use in deterring vertebrate predators from eating the ants, because these products are inedible.\n\n"}
{"id": "40749442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40749442", "title": "BCI2000", "text": "BCI2000\n\nBCI2000 is a software suite for brain-computer interface research. It is commonly used for data acquisition, stimulus presentation, and brain monitoring applications. BCI2000 supports a variety of data acquisition systems, brain signals, and study/feedback paradigms. During operation, BCI2000 stores data in a common format (BCI2000 native or GDF), along with all relevant event markers and information about system configuration. BCI2000 also includes several tools for data import/conversion (e.g., a routine to load BCI2000 data files directly into Matlab) and export facilities into ASCII.\n\nBCI2000 is available free of charge for research and education purposes.\n\nBCI2000 has been in development since 2000 in a project led by the Brain-Computer Interface R&D Program at the Wadsworth Center of the New York State Department of Health in Albany, New York, with substantial contributions by the Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology at the University of Tübingen. Large contributions have also been from other laboratories, notably the BrainLab at Georgia State University in Atlanta, Georgia, and Fodazione Santa Lucia in Rome, Italy.\n\nThe first successful BCI2000-based experiment took place in July 2001. BCI2000 V2.0 was released in January 2008, and V3.0 was released in February 2011. Currently, the BCI2000 project is supported by a R01 grant from the NIH (NIBIB) to Gerwin Schalk; it was previously supported by a bioengineering research partnership (BRP) grant from the NIH (NIBIB/NINDS) to Jonathan Wolpaw.\n\nComprehensive documentation on the BCI2000 system can be found on the BCI2000 Wiki. This documentation contains user tutorials, a comprehensive user reference, technical reference, programming reference, and description of user contributions. \n\nA 2010 book \"A Practical Guide to Brain-Computer Interfacing with BCI2000\" authored by Gerwin Schalk and Juergen Mellinger, the chief software architect of the project, was published as an introductory guide to BCI2000. It contains information on the modules provided with BCI2000 and instructions on common application tasks, such as real-time spelling with P300 spellers or offline Matlab analysis.\nBCI2000 has been used in a number of publications and studies internationally. The original paper describing the BCI2000 system has been cited more than 200 times, while the system has been used in over 120 peer-reviewed publications.\nBCI2000-based systems have been used by severely disabled individuals, commonly from ALS or other causes of locked-in syndrome, for word processing, email, environmental control, and communication.\nBCI2000 was also used in the experiment at the University of Washington that was the first to successfully transmit brain signals over the internet.\nThe BCI2000 project has organized a number of workshops on the theory and application of the platform, occurring approximately once a year since 2005. \nBCI2000 is available as precompiled Windows executables or as source code, which is officially supported for compilation on the following platforms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53654146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53654146", "title": "Bandenbekämpfung", "text": "Bandenbekämpfung\n\nBandenbekämpfung is a German-language term that means \"bandit fighting\" or \"combating of bandits\". In the context of German military history, \"Bandenbekämpfung\" was an operational doctrine that was part of countering resistance or insurrection in the rear during wars. Another more common understanding of \"Bandenbekämpfung\" is anti-partisan warfare. The doctrine of \"bandit-fighting\" provided a rationale to target and murder any number of groups, from armed guerrillas to civilian population, as \"bandits\" or \"members of gangs\". As applied by the German Empire and then Nazi Germany, it became instrumental in the genocidal programs implemented by the two regimes, including the Holocaust.\n\nUnder the German Empire established by Bismarck in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian War—formed also with the union of twenty-five German states under the Hohenzollern king—Prussian militarism flourished; martial traditions that included the military doctrine of Antoine-Henri Jomini's 1837 treatise, \"Summary of the Art of War\" were put into effect. Some of the theories laid out by Jomini contained instructions for intense offensive operations and the necessity of securing one's \"lines of operations.\" German military officers took this to mean as much attention should be given to logistical operations used to fight the war at the rear as those in the front; this most certainly entailed security operations to protect the lines. Following Jomini's lead, Obersleutnant Albrecht von Boguslawski published lectures entitled \"Der Kleine Krieg\" (The Small War), which outlined in detail the tactical procedures related to partisan and anti-partisan warfare—likely deliberately written without clear distinctions between combatant and non-combatants. To what extent this contributed to the intensification of unrestrained warfare cannot be known, but Prussian officers like Alfred von Schlieffen encouraged his professional soldiers to embrace a dictum advocating that \"for every problem, there was a military solution.\" \n\nPrussian security operations during the Franco-Prussian War included the use of the \"Landwehr\", whose duties ranged from guarding railroad lines, to taking hostages, and carrying out reprisals to deter activities of the \"franc-tireur.\" Foreign Minister of Prussia under Wilhelm I and later German Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, wanted all \"franc-tireurs\" hung or shot, and encouraged his military commanders to burn down villages that housed them. More formal structures like Chief of the Field Railway, a Military Railway Corps, District Commanders, Special Military Courts, intelligence units, and military police of varying duties and nomenclature were integrated into the Prussian system to bolster security operations all along the military's operational lines. Such was the heritage of German anti-partisan warfare. Operationally, the first attempts to use tactics that would later develop into \"Bandenbekämpfung\" or be recognized as such were carried out in China in the wake of the Boxer Rebellion, after two German officers went missing, which was followed up with more than fifty operations by German troops, who set fire to a village and held prisoners. Shortly after these operations, the infantry was provided with a handbook for \"operations against Chinese bandits\" (\"Bänden\"). The first full application of \"Bandenbekämpfung\" in practice, however, was the Herero and Namaqua genocide, a campaign of racial extermination and collective punishment that the German Empire undertook in German South West Africa (modern-day Namibia) against the Herero and Nama people.\n\nDuring the First World War, the German army ignored many of the commonly understood European conventions of war, when between August and October 1914, they deliberately killed some 6,500 French and Belgian citizens. Throughout the war, Germany's integrated intelligence, perimeter police, guard network, and border control measures all coalesced to define the German military's security operations. Along the Eastern front sometime in August 1915, Field Marshal Falkenhayn established a general government under General von Beseler, creating an infrastructure to support ongoing military operations, which included guards posts, patrols and a security network. Unfortunately, maintaining security meant dealing with Russian prisoners, many of whom tried to sabotage German plans and kill German soldiers, so harsh pacification measures and terror actions were carried out to deal with these partisans (including brutal reprisals against civilians), otherwise known as bandits. Before long, similar practices were being instituted throughout both the Eastern and Western areas of German occupation.\n\nGerman army policy for deterring partisan or \"bandit\" activities against its forces was to strike \"such terror into the population that it loses all will to resist.\" Even before the Nazi campaign in the east had begun, Hitler had already absolved his soldiers from any responsibility for brutality against civilians, expecting his soldiers and police forces to kill anyone that even \"looked askance\" at the German forces. Much of the partisan warfare became an exercise of anti-Semitism, as military commanders like General Bechtolsheim exclaimed that whenever an act of sabotage was committed and one killed the Jews from that village, then \"one can be certain that one has destroyed the perpetrators, or at least those who stood behind them.\" \nWhen the Wehrmacht entered Serbia in 1941, they carried out mass reprisals against partisans by executing Jews there. The commander responsible for combating partisan warfare in 1941, General Böhme, reiterated to the German forces, \"that rivers of German blood\" had been spilled in Serbia during the First World War and the Wehrmacht should consider any acts of violence there as \"avenging these deaths.\" \n\nFrom September 1941 onwards through the course of World War II, the term \"Bandenbekämpfung\" supplanted \"Partisanenkämpfung\" (anti-partisan warfare) to become the guiding principle of Nazi Germany's security warfare and occupational policies; largely as a result of Heinrich Himmler's insistence that for psychological reasons, bandit was somehow preferable. On 23 October 1942, Himmler named SS General Erich von dem Bach-Zalewski the \"Commisioner for anti-bandit warfare.\" Then Himmler transferred SS-Brigadeführer von Gottberg to Belorussia to ensure that the \"Bandenbekämpfung\" operations were conducted on a permanent basis, a task which Gottberg carried out with fanatical ruthlessness, declaring the entire population bandits, Jews, Gypsies, spies, or bandit sympathizers. During Gottberg's first major operations, Operations Nürnberg and Hamburg, conducted between November thru December 1942, he reported 5,000 murdered Jews, another 5,000 bandits or suspects eliminated, and 30 villages burned down. \n\nIn October 1942—just a couple months prior to Gottberg's exploits—Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring had ordered \"anti-bandit warfare\" in Army Group Rear Area Center, which was shortly followed by an OKH Directive on 11 November 1942 for \"anti-bandit warfare in the East\" that announced sentimental considerations as \"irresponsible\" and instructed the men to shoot or preferably hang bandits, including women. Misgivings from commanders within Army Group Rear that such operations were counterproductive and in poor taste since women and children were being murdered went ignored or resisted from Bach-Zalewski, who frequently \"cited the special powers of the Reichsführer.\" Over time, the Wehrmacht acculturated to the large scale anti-bandit operations, as the enemy was not simply populated by partisan groups, but instead they too came to see the entire population as criminal and complicit in any operation against German troops. In fact, many of the Wehrmacht commanders were unbothered by the fact that these operations fell under the jurisdiction of the SS. \n\nEinsatzgruppen, Order Police, Sonderkommando units, and army forces—for the most part—worked cooperatively to combat partisans (bandits), not only acting as judge, jury, and executioners in the field, but also in plundering \"bandit areas\"; they laid these areas to waste, seized crops and livestock, enslaved the local population or murdered them. Anti-bandit operations were characterized by \"special cruelty.\" For instance, Soviet Jews were murdered outright under the pretext that they were partisans per Hitler's orders. Historian Timothy Snyder asserts that by the second half of 1942, \"German anti-partisan operations were all but indistinguishable from the mass murder of the Jews.\" Other historians have made similar observations. Omer Bartov argued that under the auspices of destroying their \"so-called political and biological enemies,\" often described as \"bandits\" or \"partisans,\" the Nazis made no effort \"to distinguish between real guerrillas, political suspects, and Jews.\" \n\nSurging operations from better equipped partisans against Army Group Center during 1943 intensified to the degree that the 221st Security Division's did not just eliminate \"bandits\" but laid entire regions where they operated to waste. The scale of this effort must be taken into consideration, as historian Michael Burleigh reports that anti-partisan operations had a significant impact on German operations in the East; namely, since they caused \"widespread economic disruption, tied down manpower which could have been deployed elsewhere, and by instilling fear and provoking extreme countermeasures, drove a wedge between occupiers and occupied.\" \n\nFollowing the Warsaw Uprising of August 1944, the Nazis intensified their anti-partisan operations in Poland, during which the German forces employed their version of anti-partisan tactics by shooting upwards of 120,000 civilians in Warsaw. Ideologically speaking, since partisans represented an immediate existential threat, in that, they were equated with Jews or people under their influence, the systematic murder of anyone associated with them was an expression of the regime's racial anti-Semitism and was viewed by members of the Wehrmacht as a \"necessity of war.\" \n\nThroughout the war in Europe, and especially during the German-Soviet War, 1941–45, these doctrines amalgamated with the Nazi regime's genocidal plans for the racial reshaping of the Eastern Europe to secure \"living space\" (\"Lebensraum\") for Germany. In the first eleven months of the war against the Soviet Union, the German forces liquidated in excess of 80,000 \"alleged\" partisans. Implemented by units of the SS, Wehrmacht and Order Police, \"Bandenbekämpfung\" as applied by the Nazi regime and directed by the SS across occupied Europe led to mass crimes against humanity and was an instrumental part of the Holocaust.\n\nIn July 1942, Heinrich Himmler, the head of the SS, was appointed to lead the security initiatives in rear areas. One of his first actions in this role was the prohibition of the use of \"partisan\" to describe counter-insurgents. Bandits (\"Banden\") was the term chosen to be used by German forces instead. Hitler insisted that Himmler was \"solely responsible\" for combating bandits except in districts under military administration; such districts were under the authority of the Wehrmacht. The organisational changes, putting experienced SS killers in charge, and language that criminalised resistance, whether real or imagined, presaged the transformation of security warfare into massacres. \n\nThe radicalisation of \"anti-bandit\" warfare saw further impetus in the Führer Directive 46 of 18 August 1942, where security warfare's aim was defined as \"complete extermination\". The directive called on the security forces to act with \"utter brutality\", while providing immunity from prosecution for any acts committed during \"bandit-fighting\" operations.\n\nThe directive designated the SS as the organisation responsible for rear-area warfare in areas under civilian administration. In areas under military jurisdiction (the Army Group Rear Areas), the Army High Command had the overall responsibility. The directive declared the entire population of \"bandit\" (i.e. partisan-controlled) territories as enemy combatants. In practice, this meant that the aims of security warfare was not pacification, but complete destruction and depopulation of \"bandit\" and \"bandit-threatened\" territories, turning them into \"dead zones\" (\"Tote Zonen\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8008543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8008543", "title": "Business continuity", "text": "Business continuity\n\nBusiness continuity is the planning and preparation of a company to make sure it overcomes serious incidents or disasters and resumes its normal operations within a reasonably short period. This concept includes the following key elements: \n\nTypical disasters that business continuity covers include fires, floods, accidents caused by key people, server crashes or virus infections, insolvency of key suppliers, negative media campaigns and market upheavals (ex. stock market crashes). The locations of these disasters and the company real estates may be independent.\n\nThe management of business continuity falls largely within the sphere of quality management and risk management, with some cross-over into related fields such as governance, information security and compliance. Risk management is an important tool for business continuity as it provides a structured way to identify the sources of business disruption and assess their probability and harm. It is expected that all business functions, operations, supplies, systems, relationships, etc. that are critically important to achieve the organization's operational objectives are analyzed and included in the business continuity plan. Business Impact Analysis is the generally accepted risk management term for the process of determining the relative importance or criticality of those elements, and in turn drives the priorities, planning, preparations and other business continuity management activities.\n\nIf there is no business continuity plan implemented and the organization in question is facing a rather severe threat or disruption that may lead to bankruptcy, the implementation and outcome, if not too late, may strengthen the organization's survival and its continuity of business activities.\n\nOne important way to achieve business continuity is the use of international standards, program development, and supporting policies. These standards ensure that proven methods and concepts for business continuity are used. As with many quality management standards though, the primary task of identifying relevant potential disasters, making plans for evacuation, buying spare machines and servers, performing backups and bringing them off-site, assigning responsibility, performing drills, educating employees and being vigilant cannot be replaced by adherence to standards. As such, commitment by management to see business continuity as an important topic and assign people to work on it, remains the most important step in establishing business continuity.\n\nSeveral business continuity standards have been published by various standards bodies:\n\n\nOngoing management-level process to ensure that necessary steps are regularly taken to identify probable accidents, disasters, emergencies, and/or threats. It also involves (1) assessment of the probable effect of such events, (2) development of recovery strategies and plans, and (3) maintenance of their readiness through personnel training and plan testing. See also business impact analysis\n\nPolicies are those things mandated by the management of an organization that will always be performed according to a preset design plan, and supporting all business functions within an organization.\n\nThe entire concept of business continuity is based on the identification of all business functions within an organization, and then assigning a level of importance to each business function. A business impact analysis is the primary tool for gathering this information and assigning criticality, recovery point objectives, and recovery time objectives, and is therefore part of the basic foundation of business continuity.\n\nThe BIA can be used to identify extent and timescale of the impact on different levels of an organization. For instance it can examine the effect of disruption on operational, functional and strategic activities of an organization.\nNot only the current activities but the effect of disruption on major business changes, introducing new product or services for example, can be determined by BIA.\n\nMost standards require that a business impact analysis should be reviewed at defined intervals appropriate for each organization and whenever any of the following occur:\n\nIn large information technology environments, personnel turnover is inevitable and must be planned as part of business continuity. The solution to the problems associated with turnover, is complete and up-to- date documentation. This ensures that new personnel will have the information they need to quickly become knowledgeable and productive with respect to the business functions they are tasked to support. This also implies that business function related documentation is largely generated (rather than written) from existing systems and managed in an automated manner.\n\nRegulations require that changes to business functions be documented and tracked for auditing purposes and is designated as \"change control\". This brings a level of stability to the business functions by requiring the support personnel to document and coordinate proposed changes to the underlying systems. As this process becomes more and more automated, the emphasis will be less upon personnel control, and more upon regulatory compliance.\n\nOne of the most costly and time-consuming aspects of information technology management is dealing with auditors. One of the goals of business continuity is data center automation, which includes audit management. All modern business functions should be designed with the concept of automatically generating the requisite audit compliance information and documentation as part of conducting day-to-day business. This dramatically reduces the time and cost associated with manually producing this information.\n\nThe interface between management and information technology is the Service level agreement (SLA). This provides a written contract stipulating the expectations of management with regard to the availability of a necessary business function, and the deliverables that information technology provides in support of that business function.\n\nAnother component of business continuity is communications in times of duress. Members of the disaster recovery team must be able to communicate effectively among themselves as well as with managers, directors, customers, partners, and even with the media. In order to avoid some of the potential problems associated with disrupted communication channels, the business continuity plan should include a lead manager who will be in charge of all communications in that area, the cooperation of executives and public relations people, and scheduled exercises to put the plan into practice.\n\nThe following is a list of logical entities within an information technology environment which aid business continuity:\n\nPlanning, prevention, and preparation are a key part of any business continuity management system and have direct read across from civil contingencies planning. The activity begins with understanding the business to identify potential risks and threats to critical business activities both internally and from the external environment. It is also advisable to examine the resilience of suppliers.\n\nThe components of the business continuity methodology required for manifestation into a documented plan include:\n\nSet of documents, instructions, and procedures which enable a business to respond to accidents, disasters, emergencies, and/or threats without any stoppage or hindrance in its key operations. Also called business resumption plan, disaster recovery plan, or recovery plan.\n\nShould also include: purpose, scope, objectives and assumptions that were used to develop the plan. Key accountabilities including authority to invoke, instructions subsequent to invocations, and a detailed communications plan must be included in the plan to ensure efficient resumption of operations.\n\nTask of identifying, developing, acquiring, documenting, and testing procedures and resources that will ensure continuity of a firm's key operations in the event of an accident, disaster, emergency, and/or threat. It involves (1) risk mitigation planning (reducing possibility of the occurrence of adverse events), and (2) business recovery planning (ensuring continued operation in the aftermath of a disaster).\n\nGuidelines are those things which are recommended to be performed according to a preset design plan. However depending upon the needs and requirements of the target business function, these items may or may not be performed, or may be altered during implementation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56999731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56999731", "title": "Capital punishment for cannabis trafficking", "text": "Capital punishment for cannabis trafficking\n\nSeveral countries have either carried out or legislated capital punishment for cannabis trafficking.\n"}
{"id": "50314793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50314793", "title": "DNaM", "text": "DNaM\n\ndNaM is an artificial nucleoside containing a 3-methoxy-2-naphthyl group instead of a base.\n\nIt pairs up with d5SICS in a hydrophobic interaction. It was not able to be removed by the error-correcting machinery of the \"E. coli\" into which it was inserted. The pairing of d5SICS–dNaM is mediated by packing and hydrophobic forces instead of hydrogen bonding, which occurs in natural base pairs. Therefore, in free DNA, rings of d5SICS and dNaM are placed in parallel planes instead of the same plane.\n"}
{"id": "7277939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7277939", "title": "Diotima of Mantinea", "text": "Diotima of Mantinea\n\nDiotima of Mantinea (; ; ) was an ancient Greek prophetess and philosopher thought to have lived circa 440 B.C.E., who plays an important role in Plato's \"Symposium\". In the dialogue, her ideas are the origin of the concept of Platonic love. Her historicity and relation to Socrates, however, are subjects of much debate. \n\nThe name Diotima means \"Zeus Honor\", either in the active sense of a woman who honors Zeus, or in the passive sense of a woman honored by Zeus. \n\nShe was said to be from the Peloponnesian city of Mantinea, which allied itself with Sparta during the Peloponnesian War. The Greek form of this place, Mantinike, appears to contain the root \"mantis\", meaning \"prophet, seer\", and strongly suggests that Diotima was herself a prophetess, or at least somehow associated with prophecy. Diotima Mantinike thus would sound like \"Diotima from Prophet-victory\". Socrates provides additional significant information for his fellow symposiasts about Diotima Mantinike that hints at her victorious prophetic powers.\n\nSince the only contemporaneous source concerning her is Plato, doubts have been raised about whether she was a real historical personage or merely a fictional creation; however, nearly all of the characters named in Plato's dialogues have been found to correspond to real people living in ancient Athens. \n\nPlato was thought by most 19th and early 20th century scholars to have based Diotima on Aspasia, the mistress of Pericles, so impressed was he by her intelligence and wit. However, Aspasia appears under her own name in Plato's dialogue \"Menexenus\", and some scholars have convincingly argued that Plato did not use false names: therefore, Diotima could be a historical figure. \n\nA first century bronze relief found in Pompeii depicts Socrates and an unnamed female figure, along with a winged Eros; although some have supposed the seated woman in the image to be Diotima, others have argued her appearance (notably a necklace) would suggest she is in fact more likely to be Aphrodite or Aspasia. It should be noted that writings from the second through the fifth centuries A.D., refer to Diotima as a real person, although Plato is probably their only basis for this. The suggestion that she was a fictional creation was not introduced until the 15th century (notably by Marsilio Ficino), probably based on the fact that she was a woman; however, this plausible hypothesis (with numerous parallels in the study of Platonic dialogues, for instance Callicles in the \"Gorgias\") was in fact put forward because Diotima is not mentioned by contemporary or near-contemporary sources and because her very name and origin could be understood as symbolic.\n\nIn Plato's \"Symposium\" the members of a party discuss the meaning of love. Socrates says that in his youth he was taught \"the philosophy of love\" by Diotima, who was a seer or priestess. Socrates also claims that Diotima successfully postponed the Plague of Athens. In a dialogue that Socrates recounts at the symposium, Diotima gives Socrates a genealogy of Love (Eros), stating that he is the son of \"resource and poverty\". In her view, love is a means of ascent to contemplation of the Divine. For Diotima, the most correct use of love of other human beings is to direct one's mind to love of Divinity. The beautiful beloved inspires the mind and the soul and directs one's attention to spiritual things. One proceeds from recognition of another's beauty, to appreciation of Beauty as it exists apart from any individual, to consideration of Divinity, the source of Beauty, to love of Divinity.\n\"Diotima\" has often been used as a title for philosophical or artistic projects, journals, essays, etc.:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "640655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640655", "title": "Disaster recovery", "text": "Disaster recovery\n\nDisaster recovery involves a set of policies, tools and procedures to enable the recovery or continuation of vital technology infrastructure and systems following a natural or human-induced disaster. Disaster recovery focuses on the IT or technology systems supporting critical business functions, as opposed to business continuity, which involves keeping all essential aspects of a business functioning despite significant disruptive events. Disaster recovery can therefore be considered as a subset of business continuity.\n\nIT Service Continuity (ITSC) is a subset of Business Continuity Planning (BCP) and encompasses IT disaster recovery planning and wider IT resilience planning. It also incorporates those elements of IT infrastructure and services which relate to communications such as (voice)telephony and data communications.\n\nThe ITSC Plan reflects Recovery Point Objective (RPO - recent transactions) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO - time intervals).\n\nPlanning includes arranging for backup sites, be they hot, warm, cold or standby sites with hardware as needed for continuity.\n\nIn 2008 the British Standards Institution launched a specific standard connected and supporting the Business Continuity Standard BS 25999 titled BS25777 specifically to align computer continuity with business continuity. This was withdrawn following the publication in March 2011 of ISO/IEC 27031 - Security techniques — Guidelines for information and communication technology readiness for business continuity.\n\nITIL® has defined some of these terms.\n\nThe recovery time objective (RTO) is the targeted duration of time and a service level within which a business process must be restored after a disaster (or disruption) in order to avoid unacceptable consequences associated with a break in business continuity.\n\nIn accepted business continuity planning methodology, the RTO is established during the Business Impact Analysis (BIA) by the owner of a process, including identifying options time frames for alternate or manual workarounds. \n\nIn a good deal of the literature on this subject, RTO is spoken of as a complement of recovery point objective (RPO), with the two metrics describing the limits of acceptable or \"tolerable\" ITSC performance in terms of \"time lost\" (RTO) from normal business process functioning, and in terms of data lost or not backed up during that period of time (RPO) respectively.\n\nA Forbes overviewnoted that it is \"recovery time actual\"(RTA) which is \"the critical metric for business continuity and disaster recovery.\" \n\nRTA is established during exercises or actual events. The business continuity group times rehearsals (or actuals) and makes needed refinements.\n\nA recovery point objective (RPO) is defined by business continuity planning. It is the maximum targeted period in which data (transactions) might be lost from an IT service due to a major incident. \n\nIf RPO is measured in minutes (or even a few hours),then in practice, off-site mirrored backups must be continuously maintained – a daily off-site backup on tape will not suffice.\n\nRecovery that is not instantaneous will restore data/transactions over a period of time; the goal is\nwithout incurring significant risks or significant losses. \n\nRPO measures the maximum time period in which recent data might have been permanently lost in the event of a major incident; it is not a direct measure of the quantity of such loss. For instance if the BC plan is \"restore up to last available backup\", the RPO is the maximum interval between such backup that has been safely vaulted offsite.\n\nTwo points should be noted. Firstly, business impact analysis is used to determine RPO for each service – RPO is not determined by the existent backup regime. Secondly, when any level of preparation of off-site data is required, the period during which data often starts near the time of the beginning of the work to prepare backups, not the time the backups are taken off-site.\n\nAlthough a data synchronization point is a point in time, the timing for performing the physical backup must be included. One approach used is to halt processing of an update queue, while a disk-to-disk copy is made. The backup reflects the earlier time of that copy operation, not when the data is copied to tape or transmitted elsewhere.\n\nRTO and the RPO must be balanced, along with all the other major system design criteria.\n\nRPO is tied to the times backups are sent offsite. Offsiting via synchronous copies to an offsite mirror allows for most unforeseen difficulty. Use of physical transportation for tapes (or other transportable media) comfortably covers some backup needs at a relatively low cost. Recovery can be enacted at a predetermined site. Shared offsite space and hardware completes the package needed.\n\nFor high volumes of high value transaction data, the hardware can be split across two or more sites; splitting across geographic areas adds resiliency.\n\nPlanning for disaster recovery and information technology (IT) developed in the mid- to late 1970s as computer center managers began to recognize the dependence of their organizations on their computer systems. \n\nAt that time, most systems were batch-oriented mainframes. Another offsite mainframe could be loaded from backup tapes pending recovery of the primary \nsite; downtime was relatively less critical.\n\nThe disaster recovery industry developed to provide backup computer centers. One of the earliest such centers was located in Sri Lanka (Sungard Availability Services, 1978).\n\nDuring the 1980s and 90s, as internal corporate timesharing, online data entry and real-time processing grew, more availability of IT systems was needed.\n\nRegulatory agencies became involved even before the rapid growth of the Internet during the 2000s; objectives of 2, 3, 4 or 5 nines (99.999%) were often mandated, and high-availability solutions \nfor hot-site facilities were sought.\n\nIT Service Continuity is essential for many organizations in the implementation of Business Continuity Management (BCM) and Information Security Management (ICM) and as part of the implementation and operation\ninformation security management as well as business continuity management as specified in ISO/IEC 27001 and ISO 22301 respectively. \n\nThe rise of cloud computing since 2010 continues that trend: nowadays, it matters even less where computing services are physically served, just so long as the network itself is sufficiently reliable (a separate issue, and less of a concern since modern networks are highly resilient by design). 'Recovery as a Service' (RaaS) is one of the security features or benefits of cloud computing being promoted by the Cloud Security Alliance.\n\nDisasters can be classified into two broad categories. The first is natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes or earthquakes. While preventing a natural disaster is impossible, risk management measures such as avoiding disaster-prone situations and good planning can help. The second category is man-made disasters, such as hazardous material spills, infrastructure failure, bio-terrorism, and disastrous IT bugs or failed change implementations. In these instances, surveillance, testing and mitigation planning are invaluable.\n\nRecent research supports the idea that implementing a more holistic pre-disaster planning approach is more cost-effective in the long run. Every $1 spent on hazard mitigation(such as a disaster recovery plan) saves society $4 in response and recovery costs.\n\n2015 disaster recovery statistics suggest that downtime lasting for one hour can cost \n\nAs IT systems have become increasingly critical to the smooth operation of a company, and arguably the economy as a whole, the importance of ensuring the continued operation of those systems, and their rapid recovery, has increased. For example, of companies that had a major loss of business data, 43% never reopen and 29% close within two years. As a result, preparation for continuation or recovery of systems needs to be taken very seriously. This involves a significant investment of time and money with the aim of ensuring minimal losses in the event of a disruptive event.\n\nControl measures are steps or mechanisms that can reduce or eliminate various threats for organizations. Different types of measures can be included in disaster recovery plan (DRP).\n\nDisaster recovery planning is a subset of a larger process known as business continuity planning and includes planning for resumption of applications, data, hardware, electronic communications (such as networking) and other IT infrastructure. A business continuity plan (BCP) includes planning for non-IT related aspects such as key personnel, facilities, crisis communication and reputation protection, and should refer to the disaster recovery plan (DRP) for IT related infrastructure recovery / continuity.\n\nIT disaster recovery control measures can be classified into the following three types:\n\nGood disaster recovery plan measures dictate that these three types of controls be documented and exercised regularly using so-called \"DR tests\".\n\nPrior to selecting a disaster recovery strategy, a disaster recovery planner first refers to their organization's business continuity plan which should indicate the key metrics of recovery point objective (RPO) and recovery time objective (RTO) for various business processes (such as the process to run payroll, generate an order, etc.). The metrics specified for the business processes are then mapped to the underlying IT systems and infrastructure that support those processes.\n\nIncomplete RTOs and RPOs can quickly derail a disaster recovery plan. Every item in the DR plan requires a defined recovery point and time objective, as failure to create them may lead to significant problems that can extend the disaster’s impact. Once the RTO and RPO metrics have been mapped to IT infrastructure, the DR planner can determine the most suitable recovery strategy for each system. The organization ultimately sets the IT budget and therefore the RTO and RPO metrics need to fit with the available budget. While most business unit heads would like zero data loss and zero time loss, the cost associated with that level of protection may make the desired high availability solutions impractical. A cost-benefit analysis often dictates which disaster recovery measures are implemented.\n\nTraditionally, a disaster recovery system involved cutover or switch-over recovery systems. Such measures would allow an organization to preserve its technology and information, by having a remote disaster recovery location that produced backups on a regular basis. However, this strategy proved to be expensive and time-consuming. Therefore, more affordable and effective cloud-based systems were introduced.\n\nSome of the most common strategies for data protection include: \n\nIn many cases, an organization may elect to use an outsourced disaster recovery provider to provide a stand-by site and systems rather than using their own remote facilities, increasingly via cloud computing.\n\nIn addition to preparing for the need to recover systems, organizations also implement precautionary measures with the objective of preventing a disaster in the first place. These may include: \n\nSeveral large hardware vendors have developed mobile/modular solutions that can be installed and made operational in very short time. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2571864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571864", "title": "Donald W. Reynolds", "text": "Donald W. Reynolds\n\nDonald Worthington Reynolds (September 23, 1906 – April 2, 1993) was an American businessman and philanthropist. During his lifetime, he was known for his involvement in the Donrey Media Group.\n\nReynolds was the son of Gaines W. Reynolds, a wholesale grocery salesman, and his wife, Anna Louise. He grew up in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and got his first job in the newspaper business selling papers at the local railroad station.\n\nIn high school, Reynolds decided he wanted to attend the University of Missouri's Missouri School of Journalism, and he worked during high school and successive summers at a meat packing plant to pay for his studies. While at the University of Missouri, he was initiated into Pi Kappa Alpha. He graduated in 1927.\n\nReynolds' first business venture was a photo engraving plant. He then purchased and sold the \"Quincy Evening News\" in Massachusetts, using the proceeds from that sale to buy the \"Okmulgee Daily Times\" in Oklahoma and the \"Southwest Times Record\" in Arkansas. Those two papers launched the Donrey Media Group. Operating mostly in small towns, the group grew to include more than 100 businesses, including newspapers, radio stations, television stations, cable television operations, and billboard companies. Perhaps his biggest success came with the ownership of the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\", the largest newspaper in Nevada.\n\nReynolds interrupted his newspaper career to serve in the military during World War II, initially in military intelligence and, later, as the officer in charge of the Pacific and London editions of the \"soldiers' newspaper, \"Yank, the Army Weekly\". He attained the rank of Major, received the Legion of Merit, Purple Heart and Bronze Star Medal during his military service, and returned to civilian status in 1945.\n\nHe focused his business acumen on businesses located in small but growth-oriented communities, and these communities often were the recipients of the Foundation’s earliest charitable grants.\n\nReynolds died on April 2, 1993, on a cruise ship, on the Mediterranean Sea, at the age of 86. A large sum of money from his business ventures went to the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation. There are currently a number of buildings named for Reynolds, including:\n\n\nReynolds left three children on his death: Nancy, Donald and Jonathan. \"Forbes Magazine\" notes that Reynolds's three children will receive trust income of $50,000 a year for life, but will be left only $1 if they unsuccessfully contest his will. The bulk of the Estate was left to The Donald W Reynolds Foundation.\n\nThe Donald W. Reynolds Foundation continues his lengthy legacy of charitable giving with funding programs for capital grants, aging and quality of life, cardiovascular clinical research, and journalism.\n\nIn accordance with its articles of incorporation, the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation is designated to terminate rather than continue in perpetuity. Its board of trustees has determined that the foundation will cease to make grants on or before 2022.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43382402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43382402", "title": "Doxastic voluntarism", "text": "Doxastic voluntarism\n\nDoxastic voluntarism is a philosophical view that people elect their own beliefs. That is, that subjects have a certain amount of control over what they believe, such that a subject may choose whether or not to believe a certain thing. This philosophical view is derived from a branch of logic known as doxastic logic, however, as opposed to other philosophical views on belief, doxastic voluntarism claims each human agent as the author of one's own beliefs. Doxastic voluntarism falls under the branch of philosophy known as ethics of belief.\n\nPhilosophers argue that there are two types of doxastic voluntarism: direct doxastic voluntarism and indirect doxastic voluntarism. Direct doxastic voluntarism being that the person has control over some of their beliefs (e.g. an individual changes his belief from theism to atheism) and indirect doxastic voluntarism is that the person has unintended control, through voluntary intermediate actions, over some of their beliefs (e.g. researching and unintentionally evaluating the evidence).\n\n"}
{"id": "57534065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57534065", "title": "Earl of Wycombe (1786 EIC ship)", "text": "Earl of Wycombe (1786 EIC ship)\n\nEarl of Wycombe (or Earl Wycombe) was launched in 1786 as an East Indiaman. She made six voyages for the British East India Company (EIC). In 1800 she became a general trader, trading across the Atlantic to the West Indies and Canada. She was lost without a trace c.1803.\n\nEIC voyage #1 (1787–1788): Captain John William Wood sailed from The Downs on 14 March 1787, bound for China. \"Earl of Wycombe\" arrived at Whampoa anchorage on 2 August. Homeward bound, she crossed the Second Bar on 18 December, reached St Helena on 26 February 1788, and arrived at The Downs 26 April.\nEIC voyage #2 (1789–1790): Captain Wood sailed from The Downs on 1 May 1789, bound for China. \"Earl of Wycombe\" arrived at Whampoa anchorage on 20 September. Homeward bound, she crossed the Second Bar on 2 January 1790, reached St Helena on 14 March, and arrived at The Downs on 21 May.\n\nEIC voyage #3 (1792–1793): Captain Wood sailed from Torbay on 9 February 1792, bound for Bencoolen and China. \"Earl of Wycombe\" arrived at the Cape of Good Hope on 14 May, and reached Bencoolen on 23 July. She arrived at Whampoa on 10 October. Homeward bound, she crossed the Second Bar on 9 January 1793, reached Batavia and St Helena on 6 May, and arrived at The Downs on 1 July.\n\nThe EIC inspected the East Indiamen as they arrived and on 15 October fined Wood, and eight other captains, £1,100 for having not stowed their cargoes in conformance with the Company's orders. The money was to go to Poplar Hospital.\n\nEIC voyage #4 (1794–1795): Captain Wood acquired a letter of marque on 8 February 1794.\n\nThe British government held \"Earl of Wycombe\" at Portsmouth, together with a number of other Indiamen in anticipation of using them as transports for an attack on Île de France (Mauritius). It gave up the plan and released the vessels in May 1794. It paid £1,087 1s 4d for having delayed her departure by 62 days.\n\nWood sailed from Portsmouth on 2 May, bound for St Helena on Bencoolen. \"Earl of Wycombe\" reached St Helena on 13 August and arrived at Bencoolen on 20 November. On 25 February 1795 she was at \"Pulo Massey\", and then she returned to Bencoolen on 4 March. Homeward bound, she reached St Helena on 22 May and Shannon on 14 September; she arrived at The Downs on 15 October. \n\nEIC voyage #5 (1796–1797): Captain Wood sailed from Portsmouth on 6 March 1796, bound for Madras. \"Earl of Wycombe\" reached São Tiago on 5 April and Simon's Bay on 23 July. She arrived at Madras on 23 July. Homeward bound, she was at the Cape on 2 November, reached St Helena on 5 December, and arrived at The Downs on 14 February 1797.\n\nEIC voyage #6 (1797–1800): Captain Dixon Meadows acquired a letter of marque on 19 May 1797. He sailed from Torbay on 22 September, bound for Madras and Bengal. \"Earl of Wycombe\" reached Madras on 3 February 1798 Madras and reached Kedgeree on 10 March. She was at Saugor on 12 June, and Calcutta on 26 July. Bound for Bombay, she was again at Saugor on 19 January 1799 and Madras on 21 February. On 9 April she was at Cannanore and on 13 April Tellicherry. She arrived at Bombay on 5 May. Homeward bound, she reached St Helena on 17 September and Cork on 12 January 1800. She arrived back at The Downs on 1 February.\n\n\"Lloyd's Register\" for 1800 showed \"Earl Wycombe\" with J. Taylor, master, Hughan, owner, and trade London–Jamaica. Captain James Taylor acquired a letter of marque on 23 June 1800.\n\nThe \"Register of Shipping\" for 1804 showed \"Earl Wycombe\" with J. Meadell, master, Beckwith, owner, and trade Liverpool–Pictou.\n\n\"Lloyd's List\" for 18 November 1803 reported that \"Earl of Wycombe\", bound for Liverpool, had put back into Halifax, Nova Scotia, leaky.\n\nOn 27 December 1803 \"Earl of Wycombe\" sailed from Halifax, Nova Scotia, for Liverpool. She was never heard from again.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "54530723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54530723", "title": "Edmund Archer", "text": "Edmund Archer\n\nEdmund Archer, D.D. (1673–1739) was an Anglican Archdeacon in the first half of the eighteenth century.\n\nArcher was born in the parish of St Mary-at-Hill and educated at St John's College, Oxford. He held livings in Taunton, Creech St. Michael, Aisholt, Thurlbear and North Petherton. He was Archdeacon of Taunton from 1712 to 1726; and then of Archdeacon of Wells until his death.\n"}
{"id": "33034640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33034640", "title": "Embodied cognition", "text": "Embodied cognition\n\nEmbodied cognition is the theory that many features of cognition, whether human or otherwise, are shaped by aspects of the entire body of the organism. The features of cognition include high level mental constructs (such as concepts and categories) and performance on various cognitive tasks (such as reasoning or judgment). The aspects of the body include the motor system, the perceptual system, bodily interactions with the environment (situatedness) and the assumptions about the world that are built into the structure of the organism.\n\nThe embodied mind thesis challenges other theories, such as cognitivism, computationalism, and Cartesian dualism.\nIt is closely related to the extended mind thesis, situated cognition and enactivism. The modern version depends on insights drawn from recent research in psychology, linguistics, cognitive science, dynamical systems, artificial intelligence, robotics, animal cognition, plant cognition and neurobiology.\n\nIn philosophy, embodied cognition holds that an agent's cognition is strongly influenced by aspects of an agent's body beyond the brain itself. In their proposal for an enactive approach to cognition Varela \"et al.\" defined \"embodied\":\n\nThe Varela enactive definition is broad enough to overlap the views of extended cognition and situated cognition, and indeed, these ideas are not always carefully separated.\n\nSome authors explain the dependence of cognition upon the body and its environmental interactions by saying cognition in real biological systems is not an end in itself but is constrained by the system's goals and capacities. However, they argue, such constraints do not mean cognition is set by adaptive behavior (or autopoiesis) alone, but cognition requires “\"some\" kind of information processing...the transformation or communication of incoming information”, the acquiring of which involves \"exploration and modification of the environment\". \n\nThe separation of embodied cognition from extended cognition and situated cognition can be based upon the \"embodiment thesis\", a narrower view of embodiment than that of Varela \"et al.\" or that of Dawson:\n\nThis thesis omits direct mention of some aspects of the \"more encompassing biological, psychological and cultural context\" included by Varela \"et al.\" The \"Extended\" mind thesis, in contrast with the \"Embodiment\" thesis, limits cognitive processing neither to the brain nor even to the body, but extends it outward into the agent's world. \"Situated\" cognition emphasizes that this extension is not just a matter of including resources outside the head, but stresses the role of probing and modifying interaction with the agent's world.\n\nIn his \"Universal Natural History and Theory of Heaven\" (1755). philosopher Immanuel Kant advocated a view of the mind–body problem and the subject–object problem with parallels to the embodied view. Some difficulties with this interpretation of Kant include (i) the view that Kant holds the empirical, and specifically knowledge of the body, cannot support \"a priori\" transcendental claims, and (ii) the view that Kant holds that transcendental philosophy, although charged with the responsibility of explaining how we can have empirical knowledge, is not itself empirical.\n\nJosé Ortega y Gasset, George Santayana, Miguel de Unamuno, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Martin Heidegger and others in the broadly existential tradition have proposed philosophies of mind influencing the development of the modern 'embodiment' thesis.\n\nThe embodiment movement in artificial intelligence has fueled the embodiment argument in philosophy and a revised view of ethology:\n\nThese developments have also given emotions a new status in philosophy of mind as an indispensable constituent, rather than a non-essential addition to rational intellectual thought.\nIn philosophy of mind, the idea that cognition is embodied is sympathetic with other views of cognition such as situated cognition or externalism. This is a radical move towards a total re-localization of mental processes out of the neural domain.\n\nEmbodied cognition is a topic of research in social and cognitive psychology, covering issues such as social interaction and decision-making.\nEmbodied cognition reflects the argument that the motor system influences our cognition, just as the mind influences bodily actions. For example, when participants hold a pencil in their teeth engaging the muscles of a smile, they comprehend pleasant sentences faster than unpleasant ones, while holding a pencil between their nose and upper lip to engage the muscles of a frown has the reverse effect.\n\nGeorge Lakoff (a cognitive scientist and linguist) and his collaborators (including Mark Johnson, Mark Turner, and Rafael E. Núñez) have written a series of books promoting and expanding the thesis based on discoveries in cognitive science, such as conceptual metaphor and image schema.\n\nRobotics researchers such as Rodney Brooks, Hans Moravec and Rolf Pfeifer have argued that true artificial intelligence can only be achieved by machines that have sensory and motor skills and are connected to the world through a body. The insights of these robotics researchers have in turn inspired philosophers like Andy Clark and Horst Hendriks-Jansen.\n\nNeuroscientists Gerald Edelman, António Damásio and others have outlined the connection between the body, individual structures in the brain and aspects of the mind such as consciousness, emotion, self-awareness and will. Biology has also inspired Gregory Bateson, Humberto Maturana, Francisco Varela, Eleanor Rosch and Evan Thompson to develop a closely related version of the idea, which they call enactivism. The motor theory of speech perception proposed by Alvin Liberman and colleagues at the Haskins Laboratories argues that the identification of words is embodied in perception of the bodily movements by which spoken words are made. \nIn related work at Haskins, Paul Mermelstein, Philip Rubin, Louis Goldstein, and colleagues developed articulatory synthesis tools for computationally modeling the physiology and aeroacoustics of the vocal tract, demonstrating how cognition and perception of speech can be shaped by biological constraints. This was extended into the audio-visual domain by the \"talking heads\" approach of Eric Vatikiotis-Bateson, Rubin, and other colleagues.\n\nOne embodied cognition study shows that action intention can affect processing in visual search, with more orientation errors for pointing than for grasping. Participants either pointed to or grasped target objects of 2 colors and 2 orientations (45° and 135°). There were randomized numbers of distractors as well (0, 3, 6, or 9), which differed from the target in color, orientation, or both. A tone sounded to inform participants which target orientation to find. Participants kept their eyes on a fixation point until it turned from red to the target color. The screen then lit up and the participants searched for the target, either pointing to it or grasping it (depending on the block). There were 2 blocks for pointing and 2 for grasping, with the order counterbalanced. Each block had 64 trials.\n\nResults from the experiment show that accuracy decreases with an increase in the number of distractors. Overall, participants made more orientation errors than color errors. There was no main effect of accuracy between the pointing and grasping conditions, but participants made significantly fewer orientation errors in the grasping condition than in the pointing condition. Color errors were the same in both conditions. Because orientation is important in grasping an object, these results fit with the researchers' hypothesis that the plan to grasp an object will aid in orientation accuracy. This supports embodied cognition because action intention (planning to grasp an object) can affect visual processing of task-relevant information (orientation).\n\nInternal states can affect distance perception, which relates to embodied cognition. Researchers randomly assigned college student participants to high-choice, low-choice, and control conditions. The high-choice condition signed a “freedom of choice” consent form indicating their decision to wear a Carmen Miranda costume and walk across a busy area of campus. Low-choice participants signed an “experimenter choice” consent form, indicating the experimenter assigned the participant to wear the costume. A control group walked across campus but did not wear a costume. At the conclusion of the experiment, each participant completed a survey which asked them to estimate the distance they walked.\n\nThe high-choice participants perceived the distance walked as significantly shorter than participants in the low-choice and control groups, even though they walked the same distance. The manipulation caused high-choice participants to feel responsible for the choice to walk in the embarrassing costume. This created cognitive dissonance, which refers to a discrepancy between attitudes and behaviors. High-choice participants reconciled their thoughts and actions by perceiving the distance as shorter. These results show the ability of internal states to affect perception of physical distance moved, which illustrates the reciprocal relationship of the body and mind in embodied cognition.\n\nResearchers have found that when making judgements about objects in photographs, people will take the perspective of a person in the picture instead of their own.\nThey showed college undergraduate participants 1 of 3 photographs and asked where 1 object in the picture was compared to the other object. For example, if the 2 objects were an apple and a banana, the participants would have to respond to a question about the location of the apple compared to the banana. The photographs either had no person, a person looking at the object, in this case the banana, or a person reaching for the banana. The photograph and question appeared in a larger set of questionnaires not related to the study.\n\nResults show that participants who viewed photographs that included a person were significantly more likely to respond from another's perspective than those who saw photographs with no person. There were no differences in perspective of responses for the person looking versus reaching. Participants who saw the scene without a person were significantly more likely to respond from their own perspective. This means that the presence of a person in the photograph affected the perspective used even though the question focused solely on the two objects. The researchers state that these results suggest \"disembodied\" cognition, in which the participants put themselves into the body of the person in the photograph.\n\nSome researchers extend embodied cognition to include language. They describe language as a tool that aids in broadening our sense of body. For instance, when asked to identify “this” object, participants most often choose an object near to them. Conversely, when asked to identify “that” object, participants choose an object further away from them. Language allows us to distinguish between distances in more complex ways than the simple perceptual difference between near and far objects.\nThe motor system is involved in language comprehension, in this case when sentences were performable by a human, there was a change in participants' overall movement of a pendulum. Researchers performed an experiment in which college undergraduate participants swung a pendulum while completing a \"sentence judgement task.\" Participants would swing the pendulum with both hands for 10 seconds before a prompt and then a sentence would appear on the screen until the participant responded. In the control condition, participants swung the pendulum without performing the \"sentence judgement task.\" Each trial had half \"plausible\" and half \"implausible\" sentences. The \"plausible\" sentences made sense semantically, while the \"implausible\" ones did not. The \"performable\" sentences could be performed by a human, while the \"inanimate\" sentences could not. Participants responded by saying \"yes\" to the \"plausible\" sentences.\n\nResults show a significant \"relative phase shift,\" or overall change in movement of the swinging pendulum, for the \"performable\" sentences. This change did not occur for \"inanimate\" sentences or the control condition. The researchers did not expect an overall phase shift, instead they expected a change in the variability of movement, or the \"standard deviation of relative phase shift.\" Although not entirely expected, these results support embodied cognition and show that the motor system is involved in the understanding of language. The researchers suggest that the nature of this relationship needs to be further studied to determine the exact correlation this task has to bi-manual motor movements.\n\nEmbodiment effects emerge in the way in which people of different sex and temperament perceive verbal material, such as common adjectives and abstract and neutral nouns. Trofimova, who first described this phenomenon in her experiments, called it \"projection through capacities\". This phenomenon emerges when people's lexical perception depends upon their capacities to handle the events; when their information processing registers mostly those aspects of objects or of a situation that they can properly react to and deal with according to their inherent capacities. \nFor example, in these studies males with stronger motor-physical endurance estimated abstractions describing people-, work/reality- and time-related concepts in more positive terms than males with a weaker endurance. Females with stronger social or physical endurance estimated social attractors in more positive terms than weaker females. Both male and female temperament groups with higher sociability showed a universal positive bias in their estimations of neutral words, especially for social and work/reality-related concepts, in comparison to participants with lower sociability. Capacities related to the tempo of activities also appeared to impact the perception of lexical material: men with faster motor-physical tempo estimated neutral, abstract time-related concepts significantly in more positive terms than men with slower tempo.\n\nA study examining memory and embodied cognition illustrates that people remember more of the gist of a story when they physically act it out. Researchers divided female participants randomly into 5 groups, which were \"Read Only,\" \"Writing,\" \"Collaborative Discussion,\" \"Independent Discussion,\" and \"Improvisation.\" All participants received a monologue about teen addiction and were told to pay attention to details about the character and action in the monologue. Participants were given 5 minutes to read the monologue twice, unaware of a future recall test. In the \"Read Only\" condition participants filled out unrelated questionnaires after reading the monologue. In the \"Writing\" condition participants responded to 5 questions about the story from the perspective of the character in the monologue. They had 6 minutes to answer each question. In the \"Collaborative Discussion\" condition participants responded from the character's perspective to the same questions as the \"Writing\" group, but in groups of 4 or 5 women. They were also given 6 minutes per question and everyone participated in answering each question. The \"Independent Discussion\" condition was the same as the \"Collaborative Discussion,\" except 1 person answered each question. In the \"Improvisation\" condition participants acted out 5 scenes from the monologue in groups of 5 women. The researchers suggest that this condition involves embodied cognition and will produce better memory for the monologue. Every participant played the main character and a supporting character once. Participants were given short prompts from lines in the monologue, which were excluded from the memory test. Participants had 2 minutes to choose characters and 4 minutes for improvisations. The recall test was the monologue with 96 words or phrases missing. Participants had to fill in the blanks as accurately as possible.\n\nResearchers gave the recall test to a group who did not read the monologue. They scored significantly lower than the other groups, which indicated that guessing was not easy. In coding the answers to the recall test, exact words were labeled \"Verbatim\", and correct content but varied wording was labeled \"Gist\". The combination of \"Verbatim\" and \"Gist\" was called \"Total Memory.\" The \"Improvisational\" group had more \"Gist\" memories than any other group and had more \"Total Memory\" than both of the discussion groups. The results fit the researchers' hypothesis that the \"Improvisational\" group would remember more because they actively rehearsed the information from the monologue. Although other groups had also elaborately encoded the information, the \"Improvisation\" group remembered significantly more than the discussion groups and marginally more than the \"Reading Only\" and \"Writing\" groups. Simply experiencing the monologue in an active way aids in remembering the \"Gist.\" There were no differences across groups for \"Verbatim\" memory, which they suggest could take longer than the limited time during the experiment to develop.\n\nIdeas stemming from embodied cognition research have been applied to the field of learning. It has been shown that bodily activity can be used to enhance learning in several studies. Research on embodied learning often utilizes educational technology in the form of virtual reality, mixed reality, or motion caputure to transform learning activities into immersive experiences. There are theoretical approaches that define the level of embodiment of these learning platforms based on factors such as their capabilities for immersion and sensorimotor activity. Other theoretical systems analyze embodied learning in terms of the degree of bodily engagement and whether the embodiment is integrated into a learning task.\n\nA series of experiments demonstrated the interrelation between motor experience and high-level reasoning. For example, although most individuals recruit visual processes when presented with spatial problems such as mental rotation tasks motor experts favor motor processes to perform the same tasks, with higher overall performance. A related study showed that motor experts use similar processes for the mental rotation of body parts and polygons, whereas non-experts treated these stimuli differently. These results were not due to underlying confounds, as demonstrated by a training study which showed mental rotation improvements after a one-year motor training, compared with controls. Similar patterns were also found in working memory tasks, with the ability to remember movements being greatly disrupted by a secondary verbal task in controls and by a motor task in motor experts, suggesting the involvement of different processes to store movements depending on motor experience, namely verbal for controls and motor for experts.\n\nIn research focused on the approach and avoidance effect, people showed an approach effect for positive words. In the \"positive toward condition,\" participants moved positive words toward the center of the screen and negative words away. In the \"negative toward condition,\" participants moved negative words toward the center and positive words away. Participants were given feedback about their accuracy at the end of each of the 4 experimental blocks. In the first experiment the word at the center of the screen had a positive valence, while in the second experiment the central word had a negative valence. In the third experiment, the center of the screen had an empty box.\n\nAs predicted, in the first experiment participants in the \"positive toward condition\" responded significantly faster than those in the \"negative toward condition.\" This fits the approach/avoidance effect in embodied cognition, which states that people are faster to approach positive things and avoid negative ones. In the second experiment, researchers expected participants in the \"negative toward condition\" to be faster, yet those in the \"positive toward condition\" responded significantly faster. Although effects were smaller in the third experiment, participants in the \"positive toward condition\" were still faster. Overall, people were faster in the \"positive toward condition,\" regardless of the valence of the central word. Despite mixed results regarding the researchers' expectations, they maintain that the motor system is important in processing higher level representations such as the action goal. In this study, participants showed strong approach effects in the \"positive toward condition,\" which supports embodied cognition.\n\nAs part of a larger study, researchers separated participants into 5 groups with different instructions.\nIn the \"approach\" condition, participants were instructed to imagine physically moving the product toward them, but in the \"avoid\" condition, participants had to imagine moving the product away from them. In the \"control\" condition, participants were instructed to simply observe the product. The \"correction\" condition involved the same instructions as the approach condition, except participants were told that the body can affect judgment. In the \"approach information\" condition, participants had to list 5 reasons why they would obtain the product. After viewing a picture of an aversive product, participants rated on a scale of 1 to 7 how desirable the product was and how much they approached of or avoided the product. They also provided how much they would pay for the product.\n\nAn approach/avoidance effect was found in relation to product evaluation. Participants in the \"approach\" condition liked the aversive product significantly more and would pay more for it. There were no differences between the \"avoidance,\" \"control,\" \"correction,\" and \"approach information\" conditions. Simulation of approach can affect liking and willingness to pay for a product, but the effect can be reversed if the person knows about this influence. This supports embodied cognition.\n\nAs part of a larger study, one experiment randomly assigned college undergraduates to 2 groups.\nIn the \"muscle-firming\" condition participants grasped a pen in their hand, while in the \"control\" condition participants held the pen in their fingers. The participants were then asked to fill out donations to Haiti for the Red Cross in sealed envelopes. They were told to return the envelope regardless of whether they donated. They also filled out questionnaires about their feelings about the Red Cross, their tendency to donate, their feelings about Haiti, what they thought the purpose of the study was, etc.\n\nSignificantly more participants in the \"muscle-firming\" condition than in the \"control\" condition donated money. Condition did not affect the actual amount donated when participants chose to donate. As the researchers predicted, the \"muscle-firming\" condition helped participants get over their physical aversion to viewing the devastation in Haiti and spend money. Muscle-firming in this experiment may also be related to an increase in self-control, suggesting embodied cognition can play a role in self-regulation.\n\nAnother set of studies was conducted by Shalev (2014), indicating that exposure to physical or conceptual thirst or dryness-related cues influence perceived energy and reduce self-regulation. In Study 1, participants primed with dryness-related concepts reported greater physical thirst and tiredness and lower subjective vitality. In Study 2, participants who were physically thirstywere less persistent in investing effort in an unsolvable anagram task. In Study 3, images of arid land influenced time preference regarding when to begin preparation to make a monetary investment. Finally, in Studies 4a and 4b, exposure to the names of dryness-related products influenced impressions of the vitality of a target person.\n\nSome suggest that the embodied mind serves self-regulatory processes by combining movement and cognition to reach a goal. Thus, the embodied mind has a facilitative effect. Some judgments, such as the emotion of a face, are detected more quickly when a participant mimics the facial expression that is being evaluated. Individuals holding a pen in their mouths to freeze their facial muscles and make them unable to mimic the expression were less able to judge emotions. Goal-relevant actions may be encouraged by embodied cognition, as evidenced by the automated approach and avoidance of certain environmental cues. Embodied cognition is also influenced by the situation. If one moves in a way previously associated with danger, the body may require a greater level of information processing than if the body moves in a way associated with a benign situation.\n\nSome social psychologists examined embodied cognition and hypothesized that embodied cognition would be supported by embodied rapport. Embodied rapport would be demonstrated by pairs of same-sex strangers using Aron’s paradigm, which instructs participants to alternate asking certain questions and to progressively self-disclose. The researchers predicted that participants would mimic each other’s movements, reflecting embodied cognition. Half the participants completed a control task of reading and editing a scientific article, while half the participants completed a shortened version of Aron’s self-disclosure paradigm.\n\nThere is a significant correlation between self-disclosure and positive emotions towards the other participant. Participants randomly assigned to the self-disclosure task displayed more behavioral synchrony (rated by independent judges watching the tapes of each condition on mute) and reported more positive emotions than the control group. Since bodily movements influence the psychological experience of the task, the relationship between self-disclosure and positive feelings towards one's partner may be an example of embodied cognition.\n\nEmbodied cognition may also be defined from the perspective of evolutionary psychologists.\nEvolutionary psychologists view emotion as an important self-regulatory aspect of embodied cognition, and emotion as a motivator towards goal-relevant action. Emotion helps drive adaptive behavior. The evolutionary perspective cites language, both spoken and written, as types of embodied cognition. Pacing and non-verbal communication reflect embodied cognition in spoken language. Technical aspects of written language, such as italics, all caps, and emoticons promote an inner voice and thereby a sense of feeling rather than thinking about a written message.\n\nGeorge Lakoff and his collaborators have developed several lines of evidence that suggest that people use their understanding of familiar physical objects, actions and situations (such as containers, spaces, trajectories) to understand other more complex domains (such as mathematics, relationships or death). Lakoff argues that \"all\" cognition is based on knowledge that comes from the body and that other domains are mapped onto our embodied knowledge using a combination of conceptual metaphor, image schema and prototypes.\n\nLakoff and Mark Johnson showed that humans use metaphor ubiquitously and that metaphors operate at a conceptual level (i.e., they map one conceptual domain onto another), they involve an unlimited number of individual expressions and that the same metaphor is used conventionally throughout a culture.\nLakoff and his collaborators have collected thousands of examples of conceptual metaphors in many domains.\n\nFor example, people will typically use language about journeys to discuss the history and status of a love affair, a metaphor Lakoff and Johnson call \"LOVE IS A JOURNEY\". It is used in such expression as: \"we arrived at a crossroads,\" \"we parted ways\", \"we hit the rocks\" (as in a sea journey), \"she's in the driver's seat\", or, simply, \"we're together\". In cases like these, something complex (a love affair) is described in terms of something that can be done with a body (travel through space).\n\nPrototypes are \"typical\" members of a category, e.g. a robin is a prototypical bird, but a penguin is not. The role of prototypes in human cognition was first identified and studied by Eleanor Rosch in the 1970s. She was able to show that prototypical objects are more easily categorized than non-prototypical objects, and that people answered questions about a category as a whole by reasoning about a prototype. She also identified basic level categories: categories that have prototypes that are easily visualized (such as a chair) and are associated with basic physical motions (such as \"sitting\"). Prototypes of basic level categories are used to reason about more general categories.\n\nPrototype theory has been used to explain human performance on many different cognitive tasks and in a large variety of domains. George Lakoff argues that prototype theory shows that the categories that people use are based on our experience of having a body and have no resemblance to logical classes or types. For Lakoff, this shows that traditional objectivist accounts of truth cannot be correct.\n\nA classic argument against embodiment in its strict form is based on abstract meaning. Whereas the meanings of the words ‘eye’ and ‘grasp’ can be explained, to a degree, by pointing to objects and actions, those of ‘beauty’ and ‘freedom’ cannot. It may be that some common sensorimotor knowledge is immanent in \"freeing\" actions or instantiations of \"beauty\", but it seems likely that additional semantic binding principles are behind such concepts. So might it be necessary, after all, to place abstract semantics in an amodal meaning system? A remarkable observation has recently been offered that may be of the essence in this context: abstract terms show an over-proportionally strong tendency to be semantically linked to knowledge about emotions. This additional embodied–semantic link accounts for advantages in processing speed for abstract emotional terms over otherwise matched control words. In addition, abstract words strongly activate anterior cingulate cortex, a site known to be relevant for emotion processing Thus, it appears that at least some abstract words are semantically grounded in emotion knowledge.\n\nIf abstract emotion words indeed receive their meaning through grounding in emotion it is of crucial relevance Therefore, the link between an abstract emotion word and its abstract concept is via manifestation of the latter in prototypical actions. The child learns an abstract emotion word such as 'joy' because it shows JOY-expressing action schemas, which language-teaching adults use as criteria for correct application of the abstract emotion word Thus, the manifestation of emotions in actions becomes the crucial link between word use and internal state, and hence between sign and meaning. Only after a stock of abstract emotion words has been grounded in emotion-expressing action can further emotion terms be learnt from context.\n\nThe experience of AI research provides another line of evidence supporting the embodied mind thesis. In the early history of AI successes in programming high-level reasoning tasks such as chess-playing led to an unfounded optimism that all AI problems would be relatively quickly solved. These programs simulated intelligence using logic and high-level abstract symbols (an approach called Good old-fashioned AI). This \"disembodied\" approach ran into serious difficulties in the 1970s and 80s, as researchers discovered that abstract, disembodied reasoning was highly inefficient and could not achieve human-levels of competence on many simple tasks. Funding agencies (such as DARPA) withdrew funding because the field of AI had failed to achieve its stated objectives, leading to difficult period now known as the \"AI winter\". Many AI researchers began to doubt that high level symbolic reasoning could ever perform well enough to solve simple problems.\n\nRodney Brooks argued in the mid-80s that these symbolic approaches were failing because researchers did not appreciate the importance of sensorimotor skills to intelligence in general, and applied these principals to robotics (an approach he called \"Nouvelle AI\"). Another successful new direction was neural networks—programs based on the actual structures within human bodies that gave rise to intelligence and learning. In the 90s, statistical AI achieved high levels of success in industry without using any symbolic reasoning, but instead using probabilistic techniques to make \"guesses\" and improve them incrementally. This process is similar to the way human beings are able to make fast, intuitive choices without stopping to reason symbolically.\n\nMoravec's paradox is the discovery by artificial intelligence and robotics researchers that, contrary to traditional assumptions, high-level reasoning requires very little computation, but low-level sensorimotor skills require enormous computational resources. The principle was articulated by Hans Moravec (whence the name) and others in the 1980s.\nAs Moravec writes:\nEncoded in the large, highly evolved sensory and motor portions of the human brain is a billion years of experience about the nature of the world and how to survive in it. The deliberate process we call reasoning is, I believe, the thinnest veneer of human thought, effective only because it is supported by this much older and much powerful, though usually unconscious, sensorimotor knowledge. We are all prodigious olympians in perceptual and motor areas, so good that we make the difficult look easy. Abstract thought, though, is a new trick, perhaps less than 100 thousand years old. We have not yet mastered it. It is not all that intrinsically difficult; it just seems so when we do it.\n\nMany artificial intelligence researchers have argued that a machine may need a human-like body to think and speak as well as a human being. As early as 1950, Alan Turing wrote: It can also be maintained that it is best to provide the machine with the best sense organs that money can\nbuy, and then teach it to understand and speak English. That process could follow the normal teaching of a\nchild. Things would be pointed out and named, etc. (Turing, 1950).\n\nEmbodiment theory was brought into artificial intelligence most notably by Rodney Brooks who showed in the 1980s that robots could be more effective if they 'thought' (planned or processed) and perceived as little as possible. The robot's intelligence is geared towards only handling the minimal amount of information necessary to make its behavior be appropriate and/or as desired by its creator.\n\nOthers have argued that without taking into account both the architecture of the human brain, and embodiment, it is unrealistic to replicate accurately the processes which take place during language acquisition, comprehension, production, or during non-linguistic actions. There have thus been suggestions that while robots are far from isomorphic with humans, they could benefit from strengthened associative connections in the optimization of their processes and their reactivity and sensitivity to environmental stimuli, and in situated human-machine interaction, and that the concept of multisensory integration be extended to cover linguistic input and the complementary information combined from temporally coincident sensory impressions.\n\nThe embodied approach to AI has been given several names by different schools of researchers, including: Nouvelle AI (Brooks' term), Situated AI, Behavior based AI and Embodied cognitive science.\n\nOne source of inspiration for embodiment theory has been research in cognitive neuroscience, such as the proposals of Gerald Edelman concerning how mathematical and computational models such as neuronal group selection and neural degeneracy result in emergent categorization.\n\nRohrer (2005) discusses how both our neural and developmental embodiment shape both our mental and linguistic categorizations. The degree of thought abstraction has been found to be associated with physical distance which then affects associated ideas and perception of risk.\n\nThe embodied mind thesis is compatible with some views of cognition promoted in neuropsychology, such as the theories of consciousness of Vilayanur S. Ramachandran, Gerald Edelman, and Antonio Damasio.\n\nThe modeling work of cognitive neuroscientists such as Francisco Varela and Walter Freeman seeks to explain embodied and situated cognition in terms of dynamical systems theory and neurophenomenology, but rejects the idea that the brain uses representations to do so (a position also espoused by Gerhard Werner).\n\nResearch on embodied cognition is extremely broad, covering a wide range of concepts. Methods to study embodied cognition vary from experiment to experiment based on the operational definition used by researchers. There is much evidence for embodied cognition, although interpretation of results and their significance may be disputed. Researchers continue to search for the best way to study and interpret embodied cognition.\n\nSome criticize the notion that pre-verbal children provide an ideal channel for studying embodied cognition, especially embodied social cognition.\nIt may be impossible to know when a pre-verbal infant is a \"pure model\" of embodied cognition, since infants experience dramatic changes in social behavior throughout development. A 9-month old has reached a different developmental stage than a 2-month old. Looking-time and reaching measures of embodied cognition may not represent embodied cognition since infants develop object permanence of objects they can see before they develop object permanence with objects they can touch. True embodied cognition suggests that children would have to first physically engage with an object to understand object permanence.\n\nThe response to this critique is that infants are \"ideal models\" of embodied cognition. Infants are the best models because they utilize symbols less than adults do. Looking-time could likely be a better measure of embodied cognition than reaching because infants have not developed certain fine motor skills yet. Infants may first develop a passive mode of embodied cognition before they develop the active mode involving fine motor movements.\n\nSome criticize the conclusions made by researchers about embodied cognition. The pencil-in-teeth study is frequently cited as an example of these invalidly drawn conclusions. The researchers believed that the quicker responses to positive sentences by participants engaging their smiling muscles represented embodied cognition. However, opponents argue that the effects of this exercise were primed or facilitated by the engagement of certain facial muscles. Many cases of facilitative movements of the body may be incorrectly labeled as evidence of embodied cognition.\n\nThe following \"Six Views of Embodied Cognition\" are taken from Margaret Wilson:\n\n\nMargaret Wilson adds: \"Some authors go so far as to complain that the phrase 'situated cognition' implies, falsely, that there also exists cognition that is not situated (Greeno & Moore, 1993, p. 50).\" Of her six claims, she notes in her abstract, \"the first three and the fifth claim appear to be at least partially true, and their usefulness is best evaluated in terms of the range of their applicability. The fourth claim, I argue, is deeply problematic. The sixth claim has received the least attention, but it may in fact be the best documented and most powerful of the six claims.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7142533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7142533", "title": "Eric Axley", "text": "Eric Axley\n\nEric Allen Axley (born April 22, 1974) is an American professional golfer.\n\nAxley was born in Athens, Tennessee. He turned professional in 1997. He is one of the few natural left-handers to win on the Web.com Tour and PGA Tour.\n\nIn 2006, Axley won the Valero Texas Open, claiming his first PGA Tour win. After a poor 2009 season, Axley lost his PGA Tour playing rights. Axley divided his time among the NGA Hooters Tour, eGolf Professional Tour, Web.com Tour, and PGA Tour.\n\nIn 2014, Axley tried to play his way back to the PGA Tour through Monday qualifying and past champion status. Axley made seven cuts in ten events and finished 184th in the FedEx Cup standings, good enough for a trip to the Web.com Tour Finals. Axley finished 50th, the last position to earn a PGA Tour card and his first in five years, by just $31.66. After barely gaining a PGA Tour card, he barely missed getting it back for the 2015-16 season, just $101 behind Rob Oppenheim.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8599335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8599335", "title": "Gravitational biology", "text": "Gravitational biology\n\nGravitational biology is the study of the effects gravity has on living organisms. Throughout the history of the Earth life has evolved to survive changing conditions, such as changes in the climate and habitat. However, one constant factor in evolution since life first began on Earth is the force of gravity. As a consequence, all biological processes are accustomed to the ever-present force of gravity and even small variations in this force can have significant impact on the health and function and the system of organisms.\n\nThe force of gravity on the surface of the Earth, normally denoted \"g\", has remained constant in both direction and magnitude since the formation of the planet. As a result, both plant and animal life have evolved to rely upon and cope with it in various ways.\n\nPlant tropisms are directional movements of a plant with respect to a directional stimulus. One such tropism is gravitropism, or the growth or movement of a plant with respect to gravity. Plant roots grow towards the pull of gravity and away from sunlight, and shoots and stems grow against the pull of gravity and towards sunlight.\n\nGravity has had an effect on the development of animal life since the first single-celled organism.\nThe size of single biological cells is inversely proportional to the strength of the gravitational field exerted on the cell. That is, in stronger gravitational fields the size of cells decreases, and in weaker gravitational fields the size of cells increases. Gravity is thus a limiting factor in the growth of individual cells.\n\nCells which were naturally larger than the size that gravity alone would allow for had to develop means to protect against internal sedimentation. Several of these methods are based upon protoplasmic motion, thin and elongated shape of the cell body, increased cytoplasmic viscosity, and a reduced range of specific gravity of cell components relative to the ground-plasma.\n\nThe effects of gravity on many-celled organisms is considerably more drastic. During the period when animals first evolved to survive on land some method of directed locomotion and thus a form of inner skeleton or outer skeleton would have been required to cope with the increase in the force of gravity due to the weakened upward force of buoyancy. Prior to this point, most lifeforms were small and had a worm- or jellyfish-like appearance, and without this evolutionary step would not have been able to maintain their form or move on land.\n\nIn larger terrestrial vertebrates gravitational forces influence musculoskeletal systems, fluid distribution, and hydrodynamics of the circulation.\n\nEvery day the realization of space habitation becomes closer, and even today space stations exist and are home to long-term, though not yet permanent, residents. Because of this there is a growing scientific interest in how changes in the gravitational field influence different aspects of the physiology of living organisms, especially mammals since these results can normally be closely related to the expected effects on humans. All current research in this field can be classified into two groups.\n\nThe first group consists of the experiments that involve gravitational fields of less than one \"g\", termed \"hypogravity\", without artificial gravity, or \"microgravity\". A space station or a spacecraft in a spaceflight will be in hypogravity. Therefore, understanding of the effects of hypogravity on the human body is necessary for prolonged space travel and colonization.\n\nThe second group consist of those involving gravitational fields of more than one \"g\", termed \"hypergravity\". For brief periods during take-off and landing of space craft astronauts are under the influence of hypergravity. Understanding the effects of hypergravity are also necessary if colonization of planets larger than the Earth is ever to take place.\n\nRecent experiments have proven that alterations in metabolism, immune cell function, cell division, and cell attachment all occur in the hypogravity of space. For example, after a matter of days in microgravity (< 10 \"g\"), human immune cells were unable to differentiate into mature cells. One of the large implications of this is that if certain cells cannot differentiate in space, organisms may not be able to reproduce successfully after exposure to zero gravity.\n\nScientists believe that the stress associated with space flight is responsible for the inability of some cells to differentiate. These stresses can alter metabolic activities and can disturb the chemical processes in living organisms. A specific example would be that of bone cell growth. Microgravity impedes the development of bone cells. Bone cells must attach themselves to something shortly after development and will die if they cannot. Without the downward pull of a gravitational force on these bone cells, they float around randomly and eventually die off. This suggests that the direction of gravity may give the cells clues as to where to attach themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "19392902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19392902", "title": "Géza Teleki", "text": "Géza Teleki\n\nCount Géza Teleki de Szék (also known as \"Géza von Teleki\", 27 November 1911 – 5 January 1983) was a Hungarian politician and field hockey player who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics. He was born in Budapest, the son of Pál Teleki.\n\nWhile the Hungarian Sea Scouts were attending a Sea Scout rally in the summer of 1927 at Helsingør, Denmark, Teleki was inclined on a cruise to ignore a reprimand from his Scoutmaster, Fritz M. de Molnár, for failure to carry out a small but necessary exercise of seamanship. Molnár tried to drive home his point by threatening to tell the boy's father on their return to Budapest, but Géza replied, \"Oh, Dad's not interested in Scouting.\" This prompted Molnár to take up the subject of Scouting with Count Teleki, who became interested. It meant that the movement in Hungary obtained the wholehearted support and encouragement of one of its noted citizens, becoming Chief Scout, honorary Chief Scout, a member of the International Committee for many years, camp chief of the 4th World Scout Jamboree, and a close friend of his contemporary Baden-Powell.\n\nIn 1936 Géza Teleki was a member of the Hungarian field hockey team at the 1936 summer Olympics, playing in all three matches as a forward.\n\nGéza Teleki pressed for the truce on the end of the Second World War and became a member of the delegation that started peace negotiations in Moscow on 28 September 1944. He also signed the interim truce on 11 October, although this was thwarted by the Nazi-style Arrow Cross Party takeover on 15 October. He served as minister of religion and education in the Interim National Government that formed in Debrecen and was briefly leader of the new conservative Civic Democratic Party, but then taught in the Faculty of Economics of the University of Budapest until 1948. He emigrated to the United States in 1949.\n\nHe was a teacher on the University of Virginia from 1950. From 1955 he served as geology professor of the George Washington University. Teleki committed suicide together with his wife, because of their incurable disease. His father, Pál Teleki also committed suicide in 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93809", "title": "Hamilcar Barca", "text": "Hamilcar Barca\n\nHamilcar Barca or Barcas (–228BC) was a Carthaginian general and statesman, leader of the Barcid family, and father of Hannibal, Hasdrubal and Mago. He was also father-in-law to Hasdrubal the Fair.\n\nHamilcar commanded the Carthaginian land forces in Sicily from 247BC to 241BC, during the latter stages of the First Punic War. He kept his army intact and led a successful guerrilla war against the Romans in Sicily. Hamilcar retired to Carthage after the peace treaty in 241BC, following the defeat of Carthage. When the Mercenary War burst out in 240BC, Hamilcar was recalled to command and was instrumental in concluding that conflict successfully. Hamilcar commanded the Carthaginian expedition to Spain in 237BC, and for eight years expanded the territory of Carthage in Spain before dying in battle in 228 BC. He may have been responsible for creating the strategy which his son Hannibal implemented in the Second Punic War to bring the Roman Republic close to defeat.\n\nHamilcar is the latinization of the common Carthaginian masculine given name () or (), meaning \"Brother of Melqart\".\n\nThe cognomen or epithet () means \"thunderbolt\" or \"shining\". It is cognate with the Arabic name Barq and the Hebrew name Barak and equivalent to the Greek \"Keraunos\", which was borne by many commanders contemporary with Hamilcar and his son Hannibal.\n\nLittle is known about the origins or history of the Barca family prior to the Punic Wars. Quoting Tony Bath, \"The Barca family, which originally came from Cyrene, was a powerful one but not at that time among the first families of Carthage\". (Cyrene was in modern Libya). Unfortunately Tony Bath omits references. Lance Serge states that Hamilcar's family was part of the landed aristocracy of Carthage. Hamilcar was a young man of 28 when he received the Sicilian command in 247 BC. By this time he had three daughters, and his son Hannibal was born during the same year.\n\nThe Carthaginians had gained command of the sea after their victory in the Battle of Drepanum in 249 BC, but they only held two cities in Sicily: Lilybaeum and Drepanum by the time Hamilcar took up command. The Carthaginian state was led by the landed aristocracy at the time, and they preferred to expand across northern Africa instead of pursuing an aggressive policy in Sicily. Hanno \"The Great\" was in charge of operations in Africa since 248 BC and had conquered considerable territory by 241 BC.\n\nCarthage at this time was feeling the strain of the prolonged conflict. In addition to maintaining a fleet and soldiers in Sicily, they were also fighting the Libyans and Numidians in northern Africa. As a result, Hamilcar was given a fairly small army and the Carthaginian fleet was gradually withdrawn so that, by 242 BC, Carthage had no ships to speak of in Sicily.\n\nThe Carthaginian leadership probably thought Rome had been defeated and invested little manpower in Sicily. With a small force and no money to hire new troops, Hamilcar's strategic goal probably was to maintain a stalemate, as he had neither the resources to win the war nor the authority to peacefully settle it Hamilcar was in command of a mercenary army composed of multiple nationalities and his ability to successfully lead this force demonstrates his skill as field commander. He employed combined arms tactics, like Alexander and Pyrrhus, and his strategy was similar to the one employed by Quintus Fabius Maximus in the Second Punic War, ironically against Hannibal, the eldest son of Hamilcar Barca, in Italy during 217 BC. The difference was that Fabius commanded a numerically superior army to his opponent, had no supply problems, and had room to manoeuvre, while Hamilcar was mostly static, had a far smaller army than the Romans and was dependent on seaborne supplies from Carthage.\n\nHamilcar, upon taking command in the summer of 247 BC, punished the rebellious mercenaries (who had revolted because of overdue payments) by murdering some of them at night and drowning the rest at sea, and dismissing many to different part of northern Africa. With a reduced army and fleet, Hamilcar commenced his operations. Romans had divided their forces, Consul L. Caelius Metellus was near Lilybaeum, while Numerius Fabius Buteo was besieging Drepanum at that time. Hamilcar probably fought an inconclusive battle at Drepanum, but there is cause to doubt this.\n\nHamilcar next raided Locri in Bruttium and the area around Brindisi in 247 BC, and on his return he seized a strong position on Mount Ercte (Monte Pellegrino, just north of Palermo or Mt. Castellacio, 7 miles north-west of Palermo), and not only maintained himself against all attacks, but carried on with his seaborne raids ranging from Catana in Sicily to far as Cumae in central Italy. He also set about improving the spirit of the army, and succeeded in creating a highly disciplined and versatile force. While Hamilcar won no large-scale battle or recaptured any cities lost to the Romans, he waged a relentless campaign against the enemy, and caused a constant drain on Roman resources. However, if Hamilcar had hoped to recapture Panormus, he failed in his strategy. Roman forces led by the consuls Marcus Otacilius Crassus and Marcaus Fabius Licinus achieved little against Hamilcar in 246 BC, and the consuls of 245 BC, Marcus Fabius Bueto and Atilius Bulbus, fared no better.\n\nIn 244 BC, Hamilcar transferred his army at night by sea to a similar position on the slopes of Mt. Eryx (Monte San Giuliano), from which he was able to lend support to the besieged garrison in the neighbouring town of Drepanum (Trapani). Hamilcar seized the town of Eryx, captured by the Romans in 249 BC, after destroying the Roman garrison, and positioned his army between the Roman forces stationed at the summit and their camp at the base of the mountain. Hamilcar removed the population to Drepana. Hamilcar continued his activities unhindered from his position for another two years, being supplied by road from Drepana, although Carthaginian ships had been withdrawn from Sicily by this time and no naval raids were launched. During one of the raids, when troops under a subordinate commander named “Boaster” engaged in plunder against the orders of Hamilcar and suffered severe casualties when the Romans caught up to them, Hamilcar requested a truce to bury his dead. Roman consul Fundanius (243/2 BC) arrogantly replied that Hamilcar should request a truce to save his living and denied the request. Hamilcar managed to inflict severe casualties on the Romans soon after, and when the Roman consul requested a truce to bury his dead, Hamilcar replied that his quarrel was with the living only and the dead had already settled their dues, and granted the truce.\nThe actions of Hamilcar, and his immunity to defeat, plus the stalemate at the siege of Lilybaeum caused the Romans to start building a fleet in 243 BC to seek a decision at sea. However, the constant skirmishing without ultimate victory may have caused the morale of some of Hamilcar's troops to crack and 1,000 Celtic mercenaries tried to betray the Punic camp to the Romans, which was foiled. Hamilcar had to promise considerable rewards to keep the morale of his army up, which was to produce near fatal problems for Carthage later on.\n\nThe Roman Republic was nearly bankrupt and had to borrow money from wealthy citizens to fund the construction of a fleet of 200 Quinqueremes, which blockaded Carthaginian positions in Sicily in 242 BC by seizing the harbour of Drepana and anchorages at Lilybaeum, while Roman soldiers built siege works around Drepanum. The better-trained Roman fleet defeated a hastily raised, undermanned and ill-trained Punic fleet at Battle of the Aegates Islands in 241 BC, cutting Sicily off from Carthage. Carthaginian leadership requested terms to the victorious Roman commander, Gaius Lutatius Catulus and authorised Hamilcar Barca to open negotiations, probably to avoid the responsibility of the defeat. Hamilcar in turn nominated Gisco, the Carthaginian commander of Lilybaeum, to conduct the talks. Carthage often hauled defeated generals and admirals before the Tribunal of 100 and had them crucified, so Hamilcar probably distanced himself from the possibility of prosecution if the Roman terms turned out to be harsh enough for Carthaginian authorities to seek a scapegoat.\n\nThis treaty replaced all previous treaties between the two powers. The initial conditions laid out by Lutatius to Gisco were:\n\nHamilcar Barca refused the demand to surrender Roman deserters or disarm Carthaginian soldiers, despite being threatened by Lutatius to have the Punic army pass under the yoke. Lutatius did not press the issue further, and the Carthaginian soldiers were later allowed to leave Sicily under arms with their honor intact, and without any token of submission – a rare gesture granted by the Romans to a defeated enemy. Roman deserters may have been surrendered on a later date.\n\nLutatius did not have the authority to ratify the agreement he made with Hamilcar, so he forwarded them to the Comitia Centuriata in Rome. The Romans rejected these terms and appointed ten commissioners, led by Quantius Lutatius Cerco, brother of the consul and himself consul in 240 BC, to reexamine the conditions. They added some conditions and amended some of the ones given by Lutatius:\n\n\nThe last condition is mentioned by Polybius in place of the one regarding not making war on Syracuse. It is possible that Hamilcar Barca secured the last clause after the initial conditions, which were more favorable to Carthage, was altered by Rome with a harsher one. Hamilcar Barca gathered the Carthaginian soldiers from Drepana and Eryx at Lilybaeum, surrendered his command, returned to Carthage and retired to private life, leaving Gisco and the Carthaginian government to pay off his soldiers. Whatever was the motivation behind this act, it was resented by the mercenaries left behind in Sicily.\n\nThe “Undefeated” army now created a unique problem for Carthage. Had Hamilcar suffered a decisive defeat, casualties and prisoners would have diminished their numbers and Carthage would have had an excuse not to pay anything. But now the 20,000 man army had to be paid their full due.\n\nGisco sensibly sent the troops to Carthage in small groups with intervals in between so the government could pay them off without trouble. However, the Carthaginian authorities waited until the whole army had gathered at Carthage, probably by the summer of 241 BC. As the strain on the Punic population increased, Carthaginian authorities then sent them off to Sicca, planning to plead with the whole army to forgo their unpaid wages by pointing out the dire financial situation of Carthage. Hamilcar's former soldiers, who had been kept together only by his personal authority and by the promise of good pay, broke out into open mutiny once Hanno the Great tried to impose this, and marched on Carthage and encamped at Tunis. The soldiers refused to accept Hamilcar as an arbitrator, angered by his refusal to accompany his army from Sicily and retiring to Carthage as soon the treaty with Rome was formalized, and although Carthage at this point conceded all their demands, things soon boiled over and started the conflict known as the Mercenary War. The rebels, under Spendius and Matho, were joined by 70,000 African subjects of Carthage. The rebels divided their forces, detachments were sent to besiege Utica and Hippo, while others cut Carthage off from the mainland, probably in the winter of 241 BC or spring of 240 BC.\n\nHanno the Great was given command of the Punic army, which was raised from Carthaginian citizens and mercenaries recruited from abroad, plus cavalry squadrons and 100 elephants. Hanno sailed to Utica in the spring of 241 BC, obtained siege equipment from the city and overran the rebel camp, the rebels fleeing before the charging Punic elephants. Hanno, accustomed to fighting Libyans and Numidians, did not anticipate any further trouble and left his army for Utica. However, the rebels regrouped, and observing lax discipline among the Punic troops, launched a surprise sortie and routed the Punic army while Hanno was absent, driving the survivors to Utica and capturing all the baggage. Hanno marshaled his soldiers, but twice failed to engage the rebels under favorable conditions and twice failed to surprise them on other occasions. The Carthaginian government then raised an army of 10,000 soldiers and 70 elephants and put Hamilcar Barca in command. Hanno posted his army near Hippo Acra, where Matho's army was besieging the town.\n\nThe rebels held the hills to the west of Carthage and the only bridge across the Bagradas river leading to Utica. Hamilcar observed that wind blowing from a certain direction uncovered a sandbar at the river mouth that was fordable and, under cover of night, the Punic army left Carthage and crossed the river. Hamilcar aimed to attack the small rebel band holding the bridge, but Spendius led the rebel force besieging Utica to confront Hamilcar. The Carthaginian army was caught in a pincer movement, he pretended to retreat, and when the rebel formation became disordered, Hamilcar, by brilliant maneuvering, heavily defeated their forces, killing 8,000 mercenaries and capturing 2,000 men. Hamilcar occupied the bridge, then established control over the surrounding region while part of the surviving rebels fled towards Utica and others, after being driven from their camp near the bridge, fled to Tunis.\n\nHamilcar's victory opened communication with Utica, and gave Hamilcar the chance to bring nearby towns under Carthaginian control by force or negotiations. He made no attempt to join Hanno near Utica. Spendius rallied his forces, was reinforced by a detachment largely made of Gauls under Autaritus and shadowed Hamilcar as he advanced south east, keeping to the high ground to avoid Carthaginian elephants and cavalry and harassing their enemy at every possible opportunity. These \"Fabian tactics\" continued until Hamilcar encamped in a valley, probably near Nepheris, and the rebels trapped his army, with the Libyans blocking the exit, Spendius and his troops camping near the Punic army and the Numidians covering Hamilcar's rear. Hamilcar's army was saved by pure luck – a Numidian chieftain, Naravas, who would later marry Hamilcar's third daughter, defected with 2,000 horsemen. Hamilcar exited the valley and, after a hard-fought battle, defeated the army of Spendius. The rebel loss was 8,000 dead with 4,000 captured. Hamilcar offered the prisoners a choice – to join his army, or leave Africa with the condition never to take up arms against Carthage. The new joiners were armed with equipment captured from the rebels. By winter of 240 BC, the situation had improved for Carthage.\n\nRebel leaders feared mass desertions might result because of Hamilcar's policy towards prisoners. To forestall any such event, rebels committed an act of cruelty unpardonable by Carthage. Autaritus spread the rumor that Carthaginian prisoners led by Gisco were plotting to escape. Rebels opposing this were stoned and Gisco and his fellow prisoners were tortured to death. Autaritus announced that he would do the same with all Punic prisoners that fell into rebel hands in future. Hamilcar killed his prisoners and announced a policy of equal measure toward future rebel prisoners, thus ending any chance of desertion from the rebel army and the truceless war began in earnest.\n\nCarthage was hit by a series of disasters in 239 BC: her fleet and supply flotilla bringing supplies from Empoia was sunk in a storm, the mercenaries in Sardinia rebelled and the cities of Utica and Hippo Acra killed their Punic garrisons and defected to the rebels. Carthage sent an expedition to Sardinia under Hanno, but this force killed their officers and joined the rebels. Furthermore, Hamilcar had invited Hanno the Great to join forces and try to end the rebellion as quickly as possible, but the generals failed to cooperate.\n\nThe gloomy situation changed when first Syracuse and then Rome came to the aid of Carthage. Syracuse redoubled the volume of supplies sent to Carthage. Rome forbade Italian traders to trade with rebels and encouraged trade with Carthage, freed Punic prisoners without ransom, and allowed Carthage to recruit mercenaries from Roman territories and flatly refused the invitation from Utica, Hippo and Sardinia to occupy these areas. Finally, when the Carthaginian Senate was unable to decide between Hamilcar and Hanno, the people's assembly left it to the army to decide on their Commander in Chief, and Hamilcar Barca was elected to sole command. The people's assembly chose Hannibal of Paropos, son of another Hamilcar and a veteran of the First Punic War as Hamilcar's deputy.\n\nWhile Carthage was busy settling state affairs, Spendius and Matho decided to blockade the city from the landward side. However, as the rebels had no navy, Carthage could draw supplies from the sea and so did not face the threat of starvation. But the rebels would sally out from their camp at Tunis and approach the city walls to cause terror inside the city. In response, Hamilcar began to harass the rebel supply lines and soon the rebels were placed in a state of siege. Spendius and Matho were joined by a force commanded by a Libyan chief named Zarzas, and the 50,000 strong army under Spendius moved away from Carthage. Using tactics later made famous by Q. Fabius against Hannibal Barca, Hamilcar's eldest son, the rebels shadowed Hamilcar's army, while moving south, harassing his soldiers and keeping to the high ground to avoid Carthaginian elephants and cavalry. After weeks of maneuvering, Hamilcar finally managed to trap about 40,000 rebels in a valley surrounded on three sides by mountains.\n\nThe exact location of this valley has never been conclusively identified. It was probably some distance from Carthage because, while Hamilcar blockaded the valley exits and waited for the rebels to starve, Matho's army at Tunis did not intervene although the trapped rebels held out awaiting his arrival. After the trapped rebels ran out of food, pack animals and cavalry horses and finally resorted to cannibalism, Spendius, Autaritus and Zarzas, accompanied by seven others, went to Hamilcar's camp to seek terms. Hamilcar offered to allow all the rebels to depart freely with a single garment, but retained the right to detain 10 persons. When the rebel leaders agreed to the terms, Hamilcar detained the rebel delegation. Deprived of leadership, and unaware of the pact, the mercenaries suspected treachery; the Libyans were the first to attack Hamilcar's positions. The rebel army was slaughtered, with the elephants trampling most to death.\n\nHamilcar next moved to confront the army of Matho at Tunis. He divided his army, Hannibal took half of the soldiers and camped to the north of Tunis, Hamilcar camped to the south, thus hemming in Matho's army in Tunis. Hamilcar crucified Spendius and other rebel hostages outside Tunis to terrorize Matho, but this backfired when the rebels were able to surprise and defeat Hannibal's army due to their lax discipline. Punic survivors fled, all their baggage was captured along with Hannibal and thirty Carthaginian senators. Hamilcar retreated north near the mouth of Bagrades river, while Matho crucified his prisoners on the same crosses Hamilcar had used to crucify the rebel leaders, then retreated out of Tunis and moved south.\n\nAt this point, the Carthaginian senate reinstated Hanno and forced Hamilcar to share command. The Punic generals pursued Matho's army and won several small-scale engagements. After mustering their forces, a decisive battle was fought probably near the town of Leptis Minor. The Carthaginians destroyed the rebel army, after which the Libyan towns submitted to Carthage. When Utica and Hippo Acra held out, Hanno and Hamilcar besieged them, eventually receiving their surrender on terms. By the winter of 238 BC, the Mercenary revolt was over. Hanno and Hamilcar unleashed reprisals against the Numidian tribes that had sided with the rebels, and the generals probably extended Carthaginian territory in Africa at the same time. Carthage now began to fit out an expedition to recover Sardinia, with Hamilcar commanding Punic forces.\n\nPunic Mercenaries stationed in Sardinia had rebelled in 239 BC, besieged Boaster and all Carthaginians in a citadel and later executed them after the fort fell. They managed to take over all Punic territories in Sardinia. Carthage sent a mercenary force under Hanno to retake the island in 239 BC, but this group also rebelled, killed Hanno and their Carthaginian officers and joined the rebels in Sardinia. The rebels requested Rome to take over Sardinia, which was turned down. Their heavy handedness with Sardinian natives caused native Sardinians to attack and expel the mercenaries by 237 BC. The expelled mercenaries took refuge in Italy and again requested Rome to take over Sardinia.\n\nRome, which had dealt with Carthage with all due honor and courtesy during the crisis, going as far as to release all Punic prisoners without ransom and refuse to accept offers from Utica and Rebels mercenaries based in Sardinia to incorporate these territories into the Roman domain, seized Sardinia and Corsica and forced Carthage to pay 1,200 talents for her initial refusal to renounce her claim over the islands. This probably dealt a fatal blow to any chance of permanent peace between Rome and Carthage and is one of the causes of the Second Punic War and held as the motivation of the subsequent military and political activities of Hamilcar.\n\nThe aristocratic party had dominated Carthaginian politics since 248 BC. Hanno the Great was aligned with them and they espoused peaceful relations with Rome, even at the cost of abandoning overseas territories. Their choice to minimize the Sicilian operations while Hamilcar was in command, reduce the navy and support Hanno the Great's conquests in Africa, all of which were causes for the ultimate defeat of Carthage in the First Punic War. They had remained in power throughout the Mercenary War and had advocated Hanno's position over Hamilcar's more than once.\n\nTheir opponents probably had the support of people who had wanted to continue the war even after the defeat at Aegates Island. The Mercantile Class, whose interests were hurt by the war, and would be marginalized by the abandonment of overseas operations, also supported this faction. People disenfranchised by the ruin of the navy and disruption of trade might have thrown in their lot with this group and eventually Hasdrubal the Fair emerged as the leader. Hamilcar, furious that Sicily had been given up too soon, while he had been undefeated, could rely on support from this party.\n\nThere is no clear record of the political activity in Carthage at this time. The political clout of the incumbent leaders was probably weakened by the defeat in the First Punic War, their mismanagement of the Mercenary troops and finally the Sardinia Affair. In an effort to reestablish their position, they decided to make a scapegoat of Hamilcar Barca.\n\nHamilcar Barca was blamed by the Carthaginian Leaders for causing the Mercenary War by making unrealistic promises to his soldiers, especially the Celts, during his command in Sicily. This event may have taken place as early as 241 BC or more likely in 237 BC. The influence Hamilcar enjoyed among the people and the opposition party enabled him to avoid standing trial. Furthermore, Hamilcar allied with Hasdrubal the Fair, his future son in law, to restrict the power of the aristocracy, which was led by Hanno the Great, as well as gain immunity from prosecution. Hamilcar's faction gained enough clout, if not supreme power in Carthage, for Hamilcar to implement his next agenda. Hamilcar's first priority, probably, was to ensure that the war indemnity was paid regularly so the Romans had no excuse to interfere in Carthaginian affairs. His second was to implement his strategy for preparing Carthage for any future conflict with Rome, or enable Carthage to defend itself against any aggression.\n\nHamilcar obtained permission from the Carthaginian Senate for recruiting and training a new army, with the immediate goal of securing the African domain of Carthage. As this was in line with the goal of the \"Peace Party\" of Hanno the Great, probably no serious opposition was offered. Training for the army was obtained in some Numidian forays, then Hamilcar marched the army westwards to the Pillars of Hercules. Hasdrubal the Fair commanded the fleet carrying supplies and elephants along the coast, keeping pace with the army.\n\nHamilcar, on his own responsibility and without the consent of the Carthaginian government, ferried the army across to Gades to start an expedition into Hispania (236 BC), where he hoped to gain a new empire to compensate Carthage for the loss of Sicily and Sardinia. Iberia would also serve as a base for any future conflicts against the Romans which would be independent of political interference from Carthage, and the campaigns would enhance the reputation of Hamilcar Barca. Hamilcar's political clout in Carthage may have been enough to stifle any opposition in Carthage against his Iberian venture, or he did face stiff opposition and had used the booty from his Iberian campaigns to buy his way out. Whatever the case, Hamilcar enjoyed uninterrupted command in Iberia during his stay there.\n\nHamilcar's army either crossed the Straits of Gibraltar into Iberia from West Africa or, having returned to Carthage after the African activities, sailed along the African coast to Gades. Hasdrubal the Fair and Hannibal, then a child of nine, accompanied Hamilcar; it is not known who led Hamilcar's supporters in Carthage in the absence of Hamilcar and Hasdrubal. Prior to his departure from Carthage, Hamilcar made sacrifices to obtain favorable omens and Hannibal swore never to be a “Friend of Rome” or “Never to show goodwill to the Romans. Several modern historians has interpreted this as Hannibal swearing to be a lifelong enemy of Rome bent on revenge while others hold that this interpretation is a distortion.\n\nHamilcar probably landed at Gades in the summer of 237 BC. Whatever direct territorial control Carthage had had in the past in Iberia, this had been mostly lost by this time as Hamilcar was \"re-establishing Carthaginian authority in Iberia\". Phoenician colonies were strung along the Atlantic and Mediterranean coasts of southwestern Spain and exercised some degree of control over their immediate areas, but only had trading contacts, not direct control, over the tribes of Iberia at that time. Iberian and Celtiberian tribes were not under any unified leadership at this time and were warlike, although some had absorbed varying degrees of Greek and Punic cultural influence.\n\nCarthage's failure to prevent the establishment of Massalia by Phocaean Greeks in 600 BC had created a rival that eventually came to dominate trade in Gaul and to plant colonies in Catalonia, at Mainke near Málaga, three colonies near the mouth of Sucro, and at Alalia in Corsica. Greek piracy had forced Carthage to team up with the Etruscans to drive the Greeks from Corsica, and destroy the colony at Mainke in Iberia. By 490 BC, Massalia had managed to defeat Carthage twice, and a boundary along Cape Nao in Iberia was agreed upon, while Carthage had closed the Straits of Gibraltar to foreign shipping. Massalia had become friendly with Rome over the years, if not an outright ally by 237 BC, and this connection would become a significant factor in the power politics of the region.\n\nHamilcar's immediate objective was to secure access to the gold and silver mines of Sierra Morena, either by direct and indirect control. Negotiations with the \"Tartessian\" tribes were successfully concluded, but Hamilcar faced hostility from the Turdetani or Turduli tribe, near the foothills of modern Seville and Córdoba. The Iberians had support from Celtiberian tribes and were under the command of two chieftains, Istolatios and his brother. Hamilcar defeated the confederates, killed the leaders and several of their soldiers, while he released a number of prisoners and incorporated 3,000 of the enemy into his army. The Turdetani surrendered. Hamilcar then fought a 50,000 strong army under a chieftain named Indortes. The Iberian army fled before the battle was joined. Hamilcar besieged Indortes, tortured and crucified him after his surrender but allowed 10,000 of the captured enemy soldiers to go home.\n\nHaving secured control over the mines, and the river routes of Guadalquiver and Guadalete giving access to the mining area, Gades began to mint silver coins from 237 BC. Carthaginians may have taken control of the mining operations and introduced new technologies to increase production. Hamilcar now had the means to pay for his mercenary army and also to ship silver ore to Carthage to help pay off the war indemnity. Hamilcar was in a secure enough position in Iberia to send Hasdrubal the Fair with an army to Africa to quell a Numidian rebellion in 236 BC. Hasdrubal defeated the rebels, killing 8,000 and taking 2,000 prisoners before returning to Iberia.\n\nHamilcar, after subduing Turdetania next moved east from Gades towards Cape Nao. He met fierce resistance from the Iberia tribes, even the friendly Bastetani offered battle. Four years of constant campaigns, details of which are not known, saw Hamilcar subdue the area between Gades and Cape Nao. In the process, Hamilcar created a professional army of Iberians, Africans, Numidians and other mercenaries that Hasdrubal the Fair would inherit and Hannibal would later lead across the Alps to immortality. By 231 BC, Hamilcar Barca had consolidated his Iberian territorial gains and established the city of Akra Leuke (Alicante), probably in 235 BC, to guard Punic holdings, and possibly took over the area of Massalian colonies near the mouth of Sucro River. Massalia, probably alarmed by the Carthaginian advance towards their area of influence, mentioned this expansion to the Romans, who decided to investigate the matter.\n\nWhile Hamilcar campaigned in Iberia, Rome was entangled in Sardinia, Corsica and Liguria, where the natives had put up stiff resistance against Roman occupation – campaigns had been fought in these areas between 236 – 231 BC to retain and expand Roman dominion. Rome suspected Carthage of aiding the natives, and had sent embassies to Carthage in 236, 235, 233 and 230 BC to accuse and threaten the Punic state. Nothing had come of these supposed episodes and some scholars doubt their authenticity. In 231 BC, a Roman embassy visited Hamilcar in Spain to inquire about his activities. Hamilcar simply replied that he was fighting to gather enough booty to pay off the war indemnity. The Romans withdrew and did not bother the Carthaginians in Spain until 226 BC.\n\nAfter the establishment of Akra Leuke, Hamilcar began to move northwest; alas, no records of his campaigns exist. Hamilcar had split his forces in the winter of 228 BC, Hasdrubal the Fair was sent on a separate campaign, while Hamilcar besieged an Iberian town, then sent the bulk of his troops to winter quarters at Akra Leuke. Hamilcar's sons, Hannibal and Hasdrubal, had accompanied him. The town, called Helike, is commonly identified with Elche, but given that it is situated close to Hamilcar's base at Akra Leuke from which he could readily draw reinforcement, it cannot be the place where the following events unfolded. It is possible that Hamilcar died battling the Vettoni, who lived across the Tagus west of Toledo and to the north of Turduli and northwest of Oretani territory.\n\nOrissus, chieftain of the Oretani tribe, came to the assistance of the besieged town. There are several versions to what happened next: Orissus offered to aid Hamilcar, then attacked the Punic army, and Hamilcar drowned during a retreat across the Jucar river; the Oretani sent ox-driven carts to the Carthaginian position, then set them on fire and Hamilcar died in the resulting melee; Hamilcar accepted an offer to parley, then led the enemy in one direction while Hannibal and Hasdrubal Barca fled in the opposite direction. According to Appian, Hamilcar was thrown from his horse and drowned in a river, but Polybius says he fell in battle in an unknown corner of Iberia against an unnamed tribe.\n\nIn eight years, Hamilcar had secured an extensive territory in Hispania by force of arms and diplomacy, but his premature death in battle (228 BC) denied Carthage a complete conquest. Legend tells that he founded the port of Barcino (deriving its name from the Barca family), which was later adopted and used by the Roman Empire and is, today, the city of Barcelona. Despite the similarities between the name of the Barcid family and that of the modern city, it is usually accepted that the origin of the name \"Barcelona\" is the Iberian \"Barkeno\".\n\nHamilcar had at least three daughters and at least three sons.\n\nHis first daughter was married to Bomilcar, who was a suffete of Carthage and may have commanded the Punic fleet in the Second Punic war. His grandson, Hanno, was an important commander in the army of his son Hannibal.\n\nThe second daughter was married to Hasdrubal the Fair.\n\nHis third daughter married the Berber ally Naravas, a Numidian chieftain whose defection had saved Hamilcar and his army during the mercenary war.\n\nHamilcar had three sons, Hannibal, Hasdrubal and Mago, who were all to have distinguished military careers. An unnamed fourth son is often referred to, but details are lacking.\n\nHamilcar stood out far above the Carthaginians of his age in military and diplomatic skill and in strength of patriotism; in these qualities he was surpassed only by his son Hannibal, whom he may have imbued with his own deep suspicion of Rome and trained to be his successor in the conflict. One historian commented that had he not been the father of Hannibal, Hamilcar's Sicilian front might have received scant notice. Hamilcar is thought to be the best commander of the First Punic War and as a man, Cato placed Hamilcar a cut above most leaders, including most Romans. By the power of his personal influence among the mercenaries and the surrounding African peoples, superior strategy and some luck, as well as cooperation, if unenthusiastic, from Hanno the Great, Hamilcar crushed the revolt by 237 BC amid a war marked with cruel atrocities from both sides.\n\nThe milder terms Rome had given to Carthage in the aftermath of the First Punic War, and the friendly conduct of Rome during the mercenary war might have raised the possibility of a long period of peace between the two powers, but the seizure of Sardinia destroyed any real chance of peace among equals. According to Polybius, the causes of the Second Punic war were as follows:\n\nBased on this, and Hannibal's oath, some historians infer that Hamilcar's post-Mercenary War activities were aimed at eventual war with Rome, which was inherited by his sons, and some further suggested that Hamilcar devised the strategy of invading Italy by crossing the Alps as well as Hannibal's battle tactics. Without Punic records to cross reference, these remain mere supposition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235242", "title": "Hank Gathers", "text": "Hank Gathers\n\nEric \"Hank\" Gathers (February 11, 1967 – March 4, 1990) was an American college basketball player at Loyola Marymount University (LMU) who collapsed and died during a game. He was the second player in NCAA Division I history to lead the nation in scoring and rebounding in the same season. He originally played at the University of Southern California (USC), but transferred with teammate Bo Kimble to LMU after his freshman year. Gathers was born in Philadelphia, and was listed as tall.\n\nGathers played prep ball with Kimble at Dobbins Technical High School in Philadelphia with the pair leading the team to the Public League City championship in 1985.\n\nBoth Gathers and Kimble were recruited to the University of Southern California by Head Coach Stan Morrison and his top assistant, David Spencer. They were joined by high school All-American, Tom Lewis, and Rich Grande as the \"Four Freshmen\" star recruiting class. Following an 11–17 season coaching USC, Morrison and Spencer were fired after the 1985-86 season, despite winning the Pac-10 Conference the previous year. It was reported that the players would not remain unless certain conditions were met, including having a say in the next coaching staff.\n\nUSC hired George Raveling as the next head coach of the Trojans. Raveling gave the players a deadline to respond whether they would remain on the team. When they did not respond, he revoked the scholarships of Gathers, Kimble, and Lewis. Raveling's controversial statement was, \"You can't let the Indians run the reservation,\" he said. \"You've got to be strong, too. Sometimes you have to tell them that they have to exit.\" Kimble and Gathers transferred together from USC to Loyola Marymount. Lewis transferred to Pepperdine. Grande remained at USC.\n\nDue to NCAA regulations, Gathers and Kimble could not play in the season following their transfer. They helped lead the Lions to a 28–4 record in 1987–88. Gathers led the team that year in both scoring and rebounding (averaging 22.5 points and 8.7 rebounds per game), was named to the All-West Coast Conference (WCC) first team, and was awarded the WCC Tournament Most Valuable Player (MVP). In the 1988–89 season, Gathers became the second player in NCAA Division I history to lead the nation in scoring and rebounding in the same season, averaging 32.7 points and 13.7 rebounds per game. He was named WCC Player of the Year and again won the WCC Tournament MVP. On December 30, 1988, he scored a career-high 49 points along with 26 rebounds in a 130–125 win over Nevada.\n\nAs a senior in 1989–90, he was a candidate for player of the year and had been projected as an NBA lottery pick. Gathers' head coach while at LMU, Paul Westhead, had instituted an extraordinarily fast-paced game plan. On offense, the Lions took numerous three-point shots, and typically shot the ball within 10 seconds of gaining possession. Their defense was a full-court press designed to force their opponents into a frenzied up-and-down game. Gathers' teams led Division I in scoring in 1988 (110.3 points per game), 1989 (112.5), and 1990 (122.4). LMU's 122.4 point per game in 1990 is still a record as of April 2012. As of April 2012, Loyola Marymount held the five highest combined score games in Division I history. Four of the five occurred during Gathers' career, including a record 331 in the 181–150 win over United States International University on January 31, 1989.\n\nAt 6'7\" and 210 pounds, Gathers was Loyola Marymount's strongest inside player. He had a high field goal percentage because he seldom shot from beyond 10 feet. He used his power and quickness for follow-up baskets and scoring on fast breaks. \"I don't care much about the points,\" said Gathers. \"In fact, I should lead the nation in scoring because of my rebounding. Anybody can score 30 points a night if that's what he's concentrating on. But rebounding is special because it comes from the heart.\"\n\nOn December 9, 1989, Gathers collapsed at an LMU home game against UC Santa Barbara. He was found to have an abnormal heartbeat (exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia), and was prescribed a beta blocker, Inderal. However, Gathers felt that the medication adversely affected his play, and his dosage was gradually cut back. After missing three games, he struggled with his play for weeks after returning. His play recovered in a nationally televised game against LSU on February 3, 1990, when he scored 48 points along with 13 rebounds while being guarded by future NBA first-round draft picks Stanley Roberts and Shaquille O'Neal in a 148–141 overtime loss. The Lions won seven of their next eight games, and Gathers recorded a career-high 30 rebounds against Saint Mary's.\n\nAs the West Coast Conference (WCC) Tournament neared, Gathers did not show up for repeated appointments to test if the reduced medication was still suppressing the arrhythmias. It was suspected Gathers was not taking any dosage on game days. On Sunday, March 4, 1990, in Los Angeles, he collapsed again with 13:34 left in the first half of the WCC tournament semifinal game against the Portland Pilots. He had just scored a dunk on an alley-oop pass from point guard Terrell Lowery that put the Lions up 25–13. He collapsed a yard or two away from Pilots point guard Erik Spoelstra. He attempted to get up, telling the athletic trainers, \"I don't want to lay down!\" Shortly after, he stopped breathing. Gathers was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital at 6:55 PM PST. He was 23 years old.\n\nMinutes after Gathers was taken to the hospital, the WCC commissioner suspended the game indefinitely. ESPN broadcast graphic footage of Gathers' collapse on \"SportsCenter\"; the network was at the game recording advance footage for the championship game it was scheduled to televise the next night. Late that night, the WCC canceled the tournament and awarded Loyola the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament due to its WCC regular season title.\n\nAn autopsy found that he suffered from a heart-muscle disorder, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Gathers' family later filed a $32.5 million lawsuit charging negligence. Loyola Marymount settled out of court for $1.4 million, while the cardiologist who treated Gathers settled for $1 million.\n\nLoyola Marymount was placed in the West Region as the #11 seed in that season's NCAA tournament. During LMU's subsequent run to the Elite Eight before falling to eventual national champion UNLV, Kimble—a right-handed player—shot his first free throw of each game left-handed in memory of Gathers, who, while naturally right-handed, was a poor free-throw shooter and had, for a time, attempted to shoot left-handed. Kimble made all three attempts (he did not have any free-throw attempts in the Sweet 16 win over Alabama); from that point onward, and deep into his professional career, Kimble continued to honor Gathers by taking his first free throws left-handed.\n\nGathers was named a consensus second-team All-America and first team All-WCC selection for the season. He finished his career averaging 28.0 points and making 59 percent of his field goals, which were both school records as of 2010. He also averaged 11.1 rebounds for his career. He was voted WCC Player of the Decade for the 1980s.\n\nIn 1992, Gathers' life was dramatized in a TV movie, \"\", with Victor Love starring as Gathers.\n\nGersten Pavilion, LMU's on-campus athletics facility, is known to Lions fans as \"Hank's House\", although that is not part of its official name. His number 44 jersey was retired by LMU in 2000. On January 29, 2005, the entire 1989–90 team was inducted into Loyola Marymount's Hall of Fame during halftime of a 63–46 win over cross-town rival Pepperdine. Gathers' mother, Lucille Gathers Cheeseboro, attended the ceremony.\n\nGathers' nephew D. J. Rivera was the top-scoring America East Conference player during his 2008–09 season with Binghamton University. That season, the Binghamton Bearcats won the America East and for the first time earned a bid to the NCAA tournament.\n\nGathers' nephew Jordan Gathers played three seasons at St. Bonaventure University from 2011 to 2014. He was forced to sit out the 2014–15 season due to hip surgery, and earned a bachelor's degree at St. Bonaventure in 2015. He completed one final season of college play at Butler University in 2015–16 as a graduate transfer. As a freshman, Gathers was a member of the 2011–12 SBU team that won the Atlantic 10 Conference tournament, earning the Bonnies their first appearance in the NCAA Tournament since 2000.\n\nGathers was part of the storyline in the ESPN film \"Guru of Go\" about Westhead, part of their \"30 for 30\" series.\n\nGathers' death reemerged in national news wires during the 2016 NBA Playoffs when Kimble, interviewed for the celebrity gossip website TMZ.com, urged that Miami Heat star Chris Bosh retire for health reasons. Bosh has been suffering from blood clotting issues that forced him to miss the last several months of both the 2014–15 and 2015–16 seasons, as well as the entirety of the 2016–17 season. While Bosh felt that he was healthy enough to continue playing, Kimble disagreed:There are so many other things he could do with his life. Hank Gathers had the same thing, Hank could have been a comedian, and actor or did speaking engagements. It's not worth the risk. I would just say absolutely not, don't do it. If Hank had the ability to do it again he wouldn't have paid the ultimate price ... I am sure [Bosh] has children and they are going to need their father around as much as possible.\n\nTMZ also interviewed Gathers' brother Derrick, who agreed with Kimble that Bosh should retire.\n\n\nWCC\nLMU\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5261378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5261378", "title": "Helen Brach", "text": "Helen Brach\n\nHelen Voorhees Brach (born November 10, 1911 – disappeared February 17, 1977) was an American multimillionaire widow whose wealth had come from marrying into the E. J. Brach & Sons Candy Company fortune; she endowed the Helen V. Brach Foundation to promote animal welfare in 1974.\nBrach disappeared on February 17, 1977 and was declared legally dead in May 1984. An investigation into the case uncovered serious criminal activity associated with Chicago stable owners including Silas Jayne and Richard Bailey. More than a decade later Bailey was charged with, but not convicted of, conspiring to murder Brach; he eventually received a long sentence after being convicted of defrauding her.\n\nHelen Brach was born on November 10, 1911 on a small farm in Unionport, Ohio. Helen married her high school sweetheart in 1928; the couple had divorced by the time she was 21. Brach found work at a country club in Palm Beach, where she met and married millionaire, Frank Brach. The couple built a home in Fisher Island, Florida, shortly afterwards. The couple purchased another home in Glenview, Illinois closer to their Chicago factories. Helen and Frank spent most of their time in south Florida.\n\nAfter a routine medical check-up at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Brach left for the return journey by air to her north suburban Chicago mansion on February 17, 1977. A gift shop assistant near the clinic insisted that Brach had said, \"I'm in a hurry, my houseman is waiting.\" This is the last sighting of Brach by an independent witness.\n\nThe crew on the commercial airliner on which she was supposed to return did not report seeing her on the flight. Her houseman/chauffeur, Jack Matlick, said that he collected her at O'Hare Airport, further asserting that Brach spent four days without making a call before she was dropped off at O'Hare for a flight to Florida.\n\nMatlick was the focus of police attention during the investigation. Matlick always claimed to be innocent and angrily denied to reporters that he knew what happened to Brach, but a former federal agent who worked on the case said after Matlick's death that he was indeed responsible. Brach's brother was of the opinion that Matlick had been responsible for the murder of his sister without any involvement from Bailey or horse racing racketeers. On February 14, 2011, Matlick died in a Pennsylvania nursing home at the age of 79.\n\nBrach was declared dead in 1984. No one was ever convicted in Brach's disappearance, although Bailey was sentenced to 30 years in prison for defrauding her.\n\nAccording to a case filed in the United States Court of Appeals For the Seventh Circuit, Bailey, the owner of Bailey Stables and Country Club Stables targeted wealthy middle-aged or older women with little knowledge of the horse business who had recently been widowed or divorced. In 1975, Bailey's brother, Paul, sold her three horses for $98,000; unknown to Brach, Bailey also participated in the sale, and the horses were worth less than $20,000. Brach also bought a group of expensive brood mares. Early in 1977, Bailey arranged an extensive showing for Brach, hoping to persuade her to invest $150,000 in more horses. An appraiser Brach hired recommended she invest nothing in training one of her original three purchases, contrary to the $50,000 estimate of the trainer recommended by Bailey.\n\nIn 1989 the investigation was reopened and turned up evidence of criminal activity by associates of Bailey such as Silas Jayne, Bailey was charged with conspiring with several others (named but not charged) to kill Brach, however some (including her brother) questioned if Bailey had in fact been guilty of this. Bailey was not convicted of Brach's murder but sentenced to life imprisonment for defrauding the candy empire heiress; the judge made it clear that the sentence reflected evidence that Bailey was involved in a conspiracy to murder her. On March 21, 2005, in a tersely worded two-paragraph opinion, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals rejected Bailey's request for a new sentencing hearing for the fraud charges to take into account new evidence suggesting his innocence of the murder conspiracy, saying that the \"new evidence does not establish by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant is actually innocent of conspiring to murder Helen Brach and soliciting her murder.\"\n\nBrach's parents and husband are interred in Unionport, Ohio, near her birthplace of Hopedale. The marble monument includes an empty tomb with her name on it. In addition, two of Helen's dogs, Candy and Sugar, are buried there as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "1223312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223312", "title": "Henry William Pitcher", "text": "Henry William Pitcher\n\nHenry William Pitcher VC (20 December 1841 – 5 July 1875) was an English recipient of the Victoria Cross.\n\nPitcher was born at Kamptee in British India, the second son of Vincent Pitcher and Rose Mary le Geyt, daughter of Admiral George le Geyt. His elder brother Colonel Duncan George Pitcher also served in India. \n\nHe was about 22 years old and a lieutenant in the Bengal Staff Corps, 4th Punjab Infantry, British Indian Army during the Umbeyla Campaign. On 30 October 1863 in North-West India, Lieutenant Pitcher led a party to recapture the Crag Picquet after its garrison had been driven in by the enemy and sixty of them killed. He led the party up the narrow path to the last rock until he was knocked down and stunned by a large stone thrown from above. On 16 November, the lieutenant displayed great courage in leading a party to the Crag Picquet when it had again fallen into enemy hands. He led the first charge, but was wounded in the action. For this deed he was awarded the Victoria Cross.\n\nHe later achieved the rank of captain and died of heatstroke, while serving with the 1st Punjab Infantry, on 5 July 1875 at Dehra Ghazi Khan. His VC is on display in Jersey Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1611256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611256", "title": "Héctor Fernando Ramírez", "text": "Héctor Fernando Ramírez\n\nHéctor Fernando Ramírez, better known as Reportero X (Reporter X) died on July 24, 2003 of a heart attack in Guatemala City while being chased by a mob in what is referred to as \"jueves negro\" (Black Thursday). He was 61 years old. He had started his career as a radio news reporter. When he died he was a reporter for the TV channel Noti-7, though he was also working for Radio Sonora.\n\nAt 08.30 he arrived at an area where Guatemalan Republican Front (FRG) supporters were rioting, and attacking another reporter, Juan Carlos Torres, who worked for \"El Periódico\" (The Newspaper). They had stolen Torres' photographic equipment and were spraying him with petrol when Ramírez and other reporters arrived, which allowed Torres to escape. The mob set on the reporters, and while they were running away Ramírez had a heart attack, which instantly killed him.\n\n"}
{"id": "42172529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42172529", "title": "Institutional analysis and development framework", "text": "Institutional analysis and development framework\n\nThe Institutional Analysis and Development framework (IAD) was developed by Elinor Ostrom, an American political scientist, also known as the first woman to receive the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2009. The IAD relates a set of concepts to help in the analysis of collective action problems that involve social structures, positions, and rules. Under the rational choice models, the IAD was devised in an attempt to \"explain and predict\" outcomes by formalising the structures, positions, and rules involved in collective choice problems. Thus, it can be seen as a systematic method to collect policy analysis functions similar to analytic technique commonly used in physical and social sciences and understand how institution operate and change over a period of time. \n\nOstrom thought of the IAD as a \"multi-level conceptual map\" with which one could zoom in and out of particular hierarchical parts of the regularised interactions in an established social system. The IAD framework helps to perceive complex collective action problems by dividing them into 'action arenas', that are smaller pieces of practically understandable function. The analyst assumes that the structure of the action situation is fixed in the short-term. For an action situation to exist, there must be \"actors in positions\" (the number of possible roles that are available in this recurring interaction situation). Actors have choices within the existing (rule) structure. In the study of outcomes from collective choice situations, actors are influenced by the institutional arrangements, the socio-economic conditions, and the physical environment. The institutional arrangements can be studied by seven rule types (as per below).\n"}
{"id": "18367375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18367375", "title": "Isabella of Savoy", "text": "Isabella of Savoy\n\nIsabella of Savoy (11 March 1591 – 28 August 1626) was a daughter of Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy and Catherine Michelle of Spain. Her maternal grandparents were Philip II of Spain and Elisabeth of Valois, her paternal grandparents were Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy and Margaret of France, Duchess of Berry. She was the Hereditary Princess of Modena, dying before her husband succeeded to the Duchy of Modena in 1628.\n\nIsabella was born in Turin to Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy and his wife Infanta Catherine Michelle of Spain, a daughter of Philip II of Spain and Elisabeth of France.\n\nIn Turin on 22 February 1608 she married Alfonso, Hereditary Prince of Modena (son of Cesare d'Este and Virginia de' Medici), this was a happy marriage, Alfonso was loving and loyal towards his wife. Within two years Isabella bore Alfonso a son, Francesco who would one day succeed his father as Duke of Modena and Reggio. When Isabella died on 28 August 1626 Alfonso was heartbroken, he never remarried and died in 1644. She died as a result of childbirth and before her husband became duke so she was never Duchess of Modena.\n\nIsabella and Alfonso had fourteen children in all:\n\n"}
{"id": "22043098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22043098", "title": "Jim Duncan (baseball)", "text": "Jim Duncan (baseball)\n\nJames William Duncan (July 1, 1871 – October 16, 1901) was a Major League Baseball player.\n\nHe was born on July 1, 1871 in Saltsburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nDuncan played baseball in the minor leagues from 1895 to 1899. He was picked up by the National League's Washington Senators in July 1899; but after batting just .234 in 14 games, he was released. He then played the rest of the season for the worst major league team in history, the 1899 Cleveland Spiders. He had a .229 average in 105 at-bats. Duncan never played again after the 1899 season ended.\n\nTwo years later at the age of 30, Duncan drowned during a fishing trip on October 16, 1901 in Foxburg, Pennsylvania. According to a newspaper report, \"In company with two friends, he went out in a row boat to fish, taking a quantity of dynamite to kill the fish. It is supposed that the boat was overturned by the explosion of the dynamite. Nothing was heard of the party for a few days when the bodies were found.\" He was buried in Grove Hill Cemetery in Oil City, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "74206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74206", "title": "John II Komnenos", "text": "John II Komnenos\n\nJohn II Komnenos or Comnenus (, \"Iōannēs II Komnēnos\"; 13 September 1087 – 8 April 1143) was Byzantine Emperor from 1118 to 1143. Also known as \"John the Beautiful\" or \"John the Good\" (\"Kaloïōannēs\"), he was the eldest son of Emperor Alexios I Komnenos and Irene Doukaina and the second emperor to rule during the Komnenian restoration of the Byzantine Empire. John was a pious and dedicated monarch who was determined to undo the damage his empire had suffered following the battle of Manzikert, half a century earlier.\n\nJohn has been assessed as the greatest of the Komnenian emperors. In the course of his twenty-five year reign, John made alliances with the Holy Roman Empire in the west, decisively defeated the Pechenegs, Hungarians and Serbs in the Balkans, and personally led numerous campaigns against the Turks in Asia Minor. John's campaigns fundamentally changed the balance of power in the east, forcing the Turks onto the defensive and restoring to the Byzantines many towns, fortresses and cities right across the Anatolian peninsula. In the southeast, John extended Byzantine control from the Maeander in the west all the way to Cilicia and Tarsus in the east. In an effort to demonstrate the Byzantine ideal of the emperor's role as the leader of the Christian world, John marched into Muslim Syria at the head of the combined forces of Byzantium and the Crusader states; yet despite the great vigour with which he pressed the campaign, John's hopes were disappointed by the evasiveness of his Crusader allies and their reluctance to fight alongside his forces.\n\nAlso under John, the empire's population recovered to about 10 million people.\n\nUnfortunately, John's reign is less well recorded by contemporary or near-contemporary writers than those of either his father, Alexios I, or his son, Manuel I. In particular little is known of the history of John's domestic rule or policies.\n\nThe Latin historian William of Tyre described John as short and unusually ugly, with eyes, hair and complexion so dark he was known as 'the Moor'. Yet despite his physical appearance, John was known as \"Kaloïōannēs\", \"John the Good\" or \"John the Beautiful\"; the epithet referred to his character. Both his parents were unusually pious and John surpassed them. Members of his court were expected to restrict their conversation to serious subjects only. The food served at the emperor's table was very frugal and John lectured courtiers who lived in excessive luxury. His speech was dignified, but he engaged in repartee on occasion. All accounts agree that he was a faithful husband to his wife, an unusual trait in a Medieval ruler. Despite his personal austerity, John had a high conception of the imperial role and would appear in full ceremonial splendour when this was advantageous.\n\nJohn was famed for his piety and his remarkably mild and just reign. He is an exceptional example of a moral ruler, at a time when cruelty was the norm. He is reputed never to have condemned anyone to death or mutilation. Charity was dispensed lavishly. For this reason, he has been called the Byzantine Marcus Aurelius. By the example of his personal purity and piety he effected a notable improvement in the manners of his age. Descriptions of him and his actions indicate that he had great self-control and personal courage, and was an excellent strategist and general.\n\nJohn II succeeded his father as ruling \"basileus\" in 1118, but had already been crowned co-emperor by Alexios I between 1 September and early November, 1092. Despite this coronation, the accession of John was contested. That Alexios I favoured John to succeed him is made obvious by the elevation of his son to the position of co-emperor. However, Alexios' influential wife, Irene, favoured the \"Caesar\" Nikephoros Bryennios, the husband of her eldest child Anna Komnene. Anna, who in infancy had been betrothed to her father's first co-emperor Constantine Doukas, herself harboured obvious aspirations to power and the throne. During Alexios' final illness both wife and daughter exploited his physical weakness to apply pressure on him in support of their agenda for the succession. Alexios endured these constant demands without formally changing his intended successor. As Alexios lay dying in the monastery of the Mangana on 15 August 1118, John, relying on trusted relatives, especially his brother the \"sebastokratōr\" Isaac Komnenos, gained entry into the monastery and obtained the imperial signet ring from his father. He then assembled his armed followers and rode to the Great Palace, gathering the support of the citizenry on the way. The palace guard at first refused to admit John without clear proof of his father's wishes, however, the mob surrounding the new emperor simply forced an entry. In the palace John was acclaimed emperor. Irene, taken by surprise, was unable either to persuade her son to step down, or to induce Nikephoros to contend for the throne.\n\nAlexios died the night following his son's decisive move to take power. John refused to attend his father's funeral, despite the pleas of his mother, because he feared a counter-coup. However, in the space of a few days, his position seemed secure. Within a year of his accession, however, John II uncovered a conspiracy to overthrow him which implicated his mother and sister. Anna's husband Nikephoros had little sympathy with her ambitions, and it was his lack of support which doomed the conspiracy. Anna was stripped of her property, which was offered to the emperor's friend John Axouch. Axouch wisely declined and his influence ensured that Anna's property was eventually returned to her and that John II and his sister became reconciled, at least to a degree. Irene retired to a monastery and Anna seems to have been effectively removed from public life, taking up the less active occupation of historian. However, Nikephoros remained on good terms with his brother-in-law. To safeguard his own succession, John crowned his young son Alexios co-emperor in 1122.\n\nThe family intrigues that challenged his succession to the throne probably contributed to John's approach to rulership, which was to appoint men from outside the imperial family to high office. This was a radical departure from the methods of his father, who had used the imperial family and its many connections to fill almost all senior administrative and military posts.\n\nJohn Axouch was John II's closest adviser and was his only intimate friend. Axouch was a Turk captured as a child at the Siege of Nicaea, who had been given as a gift to John's father. Emperor Alexios had thought him a good companion for his son, and so he had been brought up alongside the prince in the imperial household. Axouch was immediately appointed Grand Domestic (in Greek: μέγας δομέστικος, \"megas domestikos\"), upon the accession of John II. The Grand Domestic was the commander in chief of the Byzantine armies. It has been suggested that references to Axouch's possession of the imperial seal early in the reign of John's successor Manuel I meant that he was, in addition to his military duties, the head of the civil administration of the Empire. This was an unofficial position known at the time as the \"mesazon\", and equivalent to a vizier or 'prime-minister.' Such an appointment was remarkable, and a radical departure from the nepotism that had characterised the reign of Alexios I. The imperial family harboured some degree of resentment at this decision, which was reinforced by the fact that they were required to make obeisance to John Axouch whenever they met him.\n\nJohn's unwillingness to allow his family to influence his government to any great extent was to remain constant for the rest of his reign. John appointed a number of his father's personal retainers to senior administative posts, men such as Eustathios Kamytzes, Michaelitzes Styppeiotes and George Dekanos. These were men who had been politically eclipsed during the ascendancy exercised by John's mother in the later years of the reign of Alexios I. A number of 'new men' were raised to prominence by John II, these included Gregory Taronites who was appointed protovestiarios, Manuel Anemas and Theodore Vatatzes, the latter two also became his sons-in-law. John's marriage policy, of bringing new families into the imperial orbit, may have been directed towards lessening the influence of certain prominent aristocratic clans, such as the Doukas, Diogenes and Melissenos families, some of which had produced emperors themselves in the past.\n\nDespite his move away from close reliance on the imperial family and its connections, John's court and government had many similarities to that of his father, not least in its serious tone and piety. Indeed, an extant collection of political advice couched in poetic form, called the \"Mousai\", are attributed to Alexios I. The \"Mousai\" are addressed directly to John II and exhort him, amongst other things, to maintain justice during his reign and a full treasury. Alexios' advice on rulership therefore continued to be available to his son, even after the old emperor's death.\n\nThe increase in military security and economic stability within Byzantine western Anatolia created by John II's campaigns allowed him to begin the establishment of a formal provincial system in these regions. The theme (province) of Thrakesion was re-established, with its administrative centre at Philadelphia. A new theme, named Mylasa and Melanoudion, was created to the south of Thrakesion.\n\nThe central tenet of the foreign policy of John II in the West was to maintain an alliance with the German emperors (Holy Roman Empire). This was necessary to limit the threat posed by the Normans of southern Italy to Byzantine territory in the Balkans. This threat became especially acute after Roger II of Sicily made himself supreme in southern Italy and assumed the title of king. Emperor Lothair III had Byzantine backing, including a large financial subsidy, for his invasion of Norman territory in 1136, which reached as far south as Bari. Pope Innocent II, with the Church's possessions in Italy under threat by Roger II, who supported Antipope Anacletus II, was also party to the alliance of Lothair and John II. However, this alliance proved unable to resist Roger, who extracted by force a recognition of his royal title from the Pope in 1139 (Treaty of Mignano). Lothair's successor Conrad III was approached in 1140 for a royal German bride for John's youngest son Manuel. Bertha of Sulzbach, Conrad's sister-in-law, was chosen and despatched to Byzantium. At much the same time Roger II applied to John II for an imperial bride for his son, but was unsuccessful.\n\nJohn's penchant for interfering with his wife's family, the rulers of Hungary, was problematic. The welcome accorded to ousted claimants of the Hungarian throne in Constantinople was seen by the Byzantines as a useful insurance policy and source of political leverage. However, the Hungarians treated this interference as a fighting matter. A Hungarian alliance with the Serbs produced serious consequences for continued Byzantine dominance in the western Balkans.\n\nIn the East John attempted, like his father, to exploit the differences between the Seljuq Sultan of Iconium and the Danishmendid dynasty controlling the northeastern, inland, parts of Anatolia. In 1134 the Seljuq sultan Mas'ud provided troops for John's attack on the Danishmend-held city of Kastamuni, however, the alliance proved unreliable as the Seljuq troops abandoned the expedition, decamping during the night.\n\nIn the Crusader states of the Levant it was generally admitted that the Byzantine claims over Antioch were legally valid, though it was pragmatically viewed that only when the Byzantine emperor was in a position to enforce them militarily were they likely to be recognised in practice. The high point of John's diplomacy in the Levant was in 1137 when he extracted formal homage from the rulers of the Principality of Antioch, County of Edessa and the County of Tripoli. The Byzantine desire to be seen as holding a level of suzerainty over all of the Crusader states was taken seriously, as evidenced by the alarm shown in the Kingdom of Jerusalem when John informed King Fulk of his plan for an armed pilgrimage to the Holy City (1142).\n\nThe reign of John II was taken up with almost constant warfare and, unlike his father who delighted in active participation in theological and doctrinal disputes, John appears to have been content to leave ecclesiastical matters to the Patriarch and the church hierarchy. Only when religion impinged directly on imperial policy, as in relations with the papacy and the possible union of the Greek and Latin churches, did John take an active part. He organised a number of disputations between Greek and Latin theologians.\n\nJohn, alongside his wife who shared in his religious and charitable works, is known to have undertaken church building on a considerable scale, including construction of the Monastery of Christ Pantokrator (Zeyrek Mosque) in Constantinople. This monastery, with its three churches, has been described as one of the most important and influential architectural constructions of Middle Byzantine Constantinople. Attached to the monastery was a hospital, of 5 wards, open to people of all social classes. The hospital was staffed by trained layman doctors rather than monks. The monastery also served as the imperial sepulchre for the Komnenian dynasty.\n\nVery active persecution of the followers of the Paulician and Bogomil heresies characterised the last few years of the reign of Alexios I. No records from the reign of John mention such persecution, though countermeasures against heresy by the Byzantine Church remained in force. A permanent synod in Constantinople investigated the writings of a deceased monk named Constantine Chrysomallos which had been circulating in certain monasteries. These works were ordered to be burnt by the Patriarch of Constantinople, Leo Styppes, in May 1140, on the grounds that they incorporated elements of Bogomil belief and practices.\n\nOne of the few members of the imperial family to be placed in an important position by John was his cousin Adrian Komnenos (son of John's uncle the \"sebastokrator\" Isaac). Adrian had become a monk and had accompanied John on his campaigns of 1138. Soon afterwards Adrian was appointed Archbishop of Bulgaria. Bulgaria was an autocephalus see and required a prestigious man as archbishop.\n\nThough he fought a number of notable pitched battles, the military strategy of John II relied on taking and holding fortified settlements in order to construct defensible frontiers. John personally conducted approximately twenty five sieges during his reign.\n\nIn 1119–1121 John defeated the Seljuq Turks, establishing his control over southwestern Anatolia. However, immediately afterwards, in 1122, John quickly transferred his troops to Europe to counter a Pecheneg invasion across the Danube frontier into Paristrion. These invaders had been auxiliaries of the Prince of Kiev. John surrounded the Pechenegs as they burst into Thrace, tricked them into believing that he would grant them a favourable treaty, and then launched a devastating surprise attack upon their fortified camp. The ensuing Battle of Beroia was hard fought, John was wounded in the leg by an arrow, but by the end of the day the Byzantine army had won a crushing victory. The decisive moment of the battle was when John led the Varangian Guard, largely composed of Englishmen, to assault defensive Pecheneg wagon laager, employing their famous axes to hack their way in. The battle put an effective end to the Pechenegs as an independent people; many of the captives taken in the conflict were settled as soldier-farmers within the Byzantine frontier.\n\nAfter his accession, John II had refused to confirm his father's 1082 treaty with the Republic of Venice, which had given the Italian republic unique and generous trading rights within the Byzantine Empire. Yet the change in policy was not motivated by financial concerns. An incident involving the abuse of a member of the imperial family by Venetians led to a dangerous conflict, especially as Byzantium had depended on Venice for its naval strength. After a Byzantine retaliatory attack on Kerkyra, John exiled the Venetian merchants from Constantinople. But this produced further retaliation, and a Venetian fleet of 72 ships plundered Rhodes, Chios, Samos, Lesbos, Andros and captured Kefalonia in the Ionian Sea. Eventually John was forced to come to terms; the war was costing him more than it was worth, and he was not prepared to transfer funds from the imperial land forces to the navy for the construction of new ships. John re-confirmed the treaty of 1082, in August 1126.\n\nJohn's marriage to the Hungarian princess Piroska involved him in the dynastic struggles of the Kingdom of Hungary. In giving asylum to Álmos, a blinded claimant to the Hungarian throne, John aroused the suspicion of the Hungarians. The Hungarians, led by Stephen II, then invaded Byzantium's Balkan provinces in 1127, with hostilities lasting until 1129; however, an alternative chronology has been suggested with the Hungarian attack and Byzantine retaliation taking place in 1125 with a renewal of hostilities in 1126. John launched a punitive raid against the Serbs, who had dangerously aligned themselves with Hungary, many of whom were rounded up and transported to Nicomedia in Asia Minor to serve as military colonists. This was done partly to cow the Serbs into submission (Serbia was, at least nominally, a Byzantine protectorate), and partly to strengthen the Byzantine frontier in the east against the Turks. The Serbs were forced to acknowledge Byzantine suzerainty once again. The Serbian campaign may have taken place between two distinct phases in the war against Hungary. The Hungarians attacked Belgrade, Nish and Sofia; John, who was near Philippopolis in Thrace, counterattacked, supported by a naval flotilla operating on the Danube. After a challenging campaign, the details of which are obscure, the emperor managed to defeat the Hungarians and their Serbian allies at the fortress of Haram or Chramon, which is the modern Nova Palanka; many Hungarian troops were killed when a bridge they were crossing collapsed as they were fleeing from a Byzantine attack. Following this the Hungarians renewed hostilities by attacking Braničevo, which was immediately rebuilt by John. Further Byzantine military successes, Choniates mentions several engagements, resulted in a restoration of peace. The Byzantines were confirmed in their control of Braničevo, Belgrade and Zemun and they also recovered the region of Sirmium (called Frangochorion in Choniates), which had been Hungarian since the 1060s. The Hungarian pretender Álmos died in 1129, removing the major source of friction.\n\nEarly in John's reign the Turks were pressing forward against the Byzantine frontier in western Asia Minor, and he was determined to drive them back. In 1119, the Seljuqs had cut the land route to the city of Attaleia on the southern coast of Anatolia. John II and Axouch the Grand Domestic besieged and recaptured Laodicea in 1119 and took Sozopolis by storm in 1120, re-opening land communication with Attaleia. This route was especially important as it also led to Cilicia and the Crusader states of Syria.\n\nFollowing the end of hostilities with Hungary, John was able to concentrate on Asia Minor during most of his remaining years. He undertook annual campaigns against the Danishmendid emirate in Malatya on the upper Euphrates from 1130 to 1135. Thanks to his energetic campaigning, Turkish attempts at expansion in Asia Minor were halted, and John prepared to take the fight to the enemy. In order to restore the region to Byzantine control, he led a series of well planned and executed campaigns against the Turks, one of which resulted in the reconquest of the ancestral home of the Komnenoi at Kastamonu (Kastra Komnenon); he then left a garrison of 2,000 men at Gangra. John quickly earned a formidable reputation as a wall-breaker, taking one stronghold after another from his enemies. Regions that had been lost to the empire since the Battle of Manzikert were recovered and garrisoned. Yet resistance, particularly from the Danishmends of the northeast, was strong, and the difficult nature of holding the new conquests is illustrated by the fact that Kastamonu was recaptured by the Turks even as John was in Constantinople celebrating its return to Byzantine rule. John persevered, however, and Kastamonu soon changed hands once more.\n\nIn the spring of 1139, the emperor campaigned with success against Turks, probably nomadic Turkomans, who were raiding the regions along the Sangarios River, striking their means of subsistence by driving off their herds. He then marched for the final time against the Danishmend Turks, his army proceeding along the southern coast of the Black Sea through Bithynia and Paphlagonia. The breakaway Byzantine regime of Constantine Gabras in Trebizond was ended, and the region of Chaldia brought back under direct imperial control. John then besieged but failed to take the city of Neocaesarea, in 1140. The Byzantines were defeated by the conditions rather than by the Turks: the weather was very bad, large numbers of the army's horses died, and provisions became scarce.\n\nIn the Levant, the emperor sought to reinforce Byzantine claims to suzerainty over the Crusader States and to assert his rights over Antioch. In 1137 he conquered Tarsus, Adana, and Mopsuestia from the Principality of Armenian Cilicia, and in 1138 Prince Levon I of Armenia and most of his family were brought as captives to Constantinople. This opened the route to the Principality of Antioch, where Raymond of Poitiers, Prince of Antioch, and Joscelin II, Count of Edessa, recognized themselves as vassals of the emperor in 1137. Even Raymond II, the Count of Tripoli, hastened northwards to pay homage to John, repeating the homage that his predecessor had given John's father in 1109. There then followed a joint campaign as John led the armies of Byzantium, Antioch, and Edessa against Muslim Syria. Aleppo proved too strong to attack, but the fortresses of Balat, Biza'a, Athereb, Maarat al-Numan, and Kafartab were taken by assault.\n\nAlthough John fought hard for the Christian cause in the campaign in Syria, his allies Prince Raymond of Antioch and Count Joscelin II of Edessa remained in their camp playing dice and feasting instead of helping to press the siege of the city of Shaizar. The Crusader Princes were suspicious of each other and of John, and neither wanted the other to gain from participating in the campaign. Raymond also wanted to hold on to Antioch, which he had agreed to hand over to John if the campaign was successful in capturing Aleppo, Shaizar, Homs, and Hama. Latin and Muslim sources describe John's energy and personal courage in prosecuting the siege. The city was taken, but the citadel defied assault. The Emir of Shaizar offered to pay a large indemnity, become John's vassal, and pay yearly tribute. John had lost all confidence in his allies, and a Muslim army under Zengi was approaching to try to relieve the city, therefore the emperor reluctantly accepted the offer. The emperor was distracted by a Seljuq raid on Cilicia and developments in the west, where he was pursuing a German alliance directed against the threat posed by the Normans of Sicily. Joscelin and Raymond conspired to delay the promised handover of Antioch's citadel to the emperor, stirring up popular unrest in the city directed at John and the local Greek community. John had little choice but to leave Syria with his ambitions only partially realised.\n\nIn early 1142 John campaigned against the Seljuqs of Iconium to secure his lines of communication through Antalya. During this campaign his eldest son and co-emperor Alexios died of a fever. Having secured his route, John embarked on a new expedition into Syria determined to reduce Antioch to direct imperial rule. This expedition included a planned pilgrimage to Jerusalem on which he intended to take his army. King Fulk of Jerusalem, fearing that the emperor's presence with overwhelming military force would constrain him to make an act of homage and formally recognise Byzantine suzerainty over his kingdom, begged the emperor to bring only a modest escort. Fulk cited the inability of his largely barren kingdom to support the passage of a substantial army. This lukewarm response resulted in John II deciding to postpone his pilgrimage. John descended rapidly on northern Syria, forcing Joscelin II of Edessa to render hostages, including his daughter, as a guarantee of his good behaviour. He then advanced on Antioch demanding that the city and its citadel be surrendered to him. Raymond of Poitiers played for time, putting the proposal to the vote of the Antiochene general assembly. With the season well advanced John decided to take his army into winter quarters in Cilicia, proposing to renew his attack on Antioch the following year.\n\nHaving prepared his army for a renewed attack on Antioch, John amused himself by hunting wild boar on Mount Taurus in Cilicia, where, on April 1, 1143, he accidentally cut himself on the hand with a poisoned arrow. John initially ignored the wound and it became infected. He died a number of days after the accident, on April 8, probably of septicaemia. It has been suggested that John was assassinated by a conspiracy within the units of his army of Latin origins who were unhappy at fighting their co-religionists of Antioch, and who wanted to place his pro-western son Manuel on the throne. However, there is very little overt support for this hypothesis in the primary sources. John's final action as emperor was to choose Manuel, the younger of his surviving sons, to be his successor. John is recorded as citing two main reasons for choosing Manuel over his older brother Isaac: Isaac's irascibility, and the courage that Manuel had shown on campaign at Neocaesareia. Another theory alleges that the reason for this choice was the AIMA prophecy, which foretold that John's successor should be one whose name began with an \"M\". Fittingly, John's close friend John Axouch, although he is recorded as having tried hard to persuade the dying emperor that Isaac was the better candidate to succeed, was instrumental in ensuring that Manuel's assumption of power was free from any overt opposition.\n\nHistorian John Birkenmeier argued that John's reign was the most successful of the Komnenian period. In \"The Development of the Komnenian Army 1081–1180,\" he stresses the wisdom of John's approach to warfare, which focused on sieges rather than risking pitched battles. Birkenmeier argues that John's strategy of launching annual campaigns with limited, realistic objectives was a more sensible one than that followed by his son Manuel I. According to this view, John's campaigns benefited the Byzantine Empire because they protected the empire's heartland, which lacked reliable borders, while gradually extending its territory in Asia Minor. The Turks were forced onto the defensive, while John kept his diplomatic situation relatively simple by allying with the Holy Roman Emperor against the Normans of Sicily.\n\nOverall, it is clear that John II Komnenos left the empire a great deal better off than he had found it. By the time of his death substantial territories had been recovered, and the goals of the recovery of control over central Anatolia and the re-establishment of a frontier on the Euphrates seemed achievable. However, the Greeks of the interior of Anatolia were becoming increasingly accustomed to Turkish rule and often found it preferable to that of Byzantium. Also, though it was relatively easy to extract submission and admissions of vassalage from the Anatolian Turks, Serbs and Crusader States of the Levant, converting these relationships into concrete gains for the security of the Empire had proven elusive. These problems were left for his gifted and mercurial son, Manuel, to attempt to solve.\n\nJohn II Komnenos married Princess Piroska of Hungary (renamed Irene), a daughter of King Ladislaus I of Hungary in 1104; the marriage was intended as compensation for the loss of some territories to King Coloman of Hungary. She played little part in government, devoting herself to piety and their large brood of children. Irene died on August 13, 1134 and was later venerated as Saint Irene. John II and Irene had 8 children:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24232671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24232671", "title": "Joseph R. Odum", "text": "Joseph R. Odum\n\nJoseph R. Odum (1913–1942) was a United States Navy sailor who received the Silver Star posthumously for his actions in combat during World War II.\n\nJoseph Roy Odum was born in Jacksonville, Florida, on 9 February 1913. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy on 20 June 1934.\n\nOn 15 October 1942, Fireman First Class Odum was a gunner on the destroyer USS \"Meredith\" (DD-434) when she was sunk by Imperial Japanese Navy aircraft from the aircraft carrier \"Zuikaku\". He remained at his battle station after the order to abandon ship had been given so he could protect his shipmates in the water from being strafed by Japanese planes. He was still firing when the ship went under and was lost with the ship.\n\nFor his actions during the sinking of \"Meredith\", Fireman First Class Odum was awarded the Silver Star posthumously.\n\nThe U.S. Navy destroyer escort USS \"Odum\" (DE-670) was named for Fireman First Class Odum. She was converted during construction into the high-speed transport USS \"Odum\" (APD-71) and was in commission as such from 1945 to 1946.\n"}
{"id": "32206125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32206125", "title": "Latter Day Saint martyrs", "text": "Latter Day Saint martyrs\n\nLatter Day Saint martyrs are persons who belonged to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) or another church within the Latter Day Saint movement who were killed or otherwise persecuted to the point of premature death on account of their religious beliefs or while performing their religious duties.\n\nAlthough the term \"martyr\" is not frequently used in Latter-day Saint terminology, Latter-day Saints recognize a number of prophets, apostles, and other religious persons as recorded in the Bible, including both the Old Testament and New Testament, and Book of Mormon as martyrs within the same religious tradition (albeit at an earlier time) to which they subscribe. For Latter-day Saints, the most notable martyr is Jesus Christ. Other scriptural examples include Abel (\"the first martyr\"), John the Baptist, James, the brother of John, Stephen whose stoning is recorded in the Book of Acts, Abinadi, women and children of Ammonihah, etc. Latter-day Saints also acknowledge as \"Early-day Saint\" martyrs those early Christians who were killed for their faith prior to or as a result of the Great Apostasy.\n\nThe most notable post-Biblical Latter Day Saint martyrs are Joseph Smith, Jr. and his brother, Hyrum Smith.\n\nIndividuals who die \"in the Lord's service\" are believed to be rewarded with eternal life: \"And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find it again, even life eternal.\" Joseph F. Smith, LDS Church president, declared: \"I beheld that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel ... in the great world of the spirits.\"\n\nIn 1989, following the death of two missionaries in Bolivia, LDS Church apostle L. Tom Perry noted that from 1831 until 1989, \"only seventeen LDS missionaries [were] killed by assassins.\" Also at that time, apostle M. Russell Ballard \"indicated that of the 447,969 missionaries who have served since the days of Joseph Smith, only 525—about one-tenth of 1 percent—have lost their lives through accident, illness, or other causes while serving. 'When you contemplate that number,' he said, 'it appears that the safest place to be in the whole world is on a full-time mission.'\"\n\nMissionaries who died from illness or accident are not listed. However, depending on the circumstances of their death, they could be deemed \"martyrs\" for having died while in religious service.\n\nMany Mormon pioneers and other early church members who suffered privation and early death on account of their religious beliefs would likely qualify as \"martyrs.\" However, they are too numerous to list here. This list also does not include early Mormon settlers who were killed in encounters with Native Americans during the Mormon settlement of the American West.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41116757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41116757", "title": "Malcolm Wallace", "text": "Malcolm Wallace\n\nMalcolm Everett \"Mac\" Wallace (October 15, 1921 – January 7, 1971) was an economist for the United States Department of Agriculture and served as a press secretary for President Lyndon B. Johnson. On October 22, 1951, Wallace fatally shot John Douglas Kinser in the clubhouse of an Austin golf course owned by Kinser. Wallace is most widely known for his alleged participation in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.\n\nWallace was a native of Mount Pleasant, Texas. He was the son of Alvin James Wallace, Sr. (1895-1973), a cement and construction contractor, according to the 1930 US Census, and Alice Marie Riddle (1897-1959). In 1939, Wallace graduated from Woodrow Wilson High School in Dallas. He served in the United States Marine Corps.\n\nWallace attended the University of Texas at Austin where he was a member of the Tejas Club, Texas Cowboys, and the president of the student body. He led a 1944 protest against the ouster of UT president Homer P. Rainey and graduated in 1947. Wallace was also a student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Columbia University, from September 1947 to May 1948 but did not graduate with a degree. By early August 1951, Wallace was working as an economist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C. while his wife, a draftsman with the Planning Survey Division Texas Department of Transportation, and children lived with his mother in Austin. In October 1951, Wallace was visiting Austin and Dallas while on vacation from his position in Washington.\n\nOn October 22, 1951 in Austin, John Douglas Kinser, a 33-year-old sophomore student at the University of Texas, was shot to death in the clubhouse of the Pitch and Putt Golf Course that he operated. Immediately after the first shot, one golfer outside the clubhouse observed a man inside holding a revolver. He heard two or three additional shots after leaving to attract the attention of three other golfers on the course. The three golfers on the course observed the man running from the clubhouse and getting into his car, and one of them noted the car's make and license plate number. The men ran to the clubhouse where they found Kinser's body, then telephoned the police who radioed the car's description and license information to state and city patrol cars. Three patrolmen with the Texas Highway Patrol spotted then stopped the car nine miles from Austin on the Burnet Highway. According to one of the patrolmen, the driver perfectly fit the description provided by the golfers and his shirt was torn and bloodied. The suspect and witness were taken to the headquarters of the Austin Police Department for questioning.\n\nWallace was identified as the man leaving the scene with a snubnosed pistol, and three bullet shells were found near Kinser's body. He was arrested by highway patrolmen on the Burnet Highway shortly after the shooting. Detectives revealed no motive in the killing as Wallace refused to answer their questions. He was charged the following day with murder and the Justice of the peace set bail at $30,000.\n\nTwo days after the killing, the district attorney accused the local sheriff of \"obstructing the investigation\" stating that he had refused to transport Wallace to the Texas Department of Public Safety for identification testing. According to the sheriff, Wallace protested the move and his defense attorney, Polk Shelton, had asked that Wallace not be moved. Wallace was represented at the trial by John Cofer, longtime lawyer to Lyndon Johnson, who had also represented LBJ during his contested election to the United States Senate in 1948 that was tainted by allegations of voter fraud.\n\nDuring the trial, FBI special agent Joseph L. Schott stated that he had known Wallace for 12 years and in 1946 had given Wallace a German-made 6.35 mm Schmeisser automatic pistol that he (Schott) had acquired while serving in the United States Army in Germany. A firearms expert for the Department of Public Safety testified that the slugs and shells from the murder scene could have been fired from the Schmeisser. A chemist/toxicology expert, also with the Department of Public Safety, said that a paraffin test on Wallace's hands tested positive for gunshot residue and that blood on his shirt matched blood found at the club house at the golf course.\n\nTestimony was completed on February 25, 1952 and Judge Charles O' Betts recessed court in order to finalize the jury instructions prior to closing arguments. The prosecution did not attempt to establish a motive for the shooting, nor did it produce an eyewitness to it or the murder weapon. The following day, the prosecution and defense completed their closing arguments and the jury was charged that afternoon. After deliberating into the evening, the jury was sequestered within the courthouse dormitory. After listening to 29.5 hours of testimony from 23 different witnesses, on February 27 the jury returned its verdict finding Wallace guilty of \"murder with malice\". After a short recess, O' Betts sentenced Wallace to a five-year sentence that was suspended. Questioned as to why the prosecution did not attempt to provide a motive, defense attorney Polk Shelton stated that it was \"probably because they couldn't.\" Kinser's sister-in-law later stated that Kinser was killed because he had been having an affair with Wallace's wife.\n\nWallace was the manager of the purchasing department of Ling-Temco-Vought. He attended an Episcopal church in Dallas.\n\nOn January 7, 1971, Wallace died when his car ran off the road 3.5 miles south of Pittsburg, Texas on U.S. Route 271. Noting that the highway was neither icy nor wet, the investigating patrolman stated that Wallace had struck a bridge abutment after apparently losing control of his car. He was buried in the Nevills Chapel Cemetery in Mount Pleasant.\n\nIn 1984, Billie Sol Estes told a grand jury investigating the 1961 shooting death of Henry Marshall, an official with the Department of Agriculture, that Wallace was his murderer. Estes, who was convicted in 1963 on federal charges related to non-existent fertilizer businesses, said that Marshall possessed information linking Estes' fraudulent schemes to a heavily-funded political slush fund run by Lyndon B. Johnson. According to Estes, he and Johnson discussed the need to stop Marshall from making their illegal ties public. In exchange for immunity from prosecution, Estes was also prepared to provide the United States Department of Justice information of eight killings orchestrated by Johnson, including the assassination of John F. Kennedy. He claimed that Wallace persuaded Jack Ruby to recruit Lee Harvey Oswald and that Wallace fired a shot that struck Kennedy.\n\nGlen Sample and Mark Collom implicated Wallace in a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy in their mid-1990s book \"The Men on the Sixth Floor\". According to the authors, Collom met Loy Factor while confined in a hospital isolation ward in 1971 where Factor implicated himself, Wallace, and a woman named \"Ruth Ann\" in the assassination of Kennedy. Conspiracy debunker Dave Perry charged the authors of relying upon unreliable witnesses, including Foy, Estes, and Madeleine Duncan Brown. \n\nBarr McClellan, author of \"Blood, Money & Power: How LBJ Killed JFK\", reiterated many of Estes claims in 2003 stating that Johnson, Wallace, Estes, and Cliff Carter were responsible for the death of Marshall. According to McClellan, Wallace fired one shot at Kennedy from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository, then ran to escape. He stated that fingerprints and an eyewitness placed Wallace in that location and that Wallace could be seen as a \"shadowy figure\" in photos of the building. However, author Joan Mellen pointed out in her 2016 book \"Faustian Bargains\" that the fingerprint claim has been discredited. \n\nRoger Stone, author of the 2013 book \"The Man Who Killed Kennedy: The Case Against LBJ\", called Wallace \"Lyndon Johnson's personal hit man\" and also said that Wallace shot Kennedy from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository. Similar to McClellan's account, Stone said six eyewitnesses placed Wallace in that location and that a fingerprint found on a box in the sniper's nest was his. Expert Robert Garrett, who assisted Mellen in her investigation, stated that the fingerprint image, which was preserved in the National Archives, did not match that of Wallace's.\n"}
{"id": "7462137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7462137", "title": "Megagametogenesis", "text": "Megagametogenesis\n\nMegagametogenesis is the development of a megaspore into an embryo sac, which is the gametophyte - though a highly reduced one - stage in the life cycle of vascular plants. \n\nIn eudicot plants, the entire process happens inside the ovule of a plant. The details of the process vary by species, but the process described here is common. This process starts with a single diploid megasporocyte in the nucleus. This megasporocyte undergoes meiotic cell division to form four cells that are haploid. Three cells die and one that is most distant from the micropyle develops into the megaspore. This megaspore becomes larger and the nucleus of it undergoes mitosis three times until there are eight nuclei. These eight nuclei are then arranged into two groups of four. These groups both send a nucleus to the center of the cell which then becomes the polar nuclei. The three cells left at the end of the cell near the micropylar become the egg apparatus with an egg cell in the center and two synergids. A cell wall forms around the other set of nuclei and forms the antipodals. The cells in the center develop into the central cell. This entire structure with its eight nuclei is called the embryo sac.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3379513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3379513", "title": "Mizuna", "text": "Mizuna\n\n, qian jing shui cai, kyona, Japanese mustard greens, or spider mustard, is a cultivated crop plant from the species \"Brassica rapa var. niposinica\" a dark green, serrated leafed plant.\n\nThe taste of 'mizuna' has been described as a \"piquant, mild peppery flavor...slightly spicy, but less so than arugula.\" It is also used in stir-fries, soups, and nabemono (Japanese hot pots).\n\nA seller of packaged seeds in the United Kingdom describes 'mizuna' as:\nAccording to the BBC:\nAn online recipe site says:\n\nIn addition to the term \"mizuna\" (and its alternates) being applied to \"at least\" two different species of \"Brassica\", horticulturalists have defined and named a number of varieties. For example, a resource provided by Cornell University and the United States Department of Agriculture lists sixteen varieties including \"Early Mizuna\", \"Kyona Mizuna\", \"Komatsuna Mizuna\", \"Vitamin Green Mizuna\", \"Kyoto Mizuna\", \"Happy Rich Mizuna\", \"Summer Fest Mizuna\", \"Tokyo Early Mizuna\", \"Mibuna Mizuna\", \"Red Komatsuna Mizuna\", \"Waido Mizuna\" and \"Purple Mizuna\".\n\n'Mizuna' has been cultivated in Japan since ancient times.\n\n"}
{"id": "47239489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47239489", "title": "Murder of Martha Morrison", "text": "Murder of Martha Morrison\n\nMartha Marie Morrison (1956 – September 1974) was a 17-year-old American girl who was murdered in 1974, and whose remains went unidentified for over 40 years after their discovery.\n\nMorrison, a resident of Portland, Oregon, disappeared under mysterious circumstances in September 1974. On October 12, 1974, human remains of two women were found in Dole Valley near Vancouver, Washington. One was immediately identified as Carol Platt Valenzuela, but the other individual was unable to be identified at the time. In 2015, the remains were identified by means of DNA profiling as those of Morrison. \n\nAfter Morrison's remains were identified, law enforcement encouraged the public to submit tips, as the murder was still unsolved. In August 2017, a bloodstain on a pistol owned by a longtime suspect, Warren Leslie Forrest, was matched to Morrison through DNA testing. Prior to Forrest's identification as a suspect, serial killer Ted Bundy had been considered a person of interest in Morrison and Valenzuela's murders. \n\nMorrison reportedly grew up in foster care while living in Lane County, Oregon near Eugene. Her sister, Reba, recalls that their mother was deaf and that Martha was skilled in sign language. She attended Roosevelt High School and the Corvallis Farm School. Subsequently, she went to Arizona to participate in the Job Corps program.\n\nShe had a history of drug use and of running away from the homes of both her biological and foster families, and the Corvallis Farm School as well. Morrison was fluent in sign language, as her mother was deaf.\n\nShe was last seen leaving her apartment, which she and a man had rented. The couple reportedly quarreled, and Martha subsequently went missing. Shortly before of her disappearance on September 1, 1974, Morrison had visited her family in Eugene with the man.\n\nAfter the remains were discovered on October 12, 1974, the bones of the victims were examined nationwide in hopes of identifying them. One of the victims was quickly identified via dental records as 18-year-old Carol Platt Valenzuela, but those of the second victim were unknown. Valenzuela had been reported missing on August 4 by her husband after she failed to return home after hitchhiking to Vancouver on August 2. Investigators hoped that her identification would perhaps increase the likelihood of identification for the then-unidentified Morrison. They intended to question Valenzuela's husband following her identification, yet he was recovering from an aspirin overdose at the time. He was arrested but eventually released after passing a polygraph test on October 25.\n\nAll examinations were unsuccessful in identifying the second victim, originally estimated to be 20 to 25 years old. The remains were originally examined at by an anthropologist from the University of Washington. Forensic facial reconstructions were created of the victim from both frontal and profile views and released through a newspaper, but went unrecognized by the public. The victim's physical description was also listed, including the fact that she had curly-textured hair and dental hygiene problems. The victim also appeared to have given birth at some point, although it is unknown if Morrison ever had a child. Police returned to the scene following the initial discovery in order to possibly obtain more evidence. A new metal detector, borrowed from a Snohomish County resident was also used.\n\nExamination indicated the victims were deceased for at least two weeks prior. Decomposition and animal activity had made it difficult to estimate the time or cause of death, although authorities presumed they were murdered. The remains may have also been deposited at the location at different times. Several missing persons at the time were considered, including Patty Hearst (who was later found alive). \n\nInvestigator Nikki Costa stated in an interview conducted after the identification, that a great deal of time had been spent on the investigation, including following leads that may have linked the case to serial killer Gary Ridgway. Ted Bundy was also listed as a person of interest in both Morrison's and Valenzuela's case prior to 2017, when Warren Leslie Forrest was identified as the prime suspect.\n\nMorrison, while a missing person, was ruled out as the possible identity of an unidentified female homicide victim, nicknamed \"Orange Socks\", who was estimated to have been between 15 and 30 when she was located in Texas in 1979.\n\nDNA was obtained from Martha Morrison's sister and half-brother which was used to develop a genetic profile to compare to potential matches. After the testing was complete, it was compared to the currently unidentified remains, whose DNA profile was developed in 2012. Similarities were noted, yet a definite match was not established. Both Morrison and the unidentified victim were eventually entered into the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System, which specializes in locating missing people and identifying human remains. Ten missing people were excluded as possible identities of the remains until the identification was made in July 2015. \nMorrison's skull and some other bones were mislabeled as Carol Platt Valenzuela's while they were in storage. Investigator Nikki Costa said this was one of the reasons why the remains were unidentified for so long. In 2011, this problem was discovered when the skull's teeth were noticed to be different from Valenzuela's dental records.\n\nAfter previous unsuccessful testing, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children stated they would pay for an exhumation of the victim's father in order to retrieve DNA and compare it with the unidentified remains. The result of this last test was a definitive indication that the remains were those of Martha Morrison (probability of 99.999998%).\n\nInvestigators continued to look at suspected serial killer Warren Leslie Forrest. Forrest is currently in prison for the murder of Krista Kay Blake in July 1974. He was arrested on October 2, 1974 — just ten days before the bodies of Martha Morrison and Carol Platt Valenzuela were found in Dole Valley. Law enforcement officials conducted DNA testing on a blood stain found on an air pistol owned by Forrest, which was previously believed to have belonged to a different woman, one of six others he had attacked during his years at large. Officials now state that the results prove he not only killed Morrison, but also Valenzuela, due to the fact that the two bodies were found together. Forrest is a suspect in the 1974 disappearance of Diane Gilchrist and the 1971 disappearance of Jamie Grissom.\n\nIn March 2016, police appealed to the public for assistance with identifying Morrison's boyfriend at the time, who is not a suspect in the case. Investigators do believe he could provide \"details\" that may be of value to the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "26533366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26533366", "title": "On the Wing (1986 film)", "text": "On the Wing (1986 film)\n\n\"\nOn the Wing is a 1986 IMAX film featuring a half-sized robotic \"Quetzalcoatlus\" that demonstrates principles of animal flight. Produced by the National Air and Space Museum, it also traces the early history of manned flight.\nThe film is narrated by F. Murray Abraham. In one scene filmed in Florida in 1984, a reproduction Benoist airboat was flown, depicting the inaugural flight of the world's first scheduled airline, the St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line, in 1914.\n"}
{"id": "592392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592392", "title": "Phil Mickelson", "text": "Phil Mickelson\n\nPhilip Alfred Mickelson (born June 16, 1970), nicknamed Lefty, is an American professional golfer. He has won 43 events on the PGA Tour, including five major championships: three Masters titles (2004, 2006, 2010), a PGA Championship (2005), and an Open Championship (2013).\n\nMickelson is one of 16 players in the history of golf to win at least three of the four majors. He has won every major except the U.S. Open, where he has finished runner-up a record six times.\nMickelson has spent over 25 years consecutively in the top 50 of the Official World Golf Ranking. He has spent over 700 weeks in the top-10, has reached a career-high world ranking of No. 2 several times and is a life member of the PGA Tour. Known for his left-handed swing, even though otherwise right-handed, he learned by mirroring his right-handed father's swing. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2012.\n\nMickelson was born in San Diego, California, to parents Philip Mickelson (an airline pilot and former naval aviator) and Mary Mickelson (née Santos); he was raised there and in Scottsdale, Arizona. Although otherwise right-handed, he played golf left-handed since he learned by watching his right-handed father swing, mirroring his style. Mickelson began golf under his father's instruction before starting school. Phil Sr.'s work schedule as a commercial pilot allowed them to play together several times a week and young Phil honed his creative short game on an extensive practice area in their San Diego backyard. Mickelson graduated from the University of San Diego High School in 1988.\n\nMickelson attended Arizona State University in Tempe on a golf scholarship and became the face of amateur golf in the United States, capturing three NCAA individual championships and three Haskins Awards (1990, 1991, 1992) as the outstanding collegiate golfer. With three individual NCAA championships, he shares the record for most individual NCAA championships alongside Ben Crenshaw. Mickelson also led the Sun Devils to the NCAA team title in 1990. Over the course of his collegiate career, he won 16 tournaments.\n\nMickelson was the second collegiate golfer to earn first-team All-American honors all four years. In 1990, he also became the first with a left-handed swing to win the U.S. Amateur title. Mickelson secured perhaps his greatest achievement as an amateur in January 1991, winning his first PGA Tour event, the Northern Telecom Open, in Tucson. At age 20, he was only the sixth amateur to win a tour event and the first in over five years after Scott Verplank at the Western Open in August 1985. Other players to accomplish this feat include Doug Sanders (1956 Canadian Open) and Gene Littler (1954 San Diego Open). With five holes remaining, Mickelson led by a stroke, but made a triple-bogey and was then three behind. The leaders ahead of him then stumbled, and he birdied 16 and 18 to win by a stroke. To date, it is the most recent win by an amateur at a PGA Tour event.\n\nThat April, Mickelson was the low amateur at the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Georgia. With his two-year PGA Tour exemption from the Tucson win, he played in several tour events in 1992 while an amateur but failed to make a cut.\n\nMickelson graduated from ASU in June 1992 and quickly turned professional. He bypassed the tour's qualifying process (Q-School) because of his 1991 win in Tucson, which earned him a two-year exemption. In early 1993, Mickelson hired Jim \"Bones\" Mackay as his caddy. He won many PGA Tour tournaments during this period, including the Byron Nelson Golf Classic and the World Series of Golf in 1996, the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in 1998, the Colonial National Invitation in 2000 and the Greater Hartford Open in 2001 and again in 2002.\n\nHe appeared as himself in a non-speaking role in the 1996 film \"Tin Cup\", starring Kevin Costner.\n\nHis 2000 Buick Invitational win ended Tiger Woods' streak of six consecutive victories on the PGA tour. After the win, Mickelson said, \"I didn't want to be the bad guy. I wasn't trying to end the streak per se. I was just trying to win the golf tournament.\"\n\nAlthough he had performed very well in the majors up to the end of the 2003 season (17 top-ten finishes, and six second- or third-place finishes between 1999 and 2003), Mickelson's inability to win any of them led to him frequently being described as the \"\"best player never to win a major\".\"\n\nMickelson's first major championship win came in his thirteenth year on the PGA Tour in 2004, when he secured victory in the Masters with an birdie putt on the final hole. Ernie Els was the runner-up at a stroke back; the two played in different pairs in the final round and had traded birdies and eagles on the back nine. In addition to getting the \"majors monkey\" off his back, Mickelson was now only the third golfer with a left-handed swing to win a major, the others being New Zealander Sir Bob Charles, who won The Open Championship in 1963, and Canadian Mike Weir, who won The Masters in 2003. (Like Mickelson, Weir is a right-hander who plays left-handed.) A fourth left-handed winner is natural southpaw Bubba Watson, the Masters champion in 2012 and 2014.\n\nPrior to the Ryder Cup in 2004, Mickelson was dropped from his long-standing contract with Titleist/Acushnet Golf, after an incident when he left a voicemail message for a Callaway Golf executive. In it he praised their driver and golf ball, and thanked them for their help in getting some equipment for his brother. This memo was played to all of their salesmen, and eventually found its way back to Titleist. He was then let out of his multi-year deal with Titleist 16 months early, and signed on with Callaway Golf, his current equipment sponsor. He endured a great deal of ridicule and scrutiny from the press and fellow Ryder Cup members for his equipment change so close to the Ryder Cup matches. He faltered at the 2004 Ryder Cup with a record, but refused to blame the sudden change in equipment or his practice methods for his performance.\n\nIn November 2004, Mickelson tallied his career-low for an 18-hole round: a 59 at the PGA Grand Slam of Golf at Poipu Bay Golf Course in Hawaii.\n\nThe following year, Mickelson captured his second major at the PGA Championship at Baltusrol, in a Monday final-round conclusion that had been forced by inclement weather the previous day. On the 18th hole, Mickelson hit one of his trademark soft pitches from deep greenside rough to within a of the cup, and made his birdie to finish at a 4-under-par total of 276, one shot ahead of Steve Elkington and Thomas Bjørn.\n\nMickelson captured his third major title the following spring at the Masters. He won his second green jacket after shooting a 3-under-par final round, winning by two strokes over runner-up Tim Clark. This win propelled him to 2nd place in the Official World Golf Ranking (his career best), behind Woods, and ahead of Vijay Singh and Retief Goosen.\n\nAfter winning two majors in a row heading into the U.S. Open at Winged Foot, Mickelson was bidding to join Ben Hogan and Tiger Woods as the only players to win three consecutive majors (not necessarily in the same calendar year). Mickelson was the joint-leader going into the final round, but he was part of a wild finish to the tournament, in which he made major mistakes on the final hole and ended up in a tie for second place at +6 (286), one shot behind Geoff Ogilvy.\n\nMickelson bogeyed the 16th hole of the final round. On the 17th hole, with the lead at +4, he missed the fairway to the left, and his drive finished inside a garbage can, from which he was granted a free drop; he parred the hole. He had a one-shot lead and was in the last group going into the final hole.\n\nNeeding a par on the 18th hole for a one-shot victory, Mickelson continued with his aggressive style of play and chose to hit a driver off the tee; he hit his shot well left of the fairway (he had only hit two of thirteen fairways previously in the round). The ball bounced off a corporate hospitality tent and settled in an area of trampled-down grass that was enclosed with trees. He decided to go for the green with his second shot, rather than play it safe and pitch out into the fairway. His ball then hit a tree, and did not advance more than . His next shot plugged into the left greenside bunker. He was unable to get up and down from there, resulting in a double bogey, and costing him a chance of winning the championship outright or getting into an 18-hole playoff with Ogilvy.\n\nAfter his disappointing finish, Mickelson said: \"I'm still in shock. I still can't believe I did that. This one hurts more than any tournament because I had it won. Congratulations to Geoff Ogilvy on some great play. I want to thank all the people that supported me. The only thing I can say is I'm sorry.\" He was even more candid when he said: \"I just can't believe I did that. I'm such an idiot.\"\n\nDuring the third round of the 2006 Ford Championship at Doral, Mickelson gave a spectator $200 after his wayward tee shot at the par-5 10th broke the man's watch.\n\nMickelson also has shown other signs of appreciation. In 2007 after hearing the story of retired NFL player, Conrad Dobler, and his family on ESPN explaining their struggles to pay medical bills, Mickelson volunteered to pay tuition for Holli Dobler, Conrad Dobler's daughter, at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.\n\nFrustrated with his driving accuracy, Mickelson made the decision in April 2007 to leave longtime swing coach, Rick Smith. He then began working with Butch Harmon, a former coach of Tiger Woods and Greg Norman. On May 13, Mickelson came from a stroke back on the final round to shoot a three-under 69 to win The Players Championship with an 11-under-par 277.\n\nIn the U.S. Open at Oakmont in June, Mickelson missed the cut (by a stroke) for the first time in 31 majors after shooting 11 over par for 36 holes. He had been hampered by a wrist injury that was incurred while practicing in the thick rough at Oakmont a few weeks before the tournament.\n\nOn September 3, 2007, Mickelson won the Deutsche Bank Championship, which is the second FedEx Cup playoff event. On the final day, he was paired with Tiger Woods, who ended up finishing two strokes behind Mickelson in a tie for second. It was the first time that Mickelson was able to beat Woods while the two stars were paired together on the final day of a tournament. The next day Mickelson announced that he would not be competing in the third FedEx Cup playoff event. The day before his withdrawal, Mickelson said during a television interview that PGA Tour Commissioner, Tim Finchem, had not responded to advice he had given him on undisclosed issues.\n\nIn 2008, Mickelson won the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial with a −14, one shot ahead of Tim Clark and Rod Pampling. Mickelson shot a first-round 65 to start off the tournament at −5. He ended the day tied with Brett Wetterich, two shots behind leader, Johnson Wagner. Mickelson shot a second round 68, and the third round 65, overall, being −12 for the first three rounds. On the final hole, after an absolutely horrendous tee shot, he was in thick rough with trees in his way. Many players would have punched out, and taken their chances at making par from the fairway with a good wedge shot. Instead, he pulled out a high-lofted wedge and hit his approach shot over a tree, landing on the green where he one-putted for the win.\n\nIn a \"Men's Vogue\" article, Mickelson recounted his effort to lose with the help of trainer Sean Cochran. \"\"Once the younger players started to come on tour, he realized that he had to start working out to maintain longevity in his career\",\" Cochran said. Mickelson's regimen consisted of increasing flexibility and power, eating five smaller meals a day, aerobic training, and carrying his own golf bag.\n\nMickelson was inducted into the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame in 2008.\n\nMickelson won his first 2009 tour event when he defended his title at the Northern Trust Open at Riviera, one stroke ahead of Steve Stricker. The victory was Mickelson's 35th on tour; he surpassed Vijay Singh for second place on the current PGA Tour wins list. A month later, he won his 36th, and his first World Golf Championship, at the WGC-CA Championship with a one-stroke win over Nick Watney.\n\nOn May 20, it was announced that his wife Amy was diagnosed with breast cancer, and Mickelson announced that he would suspend his PGA Tour schedule indefinitely. She would begin treatment with major surgery as early as the following two weeks. Mickelson was scheduled to play the HP Byron Nelson Championship May 21–24, and to defend his title May 28–31 at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial, but withdrew from both events. During the final round of the 2009 BMW PGA Championship, fellow golfer and family friend John Daly wore bright pink trousers in support of Mickelson's wife. Also, the next Saturday, at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial, a \"Pink Out\" event was hosted, and the PGA Tour players all wore pink that day, to support the Mickelson family.\n\nOn May 31, Mickelson announced that he would return to play on the PGA Tour in June at the St. Jude Classic and the U.S. Open, since he had heard from the doctors treating his wife that her cancer had been detected in an early stage. Mickelson shot a final round 70 at the 2009 U.S. Open and recorded his fifth runner-up finish at the U.S. Open. He shared the lead after an eagle at the 13th hole, but fell back with bogeys on 15 and 17; Lucas Glover captured the championship.\n\nOn July 6, it was announced that his mother Mary was diagnosed with breast cancer and would have surgery at the same hospital where his wife was treated. After hearing the news that his mother had been diagnosed with breast cancer, Mickelson took another leave of absence from the tour, missing The Open Championship at Turnberry. On July 28, Mickelson announced he would return in August at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational, the week before the PGA Championship at Hazeltine National Golf Club in Chaska, Minnesota.\n\nIn September, Mickelson won The Tour Championship for the second time in his career. He entered the final round four strokes off the lead, but shot a final round 65 to win the event by three strokes over Tiger Woods. With the win, Mickelson finished the season second behind Woods in the 2009 FedEx Cup standings.\n\nOn November 8, Mickelson won the WGC-HSBC Champions by one shot over Ernie Els in Shanghai.\n\nIn 2010, Mickelson won the Masters Tournament on April 11 with a 16-under-par performance, giving him a three-stroke win over Lee Westwood. The win marked the third Masters victory for Mickelson and his fourth major championship overall. Critical to Mickelson's win was a dramatic run in the third round on Saturday in which Mickelson, trailing leader Westwood by five strokes as he prepared his approach shot to the 13th green, proceeded to make eagle, then to hole-out for eagle from 141 yards at the next hole, the par 4 14th, then on the next, the par 5 15th, to miss eagle from 81 yards by mere inches. After tapping in for birdie at 15, Mickelson, at −12, led Westwood, at −11, who had bogeyed hole 12 and failed to capitalize on the par 5 13th, settling for par.\n\nWestwood recaptured a one-stroke lead by the end of the round, but the momentum carried forward for Mickelson into round 4, where he posted a bogey-free 67 to Westwood's 71. No other pursuer was able to keep pace to the end, though K. J. Choi and Anthony Kim made notable charges. For good measure, Mickelson birdied the final hole and memorably greeted his waiting wife, Amy, with a prolonged hug and kiss.\n\nFor many fans, Mickelson's finish in the tournament was especially poignant, given that Amy had been suffering from breast cancer during the preceding year. Mary Mickelson, Phil's mother, was also dealing with cancer. CBS Sports announcer Jim Nantz's call of the final birdie putt, \"That's a win for the family,\" was seen by many as capturing the moment well.\n\nTiger Woods had a dramatic return to competitive play after a scandal-ridden 20-week absence; he was in close contention throughout for the lead and finished tied with Choi for 4th at −11. Mickelson and others showed exciting play over the weekend, and the 2010 Masters had strong television ratings in the United States, ranking third all-time to Woods's historic wins in 1997 and 2001. Mickelson's win left him second only to Woods in major championships among his competitive contemporaries, moving him ahead of Ernie Els, Vijay Singh and Pádraig Harrington, with three major championships each and each, like Mickelson, with dozens of worldwide wins.\n\nMickelson, one of the favorites for the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, shot 74 and 66 on Thursday and Friday to sit a shot off the lead. However, two weekend scores of 73 gave him a T4 finish. During the remainder of the 2010 season, Mickelson had multiple opportunities to become the number one player in the world rankings following the travails of Tiger Woods. However, a string of disappointing finishes by Mickelson saw the number one spot eventually go to Englishman Lee Westwood.\n\nIn the days leading up to the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits (near Kohler, Wisconsin), Mickelson announced he had been diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis. He added that he had started medical treatment, and had become a vegetarian in hopes of aiding his recovery. He maintains that both his short- and long-term prognosis are good, that the condition should have no long-term effect on his golfing career, and that he currently feels well. He also stated that the arthritis may go into permanent remission after one year of medical treatment. He went on to finish the championship T12, five shots behind winner Martin Kaymer.\n\nMickelson started his 2011 season at the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines Golf Course. He shot and was tied for the 54 hole lead with Bill Haas. Mickelson needed to hole out on the 18th hole for eagle from 74 yards to force a playoff with Bubba Watson. He hit it to 4 feet and Watson won the tournament.\n\nOn April 3, Mickelson won the Shell Houston Open with a 20-under-par, three-stroke win over Scott Verplank. Mickelson rose to No. 3 in the world ranking, while Tiger Woods fell to No. 7. Mickelson had not been ranked above Woods since the week prior to the 1997 Masters Tournament.\n\nAt The Open Championship, Mickelson recorded just his second top-ten finish in 18 tournaments by tying for second with Dustin Johnson. His front nine 30 put him briefly in a tie for the lead with eventual champion Darren Clarke. However, some putting problems caused him to fade from contention toward the end, to finish in a tie for second place.\n\nMickelson made his 2012 debut at the Humana Challenge and finished tied for 49th. He missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open after shooting rounds of 77 and 68. In the final round of the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, Mickelson rallied from six shots back, winning the tournament by two strokes with a final round score of 8-under 64 and a four-round total of 269. The win marked his 40th career victory on the PGA Tour. The following week at Riviera Country Club, Mickelson lost the Northern Trust Open in a three-way playoff. He had held the lead or a share of it from day one until the back nine on Sunday when Bill Haas posted the clubhouse lead at seven under par. Mickelson holed a 27-foot birdie putt on the final regulation hole to force a playoff alongside Haas and Keegan Bradley. Haas however won the playoff with a 40-foot birdie putt on the second playoff hole. The second-place finish moved Mickelson back into the world's top 10.\n\nMickelson finished tied for third at the Masters. After opening the tournament with a two-over-par 74, he shot 68-66 in the next two rounds and ended up one stroke behind leader Peter Hanson by Saturday night. Mickelson had a poor start to his fourth round, scoring a triple-bogey when he hit his ball far to the left of the green on the par-3 4th hole, hitting the stand and landing in a bamboo plant. This ended up being Mickelson's only score over par in the whole round, and he ended with a score of eight-under overall. Earlier in the tournament he had received widespread praise for being present to watch Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, and Gary Player hit the ceremonial opening tee-shots, nearly seven hours before Mickelson's own tee time.\n\nMickelson made a charge during the final round at the HP Byron Nelson Championship, but bogeyed the 17th and 18th, finishing T-7th. He then withdrew from the Memorial Tournament, citing mental fatigue, after a first round 79. He was to be paired with Tiger Woods and Bubba Watson at the U.S. Open. He fought to make the cut in the U.S. Open, and finished T-65th. After taking a couple of weeks off, he played in the Greenbrier Classic. Putting problems meant a second straight missed cut at the Greenbrier and a third missed cut at 2012 Open Championship, shooting 73-78 (11 over par). He finished T-43rd at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational. He then finished T-36th at the PGA Championship.\n\nTo start the 2012 FedEx Cup Playoffs, Mickelson finished T38 at The Barclays, +1 for the tournament. He tied with Tiger Woods, Zach Johnson, and five other players. In this tournament, he started using the claw putting grip on the greens. At the next event, the Deutsche Bank Championship, he finished the tournament with a −14, tied for 4th with Dustin Johnson. At the BMW Championship, Mickelson posted a −16 for the first three rounds, one of those rounds being a −8, 64. On the final day, Mickelson shot a −2, 70, to finish tied for 2nd, with Lee Westwood, two shots behind leader, and back-to-back winner, Rory McIlroy. At the Tour Championship, he ended up finishing tied for 15th. He went on to have a 3–1 record at the Ryder Cup; however, the USA team lost the event.\n\nMickelson began the 2013 season in January by playing in the Humana Challenge, where he finished T37 at −17. His next event was the following week in his home event near San Diego at the Farmers Insurance Open. Mickelson endured a disappointing tournament, finishing T51, shooting all four rounds in the 70s.\n\nIn the first round of the Waste Management Phoenix Open, Mickelson tied his career low round of 60. He made seven birdies in his first nine holes and needed a birdie on the 18th hole to equal the PGA Tour record of 59. However, his 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole lipped out, resulting in him missing out by a single shot on making only the sixth round of 59 in PGA Tour history. Mickelson led the tournament wire-to-wire and completed a four shot win over Brandt Snedeker for his 41st PGA Tour victory and 3rd Phoenix Open title. Mickelson's score of 28-under-par tied Mark Calcavecchia's tournament scoring record. He also moved back inside the world's top 10 after falling down as far as number 22.\n\nAt the U.S. Open at Merion, Mickelson entered the final round leading by one stroke after rounds of over the first three days, but he started the final round by three-putting the 3rd and 5th holes for double-bogeys to fall out of the lead. He regained the lead at the par four 10th, when he holed his second shot from the rough for an eagle. However, a misjudgment at the short par three 13th saw him fly the green and make a bogey to slip one behind leader Justin Rose. Another bogey followed at the 15th, before narrowly missing a birdie putt on the 16th that would have tied Rose. Mickelson could not make a birdie at the 17th and after a blocked drive on the 18th, he could not hole his pitch from short of the green, which led to a final bogey.\n\nMickelson ended up finishing tied for second with Jason Day, two strokes behind Justin Rose. It was the sixth runner-up finish of Mickelson's career at the U.S. Open, an event record and only behind Jack Nicklaus' seven runner-up finishes at The Open Championship. After the event, Mickelson called the loss heartbreaking and said \"this is tough to swallow after coming so close ... I felt like this was as good an opportunity I could ask for and to not get it ... it hurts.\" It was also Father's Day, which happened to be his birthday.\n\nThe week before The Open Championship, Mickelson warmed up for the event by winning his first tournament on British soil at the Scottish Open on July 14, after a sudden-death playoff against Branden Grace. After this victory, Mickelson spoke of his confidence ahead of his participation in the following week's major championship. Mickelson said: \"I've never felt more excited going into The Open. I don't think there's a better way to get ready for a major than playing well the week before and getting into contention. Coming out on top just gives me more confidence.\"\n\nThe following week, Mickelson won his fifth major title on July 21 at the Open Championship (often referred to as the British Open) Muirfield Golf Links in Scotland; the Open Championship is the oldest of the four major tournaments in professional golf. This was the first time in history that anyone had won both the Scottish Open and The Open Championship in the same year. Mickelson birdied four of the last six holes in a brilliant final round of 66 to win the title by three strokes. He shed tears on the 18th green after completing his round. Mickelson later said: \"I played arguably the best round of my career, and shot the round of my life. The range of emotions I feel are as far apart as possible after losing the U.S. Open. But you have to be resilient in this game.\" In an interview before the 2015 Open, Mickelson said, \"Two years removed from that win, I still can't believe how much it means to me.\"\n\nMickelson struggled in 2014, missing the cut at the Masters for the first time since 1997. He failed to contend at the U.S. Open at Pinehurst in his first bid to complete the career grand slam. Mickelson's lone top-10 of the PGA Tour season came at the year's final major, the PGA Championship at Valhalla. Mickelson shot rounds of 69-67-67-66 to finish solo second, one shot behind world number one Rory McIlroy.\n\nPrior to the 2015 Masters, Mickelson's best finish in 2015 was a tie for 17th. At the Masters, Mickelson shot rounds of to finish tied for second with Justin Rose, four shots behind champion Jordan Spieth. The second-place finish was Mickelson's tenth such finish in a major, placing him second all time only to Jack Nicklaus in that regard.\n\nAt The Open Championship, Mickelson shot rounds of and was eight shots behind, outside the top forty. In the final round, Mickelson birdied the 15th hole to move to 10 under and within two of the lead. After a missed birdie putt on 16, Mickelson hit his drive on the infamous Road Hole (17th) at the famed Old Course at St Andrews onto a second floor balcony of the Old Course Hotel. The out of bounds drive lead to a triple bogey 7 that sent Mickelson tumbling out of contention.\n\nLater in the year, it was announced that Mickelson would leave longtime swing coach Butch Harmon, feeling as though he needed to hear a new perspective on things.\n\nAfter leaving Butch Harmon, Mickelson hired Andrew Getson of Grayhawk Golf Club in Scottsdale, Arizona, to serve as his new swing coach. The two worked together heavily in the 2015 offseason to get Mickelson's swing back.\n\nUnder Getson's guidance, Mickelson made his 2016 debut at the CareerBuilder Challenge. He shot rounds of to finish in a tie for third place at 21-under-par. It was only Mickelson's fifth top-five finish since his win at the 2013 Open Championship. The third-place finish was Mickelson's highest finish in his first worldwide start of a calendar year since he won the same event to begin the 2004 season.\n\nAt the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am, Mickelson shot rounds of to finish in solo second place, a shot behind Vaughn Taylor. Mickelson lipped out a five-foot birdie putt to force a playoff on the 72nd hole. He entered the final round with a two stroke lead, his first 54-hole lead since the 2013 U.S. Open and was seeking to end a winless drought dating back 52 worldwide events to the 2013 Open Championship.\n\nMickelson shot a 63 in the opening round of The Open Championship at Royal Troon. The round set a new course record and matched the previous major championship record for lowest round. Mickelson had a birdie putt that narrowly missed on the final hole to set a new major championship scoring record of 62. He followed this up with a 69 in the second round for a 10 under par total and a one shot lead over Henrik Stenson going into the weekend. In the third round, Mickelson shot a one under 70 for a total of 11 under par to enter the final round one shot back of Stenson. Despite Mickelson's bogey-free 65 in the final round, Stenson shot 63 to win by three shots. Mickelson finished 11 strokes clear of 3rd place, a major championship record for a runner up. Mickelson's 267 total set a record score for a runner up in the British Open, and only trails Mickelson's 266 at the 2001 PGA Championship as the lowest total by a runner up in major championship history.\n\nIn the fall of 2016, Mickelson had two sports hernia surgeries. Those in the golf community expected him to miss much time recovering, however his unexpected return at the CareerBuilder Challenge was a triumphant one, leading to a T-21 finish. The next week, in San Diego, he narrowly missed an eagle putt on the 18th hole on Sunday that would've got him to 8-under par instead posting −7 to finish T14 at the Farmers Insurance Open. The following week, at the Waste Management Phoenix Open, which he has won three times, he surged into contention following a Saturday 65. He played his first nine holes in 4-under 32 and sending his name to the top of the leaderboard. However, his charge faltered with bogeys at 11, 12, 14, 15, and a double bogey at the driveable 17th hole. He stumbled with a final round 71, still earning a T-16 finish, for his sixth straight top-25 finish on tour.\n\nMickelson came close to winning again at the FedEx St. Jude Classic where he had finished in second place the previous year to Daniel Berger. He started the final round four strokes behind leaders but he quickly played himself into contention. Following a birdie at the 10th hole he vaulted to the top of leaderboard but found trouble on the 12th hole. His tee shot carried out of bounds and his fourth shot hit the water so he had to make a long putt to salvage triple-bogey. He managed to get one shot back but he finished three shots behind winner Berger, in ninth place, for the second straight year.\n\nTwo weeks later he withdrew from the U.S. Open to attend his daughter's high school graduation. A week later his longtime caddie Jim (Bones) Mackay left Mickelson in a mutual agreement. Mickelson then missed the cut at both The Open Championship and the PGA Championship, shooting one of his worst rounds in a major.\n\nOn September 6, days after posting his best finish of the season of T6 at the Dell Technologies Championship, Mickelson was named as a captain's pick for the Presidents Cup. This maintained a streak of 23 consecutive USA teams in the Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup, dating back to 1994.\n\nOn March 4, 2018, Mickelson ended a winless drought that dated back to 2013, by capturing his third WGC championship at the WGC-Mexico Championship, with a final round score of 66 and a total score of −16. Mickelson birdied two of his last four holes and had a lengthy putt to win outright on the 72nd hole, but tied with Justin Thomas. He defeated Thomas on the first extra hole of a sudden-death playoff with a par. After Thomas had flown the green, Mickelson had a birdie to win the playoff which lipped out. Thomas however could not get up and down for par, meaning Mickelson claimed the championship. The win was Mickelson's 43rd on the PGA Tour and his first since winning the 2013 Open Championship. He also became the oldest winner of a WGC event, at age 47.\n\nIn the third round of the 2018 U.S. Open, Mickelson incurred a two-stroke penalty in a controversial incident on the 13th hole when he hit his ball while it was still moving. He ended up shooting 81 (+11). His former coach Butch Harmon thought Mickelson should have been disqualified.\n\nMickelson was a captain's pick for Team USA at the 2018 Ryder Cup, held in Paris between September 28 and 30. Paired with Bryson DeChambeau in the Friday afternoon foursomes, they lost 5 and 4 to Europe's Sergio García and Alex Norén. In the Sunday singles match, Mickelson lost 4 and 2 to Francesco Molinari, as Team USA slumped to a 17.5 to 10.5 defeat.\n\nOn November 23, 2018, Mickelson won the pay-per-view event, Capital One's The Match. This was a $9,000,000 winner-takes-all match against Tiger Woods at Shadow Creek Golf Course in Las Vegas. Mickelson needed four extra holes to beat Woods, which he did by holing a four-foot putt after Woods missed a seven-foot putt on the 22nd hole.\n\nAs a competitor, Mickelson's playing style is described by many as \"aggressive\" and highly social. His strategy toward difficult shots (bad lies, obstructions) would tend to be considered risky.\n\nMickelson has also been characterized by his powerful and sometimes inaccurate driver, but his excellent short game draws the most positive reviews, most of all his daring \"Phil flop\" shot in which a big swing with a high-lofted wedge against a tight lie flies a ball high into the air for a short distance.\n\nMickelson is usually in the top 10 in scoring, and he led the PGA Tour in birdie average as recently as 2013.\n\nAlthough ranked second on the PGA Tour's all-time money list of tournament prize money won, Mickelson earns far more from endorsements than from prize money. According to one estimate of 2011 earnings (comprising salary, winnings, bonuses, endorsements and appearances) Mickelson was then the second-highest paid athlete in the United States, earning an income of over $62 million, $53 million of which came from endorsements. Major companies which Mickelson currently endorses are KPMG, ExxonMobil (Mickelson and wife Amy started a teacher sponsorship fund with the company), Rolex, Workday, Inc., Callaway Golf and Mizzen+Main. He has been previously sponsored by Titleist, Bearing Point, Barclays, and Ford. After being diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis in 2010, Mickelson was treated with Enbrel and began endorsing the drug.\n\nIn 2015, \"Forbes\" estimated Mickelson's annual income at $51 million.\n\nOn May 30, 2014, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that the FBI and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) were investigating Mickelson and associates of his for insider trading in Clorox stock. Mickelson denied any wrongdoing, and the investigation found \"no evidence\" and concluded without any charges. On May 19, 2016, Mickelson was named as a relief defendant in another SEC complaint alleging insider trading but completely avoided criminal charges in a parallel case brought in the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York. The action stems for trades in Dean Foods in 2012 in conjunction with confidential information provided by Thomas Davis, a former director of Dean Foods Company, who tipped his friend and \"professional sports bettor\" Billy Walters.\n\nThe SEC did not allege that Walters actually told Mickelson of any material, nonpublic information about Dean Foods, and the SEC disgorged Mickelson of the $931,000 profit he had made from trading Dean Foods stock and had him pay prejudgment interest of $105,000. In 2017, Walters was convicted of making $40 million on Davis's private information from 2008 to 2014 by a federal jury. At that time, it was also noted that Mickelson had \"once owed nearly $2 million in gambling debts to\" Walters. Walters' lawyer said his client would appeal the 2017 verdict.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (8–4)\n\n Co-sanctioned with Asian Tour, Sunshine Tour and PGA Tour of Australasia\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (3–1)\n\n\nLA = Low amateur\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\"Results not in chronological order prior to 2015.\"\n\nCancelled due to 9/11\n\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play\n\"T\" = tied\nNT = No Tournament\nThe HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> As of 2018 season.<br>\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\nEquipment is accurate as of the 2018 WGC-Dell Technologies Match Play (March 20, 2018).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818326", "title": "Reproductive biology", "text": "Reproductive biology\n\nReproductive biology includes both sexual and asexual reproduction.\n\nReproductive biology includes a wide number of fields:\n\nHuman reproductive biology is primarily controlled through hormones, which send signals to the human reproductive structures to influence growth and maturation. These hormones are secreted by endocrine glands, and spread to different tissues in the human body. In humans, the pituitary gland synthesizes hormones used to control the activity of endocrine glands.\n\nInternal and external organs are included in the reproductive system. There are two reproductive systems including the male and female, which contain different organs from one another. These systems work together in order to produce offspring.\n\nThe female reproductive system includes the structures involved in ovulation, fertilization, development of an embryo, and birth.\n\nThese structures include:\n\nEstrogen is one of the sexual reproductive hormones that aid in the sexual reproductive system of the female.\n\nThe male reproductive system includes sex accessory glands, sex accessory ducts, testes, and external genitalia.\n\nTestosterone, although present in both males and females, is relatively more abundant in males. Testosterone serves as one of the sexual reproductive hormones in the male reproductive system.\n\nAnimal reproduction occurs by two modes of action, including both sexual and asexual reproduction. In asexual reproduction the generation of new organisms does not require the fusion sperm with an egg. However, in sexual reproduction new organisms are formed by the fusion of haploid sperm and eggs resulting in what is known as the zygote. Although animals exhibit both sexual and asexual reproduction the vast majority of animals reproduce by sexual reproduction.\n\nGametogenesis is the formation of gametes, or reproductive cells.\n\nSpermatogenesis is the production of sperm cells in the testis. In mature testes primordial germ cells divide mitotically to form the spermatogonia, which in turn generate spermatocytes by mitosis. Then each spermatocyte gives rise to four spermatids through meiosis. Spermatids are now haploid and undergo differentiation into sperm cells. Later in reproduction the sperm will fuse with a female oocyte to form the zygote.\n\nOogenesis is the formation of a cell who will produce one ovum and three polar bodies. Oogenesis begins in the female embryo with the production of oogonia from primordial germ cells. Like spermatogenesis, the primordial germ cell undergo mitotic division to form the cells that will later undergo meiosis, but will be halted at the prophase I stage. This is known as the primary oocyte. Human females are born with all the primary oocytes they will ever have. Starting at puberty the process of meiosis can complete resulting in the secondary oocyte and the first polar body. The secondary oocyte can later be fertilized with the male sperm.\n\n"}
{"id": "41934112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41934112", "title": "Richard P. Matty", "text": "Richard P. Matty\n\nRichard P. Matty is a former member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nMatty was born on September 16, 1932 in Menominee, Michigan. He graduated from high school in Crivitz, Wisconsin. During the Korean War, Matty served in the United States Air Force. From 1966 to 1970, he was coroner of Marinette County, Wisconsin.\n\nMatty was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1972 to 1988. He is a Republican.\n"}
{"id": "12981588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12981588", "title": "Saint Ada", "text": "Saint Ada\n\nSaint Ada is a saint from Le Mans, France. In the 7th-century, she served the Christian church as the abbess of the St. Julien de Prés Abbey in Le Mans. Previously she had been as a nun in the city of Soissons. Though she is best known as Saint Ada of Le Mans, her place of patronage is sometimes given as Soissons or St. Julien, and her given name is sometimes recorded as Adeneta, Adna, Adneta , Adnetta, Adonette, Adrechild, Adrehilda, Adrehilde, or Adrehildis.\n\nShe was the niece of Saint Engebert, a bishop of Le Mans. The years of her birth and death are unrecorded, but she is known to have died in the 7th century, and was buried in the Le Mans abbey in which she had served.\n\nAda is a patron saint of nuns. Her annual feast day is celebrated on 4 December.\n"}
{"id": "84546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84546", "title": "Seleucus II Callinicus", "text": "Seleucus II Callinicus\n\nSeleucus II Callinicus Pogon (; \"Kallinikos\" means \"gloriously triumphant\"; \"Pogon\" means \"the Beard\"; July/August 265 – December 225 BC), was a ruler of the Hellenistic Seleucid Empire, who reigned from 246 to 225 BC. Faced with multiple enemies on various fronts, and not always successful militarily, his reign was a time of great turmoil and fragmentation for the Seleucid empire, before its eventual restoration under his second son and eventual successor, Antiochus III.\n\nAfter the death of his father, Antiochus in July 246 BC, Seleucus was proclaimed king by his mother, Laodice in Ephesos, while his father's second wife Queen Berenice declared her son Antiochus king in Antioch. Berenice acted decisively at first, seizing control of most of Syria and Cilicia. However before her brother Ptolemy III, the king of Egypt was able to land and support to her son's claims she was murdered by partisans of Seleucus II and Queen Laodice.\n\nThis dynastic feud began the Third Syrian War. Ptolemy III, invaded the Seleucid Empire and landing at Seleucia Pieria, accepted the surrender of Syria and Cilicia and marched victoriously to the Tigris or beyond (though he did not reach as far as Babylon . Ptolemy remained in Syria during the winter of 246-245, while Seleucus sent an expedition by sea to retake the area, only to have it wrecked by storms; not the last time he was to be defeated by bad luck.\n\nSeleucus managed to maintain himself in the interior of Asia Minor and made arrangements to shore up his power there. One of his sisters married Mithridates II of Pontus, another married Ariarathes III of Cappadocia and he himself married his cousin Laodice II, by whom he had five children among them: Antiochis, Seleucus III Ceraunus and Antiochus III the Great. Seleucus then appointed his brother Antiochus Hierax as viceroy in Asia Minor and marched against the Ptolemies. \n\nPtolemy himself returned to Egypt in 245, reputedly taking with him 40,000 talents of gold and the statues of Egyptian gods which had been looted centuries before by the Persians. Seleucus crossed into Babylonia and Mesopotamia first, receiving the loyalty of the empire's Eastern regions and then marched into Syria where he recovered Antioch by 244. This was followed by the recapture of the other major cities of the area and by 242 the interior of Northern Syria had been regained and Seleucus was even able to launch raids into Ptolemaic controlled Syria around Damascus. \n\nElsewhere the Seleucid's were less successful, in the Aegean the Ptolemies were able to seize control of Ephesos, as well as Ainos and Maroneia in Thrace, and several cities on the Asian side of the Hellespont. \n\nIn 241 peace was finally signed, Ptolemy recognised Seleucus as king and the Eleutheros river was once again accepted as boundary between the two empires in Syria. Ptolemy did however retain his conquests in Thrace, Ephesos, and most importantly of all the vital port of Seleucia Pieria. This city contained the tomb of the dynasties founder Seleucus I and controlled much of the trade from Antioch, desire to recover it would prove to be one of the main causes of the outbreak of the Fourth Syrian war in 219 BC.\n\nIn the meantime, Antiochus Hierax, had set himself up as a rival in Asia Minor against Seleucus, supported by their domineering mother Laodice. Seleucus appears to have invaded, but was unable to take Sardis. After two years of stalemate the brothers met at the Battle of Ancyra in around 237 BC. With the support of his in-law Mithridates II of Pontus and the Galatians Antiochus Hierax was victorious and Seleucus was barely able to escape with his life. After this he left the country beyond the Taurus to his brother and the other powers of the peninsula and an uneasy peace between the two prevailed.\n\nSeleucus then turned to the problems which had developed in the Eastern provinces of the empire over the last few decades and undertook an anabasis to regain Parthia, the results of which came to nothing. \n\nThe Parthian satrap Andragoras had taken the opportunity to establish de facto independence and had begun minting his own coins in 245. Before Seleucus was able to turn his attention Eastwards however Andragoras had been killed by Arsaces I, a chieftain of the nomadic Parni, operating out of the city of Nissa (modern day Nisa, Turkmenistan by 238. This Arsakes had previously attacked Bactria and been driven off by the satrap Diodotus I. This Diodotus had also used the opportunity of Seleucid distraction in the West to gain de facto independence and set himself up as an independent ruler. \n\nAfter the defeat at Ancyra the Seleucid garrisons of the region were further weakened and this allowed the Parthian's under Arsaces the opportunity to seize more territory, including the city of Hekatompylos, which became their new capital around 237. Around this time Diodotus was succeeded by his son Diodotus II who agreed to an alliance with Parthia, which now acted as a useful barrier to any Seleucid invasion to recover the East. \n\nIt was after this that Seleucus attempted to recover Parthia, but the source indicate he was defeated, or perhaps withdrew in the face of Parthian strength. The recovery of the Seleucid position in the East would have to wait until the reign of his son Antiochus III. Following this defeat Diodotus II declared himself king, officially severing any remaining links with the Seleucid court in 235 BC.\n\nMeanwhile in Asia Minor, Pergamon now rose to greatness under Attalus I. Attalus' ambition to replace Antiochus Hierax as king of Asia Minor led to a major war and several battles over the 230's. In short order Attalus defeated the Galatians, the Antiochus himself and finally an attempt by Seleucus to reclaim his position in Asia Minor. After being defeated by Attalus in 4 battles Antiochus fled to Armenia, whose king gave him refuge. Antiochus Hierax then attempted to invade Mesopotamia. Andromachos, his mothers brother, commanded the Seleucid forces on this occasion and defeated him. Fleeing again Antiochus finally perished as a fugitive in Thrace at the hands of the Galatians in 228 or 227 BC. \n\nSeleucus by this time had his hands full dealing with rebellion in Antioch. Queen Stratonike, his aunt, had previously been married to King Demetrius II of Macedon. Upon returning to Syria after he took another wife she proposed marriage to her nephew, or possibly demanded he avenge the insult to her honour by attacking Demetrius. In either case she was refused and, infuriated, raised Antioch in rebellion. Seleucus had to besiege the city, which he eventually recaptured. Stratonike fled to Seleucia, hoping to take refuge with Ptolemy III, but was captured en route and executed.\n\nIn the years after the defeat at Ancyra (237) Seleucus focused on rebuilding his domains, expanding Antioch and suppressing rebellion in Babylon. By 227 he had stabilised the situation enough to begin contemplating a new offensive against Attalus to retake Asia Minor.\n\nBefore he could launch this invasion Seleucus died unexpectedly in 225/224 as the result of a fall from his horse. He was succeeded first by his eldest son Alexander who took the name Seleucus III and later by his younger son Antiochus III the Great in 222.\n"}
{"id": "29560231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29560231", "title": "Sir Thomas Alston, 5th Baronet", "text": "Sir Thomas Alston, 5th Baronet\n\nSir Thomas Alston, 5th Baronet (c. 1724 – 18 July 1774) was an English Baronet and Member of Parliament.\n\nThomas Alston was the eldest son of Sir Rowland Alston, 4th Baronet of Odell, Bedfordshire. He was admitted at Queens' College, Cambridge in 1740. From 1747 to 1761 he was MP for Bedfordshire. In 1750 he married Catherine Davie Bovey, but separated from her by mutual consent two years later. Confined for a while to a madhouse, he was nevertheless re-elected to Parliament unopposed in 1754. Horace Walpole reported a sorry appearance in the House of Commons in November 1755: \"Poor Alston was mad, and spoke ten times to order.\"\n\nOn 2 January 1759 he succeeded his father as 5th Baronet. He did not stand for Parliament in 1761.\nAlston died 18 July 1774, leaving his property (Odell Castle) to his housekeeper Margaret Lee, through whom it eventually made its way to his illegitimate son Thomas. He was buried at Odell.\n"}
{"id": "3734595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734595", "title": "Spiritual direction", "text": "Spiritual direction\n\nSpiritual direction is the practice of being with people as they attempt to deepen their relationship with the divine, or to learn and grow in their own personal spirituality. The person seeking direction shares stories of his or her encounters of the divine, or how he or she is cultivating a life attuned to spiritual things. The director listens and asks questions to assist the directee in his or her process of reflection and spiritual growth. Spiritual direction advocates claim that it develops a deeper awareness with the spiritual aspect of being human, and that it is not psychotherapy, counseling, or financial planning.\n\nWhile there is some degree of variability, there are primarily two forms of spiritual direction: regular direction and retreat direction. They differ largely in the frequency of meeting and in the intensity of reflection.\n\nRegular direction can involve a one- to two-hour meeting every four to eight weeks, and thus is slightly less intense than retreat direction, although spiritual exercises and disciplines are often given for the directee to attempt between meetings.\n\nIf the directee is on a retreat (lasting a weekend, a week or even 40 days), he or she will generally meet with his or her director on a daily basis for one hour. During these daily meetings, exercises or spiritual disciplines such as lectio divina are given to the directee as fodder to continue his or her spiritual growth. Alternatively, retreat centres often offer direction or companionship to persons visiting the centre alone.\n\nThe Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola are a popular example of guidelines used for spiritual direction.\n\nWithin Christianity, spiritual direction has its roots in Early Christianity. The gospels describe Jesus serving as a mentor to his disciples. Additionally, Acts of the Apostles Chapter 9 describes Ananias helping Paul of Tarsus to grow in his newfound experience of Christianity. Likewise, several of the Pauline epistles describe Paul mentoring both Timothy and Titus among others. Tradition tells us that John the Evangelist tutored Polycarp, the 2nd-century bishop of Smyrna.\n\nTheologian John Cassian who lived in the 4th century provided some of the earliest recorded guidelines on the Christian practice of spiritual direction. He introduced mentoring in the monasteries. Each novice was put under the care of an older monk. Benedict of Nursia integrated Cassian's guidelines into what is now known as the Rule of Saint Benedict.\n\nSpiritual direction is widespread in the Catholic religion: a person with wisdom and spiritual discernment, usually but not exclusively a priest or consecrated in general, provides counsel to a person who wishes to make a journey of faith and discovery of God's will in his life. The spiritual guide aims to discern, understand what the Holy Spirit, through the situations of life, spiritual insights fruit of prayer, reading and meditation on the Bible, tells the person accompanied. The spiritual father or spiritual director may provide advice, give indications of life and prayer, resolving doubts in matters of faith and morals without replacing the choices and decisions to the person accompanying.\n\nEastern Orthodoxy comes from the same pre-schism traditions, but the role of a \"spiritual director\" or \"elder\" in Orthodoxy has maintained its important role. The original Greek term geron (meaning \"elder\", as in gerontology) was rendered by the Russian word starets, from Old Church Slavonic starĭtsĭ, \"elder\", derived from starŭ, \"old\". The Greek tradition has a long unbroken history of elders and disciples, such as Sophronius and John Moschos in the seventh century, Symeon the Elder and Symeon the New Theologian in the eleventh century, and contemporary charismatic gerontes such as Porphyrios and Paisios. Sergius of Radonezh and Nil Sorsky were two most venerated startsy of Old Muscovy. The revival of elders in the Slavic world is associated with the name of Paisius Velichkovsky (1722–94), who produced the Russian translation of the Philokalia. The most famous Russian starets of the early 19th century was Seraphim of Sarov (1759-1833), who went on to become one of the most revered Orthodox saints.\nThe Optina Pustyn near Kozelsk used to be celebrated for its startsy (Schema-Archimandrite Moses, Schema-Hegumen Anthony, Hieroschemamonk Leonid, Hieroschemamonk Macarius, Hieroschemamonk Hilarion, Hieroschemamonk Ambrose, Hieroschemamonk Anatole (Zertsalov)).[1] Such writers as Nikolay Gogol, Aleksey Khomyakov, Leo Tolstoy and Konstantin Leontyev sought advice from the elders of this monastery. They also inspired the figure of Zosima in Dostoyevsky's novel The Brothers Karamazov. A more modern example of a starets is Archimandrite John Krestiankin (1910-2006) of the Pskov Monastery of the Caves who was popularly recognized as such by many Orthodox living in Russia.\n\nIn Judaism, the Hebrew term for spiritual director differs among traditional communities. The verb \"Hashpa'ah\" is common in some communities though not all; the spiritual director called a \"mashpi'a\" occurs in the Habad-Lubavitch community and also in the Jewish Renewal community. A \"mashgiakh ruchani\" is the equivalent role among mitnagedim (adherents of the \"mussar\" tradition). The purpose of hashpa'ah is to support the directee in her or his personal relationship with God, and to deepen that person's ability to find God's presence in ordinary life. Amongst Lubavitchers this draws on the literature and praxis of Hasidism as it is practiced according to Habad standards, and to Jewish mystical tradition generally. Spiritual mentorship is customary in the Hasidic world, but not necessarily in the same way.\n\nIn Sufism, the term used for spiritual master is \"murshid\", Arabic for \"guide\" or \"teacher\". He is more than a spiritual director and believed to be guiding the disciples based on his direct connectivity with the Divine. The murshid's role is to spiritually guide and verbally instruct the disciple on the Sufi path after the disciple takes an oath of allegiance or Bay'ah (\"bai'ath\") with him. The concept of Murshid Kamil Akmal (also known as Insan-e-Kamil) is significant in most tariqas. The doctrine states that from pre-existence till pre-eternity, there shall always remain a Qutb or a Universal Man upon the earth who would be the perfect manifestation of God and at the footsteps of the Islamic prophet Mohammad.\n\n\n\nClassics\nContemporary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22710064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22710064", "title": "Wrongful birth", "text": "Wrongful birth\n\nWrongful birth is a legal cause of action in some common law countries in which the \"parents\" of a congenitally diseased child claim that their doctor failed to properly warn of their risk of conceiving or giving birth to a child with serious genetic or congenital abnormalities. Thus, the plaintiffs claim, the defendant prevented them from making a truly informed decision as to whether or not to have the child. Wrongful birth is a type of medical malpractice tort. It is distinguished from wrongful life, in which the \"child\" sues the doctor.\n\nThe elements of a wrongful birth claim are:\n\nThe plaintiff must establish the existence of a patient-doctor relationship by showing that the doctor gave the plaintiff a medical diagnosis or medical advice.\n\nIn a wrongful birth case the plaintiff must show that the doctor failed to follow the standard of care with respect the diagnosis or disclosure of the plaintiffs’ risk of transmitting genetic or congenital abnormalities to their children.\n\nIf the plaintiffs allege that the defendant failed to properly diagnose the plaintiffs' risk of passing on a genetic disorder or other abnormality, then the plaintiffs must put forth expert testimony as to the standard of care for the diagnosis at issue. Lay juries do not have the necessary knowledge of medical practice to evaluate the conduct of doctors without the assistance of an expert witness.\n\nIf the plaintiffs allege that the defendant failed to disclose the risk of conceiving a child with an abnormality, then the plaintiffs must show that the doctor had the duty to make the disclosure at issue. Doctors are under an obligation to disclose to their patients the risks of passing on a genetic condition to their prospective children. However, the doctor need not disclose all risks or recommend all available testing procedures. For example, in the case of \"Munro v. Regents of the University of California\", the court held that the doctor was not under an obligation to recommend a Tay-Sachs test when the doctor had no reason to suspect his patients were at any more at risk for Tay-Sachs than the general population, when the risk of Tay-Sachs among the general population was between 1 in 200 and 1 in 300, and when the Tay-Sachs test was \"generally useless\" for the vast majority of patients.\nThe plaintiffs may also prove the negligence element by showing that the doctor failed to properly disclose the availability of genetic or prenatal screening procedures. As in other failure to disclose cases, the plaintiff will need to show that doctor owed a duty to make the disclosures at issue.\n\nThe plaintiffs in a wrongful birth case may claim that their harms consist in having a child with an undesired abnormality and/or in having been denied the opportunity to make a fully informed choice as to whether to conceive or to abort the fetus.\n\nIn the past, plaintiffs have had to prove cause by showing that if the defendant had not been negligent, the child would have been normal. Under this standard, the defendant may argue that even if she or he failed to diagnose an existing fetus with a genetic or developmental abnormality, she or he did not cause the parents or fetus to have mutated genes or the fetus to develop the abnormality. Once the fetus is determined to have an abnormality, the doctor may not be able to treat the fetus, making the abnormality inevitable. If the doctor fails to diagnose the plaintiff’s risk of transmitting a genetic disease, or fails to inform the plaintiff of that risk, then it is the combination of the parents’ genetic mutations and choice to have a child that most directly results in the conception of an abnormal child. Because of difficulties in proving cause under this standard some courts disallowed wrongful birth suits.\n\nMore recently, plaintiffs have been able to prove the causation element by showing that the defendant’s negligence deprived them of the opportunity to fully consider the choice whether or not to conceive or abort their fetus. However, the plaintiffs must still prove that had the doctor acted properly they would have declined to conceive or would have aborted their abnormal fetus. This standard for causation has allowed plaintiffs to more easily prove the causation element. Still, the plaintiffs’ claim that they would not have had an abnormal child is in some ways speculative. The decision whether or not to conceive given the risk of bearing an abnormal child would likely to be difficult and emotional, with an unpredictable outcome, as would the decision to abort an abnormal fetus. Additionally, some defendants have argued that the tort is subject to fraudulent claims, as proof of the claim that the plaintiffs would have aborted an abnormal fetus would often come in the form of the plaintiff’s retrospective and subjective testimony.\n\nMost courts now only allow only the costs associated with raising an abnormal child, such as medical care that would not be needed for a healthy child. Thus, most courts do not allow the recovery of all costs associated with raising the plaintiffs’ child. Some courts have ruled that plaintiffs may recover additional damages, such as those for emotional distress, loss of consortium, and physical pain suffered by the wife during delivery of an unhealthy child. See the example of the \"Keel\" case below.\n\nRecently, in a competition named: \"Gicelter\" of the Association of Medicine and Law, the Israeli researcher winner: Mr. Don Sosunov has developed an economic model showing that the change in the probability of loss for procreation tort claim is inversely proportional to the number of procedures being taken to treat the child.\n\nOn February 19, 1975 the Texas Supreme Court's ruling in the case \"Jacobs v. Theimer\" made Texas the first state in America to declare a woman could sue her doctor for a wrongful birth. That case involved Dortha Jean Jacobs (later Dortha Biggs), who caught rubella while pregnant and gave birth to Lesli, who was severely disabled. Dortha and her husband sued her doctor, saying he did not diagnose the rubella or warn them how it would affect the pregnancy.\n\nTwenty-five U.S. states now recognize the wrongful birth cause of action.\n\nHowever, some states have statutorily banned wrongful birth actions. See for example Idaho Code §5-334(1): \"A cause of action shall not arise, and damages shall not be awarded, on behalf of any person, based on the claim that but for the act or omission of another, a person would not have been permitted to have been born alive but would have been aborted.\"\n\nThere is some controversy as to whether or not the wrongful birth cause of action should be recognized.\n\nAllowing the wrongful birth cause of action may increase the rate of abortion, a practice some consider unethical. Doctors under threat of being sued for wrongful birth have an incentive to be vigilant in detecting the risk that prospective parents will have a congenitally diseased child, in disclosing any risks to the prospective parents, and in recommending various tests to determine the risk or existence a congenital abnormality. Thus, more prospective parents will become aware of that their fetuses have congenital abnormalities, giving them reason to abort. Academics concerns have also been raised that wrongful birth suits restrict rather than advance the freedom of choice by parents and doctors.\n\nMost disability activists consider these actions to be unethical and indicative of social intolerance toward disabled individuals. For instance, in 2012, several disability rights organizations wrote a letter to the ACLU protesting its language in support of wrongful birth lawsuits. It is generally felt that allowing wrongful birth lawsuits for things like Down Syndrome and Spina Bifida sends a clear message that such individuals should not be born.\n\nThe prospective parents of any child have an autonomy interest in making informed decisions about whether or not to procreate. Many prospective parents might want to know if they are at high risk for passing a genetic disease to their offspring. They also might want to know whether their fetus has some kind of congenital abnormality. A doctor who fails to adequately disclose the risk that his patients might have an abnormal child, or who fails to properly diagnose an abnormal fetus, is depriving the prospective parents of the chance to make a fully informed procreative decision. In light of the great importance many people place on their procreative decisions and the care with which they make them, a doctor whose negligence interferes with those decisions should be held responsible for the consequences of that negligence.\n\nIn the case of \"Keel v. Banach\" the plaintiffs were a man and his pregnant wife, who both sought to avoid having a child with genetic or developmental abnormalities. The man’s previous stillborn child had a spinal cord defect and other abnormalities known to have a hereditary basis, placing the man at increased risk of fathering a second child with such abnormalities. The defendant was an obstetrician who performed several sonograms on the woman and her developing fetus. The defendant did not detect any abnormalities and assured the parents that their child was developing normally. However, the child was born with a variety of severe congenital abnormalities, requiring multiple surgeries. The child died at the age of six.\n\nThe parents sued on a theory of wrongful birth. The court ruled \"the parents of a congenitally defective child may maintain an action for its wrongful birth if the birth was the result of the negligent failure of the attending physician to discover and inform them of the existence of fetal defects.\" The plaintiffs could recover for any medical expenses caused by the defendant’s negligence as well as for the physical pain of the wife, loss of consortium and mental and emotional suffering.\n\nWrongful life is a legal cause of action in which a congenitally-diseased child sues the doctor, claiming that but for the negligence of the doctor, the child would not have been born into a life of pain and suffering. The child claims he or she would have been better off never having been born than having been born with a congenital disease. Unlike wrongful birth causes of action, most states do not recognize the wrongful life cause of action. Some courts have reasoned that wrongful life claims call for the court to answer a metaphysical question better left to philosophers: whether it is better never to be born than to be born with a congenital disease. However, some courts, starting with California, have recognized the wrongful life claim. The California Court of Appeal held in 1980 that \"a reverent appreciation of life compels recognition that [a wrongful life] plaintiff, however impaired she may be, has come into existence as a living person with certain rights\" – i.e. the right to recover against a doctor whose negligence resulted in her disease. In 1982, the Supreme Court of California largely endorsed and adopted the Court of Appeal's holding in a different case but limited the child's recovery to special damages.\n\nIn a wrongful conception case, the plaintiffs claim that their doctor negligently performed a vasectomy, tubal ligation, or other sterilization procedure, resulting in an unwanted pregnancy and/or birth. The resulting child is usually healthy, though unwanted. \n\nIn 2003, the Supreme Court of Indiana recognized the medical malpractice tort of \"wrongful pregnancy\" when a woman became pregnant after a failed sterilization procedure. The court decided that the damages may include the cost of the pregnancy but may not include the ordinary cost of raising the child, as the benefits of rearing the child could not be calculated.\n\nIn a wrongful adoption case, the plaintiffs are adoptive parents of an unhealthy child, who claims that the adoption agency failed to disclose facts necessary for the plaintiffs to make an informed decision about what child to adopt, such as the background, health or genetic status of potential adoptees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37752", "title": "Éraic", "text": "Éraic\n\nÉraic (or \"eric\") was the Irish equivalent of the Welsh galanas and the Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavian weregild, a form of tribute paid in reparation for murder or other major crimes. The term survived into the sixteenth century as \"\", by then relating only to compensation for the killing of an Irishman. In the case of homicide, if the attacker fled, the fine had to be paid by the tribe to which he belonged.\n\nIn Irish mythology the eraic takes an important place. In the \"Oidheadh Chloinne Tuireann\", the children of Tuirreann owe an eraic to Lugh. Lug set them a series of seemingly impossible quests as recompense. They achieved them all, but were fatally wounded in completing the last one.\n\n"}
