{"id": "3284054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284054", "title": "Adamo", "text": "Adamo\n\nAdamo is both a masculine given name and a surname. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1139419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139419", "title": "Africanization", "text": "Africanization\n\nAfricanization or Africanisation (lit., making something African) has been applied in various contexts, notably in geographic and personal naming and in the composition of the civil service e.g. via processes such as indigenization.\n\nAfricanization has referred to the modification of place names and personal names to reflect an \"African\" identity. In some cases, changes are not a change of transliteration rather than of the European name.\n\nIn many cases during the colonial period, African place names were Anglicized or Francized.\n\nVarious African countries have undergone name changes during the previous century as the result of consolidations and secessions, territories gaining sovereignty, and regime changes.\n\n\nOther name changes take place when an African person converts to or from Islam or another religion. (See Islamic name.)\n\nExamples:\n\nIn some countries immediately following their independence, \"Africanization\" was the name given to racial policies, affirmative action intended to increase the number of Africans in civil service (which had historically been dominated by whites or Asians.)\n\nThe term Africanization, abbreviated as the numeronym \"A12n,\" has been applied to discussion of internationalization and localization of software and content in African languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "28157462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28157462", "title": "Agricol Moureau", "text": "Agricol Moureau\n\nAgricol Moureau (born 1766, Avignon - died 1842, Aix-en-Provence) was a figure in the French Revolution. Defrocked as a priest, he became a Jacobin, edited the \"Courrier d'Avignon\", set up the département of Vaucluse, acted as the French Directory's administrator of Vaucluse, became a member of the Council of Five Hundred and finally was made a commissioner of the Directory to Paris. He was nicknamed \"the Sans-culotte of Le Midi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1174268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174268", "title": "Antek", "text": "Antek\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5987837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5987837", "title": "Ashtar (extraterrestrial being)", "text": "Ashtar (extraterrestrial being)\n\nAshtar (sometimes called Ashtar Sheran) is the name given to an extraterrestrial being or group of beings which a number of people claim to have channeled. UFO contactee George Van Tassel was likely the first to claim to receive an Ashtar message, in 1952. Since then many different claims about Ashtar have appeared in different contexts. The Ashtar movement is studied by academics as a prominent form of UFO religion.\n\nDenzler observes that \"in the long run, probably the most important person for the propagation and perpetuation of the contactee movement was George Van Tassel\". In 1947 Van Tassel moved to Giant Rock, near Landers in the Mojave Desert, California, where he established a large UFO Center. This became the most successful and well-known UFO meeting center of the time.\n\nAs one of the founding \"fathers\" of the modern religious ufologies, Van Tassel also created arguably the most prominent UFO group established in the US in the late 1940s and early 1950s, although not as influential or well-known today. This was the \"Ministry of Universal Wisdom\" begun in 1953, which evolved out of two previous groups he had organized at Giant Rock in the late 1940s. The organization investigated and encouraged the healing arts, but its prime focus was to collect and analyse UFO phenomena and interview 'contactees'. Due to radio and television interest, Van Tassel became the most well-known promoter of contactee experiences and somewhat of a celebrity in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1952 Van Tassel himself claimed to receive messages via telepathic communication from an extraterrestrial and interdimensional being named \"Ashtar\". This source became the \"first metaphysical superstar of the flying saucer age\". Van Tassel also interpreted the Christian Bible in terms of extraterrestrial intervention in the evolution of the human race, and claimed that Jesus was a being from space. The Ministry of Universal Wisdom taught that all humans have the power to tap into the \"Universal Mind of God\", which facilitates evolutionary progress such as that exemplified by Jesus and Ashtar. Van Tassel also claimed that by accessing the Universal Mind he could receive messages not only from Ashtar but from humans who had died, such as Nikola Tesla. From Tesla he claimed to receive instructions to build the \"Integratron\" machine, which could extend lifespan and access knowledge from the past and future.\n\nAlthough his purported method of communication with extraterrestrial intelligences resembled what is commonly referred to as \"channeling\", Van Tassel claimed to have established a new form of telepathic communication with these 'sources', utilizing a method which included both natural human abilities and the use of an allegedly advanced form of alien technology, rather than the more traditionally religious, non-technological, spiritual medium based approach taken by many other early channelers of the era. Van Tassel maintained that the method he utilized was not a paranormal or metaphysical activity, but required being 'in resonance' with the messages being sent. It was an example of the application of an allegedly advanced extraterrestrial science, that anyone could implement with the proper training in meditation techniques.\n\nVan Tassel held weekly channeling sessions at Giant Rock at which people could \"ask questions\" and \"channel answers\" from extraterrestrials. According to Jerome Clark, these gatherings coalesced the scattered contactee subculture into a recognisable movement in January 1952. This led to the annual Giant Rock Spacecraft Convention organized by Van Tassel, which began in the spring of 1953 and continued for at least another 24 years. It marked Van Tassel’s most important role in UFO history In 1959 up to 11,000 people attended these conventions and heard channeled messages claiming to come from space. Most of the well-known UFO contactees attended these conventions as speakers and channelers. Melton states that almost all of the 1950s contactees became involved in the two ecumenical structures founded by either Van Tassel or Gabriel Green. Most of the early messages Van Tassel claimed to have received from Ashtar were first presented to the public at these events.\n\nVan Tassel's early purported messages from Ashtar contained a great deal of apocalyptic material, which focused on concerns regarding the development of the soon to be tested hydrogen bomb. It was claimed that on July 18, 1952, Ashtar entered the solar system as Commander in Chief of the Ashtar Galactic Command to warn humanity of the dangers of detonating the H-bomb, including the destruction of the planet. The messages stated the space command was determined that humans would not destroy the Earth through the wrong use of nuclear power and that the Command was helping the human race. Van Tassel also claimed that Ashtar had provided specific messages that he was expected to pass on to the U.S. federal government regarding the potential negative impacts of the proposed upcoming bomb tests. After the actual explosion of the H-bomb by the US and Russian governments, the channeling claimed that the space forces had assisted the planet to survive the bomb tests.\n\nAs the weekly channeling sessions at Giant Rock continued through the early 1950s, the concept of an \"Ashtar Command\" was appropriated for use by a number of prominent early contactees and channelers, based on the figure of Ashtar, originally promoted by Van Tassel. Robert Short (AKA Bill Rose), editor of the 1950s UFO magazine \"Interplanetary News Digest\", was a member of Van Tassel’s group. He began to popularise the messages, but as Van Tassel did not agree that other Ashtar messages were authentic, Short broke away and began his own group called \"Ashtar Command\".\n\nBy the mid-1950s, the concept of Ashtar and a galactic law enforcement agency preparing an imminent rescue of humanity had become well-established, and included various well-known, esoteric channelers of the era. For instance, Elouise Moeller predicted that a space fleet would arrive in the near future; and Adelaide J Brown claimed that flourishing civilisations existed on the other planets in the solar system.\n\nHowever, as time and scientific knowledge progressed, the public failure of these predictions had an enormous negative impact on the expansion of the Ashtar Command movement due to the lack of a central authority that could undertake damage control. Although Robert Short had spent a lot of time promoting the Ashtar message, he was neither the leader nor the only interpreter, as by this time dozens of Ashtar channelers were presenting conflicting messages.\n\nWith the advent of UFO religions, \"Ascended Masters\" from the esoteric teachings have been described as reappearing in space suits. The space concept was not entirely new however, as the more arcane teachings of Theosophy contained references to extraterrestrial masters. The concept of the Ascended Master is particularly clear in the Ashtar teachings. The very word \"ashtar\" appears in Helena Blavatsky’s \"The Secret Doctrine\" (1888).\n\nAccording to Helland, the initial account of the Ashtar message as channeled through Van Tassel was not a spiritual message as such but \"an early contact account between extraterrestrials and humankind.\" It focused on intervention in human scientific development, and came from a real technological space being on an urgent interstellar undertaking. However, throughout the 1950s and 1960s, as many individuals in the spiritualist movement began to claim contact with Ashtar, the space being began to play more of an Ascended Master role in the narratives.\n\nThe Ashtar Command evolved into a movement that had no central authority for several decades up until the mid 1990s, and has been described by Flaherty as \"the common property of a diffuse New Age Spiritualist milieu.\" During this time the teachings claiming to be channeled from Ashtar varied immensely. Part of this movement metamorphosed into Guardian Action International and then Guardian Activation International. Guardian Action Publications was founded to disseminate the channeling, and published several books through the 1980s. In 1988, a newsletter \"Ashtar’s Golden Circle\" was also issued.\n\nGrunschloss, who refers to the Ashtar Command as a worldwide network of several loosely organised groups, describes much of the Ashtar channeling as akin to cargo cults, due to the blending of spiritual ascension with new alien technologies and ecologically harmless energies. Grunschloss maintains that most of the Ashtar millenarian concepts involve a transformation of human beings, via these technologies, who will then return to the planet Earth to enjoy a golden millennium. Later, with the failure of these prophecies, teachings were modified to include a less material and more spiritual emphasis.\n\nIn 1971, a British radio talk show devoted to UFOs received a strange call-in claiming to originate from outer space, which some of the guests believed to be genuine. This turned out to be the prelude for the 1977 Southern Television broadcast interruption, when a voice calling itself \"Vrillon\" of the Ashtar Galactic Command temporarily took over a television transmitter in southern England.\n\nYvonne Cole, who claimed to be channeling Ashtar messages from 1986, predicted the destruction of all Earth civilizations and the arrival on the planet of various alien cultures in 1994. Cole claimed that governments were working with extraterrestrials to prepare for contact. According to Cole, the landing would be broadcast through the global media and include a message from the Ashtar Command. Due to 'sensitization', most of humanity would accept the UFOs as part of humanity’s continuing evolution, while Ashtar followers would be needed as advisors, ambassadors and peacekeepers between the alien races and humankind. This would lead to a radical transformation of the world as humanity was initiated into a higher level of existence. These prophecies furthered the continued fracturing and disappointment within the movement when they failed to occur. Despite these failures, during the 1980s a number of individuals began to claim contact with the Ashtar Command through channeling, and various small groups were formed to receive and disseminate the messages.\n\nBy the mid-1990s (and continuing up to the present) several of these channeling groups began to utilize the Internet in order to promulgate their beliefs and to attempt to unify the movement by establishing a single 'authoritative' source for all Ashtar messages. This led to more prominence in the religious scene and significant membership.\n\nThis cohesive response addressed the problem of conflicting, negative and failed prophecies which, after some effort, enabled the Ashtar Command to produce a single Ashtar world view. Individual channelers espousing messages which differed and continued to focus on themes such as the destruction of Earth, conspiracies, ET mass evacuations and general fear-mongering were declared invalid. It was claimed that these channelers had been deceived by negative space beings who had rebelled from the Ashtar Command, made alliances with similar others, and begun operating on the 'lower planes closest to Earth’.\n\nMost significantly of all, the new, more unified movement declared that in future no new channels would be accepted unless they operated on the ‘level of the soul’. As Helland points out, this was crucial to the formation of an orthodoxy. Channeled messages from Ashtar would be accepted as valid by the new orthodoxy if they complied with criteria consisting of a set of twelve guidelines which outlined what the movement stood for and how Ashtar would interact with society. This had never been attempted before in the 45 years of channeling Ashtar, who was also presented as a Divine figure similar to Jesus.\n\nThe new framework claimed that the millions of spaceships believed to be constantly in the vicinity of Earth would never interfere on the planet’s surface unless there was a serious problem such as a third world war or an ‘astrophysical catastrophe’. Helland observes that the emergent group was “noticeably more spiritually focussed and less concerned with extraterrestrial spaceships and visitors.”\n\nHe states that very little distinguished the new Ashtar Command from other theosophically-influenced groups, except that in 1994 a distinctive component, the Pioneer Voyage, was incorporated into the Ashtar world view\n\nIn 1994, a small group of Ashtar Command members claimed that an extraordinary event had taken place: \"the lift-off experience”. They communicated via the Ashtar Network that they had been placed aboard the ‘ships of Light’ that were circling the planet. “The Galactic Fifth Fleet” had used ‘physical vibrational transfer’ which involved the human consciousness (or, sometimes, the ‘etheric body’) being raised from the physical dimension and transferred to the “Light ships”.\n\nA second event was predicted for December 1994 in which over 250 people participated and which was declared by the leadership to have “opened a portal to the AC (Ashtar Command) ships for ever.” It was claimed that in order to participate, a person’s vibrations were raised through an eight step contemplative procedure; and that the Pioneer Voyage would occur during the period of a devotee’s meditative state and would later be revealed to the individual in some form of conscious recall. This eventually evoked ‘memory recall’ from a core group of Ashtar Command members meeting in Australia who began providing accounts of their 'time aboard the ships'. Others followed suit. The time on the ships was claimed to be extensive even though the member’s meditation period was short.\n\nHelland notes that, despite an increase in complexity, the general themes have remained in accordance with the Australian reports. The claim is that the events are occurring on a spiritual or etheric dimension and not a physical one. The group claims that the purpose of the Lift-off is for the ascension of the human race as a whole, to which individual ascension is a precursor and an aid. It also claims that the collective ascension is being aided by large electronic grids deployed around the planet by the guardian ships.\n\nHelland points out the failure of the July 1952 prediction channeled through Van Tassel that life on Earth will be destroyed “when they explode the hydrogen atom” because in November 1952 the first H-bomb was detonated with no such effect. However, the same message also stated that Ashtar was intervening to stop the destruction of the planet. After the explosion, ensuing messages claimed that various actions were taken by the space fleet to repair damage.\n\nAfter the introduction of Ashtar by Van Tassel, other mediums began to claim contact. The most widely publicised of these messages were met with failure when they predicted civilisations flourishing on the other planets and an imminent landing of space ships on Earth. At one point, according to Helland, dozens of people were claiming contact with Ashtar and presenting conflicting messages.\n\nHelland notes that the Ashtar belief system is based on faith in an extraterrestrial celebrity, the concept of which has fared better than the individual messages. The main shifts in content seem due to failed prophecy, which has moved the emphasis from a physical space fleet averting doom, to the more theosophical concept of an Ascended Master aiding spiritual advancement. He maintains that the Ashtar beliefs are best seen as a syncretism between the I AM movements and the UFO experience, a belief system which regards UFO experiences and sightings as the natural progression of the spiritual development of humanity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38051494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051494", "title": "Bogdan Baltazar", "text": "Bogdan Baltazar\n\nBogdan Baltazar (22 September 1939 – 28 December 2012) was a leading Romanian banker and the first spokesman of the Romanian government following the fall of the communist regime. He was also a significant financial and banking advisor.\n\nBorn in Bucharest on 22 September 1939, Baltazar studied mechanical engineering at the Polytechnic University and graduated in 1962. He then obtained a master's degree in economics at City University in New York City in 1971. He received a PhD in International relations from the University of Bucharest in 1964.\n\nBaltazar worked in the ministry of foreign affairs as first diplomatic secretary and then as manager of the Africa division in the same ministry from 1971 to 1981. Then he left the ministry, but returned in 1990 and began to serve as general manager of the Northern and Southern America divisions. Next, he was named as spokesman for the Romanian Prime Minister Petre Roman following the fall of communism in 1990. His term lasted until 1991. During this period, Baltazar was described by journalists as full of humor and charm.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1996, he worked as a senior banking adviser and coordinator for the banking group for Romania in London. In 1997, he was appointed vice president of the State Property Fund (FPS) and his term lasted until 1998. He was appointed director of the French-owned Romanian Bank for Development (BRD) in 1998 and served there until 2004. Later he led a consultancy firm, and worked as an economy analyst, focusing on Central European countries. On 18 April 2011, he was re-appointed director of BRD.\n\nBaltazar was married and had two children.\n\nBaltazar died of cancer at Elias Hospital in Bucharest on 28 December 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2087722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087722", "title": "Charles Darwin's education", "text": "Charles Darwin's education\n\nCharles Darwin's education gave him a foundation in the doctrine of Creation prevalent throughout the West at the time, as well as knowledge of medicine and theology. More significantly, it led to his interest in natural history, which culminated in his taking part in the second voyage of the \"Beagle\" and the eventual inception of his theory of natural selection. Although Darwin changed his field of interest several times in these formative years, many of his later discoveries and beliefs were foreshadowed by the influences he had as a youth.\n\nBorn in 1809, Charles Darwin grew up in a conservative era when repression of revolutionary Radicalism had displaced the 18th century Enlightenment. The Church of England dominated the English scientific establishment. The Church saw natural history as revealing God's underlying plan and as supporting the existing social hierarchy. It rejected Enlightenment philosophers such as David Hume who had argued for naturalism and against belief in God.\n\nThe discovery of fossils of extinct species was explained by theories such as catastrophism. Catastrophism claimed that animals and plants were periodically annihilated as a result of natural catastrophes and then replaced by new species created \"ex nihilo\" (out of nothing). The extinct organisms could then be observed in the fossil record, and their replacements were considered to be immutable.\n\nDarwin's extended family of Darwins and Wedgwoods was strongly Unitarian. One of his grandfathers, Erasmus Darwin, was a successful physician, and was followed in this by his sons Charles Darwin, who died while still a promising medical student at the University of Edinburgh in 1778, and Doctor Robert Darwin, Darwin's father, who named his son after his deceased brother.\n\nErasmus was a freethinker who hypothesized that all warm-blooded animals sprang from a single living \"filament\" long, long ago. He further proposed evolution by acquired characteristics, anticipating the theory later developed by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Although Charles was born after his grandfather Erasmus died, his father Robert found the texts an invaluable medical guide and Charles read them as a student. Doctor Robert also followed Erasmus in being a freethinker, but as a wealthy society physician was more discreet and attended the Church of England patronised by his clients.\n\nCharles Robert Darwin was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England on 12 February 1809 at his family home, the Mount, He was the fifth of six children of wealthy society doctor and financier Robert Darwin, and Susannah Darwin (\"née\" Wedgwood). Both families were largely Unitarian, though the Wedgwoods were adopting Anglicanism. Robert Darwin, himself quietly a freethinker, had baby Charles baptised on 15 November 1809 in the Anglican St Chad's Church, Shrewsbury, but Charles and his siblings attended the Unitarian chapel with their mother.\n\nAs a young child at The Mount, Darwin avidly collected animal shells, postal franks, bird's eggs, pebbles and minerals. He was very fond of gardening, an interest his father shared and encouraged, and would follow the family gardener around. Early in 1817, soon after becoming eight years old, he started at the small local school run by a Unitarian minister, the Reverend George Case. At home, Charles learned to ride ponies, shoot and fish. Influenced by his father's fashionable interest in natural history, he tried to make out the names of plants, and was given by his father two elementary natural history books. Childhood games included inventing and writing out complex secret codes. Charles would tell elaborate stories to his family and friends \"for the pure pleasure of attracting attention & surprise\", including hoaxes such as pretending to find apples he'd hidden earlier, and what he later called the \"monstrous fable\" which persuaded his schoolfriend that the colour of primula flowers could be changed by dosing them with special water. However, his father benignly ignored these passing games, and Charles later recounted that he stopped them because no-one paid any attention.\n\nIn July 1817 his mother died after the sudden onset of violent stomach pains and amidst the grief his older sisters had to take charge, with their father continuing to dominate the household whenever he returned from his doctor's rounds. To the -year-old Charles this situation was not a great change, as his mother had frequently been ill and her available time taken up by social duties, so his upbringing had largely been in the hands of his three older sisters who were nearly adults by then. In later years he had difficulty in remembering his mother, and his only memory of her death and funeral was of the children being sent for and going into her room, and his \"Father meeting us crying afterwards\".\n\nAs had been planned previously, in September 1818 Charles joined his older brother Erasmus Alvey Darwin (nicknamed \"Eras\") in staying as a boarder at the Shrewsbury School, where he loathed the required rote learning, and would try to visit home when he could. He continued collecting minerals and insects, and family holidays in Wales brought Charles new opportunities, but an older sister ruled that \"it was not right to kill insects\" for his collections, and he had to find dead ones. He read Gilbert White's \"The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne\" and took up birdwatching. Eras took an interest in chemistry and Charles became his assistant, with the two using a garden shed at their home fitted out as a laboratory and extending their interests to crystallography. When Eras went on to a medical course at the University of Cambridge, Charles continued to rush home to the shed on weekends, and for this received the nickname \"Gas\". The headmaster was not amused at this diversion from studying the classics, calling him a \"poco curante\" (trifler) in front of the boys. At fifteen, his interest shifted to hunting and bird-shooting at local estates, particularly at Maer in Staffordshire, the home of his relatives, the Wedgwoods. His exasperated father once told him off, saying \"You care for nothing but shooting, dogs, and rat-catching, and you will be a disgrace to yourself and all your family.\"\n\nHis father decided that he should leave school earlier than usual, and in 1825 at the age of sixteen Charles was to go along with his brother who was to attend the University of Edinburgh for a year to obtain medical qualifications. Charles spent the summer as an apprentice doctor, helping his father with treating the poor of Shropshire. He had half a dozen patients of his own, and would note their symptoms for his father to make up the prescriptions.\n\nDarwin went to Edinburgh University in October 1825 to study medicine, accompanied by Eras doing his external hospital study. The brothers took lodgings at 11 Lothian Street, near the University.\nThe city was in an uproar over political and religious controversies, and the competitive system where professors were dependent on attracting student fees for income meant that the university was riven with argumentative feuds and conflicts. The monopoly held by established medical professors was challenged by private independent schools, with new ideas of teaching by dissecting corpses giving clandestine trade to bodysnatchers (just shortly before the Burke and Hare scandal).\n\nHe attended the official university lectures, but complained that most were stupid and boring, and found himself too sensitive to the sight of blood. He was disgusted by the dull and outdated anatomy lectures of professor Alexander Monro \"tertius\", and later regretted his failure to persevere and learn dissection. Munro's lectures included vehement opposition to George Combe's daringly materialist ideas of phrenology. As the exception to the general dullness, the spectacular chemistry lectures of Thomas Charles Hope were greatly enjoyed by the brothers, but they did not join a student society giving hands-on experience. Darwin regularly attended clinical wards in the hospital despite his great distress about some of the cases, but could only bear to attend surgical operations twice, rushing away before they were completed due to his distress at the brutality of surgery before anaesthetics. He was long haunted by the memory, particularly of an operation on a child.\n\nThe brothers kept each other company, and made extensive use of the library. Darwin's reading included novels and Boswell's \"Life of Johnson\". He had brought natural history books with him, including a copy of \"A Naturalist's Companion\" by George Graves, bought in August in anticipation of seeing the seaside, and he borrowed similar books from the library. The brothers went for regular Sunday walks on the shores of the Firth of Forth and Darwin kept a diary recording their finds, which included a sea mouse and a cuttlefish.\n\nDarwin wrote home that \"I am going to learn to stuff birds, from a ... he only charges one guinea, for an hour every day for two months\". These lessons in taxidermy were with the freed black slave John Edmonstone, who also lived in Lothian Street. Darwin often sat with him to hear tales of the South American rain-forest of Guyana, and later remembered him as \"a very pleasant and intelligent man.\"\n\nDuring his summer holiday Charles read \"Zoönomia\" by his grandfather Erasmus Darwin, which his father valued for medical guidance but which also proposed evolution by acquired characteristics. In June he went on a walking tour in North Wales.\n\nIn his second year Charles became active in student societies for naturalists. The 21-year-old radical demagogue William A. F. Browne and the 19-year-old John Coldstream both proposed Darwin for membership of the Plinian Society on 21 November 1826. John Coldstream came from an evangelical background and shared Darwin's fascination with sea life. Darwin was elected to its Council on 5 December, and at the same meeting Browne presented an attack on Charles Bell's \"Anatomy and Physiology of Expression\" (which in 1872 Darwin would target in \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\").\n\nDarwin became a keen student of Robert Edmond Grant, a Lamarckian anatomist. Grant had cited Erasmus Darwin in his doctoral thesis and shared the evolutionist ideas of Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire on evolution by acquired characteristics. Charles joined Grant in pioneering investigations of the life cycle of marine invertebrates on the shores of the Firth of Forth. Darwin and Grant collected tiny animals from the rock pools and walked along the rocky shore at Prestonpans, where Grant lived during the winter at Walford House. Grant began taking Darwin as a guest to professor Robert Jameson's Wernerian Natural History Society. There Charles saw John James Audubon lecturing on the habits of North American birds. In the April–October 1826 edition of the quarterly \"Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal\" edited by Jameson, an anonymous paper praised \"Mr. Lamarck, one of the most sagacious naturalists of our day\" for having \"expressed himself in the most unambiguous manner. He admits, on the one hand, the existence of the simplest infusory animals; on the other, the existence of the simplest worms, by means of spontaneous generation, that is, by an aggregation process of animal elements; and maintains, that all other animals, by the operation of external circumstances, are evolved from these in a double series, and in a gradual manner.\" – this was the first use of the word \"evolved\" in a modern sense. Though some have attributed authorship to Jameson, this is hotly contested and others see Grant as having written it, as the first significant statement to relate Lamarck's concepts to the geological record of living organisms of the past.\n\nDarwin made a discovery new to science when he observed cilia moving the microscopic larvae of a species of the bryozoan \"Flustra\". He rushed to tell Grant, confirming Grant's belief that the larvae of these marine animals were free swimming, but was upset when Grant claimed rights to the work. Darwin also made the discovery that black spores often found in oyster shells were the eggs of a skate leech, and was disappointed when Grant announced both finds to the \"Wernerian\" on 24 March 1827 without giving Darwin credit, though Grant in his publication about the leech eggs in the \"Edinburgh Journal of Science\" later that year acknowledged \"The merit of having first ascertained them to belong to that animal is due to my zealous young friend Mr Charles Darwin of Shrewsbury\", the first time Darwin's name appeared in print. Darwin made a presentation of both discoveries to the Plinian Society on 27 March, his first public presentation. Later in the meeting Browne argued that mind and consciousness were simply aspects of brain activity, not \"souls\" or spiritual entities separate from the body. A furious debate ensued, and later someone deleted all mention of this materialist heresy from the minutes. This was Darwin's first exposure to militant freethought and the storm it stirred up.\n\nDuring their walks Grant expounded his ideas to Darwin, and on one occasion dropped his guard and praised Lamarck's views on evolution. He explained his radical theory of \"homology\", an extension of the idea of \"unity of plan\" in vogue in Paris at the time. He argued that all animals had similar organs differing only in complexity and, controversially, that this showed their common descent. Grant had announced to the \"Wernerian\" his identification of the pancreas in a pinned-out sea-slug, showing an organ molluscs shared with mammals. He assumed that as the earth cooled, changing conditions drove life towards higher, hotter blooded forms, as shown by a progressive sequence of fossils, and that study of eggs of the simplest creatures would help reveal \"monads\", elementary living particles. While this showed that naturalists could try to \"lift the veil that hangs over the origin and progress of the organic world\", Darwin was troubled by Grant's atheism and could see that transmutation was far from respectable. Darwin later recalled \"I listened in silent astonishment, and as far as I can judge, without any effect on my mind. I had previously read the Zoönomia of my grandfather, in which similar views are maintained, but without producing any effect on me.\"\n\nShortly afterwards Coldstream graduated and went to Paris for his hospital study, where he suffered a mental breakdown, struggling with \"the foul mass of corruption within my own bosom\", held captive to his body by \"corroding desires\" and \"lustful imaginations\". The doctor's report was that though Coldstream had led \"a blameless life\", he was \"more or less in the dark on the vital question of religion, and was troubled with doubts arising from certain Materialist views, which are, alas!, too common among medical students\".\n\nDarwin also took the popular natural history course of Professor Robert Jameson, learning about stratigraphic geology. Jameson was a Neptunian geologist who taught that strata had precipitated from a universal ocean: he held debates with chemistry professor Thomas Charles Hope who held that granites had crystallised from molten crust, ideas influenced by the Plutonism of James Hutton who had been Hope's friend. Jameson's view was that \"It would be a misfortune if we all had the same way of thinking... Dr Hope is decidedly opposed to me, and I am opposed to Dr Hope, and between us we make the subject interesting.\" Darwin liked Hope and found Jameson a boring speaker. It is not known what he made of Jameson's closing lectures on the \"Origin of the Species of Animals\". Darwin enjoyed practicals in the Museum and course field trips, learning the sequence of strata. The Museum of Edinburgh University was Jameson's preserve and was then one of the largest in Europe. Darwin assisted and made full use of the collections, spending hours studying, taking notes and stuffing animal specimens.\n\nEven medical lectures proved of some use. In January 1826 Darwin had written home complaining of \"a long stupid lecture\" from Dr. Andrew Duncan \"secundus\" about medicine, but the lectures introduced him to Augustin de Candolle's \"natural system\" of classification and emphasis on the \"war\" between competing species. However, he loathed medicine and left in April 1827 without a degree.\n\nHe toured Scotland, went on to Belfast and Dublin and in May made his first trip to London to visit his sister Caroline. They joined his uncle Josiah Wedgwood II on a trip to France. There Charles fended for himself for a few weeks in Paris with Browne and Coldstream who was recovering having \"found joy and peace in believing\". Charles rejoined his relations and then returned to his home at Shrewsbury, Shropshire by July.\n\nHis father was unhappy that his younger son would not become a physician and \"was very properly vehement against my turning an idle sporting man, which then seemed my probable destination.\" He therefore enrolled Charles at Christ's College, Cambridge in 1827 for a Bachelor of Arts degree as the qualification required before taking a specialised divinity course and becoming an Anglican parson. He enrolled for an \"ordinary\" degree, as at that time only capable mathematicians would take the Tripos. At that time the only way to get an honours degree was the mathematical Tripos examination, or the classical Tripos created in 1822, which was only open to those who already had high honours in mathematics, or those who were the sons of peers.\n\nThis was a respectable career for a gentleman at a time when most naturalists in England were clergymen in the tradition of Gilbert White, who saw it as part of their duties to \"explore the wonders of God's creation\". Charles had concerns about being able to declare his belief in all the dogmas of the Church of England, so as well as hunting and fishing, he studied divinity books. He was particularly convinced by the reasoning of the Revd. John Bird Sumner's \"Evidences of Christianity\". John Bird Summer wrote that Jesus's religion was \"wonderfully suitable... to our ideas of happiness in this & the next world\" and there was \"no other way... of explaining the series of evidence & probability.\" His Classics had lapsed since school, and he spent the autumn term at home studying Greek with a tutor. Darwin was accepted as a \"pensioner\", having paid his fees, on 15 October 1827, but did not attend Cambridge until the Lent Term which began on 13 January 1828. Eras returned from Edinburgh ready to sit his Bachelor of Medicine exam, and in the new year he and Charles set out together for Cambridge. Darwin came into residence in Cambridge on 26 January 1828, and matriculated at the University's Senate House on 26 February.\n\nHis tutors at Christ's College, Cambridge were to include Joseph Shaw in 1828, John Graham (in 1829 - 1830) and Edward John Ash in 1830 - 1831. One of his university friends was Frederick Watkins, (1808 - 1888).\n\nArriving at the University of Cambridge in January 1828, Darwin found this elite theological training institution governed by complex rules much more congenial than his experiences at Edinburgh. No rooms were available at Christ's College, so he took lodgings above a tobacconists in Sidney Street, across the road. Extramural activities were important, and while Darwin did not take up sports or debating, his interests included music and his main passion was the current national craze for the (competitive) collecting of beetles. Trainee clergymen scoured Cambridgeshire for specimens, referring to \"An Introduction to Entomology\" by William Kirby and William Spence. Charles joined his older cousin William Darwin Fox who was already a skilled collector and like him got a small dog. The two and their dogs became inseparable. They explored the countryside as Darwin learnt about natural history from his cousin. Darwin became obsessed with winning the student accolade and collected avidly. Once he stripped bark from a dead tree and caught a ground beetle in each hand, then saw the rare Crucifix Ground Beetle, \"Panagaeus cruxmajor\". With the habits of an egg-collector, he popped one ground beetle in his mouth to free his hand, but it ejected some intensely acrid fluid which burnt his tongue and Darwin was forced to spit it out. He lost all three. The specimens he did not lose had to be mounted and identified, and his knowledge from Edinburgh of Lamarck proved useful. Fox introduced him for advice on identification to the Revd. John Stevens Henslow, professor of botany, and Darwin began attending his soirées, a club for budding naturalists. Here he could meet other professors including the geologist the Revd. Adam Sedgwick and the new mineralogist the Revd. William Whewell.\n\nIn the summer Darwin paid visits to Squire Owen, and romance seemed to be blossoming with the squire's daughter Fanny. Darwin joined other Cambridge friends on a three-month \"reading party\" at Barmouth on the coast of Wales to revise their studies with private tutors. For Charles it was an \"Entomo-Mathematical expedition\". Though he badly needed to catch up with his mathematics, the insect collecting predominated along with pleasant diversions such as hillwalking, boating and fly fishing. He went on daily walks with his close friend, the older student John Maurice Herbert who he dubbed \"Cherbury\" after Herbert of Cherbury, the father of English Deism. Herbert assisted with the insect collecting, but the usual outcome was that Darwin would examine Herbert's collecting bottle and say \"Well, old Cherbury, none of these will do.\" In September Darwin wrote to tell \"My dear old \"Cherbury\"\" that his own catches had included \"some of the rarest of the British Insects, & their being found near Barmouth is quite unknown to the Entomological world: I think I shall write & inform some of the crack Entomologists.\" He described these \"extremely rare\" insects and asked Herbert to oblige him by collecting some more of them.\n\nAt the start of his second year Charles became the tenant of the rooms at Christ's College which traditionally had been occupied by the theologian William Paley. He now had breakfast every day with his older cousin William Darwin Fox. This was Fox's last term before his BA exam, and he now had to cram desperately to make up for lost time. At the Christmas holiday Charles visited London with Eras, toured the scientific institutions \"where Naturalists are gregarious\" and through his friend the Revd. Frederick William Hope met other insect collectors. These included James Stephens, author of \"Illustrations of British Entomology\".\n\nThe January term brought miserable weather and a struggle to keep up with his studies. Around this time, he had an earnest conversation with John Herbert about going into Holy Orders, and asked him whether he could answer yes to the question that the Bishop would put in the ordination service, \"Do you trust that you are inwardly moved by the Holy Spirit\". When Herbert said that he could not, Darwin replied \"Neither can I, and therefore I cannot take orders\" to become an ordained priest. Even his interest in insect collecting waned. He fell out with one of the two locals he employed to catch beetles when he found that the local was giving first choice to a rival collector. In the doldrums, he joined a crowd of drinking pals in a frequent \"debauch\". He put in some hard riding. On one night he and three friends saw the sky lit up and \"rode like incarnate devils\" eleven miles to see the blaze. They arrived back at two in the morning and violated curfew. He was risking \"rustication\", temporary expulsion. Such behaviour would be noticed by the Proctors, university officials appointed from the colleges who patrolled the town in plain gowns to police the students.\n\nStudent resentment against two unpopular Proctors built up, and on 9 April 1829 a tumult broke out. Charles described how the Senior Proctor was \"most gloriously hissed.. & pelted with mud\", being \"driven so furious\" that his servant \"dared not go near him for an hour.\" The Proctors had noted some faces in the mob, and four were rusticated and one fined for being out-of-gown and shouting abuse. Outraged by this leniency, the Proctors quit \"en masse\" and printed their resignation to post up around the colleges. Though the unpopular Proctors were gone, Charles was jolted into thinking of the consequences of law-breaking.\n\nIn the Spring, Darwin enrolled for John Stevens Henslow's lectures on botany. Professor Henslow's first \"public herborizing expedition\" of the year took place in May, an outing on which students assisted with collection of plants. However, Darwin made no mention of Henslow in his letters to Fox. On 18 May Darwin wrote to Fox enthusing about his success with beetle collecting, \"I think I beat Jenyns in Colymbetes\", contrasted with his lack of application to studies: \"my time is solely occupied in riding & Entomologizing\".\n\nCambridge was briefly visited on 21 May by the Radicals Richard Carlile and the Revd. Robert Taylor, both recently jailed for blasphemy, on an \"infidel home missionary tour\" which caused several days of controversy. Taylor was later nicknamed \"the Devil's Chaplain\", a phrase remembered by Darwin.\n\nCharles had been sending records of the insects he had caught to the entomologist James Francis Stephens, and was thrilled when Stevens published about thirty of these records in \"Illustrations of British entomology; or, a synopsis of indigenous insects etc.\" which was printed in parts, with the first description under Darwin's name appearing in an appendix dated 15 June 1829.\n\nThat summer, amongst horse riding and beetle collecting, Charles visited his cousin Fox, and this time Charles was teaching entomology to his older cousin. Home at Shrewsbury, Shropshire, he saw his brother Erasmus whose \"delicate frame\" led to him now giving up medicine and retiring at the age of 26. The brothers visited the Birmingham Music Festival for what Charles described as the \"most glorious\" experience.\n\nBack at Cambridge, Charles studied hard for his \"Little Go\" preliminary exam, as a fail would mean a re-sit the following year. He dropped his drinking companions and resumed attending Henslow's Friday evening soirées. For the exam he slogged away at Greek and Latin, and studied William Paley's \"Evidences of Christianity\", becoming so delighted with Paley's logic that he learnt it well. This was a text he also had to study for his finals, and he was \"convinced that I could have written out the whole of the \"Evidences\" with perfect correctness, but not of course in the clear language of Paley.\" Later, on the \"Beagle\" expedition, he saw evidence which challenged Paley's rose-tinted view, but at this time he was convinced that the Christian revelation established \"a future state of reward and punishment\" which \"gives order for confusion: makes the moral world of a piece with the natural\". As with Cambridge University, God gave authority and assigned stations in life, misconduct was penalised and excellence bountifully rewarded. Charles took the one-day verbal examination on 24 March 1830. There were three hours in the morning on the classics and three in the afternoon on the New Testament and Paley. The next day he was delighted to be informed that he had passed.\n\nSeveral of his friends celebrated their examination successes by dining in each other's rooms in rotation in a weekly club commonly known as the \"Glutton Club\". This name was proposed to ridicule another group whose Greek title meant \"fond of dainties\", but who dined out on \"Mutton Chops, or Beans & Bacon\". The \"Glutton Club\" attempted to live up to their title by experimentally dining on \"birds and beasts which were before unknown to human palate\" and tried hawk and bittern, but gave up after eating an old brown owl, \"which was indescribable\". They had more amusement from concluding each meeting with \"a game of mild vingt-et-un\".\n\nOver Easter Charles stayed at Cambridge, mounting and cataloguing his beetle collection. He then became an enthusiastic member of the botany course which the \"good natured & agreeable\" professor Henslow taught five days a week in the Botanic Gardens and on field trips. Henslow's outings were attended by 78 men including professor Whewell. Charles became the \"favourite pupil\", known as \"the man who walks with Henslow\", helping to find specimens and to set up \"practicals\" dissecting plants. He became interested in pollen. One day he watched through a microscope and saw \"transparent cones\" emerge from the side of a geranium pollen grain. Then one burst spraying out \"numberless granules\". Henslow explained that the granules were indeed the constituent atoms of pollen, but they had no intrinsic vital power – life was endowed from outside and ultimately derived its power from God, whatever more \"speculative\" naturalists argued regarding self-activating power. Darwin had been taught otherwise by Grant, and reflected quietly on this, biding his time.\n\nFor the summer holidays Darwin arranged to meet Fox at The Mount, but Darwin's father had been ill and family tensions led to a row. Charles went off with the Revd. Hope and other friends for three weeks \"entomologizing\" in North Wales, hunting for beetles and trout fishing. He went partridge shooting at Maer before returning home.\n\nBack at Cambridge, his final exams loomed. A \"desperate\" Charles focused on his studies and got private tuition from Henslow whose subjects were mathematics and theology. This term he had to study Euclid and learn Paley's \"Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy\", though this old text was becoming outdated. It opposed arguments for increased democracy, but saw no divine right of rule for the sovereign or the state, only \"expediency\". Government could be opposed if grievances outweighed the danger and expense to society. The judgement was \"Every man for himself\". These ideas had suited the conditions of reasonable rule prevailing when the text was published in 1785, but in 1830 they were dangerous ideas. At this time the French king was deposed by middle class republicans and given refuge in England by the Tory government. In response, radical street protests demanded suffrage, equality and freedom of religion. Then in November the Tory administration collapsed and the Whigs took over. Paley's text even supported abolition of the \"Thirty-nine Articles of the Anglican faith\" which every student at Cambridge (and Oxford University) was required to sign. Henslow insisted that \"he should be grieved if a single word... was altered\" and emphasised the need to respect authority. This happened even as campaigns of civil disobedience spread to starving agricultural labourers and villages close to Cambridge suffered riots and arson attacks.\n\nIn the third week of January 1831 Charles sat his final exam. There were three days of written papers covering the Classics, the two Paley texts and John Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", then mathematics and physics. At the end of the week when the results were posted he was dazed and proud to have come 10th out of a pass list of 178 doing the \"ordinary\" degree. Charles shone in theology and scraped through in the other subjects. He was also exhausted and depressed, writing to Fox \"I do not know why the degree should make one so miserable.\" In later life he recalled Paley and Euclid being the only part of the course which was useful to him, and \"By answering well the examination questions in Paley, by doing Euclid well, and by not failing miserably in Classics, I gained a good place among the οἱ πολλοί, or crowd of men who do not go in for honours.\"\n\nOn the specific issue of his mathematical education, Darwin came to regret his lack of ability and application: \"I attempted mathematics, and even went during the summer of 1828 with a private tutor (a very dull man) to Barmouth, but I got on very slowly. The work was repugnant to me, chiefly from my not being able to see any meaning in the early steps in algebra. This impatience was very foolish, and in after years I have deeply regretted that I did not proceed far enough at least to understand something of the great leading principles of mathematics, for men thus endowed seem to have an extra sense\".\n\nResidence requirements kept Darwin in Cambridge till June. He resumed his beetle collecting, took career advice from Henslow, and read William Paley's \"Natural Theology or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity\" which set out to refute David Hume's argument that \"design\" by a Creator was merely a human projection onto the forces of nature. Paley saw a rational proof of God's existence in the complexity and perfect adaptation to needs of living beings exquisitely fitted to their places in a happy world, while attacking the evolutionary ideas of Erasmus Darwin as coinciding with atheistic schemes and lacking evidence. Paley's benevolent God acted in nature though uniform and universal laws, not arbitrary miracles or changes of laws, and this use of secondary laws provided a theodicy explaining the problem of evil by separating nature from direct divine action. This convinced Charles and encouraged his interest in science. He later wrote \"I do not think I hardly ever admired a book more than Paley's \"Natural Theology\": I could almost formerly have said it by heart.\"\n\nHe read John Herschel's new \"Preliminary Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy\", learning that nature was governed by laws, and the highest aim of natural philosophy was to understand them through an orderly process of induction, balancing observation and theorising. This was part of the liberal Christianity of Darwin's tutors, who saw no disharmony between honest inductive science and religion. Such science was religion, and could not be heretical. Darwin also read Alexander von Humboldt's \"Personal Narrative\", and the two books were immensely influential, stirring up in him \"a burning zeal to add even the most humble contribution to the noble structure of Natural Science.\"\nAs a young graduate, Henslow had geologised on the Isle of Wight and the Isle of Man, and he too had longed to visit Africa. Marriage and his position at the university now made the prospect remote, but he still had an unfulfilled ambition to \"explore regions but little known, and enrich science with new species.\"\n\nAt home for Easter in early April, Darwin told his cousin Fox of \"a scheme I have almost hatched\" to visit the Canary Islands and see Tenerife as recommended by Humboldt. On returning to Cambridge, he wrote to his sister that \"my head is running about the Tropics: in the morning I go and gaze at Palm trees in the hot-house and come home and read Humboldt: my enthusiasm is so great that I cannot hardly sit still on my chair. Henslow & other Dons give us great credit for our plan: Henslow promises to cram me in geology\". He was studying Spanish language, and was in \"a Tropical glow\". \nHenslow introduced Darwin to the great geologist the Revd. Adam Sedgwick who had been his own tutor, and shared views on religion, politics and morals. Darwin was fired up by Sedgwick's Spring course of \"equestrian outings\" with its vistas of the grandeur of God's creation, so much of which was yet unexplored. He exclaimed, \"What a capital hand is Sedgewick for drawing large cheques upon the Bank of Time!\". When Sedgwick mentioned the effects of a local spring from a chalk hill depositing lime on twigs, Charles rode out to find the spring and threw a bush in, then later brought back the white coated spray which Sedgwick exhibited in class, inspiring others to do the same.\n\nDarwin continued plotting his \"Canary scheme\", and on 11 May he told Fox \"My other friends most sincerely wish me there I plague them so with talking about tropical scenery &c &c.\". His father gave him \"a 200£ note\" to pay his college debts. In addition, \"Some goodnatured Cambridge man has made me a most magnificent anonymous present of a Microscope: did ever hear of such a delightful piece of luck? one would like to know who it was, just to feel obliged to him.\" Darwin later found that the gift was from his friend John Herbert.\n\nIn mid June Darwin returned home to Shrewsbury, and continued \"working like a tiger\" for the Canary scheme, \"at present Spanish & Geology, the former I find as intensely stupid, as the latter most interesting\". By then his most likely companion on the trip was the tutor Marmaduke Ramsay. Darwin was \"trying to make a map\" of Shropshire, \"but dont find it so easy as I expected.\" He ordered a clinometer, and on 11 July wrote to tell Henslow that it had arrived and he had tried it out in his bedroom. \"As yet I have only indulged in hypotheses; but they are such powerful ones, that I suppose, if they were put into action but for one day, the world would come to an end.\" In efforts to learn the basics of geology he extended his mapping of strata as far away as Llanymynech, some from Shrewsbury, using the terminology he had learnt in Edinburgh from Robert Jameson. Already he was anxious that he had not heard from Sedgwick, and when he investigated ship sailings he found that they were only available in certain months. For this reason, the trip to Teneriffe had to be postponed to the following June, and it looked increasingly unlikely that Henslow would come on the trip. Darwin wrote to one of his student friends that he was \"at present mad about Geology\" and had plans to ride through Wales then meet with other students at Barmouth.\n\nOn 4 August 1831 Sedgwick arrived in his gig at The Mount, Shrewsbury, to take Charles as his assistant on a short geological expedition mapping strata in Wales. That evening Charles told of a tropical shell found in a nearby gravel pit and was impressed when Sedgwick responded that it must have been thrown away there, as it contradicted the known geology of the area. This made him realise \"that science consists in grouping facts so that general laws or conclusions may be drawn from them.\" Sedgwick aimed to investigate and correct possible errors in George Greenough's geological map of 1820, and to trace the fossil record to the earliest times to rebut the uniformitarian ideas just published by Charles Lyell. \nOn the morning of 5 August they went from Shrewsbury to Llangollen, and on 11 August reached Penrhyn Quarry. After less than a week of doing hard practical work Charles had learnt how to identify specimens, interpret strata and generalise from his observations. Then he went off on his own to collect samples and investigate the Vale of Clwyd, looking in vain for the Old Red Sandstone shown by Greenough. They met up in Colwyn, and Sedgwick's pleasure at the confirmation that the map was incorrect made Darwin \"exceedingly proud\". They went on to Capel Curig where Charles struck out on his own across 30 miles (50 km) of \"some strange wild places\" to Barmouth. He had parted from Sedgwick by 20 August, and travelled via Ffestiniog.\n\nArriving at Barmouth on the evening of 23 August, Charles met up with a \"reading party\" of Cambridge friends for a time before he left on the morning of 29 August, to go back to Shrewsbury and on to partridge shooting with his Wedgwood relatives at Maer Hall. He was grieved to have received a message that Ramsay had died. This upset Darwin's plans for a visit in the following year to Tenerife. He arrived home at The Mount, Shrewsbury, on 29 August, and found a letter from Henslow. The Cambridge Fellow George Peacock had heard from Francis Beaufort of plans for the second survey voyage of HMS \"Beagle\", and had written to Henslow proposing Leonard Jenyns as \"a proper person to go out as a naturalist with this expedition\", or if he was unavailable seeking recommendations for an alternative to take up this \"glorious opportunity\". When Jenyns decided not to leave his parish, he and Henslow thought of Darwin. Henslow's letter, read by Peacock and forwarded to Darwin, expected him to eagerly catch at the likely offer of a two-year trip to Terra del Fuego & home by the East Indies, not as \"a \"finished\" Naturalist\", but as a \"gentleman\" \"amply qualified for collecting, observing, & noting any thing worthy to be noted in Natural History\". The appointment was more as a companion to Captain Robert FitzRoy, than as a mere collector. Henslow wrote \"I assure you I think you are the very man they are in search of\".\n\nHis father thought the voyage a waste of his son's time and strongly objected. Dejected, Charles declined the offer, and went to Maer for the partridge shooting with a note from his father to \"Uncle Jos\" Wedgwood. This contained a prescription for a bowel ailment and a note saying that Charles had quite given up the proposed \"voyage of discovery\", but \"if you think differently from me I shall wish him to follow your advice.\" Charles' hopes were revived by this unexpected news, and his relatives came out in favour of the voyage. He outlined his father's objections, and sat up that night drafting a reply with his uncle. Jos wrote suggesting that Charles would be likely to \"acquire and strengthen, habits of application\", and \"Natural History... is very suitable to a Clergyman.\" Though \"useless as regards his profession\", for \"a man of enlarged curiosity, it affords him such an opportunity of seeing men and things as happens to few\". The Admiralty would look after him well, but \"you & Charles... must decide.\" Charles begged \"one favour... a decided answer, yes or no.\" This reply was sent post-haste early on the morning of 1 September and Charles went shooting. About 10 o'clock he received word from his uncle that they should go to The Mount at once. When they arrived a few hours later, Charles' father had decided that he would give \"all the assistance in my power\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1476443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476443", "title": "Christopher Memminger", "text": "Christopher Memminger\n\nChristopher Gustavus Memminger (born Christoph Gustav Memminger; January 9, 1803 – March 7, 1888) was a German-born American politician and one of the founding fathers of the Confederate States. He was the principal author of the Provisional Constitution (1861), as well as the founder of the nation's financial system. As the first Confederate States Secretary of the Treasury, Memminger was the main author of the economic policies of the Jefferson Davis administration.\n\nMemminger was born on January 9, 1803, in Vaihingen, Württemberg (present-day Stuttgart-Vaihingen, Germany). His father, Gottfried Memminger, was an officer who died a month after his son's birth. His mother, Eberhardina (née Kohler) Memminger, immigrated to Charleston, South Carolina, but died of yellow fever in 1807. Christopher was placed in an orphanage. His fortunes changed when, at the age of eleven, he was taken under the care of Thomas Bennett, a prominent lawyer and future Governor. He entered South Carolina College at the age of 12 and graduated second in his class at 16. Memminger passed the bar in 1825 and became a successful lawyer. He married Mary Withers Wilkinson in 1832.\n\nHe was a leader of the opponents during the nullification excitement. He published \"The Book of Nullification\" (1832–33) which satirized the advocates of the doctrine in biblical style. He entered state politics and served in the South Carolina state legislature from 1836 to 1852 and 1854 to 1860, where for nearly twenty years he was the head of the finance committee. Memminger was a staunch advocate of education and helped give Charleston one of the most comprehensive public school systems in the country. In 1859, after John Brown's raid, he was commissioned by South Carolina to consult with other delegates in Virginia as to the best method of warding off attacks of abolitionists.\n\nMemminger was considered a moderate on the secession issue, but after Lincoln's election, he decided secession was necessary. When South Carolina seceded from the United States in 1860, Memminger was asked to write the \"Declaration of the Immediate Causes Which Induce and Justify the Secession of South Carolina from the Federal Union\" which outlined the reasons for secession. When other states also seceded, he was selected as a South Carolina delegate to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States, and was the chairman of the committee which drafted the Provisional Constitution of the Confederate States. The twelve-man committee produced a provisional constitution in only four days.\n\nWhen Jefferson Davis formed his first cabinet, Memminger was chosen as Secretary of the Treasury on February 21, 1861. It was a difficult task, in view of the financial challenges facing the Confederacy. He attempted to finance the government initially via bonds and tariffs (and confiscation of gold from the United States Mint in New Orleans), but soon found himself forced to more extreme measures such as income taxation and fiat currency. He had been a supporter of hard currency before the war, but found himself issuing increasingly devalued paper money, which by war's end was worth less than two percent of its face value in gold.\n\nMemminger resigned his post as Secretary of the Treasury on July 1, 1864 and was replaced by fellow South Carolinian G. A. Trenholm. He returned to his summer residence in Flat Rock, North Carolina. In the post-war years, he returned to Charleston, received a presidential pardon in 1866, and returned to private law practice and business investment. He also continued his work on developing South Carolina's public education system and was voted to a final term in the state legislature in 1877.\n\nMemminger was featured on the Confederate $5.00 bill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48401736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48401736", "title": "Danish Philatelic Federation", "text": "Danish Philatelic Federation\n\nThe Danish Philatelic Federation (Danish: \"Danmarks Filatelist Forbund\") promotes philately in Denmark. It is affiliated with the Fédération Internationale de Philatélie.\n"}
{"id": "57116044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57116044", "title": "Darko Jurković", "text": "Darko Jurković\n\nDarko \"Charlie\" Jurković (born 20 April 1965 in Rijeka, Croatia) is a Croatian jazz guitarist and composer.\n\nJurković initially received classical music training on violin, before he changed his interest to jazz and guitar at the age of 15. Influenced by guitarists like Pat Metheny, John Scofield and especially Stanley Jordan he dedicated himself to this instrument. Like Jordan, he started making notes on the instrument with both hands. He masters this technique of \"Two-Hand-Tapping\" completely, so that he can simultaneously play on two guitars melody and bass. Until 1997, he studied at the University of Music and Performing Arts in Graz with Harry Pepl, completing his master's degree.\n\nThere after he played in bands like the \"Kvartet Sensitive\", in the \"Europlane Orchestra\" and in the band of Boško Petrović, including with Emil Spányi and Gino Comisso, but he also played in the trio of František Uhlíř (including live recordings with Dusko Goykovich). Under his own name, he put three albums and two as co-leaders. He toured not only through Central Europe, France and Turkey, but also in South America.\n\nJurković was honored in the years 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008 with the award of the Croatian Musicians Union for the best jazz guitarist; he also won the Porin Prize. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22394090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22394090", "title": "Emine Hatun", "text": "Emine Hatun\n\nEmine Hatun () was the principal consort of Sultan Mehmed I of the Ottoman Empire. She was the mother of Sultan Murad II, and the grandmother of Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror.\n\nEmine Hatun was born as a Dulkadir princess the daughter of Șaban Suli Bey, third ruler of the Dulkadirids (reign 1386-1398). She had a brother Sadaka Bey, fourth ruler of the Dulkadirs (reign 1398-1399). She was the first cousin of Nasireddin Mehmed Bey fifth ruler of the Dulkadirids (reign 1399-1442). Mehmed Bey's granddaughter Sittişah Hatun, married Mehmed the Conqueror in 1449 and later her niece Gülbahar Hatun married Bayezid II and became the mother of Selim I.\n\nIn 1403, when Mehmed had defeated his brother İsa Çelebi and İsfendiyar Bey, the ruler of the Isfendiyarids who had formed an alliance with each other, he returned to Rum, and decided to make some alliances of his own. While he was feasting in Tokat, Karamanid ruler Mehmed Bey sent his head military judge, and ambassadors also arrived from the realm of Dulkadirids. Relations were mended and animosity was removed. Then there was made peace and friendship between them. At that time, gifts and tokens of betrothal were sent to the Emine Hatun, who was thus engaged to the Sultan. Mehmed Çelebi’s important marriage alliance with the ruler of the neighboring tribal confederation of Dulkadir, which was especially rich in horses and horsemen, demonstrates his continued emphasis on tribal politics. The alliance proved a great value for Nasireddin Mehmed Bey. This not only gave Mehmed armed assistance in his campaign for empire, but was always ready to attack the eastern provinces of the Karamanid principality. In 1404 she gave birth to the future Sultan Murad II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22320943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22320943", "title": "Equitius", "text": "Equitius\n\nSaint Equitius () was an abbot of the 6th century. He was born between 480 and 490 in the region of Valeria Suburbicaria (present-day L'Aquila-Rieti-Tivoli). Gregory the Great refers to Equitius in his \"Dialogues\" (I,4 in PL, LXXVII, coll. 165-77), and states that Equitius was a follower of Saint Benedict of Nursia. Equitius worked to spread monasticism in Italy and the West but was never ordained as a priest. However, Gregory writes that Equitius’ reputation for sanctity was such that the saint was able to recruit many new monks in the region of Valeria, many of whom later acquired high office within the Church. The pope initiated an investigation into Equitius when complaints were made regarding the saint’s standing. The pope sent a priest named Julian to investigate Equitius, but the pope ended the investigation after receiving a vision concerning Equitius.\n\nEquitius died at his monastery of San Lorenzo di Pizzoli. His monks were absorbed into the Benedictine Order.\n"}
{"id": "26176685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26176685", "title": "Faron Hall", "text": "Faron Hall\n\nFaron Hall (1964–2014) was a Winnipeg man who had become known as the \"Homeless Hero\", after rescuing several people from drowning in several separate incidents. Faron Hall died in August 2014. Hall's body was recovered from the Red River on August 18/2014 by the Winnipeg Police Service.\n\nHall was born on the Dakota Tipi First Nation in Manitoba but spent most of his early years in foster care in Winnipeg.\n\nBefore 2007 he had been homeless for seven years, sleeping on the banks of the Red River.\n\nIn May 2009, while intoxicated he rescued a 19-year-old who had fallen from a bridge. Sam Katz presented him with the Mayor's Medal of Valour and baseball season tickets. Shortly afterwards, he moved into a government-owned apartment block.\n\nIn September 2009, once again while intoxicated he rescued a woman from drowning in the same river.\n\nIn December 2009, he was presented with two medals by the Manitoba Life Saving Society. The International Supreme Master Television Network gave him its Hero Award.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 2009, he was attacked and beaten by several people who had seen him on the news.\n\nIn February 2010, he was again the subject of a vicious beating.\n\nIn May 2011, Hall was involved in an incident that sent him to jail for assault on a woman. The victim had offered him apples instead of money, in response to his panhandling, and Hall responded by assaulting her with the car door.\n\nHe was involved in many more incidents, often alcohol-related, from 2012 through 2014 \n"}
{"id": "27730844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27730844", "title": "Gabriel Andreescu", "text": "Gabriel Andreescu\n\nGabriel Andreescu is a Romanian human rights activist and political scientist born on 8 April 1952 in Buzău. He is one of the few Romanian dissidents who openly opposed Ceauşescu and the Communist regime in Romania.\n\nAt present, he is professor with the Department of Political Science at the National School for Political Studies and Public Administration (SNSPA) in Bucharest, and an active member of several Romanian human rights organizations. He is also a prodigious journalist, writing and lecturing on topics such as multiculturalism, national minorities, religious freedom and secularism, the ethics and politics of memory and others. He is editor of the Romanian-language \"New Journal of Human Rights\" (\"Noua Revista de Drepturile Omului\", formerly \"Revista Romana de Drepturile Omului\").\n\nAndreescu attended the BP Hasdeu high school in his hometown, then obtained a BA in Physics from the University of Bucharest. He taught high school physics (1976–1980), then moved to Bucharest where he worked as a researcher for the National Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (1980–1989). During this period he published academic papers on linguistics, logics, and mathematical poetics among others.\n\nAfter the December 1989 anti-Communist revolution, Andreescu abandoned his career as a physicist to continue his activism for human rights, democracy, and the rule of law. His work as a human rights activist, political analyst, journalist, and writer blended with academic teaching and research.\n\nBetween 1983 -1987 Gabriel Andreescu dispatched clandestine information on human rights abuses in Romania to Radio Free Europe and wrote several anti-communist articles and studies, some of which he managed to send and publish abroad. He was investigated by the Securitate (the Romanian communist-era political police) starting with 1979. He was arrested for his anti-communist activities in December 1987 and indicted for treason (but freed in January 1988 as result of international protests, and put under surveillance till the fall of the Communist regime). Nevertheless, he continued to write and dispatch letters of protest to the Western media (1988–1989). Some of them (e.g., \"Lettre à la Conférence de Cracovie\" (1988) and \"Le devoir d’ingérence\" (1989)) were published in the Western press (\"L’Autre Europe\" and \"Libération\"). In June 1989 he went on a hunger strike as a protest against the continuous violation of human rights in Romania. He was demoted and placed by the Securitate under house arrest in Buzau, then again arrested, to be released after the revolution of December 1989.\n\nAfter the anti-Communist revolution Andreescu became a member of the Council of the National Salvation Front, the first post-Communist governmental body after the revolution in 1989 (he soon resigned). He also initiated and was co-president of the Association for the Defense of Human Rights in Romania – the Romanian Helsinki Committee (APADOR-CH), where he also worked as expert on national minorities and freedom of conscience and religion. He co-founded and was president of the Group for Social Dialogue (GDS), as well as founding member and vice-president of the Civic Alliance (AC).\n\nGabriel Andreescu founded and headed other organizations developing strategies and projects in support of human rights, among them the Ombudspersons for National Minorities, the Center for International Studies, the Center of Inquiry-affiliated Center for Critical Conscience, and the Solidarity for Freedom of Conscience. He was a board member of several other organizations (Hungarian Europe Society, Ethnocultural Diversity Resource Center, Partnership for Equality, Open Society Foundation Expert Teams, Foundation for the Development of Civil Society), as well as a member of the scientific boards of other organizations.\n\nGabriel Andreescu also participated in international programs and research, among which:\n\nAs a journalist and political analyst, he contributed to several Romanian newspapers and magazines (\"Ziua\", \"Timpul\", \"Observator cultural\", \"Revista 22\", \"Opinia\", \"Altera\", \"Cotidianul\" etc.); between 1994-2004 he wrote for \"Radio Free Europe\".\n\nIn recognition of his human rights activism and contribution to the development of Romanian civil society, Andreescu received several awards from Romanian institutions and organizations:\nInternational awards\n\nGabriel Andreescu published more than 1000 articles, 150 studies, 28 books, and contributed to several collective volumes. Some of his works were translated into English, German, Italian, Spanish and Hungarian.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49097925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49097925", "title": "George Dinnie", "text": "George Dinnie\n\nGeorge Dinnie (18 July 1875 – 13 June 1939) was a sportsman, strongman, wrestler and champion dog breeder. For a while, he was part of the traveling show promoted by Henry Jasper Redfern in Sheffield, England and often billed as the \"strongest man on earth\".\n\nIn 1875, Dinnie was born at Ayr, South Ayreshire, Scotland, United Kingdom. He was the son of Donald Dinnie, noted champion of the Highland Games. In 1939, he died at Kalgoorlie in Western Australia.\n\nIn 1914, Dinnie at the age of 37, enlisted in the Army at the outbreak of World War I at Midland, Western Australia, Australia. He recorded his next of kin as Mrs. Janet McKenna of Sorn, Ayreshire, Scotland. His occupation was listed as horseshoer. He noted a prior apprenticeship at Wilmot, Sorn in Ayreshire for a period of 4 and ½ years.\n\nOn 18 August 1914, the local newspaper, the \"Bunbury Herald\" announced the names of the first 60 Bunbury volunteers selected for the 11th Battalion of the Expeditionary Force for the landing at Gallipoli on 24 April 1915. The battle at Gallipoli was from 25 April 1915 to 9 January 1916. George Dinnie was part of the first group from Bunbury. The following is a list of people in the photograph, KIA = Killed In Action, W = Wounded, ? = unknown or uncertain, for names. Names is parenthesis indicate full name, when known from sources. 1. Tom Stokes (Thomas William Stokes) KIA, 2. Frank Blythe (Drummond James Blythe) - KIA, 3. Dick Clarke - Blinded, 4. Jack Salter (John Salter) - W(ounded), 5. Arthur Milford (Arthur Horace Lionel Milford) - W, 6. Tom Shaw (Hugh Thomas Shaw), 7. George Dinnie, 8. ?, 9. Harry Buswell (Henry George Buswell) - KIA, 10. Billie Henson (William Harold Henson) - W, 11. Snowy Griffen (Leonard Griffen) 12. Joe McSweeny (Joseph McSweeney) - W, 13. \"Robbie\" Robertson (Evander Shand Robertson), 14. Bert Morgan (Herbert Henry Morgan) - KIA, 15. Roy Earle (Roy Earl) - W, 16. ?, 17. \"Pussie\" Stevens (Richard William Stevens), 18. Harry Harlow (Wallace Harlow?) - W, 19. \"Vic\" Cargeeg (Albert Victor Cargeeg) - KIA, 20. Les Ratke (Leslie Arthur Ratke) - W, 21. Carl Forsberg (Carl Alfred Forsberg) - W, 22. Jim Bailey (James Bailey) - W, 23. \"Curley\"? - KIA, 24. J. North (Julian North) - W, 25. \"Sandy\" Brodie (Alexander Charles Brodie) - W, 26. G. Swanson (Frederick Swanson?), 27. \"Jimmie\" Lowe (James Lowe) - KIA, 28. Harry Belcher (Harry Charles Belcher) - KIA.\n\n"}
{"id": "37176620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37176620", "title": "Harold H. Bloomfield", "text": "Harold H. Bloomfield\n\nHarold H. Bloomfield (born October 8, 1944) is an American psychiatrist and author.\n\nBloomfield was born on October 8, 1944, in New York, NY to an accountant and housewife. He grew up in New York City and showed interest in becoming a psychiatrist at age seven.\n\nBloomfield graduated \"cum laude\" with a B.S. from the University of Pittsburgh and from the SUNY Downstate Medical Center with an M.D. with honors.\n\nHe worked at the Kaiser Foundation's hospital in San Francisco as an intern from 1969 to 1970. He did his psychiatric residency at Yale University School of Medicine from 1970 to 1973.\n\nHe received the David Berger Award in 1978 and the Golden Apple Award in 1982. He worked at the Institute of Psychophysiological Medicine in El Cajon, CA from 1970 to 1973 and became its director of psychiatry in 1974. He became a professor of psychiatry at Maharishi International University in 1974. He was adjunct professor of psychiatry at Union Graduate School and director of his own practice called Age of Enlightenment Center for Holistic Health in San Diego, California from 1972 to 1973.\n\nBloomfield has authored or co-authored 20 books and was a founder of the American Holistic Medical Association. He is the author of \"Making Peace with your Parents\", \"Making Peace with Yourself\", \"Making Peace with Your Step-Parents\", \"Making Peace with Your Past\", \"Hypericum (St. John's Wort) & Depression\", \"How to Heal Depression\", and the bestsellers \"How to Survive the Loss of a Love\" and \"TM: Discovering Inner Energy and Overcoming Stress\". According to his publisher his books have sold more than seven million copies and have been translated into over 30 languages.\n\nAccording to a 1986 survey published in the \"American Journal of Psychotherapy\" Bloomfield's book, \"How to Survive the Loss of a Love\", was one of the top ten self-help books recommended by the 123 American psychologists in the survey. Bloomfield received the Theodor Geisel Book Award in 1999.\n\nBloomfield was influenced by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and traveled with the Maharishi in India. He was a candidate for Governor of California in 1998 on the Natural Law Party ticket and received 27,000 votes.\n\nHe has appeared in numerous TV shows including \"Larry King Live\", \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"The View\", CNN, \"Good Morning America\" and \"20/20\". His work has also been reported in \"Time\", \"Newsweek\", \"The New York Times\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"USA Today\", \"Health\", \"Prevention\", \"Cosmopolitan\" and \"Forbes\".\n\nBloomfield's book \"Making Peace with God\" was published in October 2003.\n\nBloomfield has received the Medical Self-Care Book of the Year Award and the American Holistic Health Association Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nBloomfield married Sirah Vetesse in 1982 and divorced 20 years later. He has one child, a daughter.\n\nOn December 19, 2001 Bloomfield was \"charged with seven counts of unlawful drugging and three counts of sexual battery\" after he allegedly \"drugged and fondled\" four female patients who came to his home for counseling. According to his defense attorney, Bloomfield began using drugs about four years earlier after a period of depression. His situation worsened after plastic surgery left him with chronic pain and he began to self-medicate using marijuana and Ecstasy. In January 2002, after being released on $500,000 bail, Bloomfield plead guilty \"to drugging and molesting two women in his\" home. Bloomfield agreed to cease practicing medicine as part of a plea agreement whereupon prosecutors dropped several other charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2749295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2749295", "title": "Henry Hill", "text": "Henry Hill\n\nHenry Hill, Jr. (June 11, 1943 – June 12, 2012) was a criminal from the United States. Between 1955 and 1980, Hill was associated with the Lucchese crime family. In 1980, Hill became an FBI informant, and his testimony helped secure 50 convictions, including those of mob capo (captain) Paul Vario and James Burke on multiple charges.\n\nHill's life story was documented in the true crime book \"Wiseguy: Life in a Mafia Family\" by Nicholas Pileggi. \"Wiseguy\" was subsequently adapted by Martin Scorsese into the critically acclaimed film \"Goodfellas\", in which Hill was portrayed by Ray Liotta.\n\nHenry Hill, Jr. was born on June 11, 1943 in Manhattan, New York, to Henry Hill, Sr., an Irish immigrant and electrician, and Carmela Costa Hill, a Sicilian. The working class family consisted of Henry and his eight siblings who grew up in Brownsville, a poorer area of the East New York section of Brooklyn. From an early age, Hill admired the local mobsters who socialized across the street from his home, including Paul Vario, a \"capo\" in the Lucchese crime family. In 1955, when Hill was 11 years old, he wandered into the cabstand across the street looking for a part-time after-school job. In his early teens, he began running errands for patrons of Vario's storefront shoeshine, pizzeria, and dispatch cabstand. He first met the notorious hijacker and Lucchese family associate James \"Jimmy the Gent\" Burke in 1956. The 13-year-old Hill served drinks and sandwiches at a card game and was dazzled by Burke's openhanded tipping. \"He was sawbucking me to death. Twenty here. Twenty there. He wasn't like anyone else I had ever met.\"\n\nThe following year, Paul Vario's younger brother, Vito \"Tuddy\" Vario, and older brother, Lenny Vario, presented Hill with a highly sought-after union card in the bricklayers' local. Hill would be a \"no show\", put on a building contractor's construction payroll, guaranteeing him a weekly salary of $190 (). This didn't mean Hill would be getting or keeping all that money every week. He received only a portion of it, and the rest was kept and divided among the Varios. The card also allowed Hill to facilitate pickup of daily policy bets and loan payments to Vario from local construction sites. Once Hill had this \"legitimate\" job, he dropped out of high school, working exclusively for the Vario gangsters.\n\nHill's first encounter with arson occurred when the Rebel Cab Company cabstand opened just around the corner from Vario's business. The competing company's owner was from Alabama, new to New York City. Sometime after midnight, Tuddy and Hill drove to the rival cabstand with a drum full of gasoline in the back seat of Tuddy's car. Hill smashed the cab windows and filled them with gasoline-soaked newspapers, then tossed in lit match books.\n\nHill was first arrested when he was 16; his arrest record is one of the few official documents that prove his existence. Hill and Lenny, Vario's equally underage son, attempted to use a stolen credit card to buy snow tires for Tuddy's wife's car. When Hill and Lenny returned to Tuddy's, two police detectives apprehended Hill. During a rough interrogation, Hill gave his name and nothing else; Vario's attorney later facilitated his release on bail. While a suspended sentence resulted, Hill's refusal to talk earned him the respect of both Vario and Burke. Burke, in particular, saw great potential in Hill. Like Burke, he was of Irish ancestry and therefore ineligible to become a \"made man\". The Vario crew, however, were happy to have associates of any ethnicity, so long as they made money and refused to cooperate with the authorities.\n\nIn June 1960, at around 17 years old, Hill joined the Army, serving with the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg in North Carolina. Hill claimed the timing was deliberate; the FBI investigation into the 1957 Apalachin mob summit meeting had prompted a Senate investigation into organized crime, and its links with businesses and unions. This resulted in the publication of a list of nearly 5,000 names of members and associates of the five major crime families. Hill searched through a partial list but could not find Vario listed among the Lucchese family.\n\nThroughout his three-year enlistment, Hill maintained his mob contacts. He also continued to hustle: in charge of kitchen detail, he sold surplus food, loan sharked pay advances to fellow soldiers, and sold tax-free cigarettes. Before his discharge, Hill spent two months in the stockade for stealing a local sheriff's car, and brawling in a bar with a civilian and Marines. In 1963, Hill returned to New York and began the most notorious phase of his criminal career: arson, intimidation, running an organized stolen car ring, and hijacking trucks.\n\nIn 1965, Hill met his future wife, Karen Friedman, through Paul Vario, Jr. Paul insisted that Hill accompany him on a double date at Frank \"Frankie the Wop\" Manzo's restaurant, Villa Capra. According to Friedman the date was disastrous, and Hill stood her up at the next dinner date. Afterward, the two began going on dates at the Copacabana and other nightclubs, where Friedman was introduced to Hill's outwardly impressive lifestyle. The two later got married in a large North Carolina wedding, attended by most of Hill's gangster friends.\n\nOn April 7, 1967, Hill and Tommy DeSimone executed the Air France robbery, following a tip-off from Robert \"Frenchy\" McMahon. The robbery was initially proposed to Hill in January 1967 as an armed heist of several bags containing $60,000 each from the Air France cargo terminal at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The targeted money was stored in a strong-room inside the Air France cargo hold, permanently protected by a security guard. Hill determined that an armed robbery would involve unnecessary risk and would be unlikely to succeed; instead, Hill devised a plan to steal the keys to the strong room from a security guard who carried them at all times. Hill conducted surveillance on the security guard during his leisure time and found the guard had a weakness for women. Hill and McMahon succeeded in getting the guard drunk before driving him to the Jade East Motel where he was introduced to a prostitute. While the guard was distracted, Hill retrieved the guard's set of keys from his discarded trousers and had copies made before returning the original keys, thus leaving the guard and his employers unaware of any breach in security. Hill entered the cargo terminal with Tommy DeSimone on April 7, 1967 following a tip-off from McMahon about a shipment of between $400,000 and $700,000 being made to the strong-room. Using the duplicate key, Hill and DeSimone stole $420,000 (equivalent to over $3.1 million in 2018) in cash from the strong-room, loading the money into a large suitcase. They entered and exited the cargo terminal unchallenged and unnoticed while the security guard was on a meal break. No shots were fired and the money was not reported missing until April 11, 1967. Hill shared the take from the heist with senior Mafia members, giving $120,000 in total to Paul Vario and Sebastian Aloi of the Colombo crime family, in recognition that the cargo terminal fell within the Colombo family's 'turf'.\n\nHill used his share of the robbery proceeds to purchase a restaurant on Queens Boulevard, The Suite, initially aiming to run it as a legitimate business and provide 'distance' between himself and his mob associates. However, within several months, the nightclub had become another mob hangout. Hill later said that members of Lucchese and Gambino crews moved into the club en masse, including high-ranking Gambino family members who \"were always there\".\n\nOne incident in the restaurant which Hill considered the most significant was the murder in 1970 of Gambino family member William \"Billy Batts\" Devino (whose surname was also given as 'Bentvena'), who had been recently released from prison. After an altercation in The Suite between Tommy DeSimone and Devino during a 'welcome-home' party for Devino on June 11, 1970, Hill stated that DeSimone and Jimmy Burke began planning his death. Devino was murdered inside The Suite several weeks later by DeSimone and Burke, with Hill assisting in the disposal of his body. Hill later claimed that \"We knew what was coming\" and he had deliberately cleared out The Suite in anticipation of Devino's murder. Burke had got Devino heavily drunk before he was assaulted by DeSimone, who then pistol-whipped Devino into unconsciousness. Assuming he was dead, they drove to Pennsylvania to ensure that the body wouldn't be found. During the drive there, noises were coming from the trunk. Hill pulled the car over to open the trunk to find Devino still alive. The bloody and bruised Devino cried Hill's name before Hill stepped back and witnessed Burke and Desimone stab Devino to death. The actual motive for the murder involved loan-sharking rackets which Devino had run before being incarcerated; while he was in prison, the rackets had been taken over by DeSimone and Burke, who did not want to relinquish them. Witnessing the murder of Devino would haunt Hill for the rest of his life.\n\nHill began wholesaling marijuana, cocaine, heroin, and quaaludes based on connections he made in prison; he earned enormous amounts of money. A young kid who was a \"mule\" of Hill's \"ratted\" Hill out to Narcotics Detectives Daniel Mann and William Broder. \"The Youngster\" (so named by the detectives) informed them that the supplier [Henry Hill] was connected to the Lucchese crime family and was a close friend to Paul Vario and to Jimmy Burke and \"had probably been in on the Lufthansa robbery\". Knowing who Hill was and what he did, they put surveillance on him, taking pictures. They found out that Hill's old prison friend from Pittsburgh ran a dog-grooming salon as a front. Mann and Broder had \"thousands\" of wiretaps of Hill. But Hill and his crew used coded language in the conversations. Hill's wiretap on March 29 is an example of the bizarre vocabulary:\n\nHill and two Pittsburgh gamblers set up a point shaving scheme by convincing Boston College center Rick Kuhn to participate. Kuhn, who was a high school friend of one of the gamblers, encouraged teammates to participate in the scandal.\n\nHill also claimed to have an NBA referee in his pocket who worked games at Madison Square Garden during the 1970s. The referee had incurred gambling debts on horse races.\n\nOn April 27, 1980, Hill was arrested on a narcotics-trafficking charge. He became convinced that his former associates planned to have him killed: Vario, for dealing drugs; and Burke, to prevent Hill from implicating him in the Lufthansa Heist. Hill heard on a wiretap that his associates Angelo Sepe and Anthony Stabile were anxious to have him killed, and that they were telling Burke that Hill \"is no good\", and that he \"is a junkie\". Burke told them \"not to worry about it\". Hill was more convinced by a surveillance tape played to him by federal investigators, in which Burke tells Vario of their need to have Hill \"whacked.\" But Hill still wouldn't talk to the investigators. While in his cell, the officers would tell Hill that the prosecutor, Ed McDonald, wanted to speak with him, and Hill would yell: \"Fuck you and McDonald\". Hill became even more paranoid because he thought Burke had officers on the inside and would have him killed.\n\nWhile Karen was worried, she kept getting calls from Jimmy Burke's wife, Mickey, asking when Hill was coming home, or if Karen needed anything. Hill knew the calls were prompted by Jimmy.\n\nWhen Hill was finally released on bail, he met Burke at a restaurant they always went to. Burke told Hill they should meet at a bar that Hill had never heard of or seen before that was owned by \"Charlie the Jap\". However, Hill never met Burke there; instead they met at Burke's sweatshop with Karen and asked for the address in Florida where Hill was to kill Bobby Germaine's son with Anthony Stabile. Hill knew he was going to get killed in Florida, but he needed to stay on the streets to make money.\n\nMcDonald didn't want to take any chances and arrested Hill as a material witness in the Lufthansa robbery. Hill then agreed to become an informant and signed an agreement with the United States Department of Justice Organized Crime Strike Force on May 27, 1980. In 2011, former junior mob associate Greg Bucceroni alleged that, after Hill's 1980 arrest, Jimmy Burke offered him money to arrange a meeting between Bucceroni and Hill at a Brooklyn grocery store so that Burke could have Hill murdered gangland fashion, but Bucceroni decided quietly against having any involvement with the hit on Hill. Shortly afterwards, Burke and several other Lucchese crime family members were arrested by federal authorities.\n\nHill testified against his former associates to avoid a possible execution by his crew or going to prison for his crimes. His testimony led to 50 convictions.\n\nJimmy Burke was given 20 years in prison for the 1978–79 Boston College point shaving scandal, involving fixing Boston College basketball games. Burke was also later sentenced to life in prison for the murder of scam artist Richard Eaton. Burke died of lung cancer while serving his life sentence, on April 13, 1996, at the age of 64.\n\nPaul Vario received four years for helping Henry Hill obtain a no-show job to get him paroled from prison. Vario was also later sentenced to ten years in prison for the extortion of air freight companies at JFK Airport. He died of respiratory failure on November 22, 1988, at age 73 while incarcerated in the FCI Federal Prison in Fort Worth.\n\nHill, his wife Karen, and their two children (Gregg and Gina) entered the U.S. Marshals' Witness Protection Program in 1980, changed their names, and moved to undisclosed locations in Omaha, Nebraska; Independence, Kentucky; Redmond, Washington; and Seattle, Washington. In Seattle, Hill hosted backyard cookouts for his neighbors, and on one occasion, while under the influence of a combination of liquor and drugs, he revealed his true identity to his guests. To the ire of the federal marshals, they were forced to relocate him one final time to Sarasota, Florida. There, a few months had passed, and Hill repeated the same breach of security, causing the government to finally expel him from the Federal Witness Protection Program.\n\nHill was arrested in 2001 on narcotics-related charges in Seattle, where he was living in the Wedgwood neighborhood under the name of Alex Canclini. In 1990, his wife Karen had filed for divorce after 23 years of marriage. The divorce was finalized in 2002. Due to his numerous crimes while in witness protection, Hill (along with his wife) were expelled from the program in the early 1990s.\n\nAfter his 2001 arrest, Hill claimed to be clean until he was arrested again in North Platte, Nebraska, in August 2004. Hill had left his luggage at Lee Bird Field Airport in North Platte, Nebraska, containing drug paraphernalia, glass tubes with cocaine and methamphetamine residue. In September 2005, he was sentenced to 180 days imprisonment for attempted methamphetamine possession. Hill was sentenced to four years of probation on March 26. On December 14, 2009, he was arrested in Fairview Heights, Illinois, for disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, which Hill attributed to his drinking problems.\n\nIn his later years, Hill lived in Topanga Canyon, approximately four miles from Malibu, California, with his Italian fiancée, Lisa Caserta. Both appeared in several documentaries and made public appearances on various media programs including \"The Howard Stern Show\". Hill, who was a frequent guest on \"The Howard Stern Show\" and had previously claimed to have never killed anyone, admitted on the show to having been ordered by Vario to kill three people, which he says he did comply with.\n\nIn 2004, Hill was interviewed by Charlie Rose for \"60 Minutes\". In 2010, Hill was inducted in the Museum of the American Gangster in New York City. On June 8, 2011, a show about Hill's life aired on the National Geographic Channel's \"Locked up Abroad\".\n\nIn reference to his many victims, Hill stated in an interview in March 2008, with BBC's Heather Alexander: \"I don't give a heck what those people think; I'm doing the right thing now\", addressing the reporter's question about how his victims might think of his commercialization of his story through self-written books and advising on \"Goodfellas\".\n\nIn 2008, Hill was featured in episode 3 of the crime documentary series \"The Irish Mob\". In the episode, Hill recounts his life of crime, as well as his close relationship with Jimmy Burke and the illegal activity the two engaged in together. A large portion of the segment focuses on Burke's and Hill's involvements in the famous Lufthansa Heist. The entire series is currently available on Netflix.\n\nIn August 2011, Hill appeared in the special \"Mob Week\" on AMC; he and other former mob members talked about \"The Godfather\", \"Goodfellas\", and other such mob films, and in April 2012, he was interviewed about Jimmy Burke and Tommy DeSimone, for \"Mobsters\", set to air that summer. On February 14, 2012, he was put in the Las Vegas Mob Museum.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, Hill was featured on ESPN Films' \"30 for 30\": \"Playing for the Mob\". In the documentary episode, based on the fixing of the Boston College basketball games in 1978 and 1979, Hill reveals the details behind the point shaving scandal along with the testimony from the players and federal investigators involved. Ray Liotta also guest starred, as the narrator.\n\nHill worked for a time as a chef at an Italian restaurant in Nebraska, and his spaghetti sauce, \"Sunday Gravy\", was marketed over the internet. Hill opened another restaurant, Wiseguys, in West Haven, Connecticut, in October 2007.\n\nHill was a painter and sold his artwork on eBay.\n\nIn October 2002, Hill published \"The Wiseguy Cookbook: My Favorite Recipes From My Life As a Goodfella To Cooking On the Run\". In it, Hill shared some stories throughout his childhood, life in the mob, and running from the law. He also presents recipes he learned from his family, during his years in the mob, and some that he came up with himself. For example, Hill claimed his last meal the day he was busted for drugs consisted of rolled veal cutlets, sauce with pork butt, veal shanks, ziti, and green beans with olive oil and garlic.\n\nHenry Hill collaborated with the novelist Daniel Simone in writing and developing a non-fiction book titled, \"The Lufthansa Heist,\" a portrayal of the famous 1978 Lufthansa Airline robbery at Kennedy Airport.\n\nOther books by Hill include:\n\n\"Goodfellas\", the 1990 Martin Scorsese-directed crime film adaptation of the 1986 non-fiction book \"Wiseguy\" by Nicholas Pileggi, follows the 1955 to 1980 rise and fall of Hill and his Lucchese crime family associates. Scorsese initially named the film \"Wise Guy\" but subsequently, with Pileggi's agreement, changed the name to \"Goodfellas\" to avoid confusion with the unrelated television crime drama \"Wiseguy\". To prepare for their roles in the film, the actors often spoke with Pileggi, who shared research material he gathered while writing the book. The director made transcripts of these sessions, took the lines he liked best, and put them into a revised script the cast worked from during principal photography.\n\nIn 2006, Hill and Ray Liotta appeared in a photo shoot for \"Entertainment Weekly\". At Liotta's urging, Hill entered alcohol rehabilitation two days after the shoot.\n\nHill died of complications related to heart disease in a Los Angeles hospital, on June 12, 2012, after a long battle with his illness, only a day after his 69th birthday. His girlfriend for the last six years of his life, Lisa Caserta, said, \"He had been sick for a long time. ... his heart gave out\". CBS News reported Caserta's saying: \"he went out pretty peacefully, for a goodfella\". She said Hill had recently suffered a heart attack before his death and died of complications after a long history of heart problems associated with smoking. Hill's family was present when he died.\n\nRay Liotta, who portrayed Hill in \"Goodfellas\", on Hill's death: \"Although I played Henry Hill in the movie \"Goodfellas\", I only met him a few short times so I can't say I knew him but I do know he lived a complicated life. Liotta added: \"My heart goes out to his family and may he finally rest in peace.\" Hill was cremated the day after his death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45666195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45666195", "title": "Iudila", "text": "Iudila\n\nIudila (fl. 630s) was a Visigoth who carried out a rebellion against King Sisenand.\n\nKnowledge of him comes from two coins with the inscription \"Iudila Rex\".\n\n"}
{"id": "864824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864824", "title": "Ivan Konev", "text": "Ivan Konev\n\nIvan Stepanovich Konev (;  – 21 May 1973) was a Soviet military commander who led Red Army forces on the Eastern Front during World War II, retook much of Eastern Europe from occupation by the Axis Powers, and helped in the capture of Germany's capital, Berlin.\n\nIn 1956, as the Commander of Warsaw Pact forces, Konev led the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution by Soviet armoured divisions.\n\nKonev was born on 28 December 1897 into a peasant family near Podosinovets in Vologda Governorate (now Kirov Oblast). He had little formal education and worked as a lumberjack.\n\nIn the spring of 1916, he was conscripted into the Imperial Russian Army. Konev was sent to the 2nd Heavy Artillery Brigade at Moscow and then graduated from artillery training courses. In 1917, he was sent to the 2nd Separate Heavy Artillery Battalion on the Southwestern Front as a junior sergeant and fought in the Kerensky Offensive.\n\nWhen the Russian Revolution broke out in 1917 he was demobilised and returned home, but in 1919 he joined the Bolshevik party and the Red Army, serving as an artilleryman. During the Russian Civil War he served with the Red Army in the Russian Far Eastern Republic. His commander at this time was Kliment Voroshilov, later a close colleague of Joseph Stalin and Commissar for defence. This alliance was the key to Konev's subsequent career.\n\nIn 1926 Konev completed advanced officer training courses at the Frunze Military Academy, and between then and 1931 he held a series of progressively more senior commands, becoming head of first the Transbaikal then the North Caucasus Military Districts. In July 1938 he was appointed commander of the 2nd Red Banner Army. In 1937 he became a Deputy of the Supreme Soviet and in 1939 a candidate member of the Party Central Committee.\n\nWhen Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941, Konev was assigned command of the 19th Army in the Vitebsk region, and waged a series of defensive battles during the Red Army's retreat, first to Smolensk and then to the approaches to Moscow.\n\nHe commanded the Kalinin Front from October 1941 to August 1942, playing a key role in the fighting around Moscow and the Soviet counter-offensive during the winter of 1941–42. For his role in the successful defence of the Soviet capital, Stalin promoted Konev to Colonel-General. In the summer of 1942 Konev led the Kalinin Front and later the Western front in the battle on the Rzhev salient.\n\nKonev held \"Front\" (army group) commands for the rest of the war. He commanded the Soviet Western Front until February 1943, the North-Western Front February–July 1943, and the 2nd Ukrainian Front from July 1943 (later further the 1st Ukrainian Front) until May 1945.\n\nHe participated in the Battle of Kursk, commanding the southern part of the Soviet counter-offensive, the Steppe Front, where he was an active and energetic exponent of maskirovka, the use of military camouflage and deception. Among the \"maskirovka\" measures he adopted to achieve tactical surprise were the camouflaging of defence lines and depots; dummy units and supply points; a dummy air defence network; and the use of reconnaissance units to verify the quality of his army's camouflage and deception works. In David Glantz's view, Konev's forces \"generated a major portion of the element of surprise\".\n\nThe result was that the Germans seriously underestimated the strength of the Soviet defences. The commander of 19 Panzer, General G. Schmidt, wrote that \"We did not assume that there was even one fourth [of the Russian strength] of what we had to encounter\".\n\nAfter the victory at Kursk, Konev's armies retook Belgorod, Odessa, Kharkiv and Kiev. The subsequent Korsun–Shevchenkovsky Offensive led to the Battle of the Korsun–Cherkassy Pocket which took place from 24 January to 16 February 1944. The offensive was part of the Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive. In it, the 1st and 2nd Ukrainian Fronts, commanded, respectively, by Nikolai Vatutin and Konev, trapped German forces of Army Group South in a pocket or cauldron west of the Dnieper river. During weeks of fighting, the two Red Army Fronts tried to eradicate the pocket; the subsequent Korsun battle eliminated the cauldron. According to Milovan Djilas, Konev openly boasted of his killing of thousands of German prisoners of war: \"The cavalry finally finished them off. 'We let the Cossacks cut up as long as they wished. They even hacked off the hands of those who raised them to surrender' the Marshal recounted with a smile.\"\nFor his achievements in Ukraine, Konev was promoted by Stalin to Marshal of the Soviet Union in February 1944. He was one of Stalin's favourite generals and one of the few senior commanders whom even Stalin admired for his ruthlessness.\n\nDuring 1944 Konev's armies advanced from Ukraine and Belarus into Poland and later into Czechoslovakia. In May he participated in an unsuccessful invasion of the Balkans, (the first Jassy–Kishinev Offensive) together with Generals Rodion Malinovsky and Fyodor Tolbukhin.\n\nBy July he had advanced to the Vistula River in central Poland, and was awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union. In September 1944 his forces, now designated the Fourth Ukrainian Front, advanced into Slovakia and helped the Slovak partisans in their rebellion against German occupation.\n\nIn January 1945 Konev, together with Georgy Zhukov, commanded the Soviet armies which launched the massive winter offensive in western Poland, driving the German forces from the Vistula to the Oder River. In southern Poland his armies seized Kraków. Soviet historians, and generally Russian sources, claimed that Konev preserved Kraków from Nazi-planned destruction by ordering a lightning attack on the city. Konev's January 1945 offensive also prevented planned destruction of the Silesian industry by the retreating Germans.\nIn April his troops, together with the 1st Belorussian Front under his competitor, Marshal Zhukov, forced the line of the Oder and advanced towards Berlin. Konev's forces entered the city, but Stalin gave Zhukov the honour of capturing Berlin and hoisting the Soviet flag over the Reichstag. Konev was ordered to the south-west, where his forces linked up with elements of the United States Army at Torgau and also retook Prague shortly after the official surrender of the German forces.\n\nAfter the war Konev was appointed head of the Soviet occupation forces in Eastern Germany and also Allied High Commissioner for Austria. In 1946 he became commander of Soviet ground forces and First Deputy Minister of Defense of the Soviet Union, replacing Zhukov. He held these posts until 1950, when he was appointed commander of the Carpathian Military District.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, however, Konev returned to prominence. He became a key ally of the new Party leader, Nikita Khrushchev, being entrusted with the trial of the Stalinist police chief, Lavrenty Beria in 1953. He was again appointed First Deputy Minister of Defense and commander of Soviet ground forces, posts he held until 1956, when he was named Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Warsaw Pact. Shortly after his appointment he led the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution.\n\nHe held this post until 1960, when he retired from active service. In 1961–62, however, he was recalled and was again commander of the Soviet forces in East Germany. He was then appointed to the largely ceremonial post of Inspector-General of the Defense Ministry.\n\nKonev remained one of the Soviet Union's most admired military figures until his death in 1973. He married twice, and his daughter Nataliya is Dean of the Department of Linguistics and Literature at the Russian Military University.\n\nIn 1969, the Ministry of Defence of the USSR published Konev's 285-page war memoir called \"Forty-Five\". It was later translated into English in the same year and published by Progress Publishers, Moscow. This work discusses Konev's taking of Berlin, Prague, his work with Zhukov, Stalin, his field meeting with General Omar Bradley and Jascha Heifetz. In English, the book was titled \"I. Konev – Year of Victory\". It was also published in Spanish and French under the titles \"El Año 45\" and \"L'an 45\" respectively.\n\nMarshal of the Soviet Union, Twice Hero of the Soviet Union, holder of the Order of Victory Ivan Stepanovich Konev was buried in the Kremlin Wall with the greatest figures of the USSR, and can still be visited today.\n\nOn 9 January 1991, his memorial sculpture in Kraków was dismantled. The sculpture was given to the Russian town of Kirovsk. The memorial plaque in front of the apartment building where he lived (three blocks from the Kremlin) is still mounted on the brick wall.\n\nKonev has monuments in Prague, Svidník, Kharkov, Patriot Park (Moscow region), Kirov, Belgorod, Nizhny Novgorod, Omsk, and Vologda.\n\nThe Konev monument in Prague became a subject of controversy that escalated in 2018, after which the city administration added explanatory text to the monument, noting the participation of its subject in the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution and the Prague Spring.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20610006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610006", "title": "Jean-Bernard Restout", "text": "Jean-Bernard Restout\n\nJean-Bernard Restout (22 February 1732 – 18 July 1797) was a French painter.\n\nRestout was born and died in Paris. A son of Jean II Restout and like him a member of the Académie de Rouen, he won the Prix de Rome in 1758 and was aggregated to the Académie royale on his return from Italy in 1765, then received into it in 1769. However, he refused to conform to its rules led to a quarrel. He frequently exhibited at the Salon de Paris from 1767 to 1791. On the French Revolution, he was president of the Commune des Arts which campaigned, with its founder David, for the suppression of the Académie. Made guardian of the Garde-Meuble royal by Roland during the Revolution, this favour nearly cost him his life during the Reign of Terror when Roland and his friends were implicated in the after of the theft from the Garde-Meuble. Suspected, he was imprisoned and only released on the fall of Robespierre on 9 Thermidor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11193804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11193804", "title": "Jeff Cook", "text": "Jeff Cook\n\nJeffery A. Cook (born August 27, 1949) is an American musician and songwriter who is best known as one of the founding members of the country band Alabama.\n\nJeffery A. Cook was born in Fort Payne, Alabama, and is of English and Native American descent, Cook is a graduate of Fort Payne High School and Jacksonville State University. He obtained a broadcast engineer license three days after his fourteenth birthday, and worked at a local radio station as a disc jockey while still in high school.\n\nCook co-founded the band Wildcountry, along with his cousins Randy Owen and Teddy Gentry, in 1972 (the name was changed to Alabama in 1977). He contributed vocals, lead guitar, keyboard, and fiddle to the group's productions. Since Alabama ceased active production and performance in 2003, Cook has formed the groups Cook & Glenn and the Allstar Goodtime Band, with which he performs.\n\nIn addition to his performance work, Cook founded Cook Sound Studios, Inc., in his native Fort Payne, and also established radio station WQRX-AM, which he later sold, in adjacent Valley Head, Alabama. Cook is also noted for his culinary endeavors, having operated a restaurant and marketed his own sauce.\n\nCook endorsed the 2008 presidential candidacy of former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, and made appearances with the candidate in Alabama.\n\nCook is still going on tour but when he is not, he is a part of the Del Chouch Music Education Foundation. On April 11, 2017, Cook disclosed that he was diagnosed with Parkinson's four years ago and will no longer be touring regularly with Alabama. He will still be a part of the band as he stated that he doesn't want to give up music.\n\n2018: \"WHY NOT ME\" with William Shatner\n\n"}
{"id": "53263116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53263116", "title": "Jess Thom", "text": "Jess Thom\n\nJessica Thom (born 14 July 1980) is a British theatre-maker and comedian best known for Touretteshero, an alter-ego and project aimed at increasing awareness of Tourette's Syndrome, the neurological condition which she was diagnosed with in her early twenties. The first Touretteshero production, \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\" debuted at Edinburgh Fringe Festival in 2014. The show won critical acclaim and has since toured across the UK and internationally, including various performances across North America and Australia. Thom has also made numerous appearances on British television, notably an interview on \"Russel Howard's Good News\" which has garnered more than 400,000 YouTube views , and was reported on by \"The Independent\" and \"Metro\" newspapers.\n\nThom was born in London. She experienced involuntary vocal and physical tics throughout her childhood as a result of Tourette's Syndrome, but was not diagnosed with the condition until her early twenties. Thom has recurring vocal tics, the most common of which is the word 'biscuit' which she can utter up to 16,000 times a day. She has a younger sister, who Jess previously referred to as 'Fat Sister' in a vocal tic whilst she was dieting. Thom acknowledges that her condition presents challenges but seeks to avoid 'self-pity or mockery' and to 'celebrate the creativity and humour of Tourette's'.\n\nAccording to guidance notes for journalists written by the team at Touretteshero, and published by the Guardian:Although some aspects of [Tourette's Syndrome] are challenging, Jess does not describe herself as a 'Tourette's sufferer' under any circumstances. Instead she likes to be referred to as a 'person with Tourette's' or as simply as 'having Tourette's'. She is 'brave' for all sorts of reasons, but not because she is disabled.Thom has stated that she finds herself talking about and explaining Tourette's everyday in her day-to-day interactions: \"It doesn't always feel like a choice, more a tool for living...Often this is very functional, like explaining at the start of a phone call that I have Tourettes, answering a question or addressing sniggers on public transport.\" Thom regularly experiences discrimination as a result of having Tourette's. She has recounted one particularly bad experience in multiple interviews, when she went to see comedian Mark Thomas perform at Tricycle Theatre. Other audience members complained about the noise she was making as a result of her vocal tics and the venue's staff asked her to move into a sound booth, so she wouldn't be heard by other customers. Although initially the experience made her vow never to go to the theatre again, it eventually became the catalyst for her becoming a performer: \"The creative way to respond was to occupy that space as an artist\".\n\nThom is also a wheelchair user. Following the social model of disability, Thom sees most of the challenges she faces not as a result of her unique neurology and physical impairment, but as a result of the 'disabling barriers' created by society, telling BBC News in 2014: \"My wheelchair and my tics are not the thing that disables me; the thing that disables me is the inaccessible environment\".\n\nThom studied at the Royal College of Art, London, graduating in 2005.\n\nPrior to becoming a theatre-maker and performer, Thom's career began as a playworker, working with children and young people. She has also been a fundraiser and project coordinator at a charity based in south London.\n\nIn 2010, Thom and longstanding friend and collaborator Matthew Pountney co-founded Touretteshero. The idea started out as a way of engaging people with the creative and humorous side of Tourette's, with Thom dressing up in a superhero costume and delivering performances and workshops, especially to children and young people. In 2011, Thom appeared on Episode 3, 'Uses and Abuses' of Stephen Fry's five-part BBC series Fry's Planet Word, to discuss her Tourette's and coprolalia - the involuntary use of swear words which 10% of people with Tourette's experience. The following year, Souvenir Press published \"Welcome to Biscuit Land: A year in the life of Touretteshero\" based on entries on Thom's blog, for which Fry wrote the foreword. Touretteshero has also put on creative events, like 'We Forgot The Lot!' - a collaboration with Tate for children and young people with and without Tourette's.\n\nPartly inspired by her negative experience of attending the Mark Thomas gig, and taking its name from Thom's most common vocal tic 'biscuit', \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\" began development as a theatre piece which explores the creative opportunities of Thom's tics and also other people's reaction to them. In 2013, Thom met performer and puppeteer, Jess Mabel Jones at a performance of \"Beauty and the Beast\" by ONEOFUS (Mat Fraser and Julie Atlas Muz) in London. Mabel Jones would later become a lead collaborator on \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\". Mabel Jones's role in this 'one-woman show for two' is to make sure Thom doesn't stray too far off topic. Due to Thom's unique and sporadic ticcing, which is riffed on heavily in the show, no two performances are quite the same. The set for the show features 50 items that were the subjects of some of Thom's spontaneous vocal tics during the development cycle, including a 'babygrow for Les Dennis' and 'ducks dressed as pterodactyls'.\n\n\"Backstage in Biscuit Land\" received R&D funding from commissioning body Unlimited, but crowdfunding was sought to help bring the show to Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Reviews of the initial run at Edinburgh were very positive. Lyn Gardiner in \"The Guardian\" said: \"Jess Thom's condition lends her show an absurdist edge Samuel Beckett would be proud of...Tourette's and theatre make a joyous combo\". She also described it as \"extraordinarily entertaining\" awarding it four stars. Alice Jones in \"The Independent\" said: \"The humour is black but it's also daft and uplifting, and in places, impossibly moving\". TV Bomb, were perhaps most effusive with their praise declaring: \"There are more ideas and imagination in this one hour show than most of the Fringe programme combined,\" awarding it 5 out of 5.\n\nFollowing its success at Edinburgh, \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\" went on a tour across the UK throughout 2015 and 2016 including a notable performance at the Barbican, London. It continued to pick up glowing reviews with \"The Stage\" awarding it four stars and calling the show \"a properly joyous thing, funny, informative, and eloquent about the need for theatre to be more accessible to everyone. Broadway Baby also awarded the show 4 stars \"This show is one big tasty biscuit all right\". Later in 2016 the production went international with a tour of North America which included performances at New York's BRIC, Toronto's Harbourfront, San Francisco's International Arts Festival and Los Angeles' Skirball Cultural Center. Performances in Australia included at the Sydney Opera House, Queensland Performing Arts Centre, Brisbane and Melbourne International Festival. The performance at the latter earned the show 4 stars in the Australian edition of \"The Guardian,\" with Steph Harmon describing at as \"unpredictable, joyous, must-watch theatre\".\n\nThom appeared on ITV's \"This Morning\" in May 2012 and was interviewed at length by Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby. In March 2013, Thom appeared on RTE's Saturday Night Show with Brendan O'Connor. In September of that year, Thom delivered a talk about the misconceptions of Tourette's Syndrome at TEDxAlbertopolis, the first TED event to take place at London's Royal Albert Hall. Following her appearance on Fry's Planet Word in 2014, Thom appeared on Radio 4's The Today Programme, discussing Tourette's and BBC News discussing her ideas about 'freedom' later that year. In October 2015, Thom was interviewed on BBC's \"Russel Howard's Good News,\" with the broadcast apparently reaching some 3 million people. The next month a version of \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\", adapted for television entitled \"Broadcast from Biscuit Land\" had a 30-minute slot on BBC4's Live from Television Centre, the first live broadcast from Television Centre since the building was decommissioned in 2013. In 2016, Thom appeared on series 10 of Richard Herring's Leicester Square Theatre Podcast.\n\nTouretteshero won the 2014 Total Theatre Award, Best Emerging Company for \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\".\n\nThom is an outspoken advocate of disabled people's rights. Her personal outlook often inverts the typical negative stereotypes associated with disability, for instance she sees her Tourette's as a source of creativity and her wheelchair as a symbol of freedom. She advocates for empowerment of disabled people via the social model of disability, telling Exeunt: As a society there are still lots of people who think about disability solely in negative terms. The medical model – 'disabled people are broken and need to be fixed' – and the charity model – 'tragic and in need of help' – are ways of conceptualizing disability that remain widespread even though the social model of disability – 'people are disabled by a failure to consider difference' – underpins our legislation and public services.Following her own negative experiences of attending the theatre, Thom has campaigned to get more 'relaxed performances' (a performance where the audience are allowed to make noise and move around, which is more suitable for certain neurodiverse people) in theatres, as well as making every performance of \"Backstage in Biscuit Land\" a relaxed performance.\n\nThom has also been an outspoken critic of the UK Government's cuts to provision for disabled people, telling Disability Arts Online:So many of the structures that were in place to support disabled people to live independent lives have been dismantled in recent years. Ambitions are being capped because of the structures designed to disable and limit what we have access to. There is a big difference between having basic needs met and having the right to an independent life. With the abolition of the Independent Living Fund and Access to Work and all the other attacks on disabled peoples' rights our only option is to keep fighting.\n\n"}
{"id": "19996659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996659", "title": "Johann Wilhelm Löbell", "text": "Johann Wilhelm Löbell\n\nJohann Wilhelm Löbell (15 September 1786 – 12 July 1863) was a German historian.\n\nLöbell was a native of Berlin. He studied at the Universities of Heidelberg and Berlin under Wolf and Böckh. He had entered the scholarly life against the wishes of his mother who wanted him to go into business. During the War of the Sixth Coalition (1812–14), he served as a volunteer in a \"Landwehr\" installation. He was not on the frontlines but worked in a supporting office.\n\nIn 1814 he moved to Breslau, where he soon found work as a teacher in a war college. There he published a historical paper and another one on building connections between the sciences and humanities in gymnasium studies. In 1823, he went to work in Berlin at a military academy as a history teacher. There he also became involved with the issuance of new editions of Karl Friedrich Becker's \"\"Weltgeschichte\" (World history). He eventually oversaw the issuance of three new editions. During this time period he was friends to Henrich Steffens (1773-1845) and Friedrich von Raumer (1781-1873).\n\nIn 1829 he became an associate professor of history at the University of Bonn, where two years later he became a full professor. Among the works he wrote at Bonn were \"Gregor von Tours und seine Zeit\" (Gregory of Tours and his times, 1839), a revision of Becker's \"Weltgeschichte\" (1836–38), \"Weltgeschichte in Umrissen und Ausführungen\" (World history outlined and explained Part I, 1846), \"Die Entwicklung der deutschen Poesie von Klopstocks erstem Auftreten bis zu Goethes Tode\" (The development of German poetry from Klopstock until Goethe's death, 1856–65), and \"Historische Briefe\"\" (Letters on history, 1861), an anonymous attack on Ultramontanism.\n\nLöbell's large personal library is now kept in a school library at the Bielefeld \"Ratsgymnasium\", and is property of the city of Bielefeld.\n\n"}
{"id": "2098798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2098798", "title": "John Harvey-Jones", "text": "John Harvey-Jones\n\nSir John Harvey-Jones MBE (16 April 1924 – 9 January 2008) was an English businessman. He was the chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries from 1982 to 1987. He was best known by the public for his BBC television show, \"Troubleshooter\", in which he advised struggling businesses.\n\nJohn Henry Harvey-Jones was born in Hackney, London, but spent most of his early childhood in Dhar, India, where his father was a guardian to a teenage maharajah. He was shipped back to Britain at age six to attend a prep school at Deal, Kent. He entered Dartmouth Royal Naval College at age 13.\n\nHarvey-Jones joined Dartmouth Royal Naval College as a cadet in 1937, and in 1940, at the age of 16, he joined HMS \"Diomede\" as a midshipman. The next two ships that he served with, HMS \"Ithuriel\" and HMS \"Quentin\", were sunk by enemy action. Harvey-Jones went on to join the submarine service in 1942, and received his first command at age 24.\n\nWith the end of World War II, Harvey-Jones went to the University of Cambridge to learn Russian in six months and joined Naval Intelligence as an interpreter. He married Mary Bignell in 1947, and he commanded the Russian intelligence section under the guise of the \"British Baltic Fishery Protection Service\", which used two ex-German E-boats for gathering clandestine intelligence on the Soviet Baltic Fleet. Rising to the rank of lieutenant-commander, Harvey-Jones was awarded a military MBE in 1952 for his work in Naval Intelligence, although his citation stated that the award was for \"fishery protection duties in the Baltic\".\n\nRefused permission by the Royal Navy to spend more time with his wife and daughter Gaby, who had contracted polio, he resigned his commission in 1956 and joined Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) on Teesside as a junior training manager. In 1973, at age 49, he was promoted to sit on the main board of directors. In April 1982, he became chairman of ICI, only the second split-career man and non-chemist to reach the top.\n\nMentored in part by John Adair, Harvey-Jones saw his responsibilities to both stockholders and employees as \"making a profit out of the markets where the market is\". He maintained a firm belief in \"speed rather than direction\", on the assumption that \"once travelling a company can veer and tack towards the ultimate objective.\" Thus, at the business level he cut non-profit making and what he saw as non-core businesses, so that at board level he could concentrate on putting more power in fewer hands \"to reduce the number of those who can say 'no' and increase the motivation of those who can say 'yes'\", maintaining that \"there are no bad troops, only bad leaders\". After only 30 months in the job, having cut the UK workforce by one third, he had doubled the price of ICI shares and turned a loss into a one billion pound profit.\n\nAccording to one newspaper, it was the BBC's \"Troubleshooter\" series, first broadcast in 1990, that made Harvey-Jones the most famous industrialist since Isambard Kingdom Brunel. It ran to five series and several specials in the 1990s and also won him a BAFTA award. His advice was at times controversial – in particular he was critical of the Morgan Motor Company, which some argue was vindicated, as it is still trading successfully today.\n\nIn 1989, he became chairman of \"The Economist\", was a non-executive director of Grand Metropolitan plc (now part of Diageo), and honorary vice-president of the Institute of Marketing.\n\nHarvey-Jones was also chairman of the Burns-Anderson Group plc, a conglomerate spanning merchant banking, financial services, recruitment, marketing and business services, and stockbroking.\n\nBetween 1986 and 1991, Harvey-Jones served as the second Chancellor of the University of Bradford. A commemorative painting exists in the University of Bradford collection, and Harvey-Jones also agreed to sit for sculptor Jon Edgar for a terracotta portrait at Clyro in July 2004.\n\nHe was chairman of the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust and member of the Advisory Council of the Prince's Trust. In 2001, he became the president of the MS Trust.\n\nDescribed by \"The Guardian\" as one of the best-known British advocates of Transcendental Meditation, Harvey-Jones said, \"I don't make a drama out of a crisis. If I gave it up now, my wife would leave me.\" Having lived most of his post-retirement period in Ross-on-Wye, he died in his sleep after a long illness, aged 83, at the Hereford County Hospital.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276353", "title": "Linda Evangelista", "text": "Linda Evangelista\n\nLinda Evangelista (born May 10, 1965) is a Canadian model. She is regarded as one of the most accomplished and influential models of all time, and has been featured on over 700 magazine covers. Evangelista is primarily known for being the longtime muse of photographer Steven Meisel, as well as for coining the phrase \"We don't wake up for less than $10,000 a day.\" She holds the record for her multiple appearances on the cover of \"Vogue Italia\", all of which were photographed by Meisel.\n\nEvangelista's modeling career began in 1984 when she signed with Elite Model Management after having moved from her native Canada to New York City. Upon the suggestion of photographer Peter Lindbergh, Evangelista had her hair cut short in 1988. The haircut, nicknamed \"The Linda\", not only sparked many copies worldwide, but it also benefited Evangelista's career and helped usher in the era of the supermodel.\n\nDescribed as the \"chameleon\" of the fashion industry, and as a key figure among the five supermodels, Evangelista was one of the most famous women in the world during the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s. Unlike her colleagues, she chose not to diversify into other ventures outside of modeling. She retired from her career in 1998 and made a comeback three years later, this time working only sporadically. Her achievements as a model led to her being voted as \"The Greatest Supermodel of All Time\" by the viewers of the television show \"Fashion File\" in 2008.\n\nEvangelista was born on May 10, 1965 to Italian parents who had emigrated to Canada. As the second of three children, Evangelista grew up in a working-class, Roman Catholic household in the city of her birth, St. Catharines, Ontario, where she attended Denis Morris Catholic High School. Her father, Tomaso, worked for General Motors, and died on January 17, 2014. Her mother, Marisa, was a bookkeeper. Evangelista attended a self-improvement course in a modeling school at the age of 12, where she was taught things such as poise and etiquette, and she was advised to attend a modeling course.\n\nAs a teenager, Evangelista started modeling locally in her hometown. In 1981, she took part in the Miss Teen Niagara beauty pageant. And while she did not win the pageant, her presence caught the eye of a representative from Elite Model Management.\n\nAt the age of 16, she flew to Japan to model there, but an unpleasant experience involving nudity during a modeling assignment made her want to stop modeling altogether. She returned home to Canada, and two years went by before she decided to try her hand again at modeling.\n\nEvangelista moved to New York City in 1984 upon signing with Elite, where she met the prominent modeling agent John Casablancas, who compared her likeness to the model Joan Severance. Elite then moved Evangelista to Paris, where she launched her international high-fashion career at the age of 19. Her first major fashion magazine cover was for the November 1984 issue of \"L'Officiel\". Subsequently, she would go on to appear on the covers and in the pages of a variety of international publications including \"Vogue\", \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Cosmopolitan\", \"Glamour\", \"Mademoiselle\", \"Elle\", \"W\", \"Marie Claire\", \"Allure\", \"Time\", \"Interview\", \"Newsweek\", \"Rolling Stone\", \"Cigar Aficionado\", and \"i-D\". All amounting to a total of more than 700 covers worldwide.\n\nIn 1985, she began working with Karl Lagerfeld, the head designer of the fashion house Chanel, to whom she would become a muse. On the subject of Evangelista, Lagerfeld once uttered, \"There is not another model in the world as professional as she is.\" Incidentally, Evangelista became one of the first editorial models to successfully cross over into the realm of runway modeling. She also became a muse to the late fashion designer Gianni Versace, for whom she first appeared in ad campaigns in 1987. In addition to her work for Versace and Lagerfeld, Evangelista also modeled for various other fashion brands such as Valentino, Dolce & Gabbana, Gianfranco Ferré, Ralph Lauren, Yves Saint Laurent, Azzedine Alaïa, Oscar de la Renta, Giorgio Armani, Thierry Mugler, Claude Montana, Donna Karan, Jil Sander, Jean Paul Gaultier, Alberta Ferretti, Isaac Mizrahi, Escada, Calvin Klein, Salvatore Ferragamo, Max Mara, Perry Ellis, Chloé, Comme des Garçons, Bill Blass, and Herve Leger. And, she has represented a diverse array of other companies and non-fashion brands like Visa, American Express, Pizza Hut, De Beers, and Elizabeth Arden.\n\nIn 1986, Evangelista met the photographer Steven Meisel, with whom she forged a friendship. From that point on, they began working together on many professional collaborations, and Evangelista became Meisel's muse in the process. Starting in 1987, Evangelista began to appear in advertisements and commercials for Revlon's \"The Most Unforgettable Women in the World\" campaign, which was photographed by Richard Avedon. She has also been photographed by the likes of Peter Lindbergh, Irving Penn, Francesco Scavullo, Herb Ritts, Bruce Weber, Gian Paolo Barbieri, Patrick Demarchelier, Paolo Roversi, Norman Parkinson, Arthur Elgort, Gilles Bensimon, Ellen von Unwerth, Sante D'Orazio, and Nick Knight among others.\n\nIt was Lindbergh who, in the fall of 1988, suggested to Evangelista that she cut her hair short after seeing her try on a short wig for a photoshoot. Consequently, she got a short gamine haircut from the French hairstylist Julien d'Ys. The following day, she was photographed by Lindbergh, which resulted in a now-famous photograph known as \"the white shirt picture\". Initially, the haircut was not well received by the fashion industry, and Evangelista was cancelled from 16 fashion shows. However, by the spring of 1989, Evangelista's haircut was the look of the season. The haircut was referred to as \"The Linda\", and it inspired the creation of a wig called \"The Evangelista\". Even famous women sought to emulate the look. Among them were Demi Moore, who sported the haircut in the 1990 film \"Ghost\", and Susan Sullivan from the television show \"Falcon Crest\". It has been said of Evangelista that \"the world's most famous haircut turned her from an averagely in-demand top model to an insanely in-demand, only-Linda-will-do top model, so sensationally successful that the word 'supermodel' had to be coined to describe her\".\n\nEvangelista became known as one of the five supermodels, a group of star models who reached the pinnacle of success during the late 1980s and early 1990s. The supermodels were considered more famous than most actresses and singers of that time. In addition, Evangelista, along with Christy Turlington and Naomi Campbell comprised a triumvirate that was dubbed \"The Trinity\". They were joined by Cindy Crawford and Tatjana Patitz for the cover of the January 1990 issue of \"British Vogue\", which was photographed by Lindbergh. The cover itself was said to have \"defined the supermodel era\". Upon seeing the cover, the singer George Michael chose to cast these five models in the music video for his song, \"Freedom! '90\", in which they lipsynched the words to the song. In May of that year, Evangelista was chosen as one of the \"50 Most Beautiful People in the World\" by \"People\". She also appeared on the \"Oprah Winfrey Show\" where she served as a judge for an Elite model search competition, and chose Leslie Bibb as the winner, who later became an actress.\n\nIn an interview printed in the October 1990 issue of \"Vogue\", Evangelista said the words, \"We don't wake up for less than $10,000 a day.\" That statement is now thought of as the most famous quote in modeling history, and it has been described as \"the 'Let them eat cake' of the 20th century\". Also in October 1990, Evangelista stunned the fashion world by having the hairstylist Oribe dye her naturally-brown hair platinum blond. Months later, she had her hair dyed a shocking shade of red known as \"technicolor red\". Throughout most of her modeling career, Evangelista was referred to as the fashion industry's \"chameleon\" for the way that she constantly reinvented herself with various hairstyles and ever-changing hair colors that inspired hair trends. In terms of her looks, she was likened to Sophia Loren, Elizabeth Taylor, Ava Gardner, and Gina Lollobrigida.\n\nIn 1991, it was rumored that the fashion house Lanvin paid Evangelista $20,000 to walk in their haute couture show for the spring/summer season, an amount that was considered excessive. Male model Tyson Beckford recounted in an interview that Evangelista was instrumental in getting higher rates for models. That April, Evangelista waived her runway fee as an act of support for fashion designer Anna Sui's debut collection, and instead accepted clothing as payment. Two months later, she attended Valentino's 30th Anniversary Gala in Rome, Italy with Meisel. In September 1991, \"Time\" featured a cover story on the supermodels. The following month, in an article for \"Vogue\", fashion journalist Suzy Menkes described Evangelista as \"the world's star model\". Evangelista then starred in the 1991 documentary \"Models: The Film\", directed by Lindbergh. And, an episode of the MTV show \"House of Style\" devoted a segment to Evangelista, which was filmed in Paris.\n\nDuring the latter part of 1991 and throughout 1992, Evangelista was seen on several different billboards for the fashion brand Kenar, in the center of Times Square. The billboards were done in conjunction with Ads Against AIDS, which was a campaign created by the advertising industry to raise awareness about tackling the disease. The most talked about and most controversial of those billboards was one that showed Evangelista seated among seven older Sicilian women. It was said that the image, which got dubbed \"Beauty and the Seven Beasts\" by Richard Johnson in the \"New York Post\", promoted a negative depiction of Italian women. Nonetheless, limited edition prints of the image were sold for $1,000 a piece, to benefit Ads Against AIDS. Also, the image was chosen as one of the \"20 most important fashion photographs ever\" by the International Center of Photography. Kenneth Zimmerman, president of Kenar, said of Evangelista, \"She has increased our sales dramatically.\" He further added, \"Linda was our Michael Jordan. We chose her because we wanted a star, and of the four or five star models, she is number one.\"\n\nIn April 1992, Evangelista and several other supermodels appeared on the cover of the 100th anniversary issue of \"Vogue\", which remains to this day as the magazine's highest-selling issue. She then appeared in the music video for George Michael's \"Too Funky\" song, in which she parodied her modeling persona. In July 1992, she was on the cover of Canadian fashion magazine \"Flare\", which was an issue honoring Canada's 125 years as a nation. She was also said to have started the trend for thin eyebrows, which later coincided with the arrival of the Neo-Hippie fashion trend in the fall of 1992. Her cover for the September 1992 issue of \"Harper's Bazaar\" is now seen as \"iconic\", and it was ranked #9 on the American Society of Magazine Editors' list of the \"Top 40 Magazine Covers of the Last 40 Years\" in 2005. Toward the end of 1992, her name was immortalized in RuPaul's song, \"Supermodel (You Better Work)\".\n\nEvangelista made headlines in 1993 when she traveled to Australia with Claudia Schiffer for a 5-day tour, which included a news conference and a televised fashion show, as part of the grand opening of a department store.\nIn October 1994, Evangelista was one of several models on the cover of \"Vogue Italia\"′s 30th anniversary issue. She then appeared in the feature film \"Prêt-à-Porter\". In 1995, the hairstylist Garren of New York changed Evangelista's look by giving her an asymmetrical bob similar to mod hairstyles of the 1960s. That same year, she took part in Thierry Mugler's 20th anniversary fashion show. Evangelista later landed an endorsement deal with Clairol worth over $5 million. She also starred in the fashion documentary \"Unzipped\". Additionally, she was a presenter at the Miss World 1995 competition.\n\nIn 1996, Evangelista was one of the ten subjects of Lindbergh's book \"10 Women\", on whose cover she appeared. She was also seen in the fashion documentary \"Catwalk\". She was also the cover model for the inaugural issues of \"Vogue Taiwan\" and \"Vogue Korea\". And, she landed a $7.75 million contract with Yardley of London. Eventually, she made the choice to retire from modeling in 1998, and settled on the French Riviera, where she spent the next two years.\n\nIn 2001, Evangelista made a noteworthy return to the modeling world, and appeared on the cover of the September issue of \"Vogue\". Also in 2001, she helped to revive the \"What Becomes a Legend Most?\" ad campaign for Blackglama furs, which hadn't been seen in six years. Rocco Laspata, the photographer of the campaign, described Evangelista as \"the Maria Callas of modeling\". Then, in 2002, she was in the ad campaign for Versace's fall/winter collection. The next year, she was back on the high-fashion runways, walking for Versace and Dolce & Gabbana. Furthermore, she closed Chanel's fall/winter 2003 haute couture show wearing a white wedding gown. In 2004, she appeared in the spring/summer ad campaigns for both NARS Cosmetics and Fendi. She also walked the runway for Jean Paul Gaultier's debut collection at Hermès. That summer, she was featured in Ann Taylor's 50th anniversary ad campaign, photographed by Annie Leibovitz.\n\nIn 2006, Evangelista appeared on the cover of the book \"In Vogue: The Illustrated History of the World's Most Famous Fashion Magazine\" along with model Kristen McMenamy, photographed by Meisel. In August of that year, Evangelista made the cover of \"Vogue\", becoming the first model to appear on that magazine's cover in more than a year. Her final runway appearance was in 2007, when she participated in the 60th anniversary fashion show for the Christian Dior brand. That year, she signed a multiple-year exclusive contract as the brand ambassador for the cosmetics giant L'Oreal Paris.\n\nIn May 2008, she made an appearance at the Cannes film festival where she posed for photographers on the red carpet along with fellow beauty Aishwarya Rai. Evangelista was then photographed by Meisel for the Prada fall/winter 2008 campaign. She also appeared in the September 2008 issue of \"Vanity Fair\" for a feature story on the supermodels titled \"A League of Their Own\". In 2009, the Metropolitan Museum of Art held an exhibition called \"The Model as Muse: Embodying Fashion\" which paid tribute to several fashion models including Evangelista, and she was on the cover of the exhibition's accompanying book. In 2010, she was chosen to star in the ad campaign for the revamped Talbots brand.\n\nEvangelista was photographed by Lagerfeld for Chanel's spring 2012 eyewear ad campaign.\nIn May 2012, she attended the Met Gala as the special guest of Miuccia Prada, the creative director of the Prada brand, who was being honored at the gala. Also that month, Evangelista was on the cover of \"Vogue Italia\" after a three-year hiatus from the magazine. She was then featured in the book \"Vogue: The Editor's Eye\" as one fashion's model-muses. That November, she was on the cover of the 35th anniversary issue of \"Fashion\" magazine. A few months later, the Spanish fashion brand Loewe chose her to represent its newest fragrance Aura.\n\nIn June 2013, she attended the Council of Fashion Designers of America awards show, where she presented fashion journalist Tim Blanks with the Media Award. She was photographed by Lagerfeld for the July 2013 cover of \"Vogue Germany\", where she was styled to look like vintage actress Anna Magnani, and posed with Lagerfeld's pet cat Choupette. Also that month, she was on the cover of \"Vogue Italia\" for an issue that celebrated the 25th anniversary of Franca Sozzani's tenure as the magazine's editor-in-chief.\n\nIn 2014, Evangelista was present at the White House Correspondents' Dinner. She appeared in the fall/winter 2014 ad campaign for the fashion brand Moschino, photographed by Meisel. She was also one of several models on the cover of \"Vogue Japan\"'s September 2014 issue, which marked the magazine's 15th anniversary. And, she was on the cover of the September 2014 issue of \"Harper's Bazaar\", which has been described as \"Harper's biggest ever\". Moreover, she was one of 50 models on the September 2014 cover of \"Vogue Italia\", the magazine's 50th anniversary issue. Evangelista has remained the recordholder for the most \"Vogue Italia\" covers. She was also chosen to represent Dolce & Gabbana's new line of makeup. In October 2014, it was announced that Evangelista had signed on to be a guest judge on the ninth season of the reality television series \"Australia's Next Top Model\".\n\nEvangelista was chosen by Canadian department store Hudson's Bay as the face of the spring 2015 campaign for its luxury clothing section called The Room. The campaign was photographed by Pamela Hanson. In June 2015, Evangelista was a chairwoman for the FiFi Awards, where she presented the awards for both men's and women's prestige fragrance of the year. In October 2015, Evangelista appeared on the cover of a book showcasing the work of hat designer Philip Treacy titled \"Philip Treacy: Hat Designer\". The cover photograph of Evangelista was mentioned by Treacy as being \"the most precious thing I own\". Also in October, Evangelista starred in the campaign for Moschino's newest fragrance Fresh, photographed by Meisel.\n\nIn celebration of the 100th anniversary of \"British Vogue\", a photograph of Evangelista originally taken in 1991 was chosen as the cover image for the book \"Vogue 100: A Century of Style\", released in February 2016. In April 2016, Evangelista appeared on the cover of \"Zoo Magazine\"'s 50th issue, photographed by singer and friend Bryan Adams. Also that month, Evangelista appeared on the cover of the book \"Age of the Supermodel\", which features photographs taken by photographer Donna DeMari during the haute couture collections in Paris in 1991. Evangelista worked as fashion stylist for a photo spread titled \"A Model Journey\" in the September 2016 issue of \"Harper's Bazaar\", which was based on her early years as a model. In September 2016, Evangelista reunited with Turlington and Campbell to appear in a campaign for the Elephant Crisis Fund. In November 2016, Evangelista was named Creative Director and Vice President of the Erasa Skin Care brand.\n\nMore than 25 years later, Evangelista's quote about the $10,000 a day has continued to be referenced in the media, being mentioned as late as July 2017. Evangelista herself has said, \"I saw a movie, \"Mr. & Mrs. Smith\", and there's a line in it where Brad Pitt says he won't get out of bed for less than half a million dollars. That's my line! Only now it's a half million and it's a man saying it.\" Over the years, various different T-shirts emblazoned with the $10,000 a day quote have been sold, and there is even an embroidered pillow containing the quote. The G Hotel in Galway, Ireland, includes a presidential suite that was named in honor of Evangelista, with its interiors designed by Treacy. The September 1991 issue of \"Vogue\" had a photo spread titled \"Wild At Heart\" that featured Evangelista, photographed by Lindbergh. One of the images from that spread is known as \"The Wild Ones\", and a platinum-palladium print of the image was sold at a Sotheby's auction for over $30,000. In October 2012, a picture of Evangelista and McMenamy that was photographed by Meisel for \"Vogue\"'s October 1992 issue was sold at a Phillips auction for $86,500. In May 2016, a 1988 picture of Evangelista and five other models that was photographed by Lindbergh sold at a Sotheby's auction for $118,462. A 1996 photograph of Evangelista, titled \"Linda Kissing Linda\", which was originally featured in a Kenar advertisement, was selected by the Guggenheim Museum as \"an example of the epitome of androgyny\".\n\nEven now in the 21st century, Evangelista continues to be an influence to other people. Due to her talent as a model as well as her personal image, Evangelista has been named by a number of female celebrities as either an inspiration or as a beauty icon. Among them are Victoria Beckham, Martha Stewart, models Candice Swanepoel, Kylie Bax, Kendall Jenner and Elsa Benítez, model-turned-actress Angie Harmon, and singer Rihanna.\n\nIn the past as well as the present day, Evangelista has drawn praise and accolades from many of the fashion industry's elite. As far as Treacy is concerned, \"Linda is the ultimate model of the past 50 years\". Lagerfeld, who had once described Evangelista as \"the most famous of all\", said that she is \"the best model in the world\". His reasoning is \"Because she's a true model, pure and simple. She doesn't pretend or aspire to do anything else. She's just brilliant at what she does.\" Fellow designer Stefano Gabbana said of Evangelista, \"Linda is \"the\" model. If you talk about models of the sixties and seventies, the first name is Veruschka. In the eighties and nineties, it's Linda.\" David Bonnouvrier, one of the founders of DNA Model Management said, \"Linda is the model of all time, to its strictest definition. She could be out of a Cecil Beaton picture, she could be out of a Guy Bourdin picture.\" Sozzani, the editor-in-chief of \"Vogue Italia\" recounts that she would receive letters from readers concerned about \"what would happen to the magazine if Linda got sick. Because it was all about Linda Evangelista. Her face had the most possibilities.\" Sozzani additionally stated, \"For me, she is the model, not only for her beauty, but her attitude, her intelligence.\"\n\nMeisel, to whom Evangelista is his muse, considers her \"extraordinarily photogenic\". Fashion designer John Galliano has said that \"inspiration hasn't been the same without her. She is an enormous influence on all the photographers and stylists.\" In his book \"Face Forward\", the late makeup artist Kevyn Aucoin said of Evangelista, \"I first worked with Linda in the early eighties and have yet to meet another model who was more involved in every aspect of her work. Her specialties were knowing what was best for her hair, makeup, styling, and lighting -- and Linda was always right. It was mind-boggling. Many of the unforgettable images of this haunting beauty were, in great degree, due to her involvement.\" A sentiment echoed by fashion stylist Paul Cavaco who described Evangelista as \"the greatest collaborator of all time.\"\n\nEvangelista was referred to as \"the supermodel’s supermodel\" by Marcus Chang of \"\". According to Shane Watson of \"The Evening Standard\", \"Of all the supermodels, Linda was most responsible for elevating the job into an art form, pushing up the fees, piling on the expectations and generally ensuring that by the end of the Eighties the world of the top model had become as lucrative, glamorous and shrouded in enigma as that of the Hollywood star\", a statement which perhaps best captures the significance of Evangelista's impact.\n\nEvangelista is an activist for HIV/AIDS research and awareness, as well as for breast cancer research and awareness. She was one of the icons in the Viva Glam campaign for the Mac AIDS Fund. In October 2013, she was the host of amfAR's Inaugural Inspiration Gala in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Evangelista also supports the Elton John AIDS Foundation and is an advocate for LGBT concerns.\n\nIn 1996, she was the recipient of VH1's Fashion Awards Lifetime Achievement Award which was presented to her by Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief of \"Vogue\". In June 2003, she received a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in Toronto. In 2005, she was named as a World Fashion Icon by the Women's World Awards in Leipzig, Germany. In March 2008, she was chosen as \"The Greatest Supermodel of All Time\" by a viewer poll for the CBC Television show \"Fashion File\".\n\nIn 1987, Evangelista married Gérald Marie, who was the head of the Elite modeling agency's Paris office. They were divorced in 1993. She also dated actor Kyle MacLachlan, whom she first met on a photoshoot for Barneys New York in 1992. The couple became engaged in 1995 but broke up in 1998. Afterwards, she dated French soccer player Fabien Barthez. She became pregnant but miscarried, six months into the pregnancy. The couple broke up in the year 2000, reunited in 2001, and then officially ended their relationship in 2002.\n\nIn October 2006, Evangelista gave birth to a son, refusing to name his biological father, sparking rumors. While pregnant, she appeared on the August 2006 cover of \"Vogue\". In late June 2011, Evangelista filed court papers that revealed her son was fathered by billionaire Frenchman François-Henri Pinault, who by then was the husband of actress Salma Hayek, and who Evangelista had dated for four months in late 2005 and early 2006. After several court appearances aimed at establishing a child-support agreement, on August 1, 2011, Evangelista formally filed for a child support order in Manhattan Family Court, seeking $46,000 in monthly child support from Pinault. It was reported that if granted, this amount \"would probably be the largest support order in the history of the family court\". A heavily publicized child support trial began on May 3, 2012, and included testimony from both Pinault and Evangelista, with Evangelista's attorney claiming that Pinault had never supported the child. Several days into the trial, on May 7, 2012, Evangelista and Pinault reached an out-of-court settlement.\n\nIn a 1997 interview, Evangelista said that she was a practicing Roman Catholic and that her favorite book was the Bible.\n\n"}
{"id": "55828047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55828047", "title": "List of The Unit: Idol Rebooting Project contestants", "text": "List of The Unit: Idol Rebooting Project contestants\n\nAfter the 4th episode was aired, I left the show due to health problems.\n\nAge is shown according to Korean age system.\n\nColor key\nAfter the Booting Evaluations, the contestants were tasked to form groups with nine members for the first mission. The winning team of each gender would become the center team in the music video of the show's theme song \"My Turn\".\n\nContestants will choose 1 of the given songs of different concepts that they are confident in; new teams of 9 are formed. Voting of each contestant is conducted during the performances. The winning team with the most total amount of votes will win a benefit of immunity from elimination in the 1st elimination round, regardless of overall vote rankings of the show, plus the chance to perform in Rain's comeback stage.\n\nColor key\n\nColor key\n\nContestants will be grouped based on the following categories: Vocal, Rap-Vocal and Performance. All performances are self-arranged by the contestants themselves, with live band accompaniments for the Vocal and Rap-Vocal categories. The mission will be based off a rival match basis. Voting of each contestant is conducted during the performances. The top 3 members of the winning team for each category will win a benefit of immunity from elimination in the 2nd elimination round, regardless of overall vote rankings of the show.\n\nColor key\n\nColor key\n\nThe 64 remaining contestants (32 from each gender) will form 5 groups for each gender, formed by the top 5 contestants from the Self-producing Mission. These formed groups will perform newly produced songs produced by reputable music producers, and these songs will be released as digital singles. Voting of each contestant is conducted during the performances. The winning team for each gender in this mission will have their songs' music videos directed by well-known directors Hong Won-ki and Lee Gi-taek. Plus, every contestant in the winning team will receive a benefit of additional online votes (1st placed contestant gets 10,000 additional votes, 2nd placed contestant gets 7,000 additional votes, and every other contestant in the team gets 5,000 additional votes), which can help in their final positions by the 3rd elimination round.\n\nColor key\n\nColor key\n\nThe remaining contestants after the 3rd Voting Announcement will form 2 teams of 9 for each gender, through random picking of 1 of the 2 newly produced songs for each gender.\n\n"}
{"id": "4072500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4072500", "title": "List of people related to Quranic verses", "text": "List of people related to Quranic verses\n\nThis page is a List of people related to Quranic verses:\n\nThe Ahl al-Bayt was Muhammads household. Shi'a and Sunni have differing views regarding who is included among them, and also different views regarding which verses are associated with the household.\n\n\"And whoso disputeth with thee concerning him, after the knowledge which hath come unto thee, say (unto him): Come! We will summon our sons and your sons, and our women and your women, and ourselves and yourselves, then we will pray humbly (to our Lord) and (solemnly) invoke the curse of Allah upon those who lie.\"\nAccording to hadith collections, in 631 an Arab Christian envoy from Najran (currently in northern Yemen and partly in Saudi Arabia) came to Muhammad to argue which of the two parties erred in its doctrine concerning Jesus. After likening Jesus' miraculous birth to Adam's creation, Muhammad called them to \"mubahala\" (cursing), where each party should ask God to destroy the lying party and their families. Muhammad, to prove to them that he is a prophet, brought his daughter Fatimah and his surviving grandchildren, Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn ibn Ali, and Ali ibn Abi Talib and came back to the Christians and said this is my family and covered himself and his family with a cloak. Allameh Tabatabaei explains in \"Tafsir al-Mizan\" that the word \"Our selves\" in this verse refers to Muhammad and Ali. Then he narrates Imam Ali al-Rida, eighth Shia Imam, in discussion with Al-Ma'mun, Abbasid caliph, referred to this verse to prove the superiority of Muhammad's progeny over the rest of the Muslim community, and considered it as the proof for Ali's right for caliphate due to Allah made Ali like the self of Muhammad.\n\nSurah Al-Ahzaab, Ayah 33:\n\"...Verily, Allah has decreed to remove fault from you, O' Ahlul Bayt, and sanctify you in a perfect way.\"\n\nSunni view: \"No! It's taken out of context, it's only talking about the wives of the Prophet!\"\n\nFirstly, it is important to note that nowhere in this Ayah are the wives of Muhammad mentioned.\n\nSurah Al-Ahzaab, Full Ayah 33:\n\n\"Stay in your houses and do not display your finery with the display of the former [days of] ignorance. Maintain the prayer and pay the zakat and obey Allah and His Apostle. Verily, Allah has decreed to remove fault from you, O' Ahlul Bayt, and sanctify you in a perfect way.\"\n\nEach Ayah is an individual sign of Allah:\n\"Ayah or Aayah is the Arabic word for evidence or sign:\n\n\"These are the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, revelations, etc.) of Allah, which We recite to you (O Muhammad) with truth. Then in which speech after Allah and His Ayat will they believe?\" (Surah Al-Jathiya 45:6)\n\nSecondly, this Ayah uses the words Ankum (from you) and Yutahhirakum (to purify you), which are both in the masculine plural form. Though it is known that in Arabic Masculine is unisex, there is a problem saying that since the fact that the previous sentence in reference to the wives used only feminine verbs and pronouns, while this sentences uses masculine. The feminine for the above would be Ankunna and Yutahhirakunna. The sudden change in grammatical gender reference means that it is not about the wives. Similar use of switching subjects after Ayahs are found all throughout the Quran. A great example of this is Surah Haqqah, which does so in nearly every Ayah.\n\nThirdly, Muhammad said explicitly that wives are not part of Ahlul Bayt:\n\nSahih Muslim, one of the three most authentic collections in the Sunnah.\nSahih Muslim #31:5920-2:\n\"Hussain Ibn Sabrah asked Zaid Ibn Arqam, \"Who are the members of His household? Aren't His wives part of the members of his family?\" Thereupon Zaid said, \"His wives are members of his family [in a general sense], but (Islamically), the members of his family are those for whom acceptance of zakat is forbidden.\" Hussain asked, \"Who are they?\". Upon which Zaid said, \"Ali and the offspring of Ali, Aqil and the offspring of Aqil, the offspring of Jaffer, and the offspring of Abbas.\" Hussain said \"These are those for whom the acceptance of zakat is forbidden?\" Zaid replied, \"Yes.\"\n\nAccording to Sahih Muslim, Zaid then expanded on this hadith and stated this:\n\nHussain Then asked: \"Aren't the wives (Of the Prophet) included amongst the members of the household?\" He said, \"No, by Allah, a woman lives with a man [as his wife] for a certain period; he then divorces her, and she goes back to her parents and her people. The members of his household include his own self, and his kith, and kin, for whom the acceptance of zakat is prohibited.\"\n- Sahih Muslim #31:5923\n\nBefore Shia & Sunni Ali is the one of Alh al-Bayt.\nAli is the fourth Sunni Caliph and first Shia Imam.\n\n\"And among men is he who sells his \"nafs\" (self) in exchange for the pleasure of Allah\"\n\nIn 622, the year of Muhammad's migration to Yathrib (now Medina), Ali risked his life by sleeping in Muhammad's bed to impersonate him and thwart an assassination plot, so that Muhammad could escape in safety. This night is called \"Laylat al-mabit\". According to some hadith, a verse was revealed about Ali concerning his sacrifice on the night of Hijra which says, \"\n\n\"Today I have perfected your religion, and completed my favours for you and chosen Islam as a religion for you.\"\n\nAccording to Sunni Tafsir this verse was delivered in Farewell Pilgrimage while according to Shia ones it refers to appointment of Ali ibn Abi Talib as the successor of Muhammad in pond of Khumm which happened while Muslims returned from Mecca to Medina, few days later.\n\n\"Only Allah is your Wali (guardian) and His Apostle and those who believe, maintain the prayer and give the zakāt while bowing.\"\n\nIt is unanimous among only Shia that this verse refers to Ali ibn Abi Talib and was revealed after he had given his ring away to someone in need who had entered the mosque while prayer was in progress.\n\nAnd the Unbelievers say: \"Why is not a sign sent down to him from his Lord?\" But thou art truly a warner, and to every people a guide. \n\nSome Shia sources claim that when this verse was revealed when Mohammad said \"I'm the warner and the guide and through you will be guided those who are to be guided.\"\n\nKhadija was Muhammad's first wife. She was a businesswoman and Muhammad was her employee. Muhammad did not marry a second wife until after she died, an event which Muhammad greatly mourned. Muhammad was 50 years old when Khadija died.\n\nThese Ayahs are talking to Hafsa and Aisha, two of Muhammad's wives who disclose secret of Muhammad .\n\nSurah at-Tahrim, Ayahs 3-5:\n\n3\"And when the Prophet (blessings and peace be upon him) secretly disclosed a matter to one of his wives, but when she mentioned it and Allah made it known to the Prophet (blessings and peace be upon him), then the Prophet reminded her of some part of it and overlooked (to inform) the rest of it. Then when the Prophet (blessings and peace be upon him) informed her of it (that she had disclosed that secret), she said: ‘Who has told you of that?’ The Prophet (blessings and peace be upon him) said: ‘The All-Knowing, All-Aware (Lord) has told me.’\n4. If you both turn to Allah in repentance, (that is better for you) because the hearts of both of you have inclined (towards the same), but if you help one another in this matter (that may annoy the Holy Prophet [blessings and peace be upon him]). So surely Allah is the One Who is his Friend and Helper and Jibril (Gabriel) and the most pious believers and after them (all) angels too are (his) helpers.\n\nZaynab was married to Zayd ibn Harithah until they divorced and she married Muhammad.\n\nA sub-clan of the Quraish tribe.\n\nA'as ibn Wa'il is the father of Amr ibn al-A'as.\n\nEntire chapter\n\nA sub-clan of the Quraish tribe.\n\nA sub-clan of the Quraish tribe.\n\nA sub-clan of the Quraish tribe.\n\nThe Banu Hashim was Muhammads own clan\n\nAbu Lahab was an enemy of Muhammad, and the brother of Muhammad's father. His name means \"father of fire\" and is one of the three Meccan personal names mentioned in the Quran.(Other two names are Muhammad himself and his friend Zaid)\n\n\nEntire chapter.\nAn incident occurred prior to these verses being revealed. A man named Al-Akhnas ibn Shuriq came to Muhammad to embrace Islam, but as he turned to leave, he happened to pass by a pasture and grazing animals. He set it alight and killed the cattle. This verses express disapproval.\n\nOne sources claims this verse is regarding Uqbah ibn Mu'ayt and Ubay ibn Khalaf.\n\nOne sources claims this verse is regarding Uqbah ibn Mu'ayt and Ubay ibn Khalaf.\nOne sources stats he was ransomed from after Badr, but was killed by Muhammad himself with a spear in the Battle of Uhud (625 CE). Verse was revealed in this occasion.\n\nProphet Muhammad's companions.\n\nZayd was Muhammad's adopted son. He is the only companion of Muhammed whose name appears in the Quran.\n\nSalman was a companion of Muhammad, highly respected by both Shi'a and Sunni\n"}
{"id": "57069683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57069683", "title": "Manuel Santa Cruz Loidi", "text": "Manuel Santa Cruz Loidi\n\nManuel Ignacio Santa Cruz Loidi () (1842-1926) was a Spanish Roman-Catholic priest. For some 35 years he served on apostolic mission in Colombia, where he was heading a parish in rural interior of the Pasto province; for some 15 years he held also various minor posts in Jamaica. He is best known, however, for his activity in 1872-1873, when he commanded a Carlist guerilla unit during the civil war in Spain. As \"cura Santa Cruz\" (priest Santa Cruz) or simply as \"El Cura\" (The Priest) he gained notoriety for cruelty and in the Spanish public discourse of the late 19th century he became a symbol of savage brutality. In this role – though also with a grade of ambiguity - he featured as a protagonist in a few great works of Spanish Modernist literature of the early 20th century and became a mythical figure long before his own death.\n\nManuel Santa Cruz Loidi was descendant to Basque rural working class families; generations of his ancestors were farmers living in the Oria river valley, in the Gipuzkoan county of Tolosa. His paternal grandfather Pascual de Santa Cruz was a native of Andoain yet he settled in Elduain, probably on the economy of his wife María Bautista Sarove. Their son and the father of Manuel Ignacio, Francisco Antonio Santa Cruz Sarove (1784-1842), in 1824 married Juana Josefa Loidi Urrestarazu (1803-1871); she was the daughter of Miguel Ignacio Loidi, a native of Amezketa, and María Ignacia Urrestarazu, who originated from Orendain. The couple lived in Elduain; their caserio, known as Zamonea, was among the poorer ones in the village. It is not clear how many children they had, though according to some sources Manuel Ignacio was not their only child and he had at least one sister. Following the death of her husband María Ignacia re-married with a widower Juan Ignacio Betelu Muñagorri (1795-1861); it is not clear whether they had any offspring.\n\nManuel was raised by his mother and step-father and initially did not differ from other village boys. It is not clear where he was first educated; at some stage he was taken care of by his much older paternal cousin, a local priest Francisco Antonio Sasiain Santa Cruz (1812-1898); he taught the teenager Latin and apparently directed him towards the religious career. Indeed in 1861 Manuel entered the seminary in Vitoria; during the first 3 years he was obtaining high grades and was rewarded with the \"meritissimus\" title; later his performance worsened, reportedly due to health problems. He was ordained as a priest in 1866 and posted to Hernialde, a village few miles from his native one. According to some sources he was first nominated a coadjutor, other authors claim he initially acted as a vicar. Following death of the parish priest it was Santa Cruz who became his successor at unspecified time in the late 1860s; he allegedly assumed his duties with frenetic energy and as a spiritual shepherd he tended to rigidity, himself adhering to an austere living pattern. \n\nSince his father had served as a Carlist volunteer during the last civil war and since legitimist sympathies prevailed among the rural Gipuzkoan folk it is likely that Manuel from his youth was growing in an ambience strongly flavored with Carlism. His position was probably strengthened during the seminar years, as Carlism was popular also among the lower and regular clergy of the province. In line with Traditionalist outlook Santa Cruz assumed a decisively hostile stand towards the 1868 revolution, from behind the pulpit lambasting the new regime as an ungodly depraved system. His inflammatory sermons gained him attention of the authorities; in October 1870 a Guardia Civil patrol showed up in Hernialde to detain him after a Sunday mass. Santa Cruz took advantage of somewhat loose approach of his captors and fled, in few days crossing to France.\n\nFollowing some 18 months on exile in Bayonne in 1872-1873 Santa Cruz was taking part in the guerilla warfare prior and during the Third Carlist War. His record falls into 4 separate strings: from April till May 1872, from June till August 1872, from December 1872 till July 1873 and in December 1873, all separated by periods of taking refuge in France. Initially he joined a unit led by a Carlist veteran Pedro Recondo; serving as a chaplain, Santa Cruz was gaining experience in rural irregular tactics. Since the summer of 1872 he was leading his own troops; initially the group consisted of some 15–25 men, but later it grew and in literature is estimated at 200, 500 or even 1,000, with an informal in-between command structure built up. The detachment was rather loosely incorporated into the Carlist war effort; at early stages it was assigned a vague task of \"guarding the Northern borderline\" by the legitimist general staff, yet it seems that the unit retained great autonomy and operated independently.\n\nIn military terms the activity of Santa Cruz’ unit consisted of harassing the enemy logistics network and raiding minor garrisons. The former included disrupting postal service, arms transports or railway connections; the latter included descending upon smaller locations and destroying archives, pillaging Guardia Civil or Carabineros posts, abducting local officials and staging shows of prowess. The Liberal high command was forced to diminish their frontline strength and to assign more troops to vigilance and patrol duties. However, in line with his guerilla strategy Santa Cruz avoided open confrontation against enemy forces; cases of accepting a battle usually resulted in defeat, e.g. in Aia. When facing enemy roundup Santa Cruz used to disband his group and to set re-assembly terms; taking advantage of perfect familiarity with the mountainous Gipuzkoan countryside and support of the local population, he kept evading the governmental chase. Santa Cruz operated across all the province of Gipuzkoa, though he was noted also in neighboring areas of Biscay, Álava and particularly Navarre.\n\nSince early 1873 Santa Cruz gained notoriety for cruelty and was charged with committing acts of barbarity. They consisted of executions of prisoners, including women or members of his own unit when suspected of treason, burning down settlements or administering corporal punishment. The episode which caused particular outrage occurred in June 1873, when santacrucistas assaulted a fortified provincial border control post in Endarlaza. Claiming that during the shootout the defenders had mischievously displayed a white flag to fire at the approaching Carlists later on, Santa Cruz had his men execute 35 carabineros who had ultimately surrendered. The Carlist high command was continuously uneasy about Santa Cruz; the Enderlaza episode proved to be the last straw. The local legitimist commander general Antonio Lizarraga, who was trying to bring Santa Cruz in line for some time, demanded that the insubordinate priest backs down. Eventually Santa Cruz found himself hunted down by the Liberals and the Carlists alike; he disbanded his unit and withdrew into France.\n\nIn France Santa Cruz seemed disoriented and with no direction; he spent more than a year mostly in small villages in the French Basque country. Some of his former men suggested resumption of warfare, though Lizarraga confirmed that in such case he would be persecuted. The Madrid government filed a request for extradition, turned down by the French. Gendarmarie kept a close watch on him and at one point Santa Cruz was detained in Bayonne; he was pressed to leave the country. In late 1874 or early 1875 he found himself in the Jesuit college in Lille; thanks to support of the Cambrai archbishop Santa Cruz’s plea for clemency was accepted in the Vatican and he was reinstated to regular religious duty, abandoned during the wartime years. He intended to commence missionary service; as part of preparation scheme the Jesuits directed him to their establishment in Britain, where Santa Cruz was to learn English. In early 1876 he met his king Carlos VII in London but accounts differ; according to some Santa Cruz defended his wartime record, according to others he regretted his conduct and begged for mercy. Shortly afterwards he sailed to Jamaica. The Catholic administration of the island since the 1840s has been dominated by the English Jesuit province and since the 1860s their activity was on the rise; Santa Cruz was dispatched in a group of 3 priests.\n\nUpon crossing the Atlantic Santa Cruz abandoned the first surname and started using only his maternal one; hence, in America he became known as Manuel Loidi. In December 1876 he was first recorded as performing religious service in Jamaica; he was later to serve in the parishes of St. Andrews, Portland and St. Mary, all located in the Eastern part of the island. His exact position in the religious structure is not clear; in documentation available he is listed as \"clergyman\"; until the early 1880s he is recorded usually as administering baptisms, marriages and especially funerals, mostly though not exclusively in the location of King’s Weston. At one point or another he served in 5 different mission stations and himself founded the other nine. Today he is particularly noted for his work in the small Preston Hill village, one of the first Catholic congregations outside Kingston and inhabited mostly by descendants of the Castle Mine slaves. Santa Cruz is credited for construction of a wooden St. Francis Xavier church, which served the faithful for decades. It seems that Santa Cruz and the Jamaica Jesuits lived in extreme poverty, as destitute and barren local Catholic community was hardly in position to support them. It is not clear why Santa Cruz abandoned Jamaica in 1891 or 1892; it is likely that his leaving the island was related to change in missionary administration, as in the early 1890s the Jamaica mission was allotted to the Maryland-New York Jesuit province and soon the US Jesuits took over.\n\nIt is not clear in what circumstances Santa Cruz moved to Colombia; one version is that the option was suggested and facilitated by an anonymous influential Spanish Jesuit and a friend of him. Santa Cruz was agreed to join Colegio Javieriano, which served as a Jesuit college and a seminary in Pasto, a capital of Nariño department. He arrived in the city in 1892, possibly having spent some time in Panama earlier. In the college he was teaching English, French, Latin, geography and math; his worn-out cassock and a long beard made him look like a beggar. He was not member of the Jesuit order; his request for admission was turned down, reportedly because his wartime deeds required a long penitence period. Santa Cruz was allowed to enter the monastery and to follow the rules, but his formal admission was adjourned until an unspecified later date.\n\nSanta Cruz taught in Pasto at least until 1898. The following year Colombia was torn by a Thousand Days’ War, with Pasto turned into a Conservative stronghold dominated by personalities of Ezequiel Moreno Díaz and , two hardline bishops. According to a Colombian historian both hierarchs approached Santa Cruz, who was known for uncompromising anti-liberal sermons. Santa Cruz was reportedly asked to lead operations against the Liberal insurgents, yet he declined. However, he apparently agreed to assist in some kind of staff work, offering his advice in terms of planning and strategy; in this role he turned very successful.\n\nFollowing the ultimate Conservative victory in 1902 Santa Cruz founded a village of San Ignacio, located in the Andes some 20 km north of Pasto in the county of Buesaco; for the second time since the Hernialde spell he assumed the role of a parson. The hamlet was inhabited by extremely poor indigenous population; it seems that apart from providing spiritual service, Santa Cruz tried to support it economically. Teaching the locals agriculture, he travelled across the county begging, with the money collected dedicated to needs of the San Ignacio natives. Santa Cruz spent some 18 uneventful years in San Ignacio and according to some sources was greatly respected among the locals for his apostolic work but also for his personal humility and exemplary life; his most lasting achievement was construction of the local San Ignacio church.\n\nSanta Cruz retained his reactionary ultra-conservative outlook; during local electoral campaigns he used to instruct his flock how to dodge the corrupted election system and vote the candidates he considered right. It seems that he also remained a Carlist; he corresponded with his oldtime war comrades back in Spain and in a separate letter pledged loyalty to Don Jaime, though there are suggestions he also recognized Don Alfonso. In 1920 he was eventually admitted to the Jesuit novitiate and in 1922 he formally entered the order. It is not clear where Santa Cruz spent his senility; in the Pasto monastery or in San Ignacio, where he was eventually buried in the church he constructed.\n\nSince January 1873 the press reported misdeeds of Santa Cruz, dubbed assassin, criminal or barbarian. In 1874-1876 newspapers speculated about his re-entry into war. In the late 1870s media lost track of him until he was located in Jamaica in the mid-1880s, and his name reverberated as a memory of past atrocities. In 1880 he became one of key protagonists of \"Vida, hechos y hazañas del famoso bandido y cabecilla Rosa Samaniego\", a short novel written by an unidentified author. The book portrayed Santa Cruz as a bloody ringleader; with many fictitious episodes it became very popular and was re-published until the early 1890s. In the press Santa Cruz was not infrequently mentioned also as a sample of treacherous clergy. From time to time he was reported back in Europe; as speculations about were on the rise in the late 1890s Santa Cruz was even reported seen in Spain. The wildest rumor had it that his son was to command a new Carlist unit. A monument was erected in Enderlaza to honor the executed carabineros.\n\nIn 1897 Santa Cruz appeared in \"Paz en la guerra\" by Miguel de Unamuno and for some 20 years he kept featuring in greatest works of Spanish literary Modernism. In 1906 he was treated somewhat more extensively in \"Sonata de invierno\" by Ramón Valle-Inclán, in 1908 in \"\" by Pio Baroja, and in 1909 in two subsequent novels of Valle-Inclán, \"El resplandor de la hoguera\" and \"Gerifaltes de antaño\"; in the latter he was one of the two key protagonists. Finally, in 1918 Baroja dedicated him a set of essays \"El cura Santa Cruz y su partida\".\n\nThe role assigned to Santa Cruz by all 3 giants of Spanish literature differed. Baroja from his Nietzschean perspective portrayed Santa Cruz as a little man who disguised his inferiority with cruelty and epitomized \"double barbarity of being a Catholic and a Carlist\". In case of Unamuno it is believed that Santa Cruz stood for inflexible model of orthodoxy, be it religious, political or otherwise, a model which was valid only within a set of parameters; Unamuno rejected it and presented the Spanish self as a result of dialectic interaction. Even more complex is the vision of Valle-Inclán. Some claim that Valle-Inclán presented dominant and at times even monstrous personalities of the past to confront them with meager men populating contemporary Spain. Others maintain that Valle-Inclán intended to evoke the atmosphere of ominous drama with satanic personalities. Whatever their intentions were, the noventayochistas and especially Baroja transformed a somewhat crude newspaper version of Santa Cruz into a powerful literary image enriched with diabolic and demonic features. This image persisted well into the 1930s, at times enhanced with new threads, e.g. this of \"cura fascista\". In the Francoist Spain the anti-Liberal stand of El Cura rendered cultivation of the black legend hardly feasible. After transición it was already a forgotten past which hardly elicited emotions; if so, they were much more ambiguous.\n\nCarlism initially ignored Santa Cruz. Re-calibrating the movement as \"party of order\", until late Restoration Traditionalist politicians viewed him as inconvenient ghost from their past. Things changed upon his death. Late 1920s saw three apologetic works, two flavored with Carlism; focused on Catholic regionalism while Olazábal on Integrism; the third one by advanced Basque threads. Confrontational political milieu of the Republic helped the Carlists to re-claim Santa Cruz, e.g. in poetry, and upon outbreak of the civil war Traditionalist press linked military virtues of Requetés to these of El Cura. The Enderlaza monument was blown up by Carlist troops advancing from Navarre to Gipuzkoa in July 1936, but got silently reinstated in 1940. Two major Carlist historiographical works, written by Oyarzun in the 1940s and by Ferrer in the 1950s, approached El Cura with caution. In popular propaganda there were cases of exaltation yet Santa Cruz did not become an orthodox mythical hero. Youths from the progressist faction of tried to re-claim El Cura, and in the early 1970s their terrorist organisation declared that \"the flag of Santa Cruz has been raised again\". Today Santa Cruz marginally features on some private Carlist websites.\n\nIn vasco-navarrese area the Carlist social base was gradually taken over by Basque nationalism. Its radical faction attempted to re-format the image of Santa Cruz accordingly; violence and fanaticism were converted into virtues. El Cura started to feature in nationalist propaganda as a convenient hyperbole for violent action; in the 1980s a Herri Batasuna newspaper \"Egin\" ran a series of lengthy articles on El Cura and no nationalist figure dared to criticize him. As a result, papers noticed \"admiration of left-wing youth for legendary Santa Cruz\" and Baroja observed that \"you can meet Cura Santa Cruz on any Basque street today\". The vision of El Cura as spiritual embodiment of \"these mountains\", unforgiving but idealistic, was pursued in a 1990 Basque film of José Tuduri. Also a Basque historiographical study by set the protagonist deeply against the Basque background. Today Santa Cruz is still present in nationalist discourse and features on some websites, usually flavored with radical Left-wing politics. In 2008 a Basque band released a song which cultivates the Santa Cruz myth; it remains in public circulation with references to ETA. \n\nA new kind of narrative started to emerge in Colombia in the 21st century. Fundación Manuel Santa Cruz Loydi was set up to honor his work for the poor and to preserve his memory as exemplary missionary, who possibly bordered sanctity. The organisation strives to renovate the decayed San Ignacio church. Its leader, a historian Isidoro Medina Patiño, in 2005 released two versions of another biography, this time focused on his American period; he declares that the Santa-Cruz-related \"conceptos canonizados de bueno o malo, pueden confundirse o alterarse\", yet both versions remain highly apologetic and present a man who spent his life serving the others; for similar role in Jamaica he is also acknowledged in Catholic encyclopedia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4841708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4841708", "title": "Marathi people", "text": "Marathi people\n\nThe Marathi People or Maharashtrians are an ethnic group who speak Marathi, an Indo-Aryan language as their mother tongue. They inhabit the state of Maharashtra as well as districts bordering the state, such as Belgaum and Karwar of Karnataka and the state of Goa in western India. Their language, Marathi, is part of the Southern branch of Indo-Aryan languages. It is to be noted that the term 'Maratha' by historians, is at times used to refer to all Marathi speaking people, irrespective of caste and at times to a Maharashtrian caste called Maratha. The Marathi community came into political prominence in the 17th century when Maratha warriors, under Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, established the Maratha Empire, which is credited to a large extent for ending the Mughal rule.\n\nDuring the ancient period, around 230 BC, Maharashtra came under the rule of the Satavahana dynasty which ruled the region for 400 years. The greatest ruler of the Satavahana Dynasty was Gautami putra Satakarni. The Vakataka dynasty ruled Maharashtra from the 3rd century to the 5th century. The Chalukya dynasty ruled Maharashtra from the 6th century to the 8th century. The two prominent rulers were Pulakeshin II, who defeated the north Indian Emperor Harsh, and Vikramaditya II, who defeated Arab invaders in the 8th century. The Rashtrakuta Dynasty ruled Maharashtra from the 8th to the 10th century. The Arab traveler Sulaiman called the ruler of the Rashtrakuta Dynasty (Amoghavarsha) 'one of the 4 great kings of the world'. From the early 11th century to the 12th century the Deccan Plateau was dominated by the Western Chalukya Empire and the Chola dynasty.\n\nThe Seuna dynasty, also known as the Yadava dynasty of Devagiri, ruled Maharashtra from the 13th century to the 14th century. The Yadavas were defeated by the Khaljis in 1321. After the Yadav defeat, the area was ruled for the next 300 years by a succession of Muslim rulers including (in chronological order): the Khaljis, the Tughlaqs, the Bahamani Sultanate and its successor states called the Deccan sultanates such as Adilshahi, Nizamshahi, and the Mughal Empire.\n\nThe early period of Islamic rule saw atrocities such as the imposition of a Jaziya tax on non-Muslims, temple destruction and forcible conversions. However, the mainly Hindu population and their Islamic rulers came to an accommodation over time. For most of this period Brahmins were in charge of accounts whereas revenue collection was in the hands of Marathas who had watans (Hereditary rights) of Patilki (revenue collection at village level), and Deshmukhi (revenue collection over a larger area). A number of families such as Bhosale, Shirke, Ghorpade, Jadhav, More, Mahadik, Ghatge, and Nimbalkar loyally served different sultans at different periods in time. All watandar considered their watan a source of economic power and pride and were reluctant to part with it. The watandars were the first to oppose Shivaji because it hurt their economic interests. Since most of the population was Hindu and spoke Marathi, even the sultans such as Ibrahim Adil Shah I adopted Marathi as the court language for administration and record keeping. Islamic rule also led to Persian vocabulary being used in the Marathi language. Per Kulkarni, for the elites of the era using Persian words was a status symbol. Surnames derived from service during that period such as Fadnis, Chitnis, Mirasdar etc. are still in use.\n\nMost of the Marathi Bhakti poet saints, who worshipped Vitthal, belong to the period between late Yadava to late Islamic era.These include Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Eknath, and Tukaram.Other important religious figures of this era were Narsimha Saraswati, and Mahanubhava sect founder, Chakradhar Swami All of them used Marathi language rather than Sanskrit for their devotional and philosophical compositions.\n\nThe decline of Islamic rule in Deccan started when Shivaji founded the Maratha Empire by annexing a portion of the Bijapur Sultanate in 1674. Shivaji later led rebellions against the Mughal rule, thus becoming a symbol of Hindu resistance and self-rule. Maratha Empire went on to end the Mughal rule and ruled over a vast empire stretching from Attock to Cuttack.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, Shivaji Maharaj (1630–1680) founded the Maratha Empire by conquering the Desh and the Konkan region from the Adilshahi, and established \"Hindavi Swaraj\" ('self-rule of Hindu people').) The Marathas are credited to a large extent with ending Mughal rule in India. After Shivaji's death, the Mughals, who had lost significant ground to the Marathas under him, invaded Maharashtra in 1681. Shivaji's son Sambhaji, and successor as Chhatrapati, led the Marathas valiantly against the much stronger Mughal opponent, but in 1689, after being betrayed, he was captured, tortured and killed by Mughal emperor, Aurangzeb. The war against the Mughals was then led by the Sambhaji's younger brother and successor Rajaram Chhatrapati. Upon Rajaram's death in 1700, his widow Tarabai took command of Maratha forces and won many battles against the Mughals. In 1707, upon the death of Aurangzeb, the War of 27 years between the much weakened Mughals and Marathas came to an end.\n\nShahu, the grandson of Shivaji, with the help of capable Maratha administrators and generals such as the Peshwa Balaji Vishwanath and his descendants, saw the greatest expansion of Maratha power. After Shahu's death in 1749, the Peshwa Nanasaheb and his successors became the virtual rulers of the Empire. The Empire was expanded by many chieftains including Peshwa Bajirao Ballal I and his descendants, the Shindes, Gaekwad, Pawar, Bhonsale of Nagpur and the Holkars. The Empire at its peak stretched from Tamil Nadu in the south, to Peshawar (modern-day Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) in the north, and Bengal in the east. Pune, under the Peshwa, became the imperial seat with envoys, ambassadors, and royals coming in from far and near. However, after the Third battle of Panipat, in which the Marathas were defeated by Ahmed Shah Abdali, the Empire broke up into many independent kingdoms. Due to the efforts of Mahadji Shinde, it remained a confederacy until the British East India Company defeated Peshwa Bajirao II. Nevertheless, several Maratha states remained as vassals of the British until 1947 when they acceded to the Dominion of India.\n\nThe Marathas also developed a potent coastal navy circa 1660s. At its peak under Maratha Koli Admiral Kanhoji Angre, the naval force dominated the territorial waters of the western coast of India from Mumbai to Savantwadi. It would engage in attacking the British, Portuguese, Dutch, and Siddi Naval ships and kept a check on their naval ambitions. The Maratha Navy dominated until around the 1730s, and was in a state of decline by the 1770s, and ceased to exist by 1818.\n\nBefore British rule, the Maharashtra region was divided into many revenue divisions. The medieval equivalent of a county or district was the Pargana. The chief of the Pargana was called Deshmukh and record keepers were called Deshpande. Most Deshmukhs were from the elite Maratha families. The Deshpande belonged to Brahmin or CKP communities. The lowest administrative unit was the village. Village society in Marathi areas included the Patil or the head of the village, collector of revenue, and Kulkarni, the village record keeper. These were hereditary positions. The Patil usually came from the Maratha community.The Kulkarni was usually from Marathi Brahmin or CKP caste. The village also used to have twelve hereditary servants called the Balutedar. The Balutedar system was supportive of the agriculture sector. Servants under this system provided services to the farmers and the economic system of the village. The base of this system was caste. The servants were responsible for tasks specific to their castes. There were twelve kinds of servants under Bara Balutedar; these were Joshi (village priest and astrologer from Brahmin caste), Sonar(goldsmith from Daiwadnya caste), Sutar (carpenter), Gurav (temple priest), Nhawi (barber), Parit (washerman), Kumbhar(potter), Chambhar (cobbler), Dhor, Koli (fisherman or water carrier), Chougula (assistant to Patil), Mang (rope maker), and Mahar (village watchman and other tasks). In this list of Balutedar: Dhor, Mang, Mahar, and Chambhar belonged to the untouchable group of castes.\nIn exchange for their services, the balutedars were granted hereditary rights (watan) to a share in the village harvest.\n\nThe British rule of more than a century in the present-day Maharashtra region saw huge changes for the Marathi people in every aspect of their lives. Areas that correspond to present day Maharashtra were under direct or indirect British rule, first under the East India Trading Company, and then under the British raj from 1858. During this era Marathi people resided in the Bombay presidency, Berar, Central provinces, Hyderabad state and in various princely states that are currently part of present-day Maharashtra.Significant Marathi populations also resided in Maratha princely states far from Maharashtra such as Baroda, Gwalior, Indore, and Tanjore.\nThe British colonial period saw standardisation of Marathi grammar through the efforts of the Christian missionary William Carey.Carey also published the first dictionary of Marathi in Devanagari script. The most comprehensive Marathi-English dictionary was compiled by Captain James Thomas Molesworth and Major Thomas Candy in 1831.The book is still in print nearly two centuries after its publication. Molesworth also worked on standardizing Marathi.He used Brahmins of Pune for this task and adopted the Sanskrit dominated dialect spoken by this caste in the city as the standard dialect for Marathi.\n\nThe Marathi community played an important part in the social and religious reform movements, as well as the nationalist movement of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.Notable civil society bodies founded by Marathi leaders during the 19th century include the Poona Sarvajanik Sabha, the Prarthana Samaj, the Arya Mahila Samaj, and the Satya Shodhak Samaj.The Pune Sarvajanik Sabha took an active part in relief efforts during the famine of 1875-76.It is considered the forerunner of the Indian National Congress established in 1885. The most prominent personalities of Indian Nationalism in the late 19th and early 20th century, Gopal Krishna Gokhale and Bal Gangadhar Tilak, on opposite sides of the political spectrum, were both Marathi.Tilak was instrumental in using Shivaji and Ganesh worship in forging a collective Maharashtrian identity for the Marathi people. Marathi social reformers of the colonial era include Mahatma Jyotirao Phule, and his wife Savitribai Phule, Justice Ranade, feminist Tarabai Shinde, Dhondo Keshav Karve, Vitthal Ramji Shinde, and Pandita Ramabai. Jyotirao Phule was a pioneer in opening schools for girls and Marathi dalits castes.\n\nThe non-Brahmin Hindu castes started organizing at the beginning of the 20th century with the blessing of Chhatrapati Shahu, the ruler of the princel state of Kolhapur.The campaign took off in the early 1920s under the leadership of Keshavrao Jedhe and Baburao Javalkar.Both belonged to the Non-Brahmin party.Capturing the Ganpati and Shivaji festivals from Brahmin domination were their early goals. They combined nationalism with anti-casteism as the party's aims. Later on in the 1930s, Jedhe merged the non-Brahmin party with the Congress party and changed it from an upper-caste dominated body to a more broadly based but also Maratha-dominated party. The early 20th century also saw the rise of Dr. Ambedkar who led the campaign for the rights of the Dalits caste that included his own Mahar caste.\n\nAlthough the British originally regarded India a place for the supply of raw materials for the factories of England, by the end of the 19th-century a modern manufacturing industry was developing in the city of Mumbai. The main product was cotton and the bulk of the workforce in these mills was of Marathi origin from Western Maharashtra, but more specifically from the coastal Konkan region.\nThe census recorded for the city in the first half of the 20th century showed nearly half the city's population listed Marathi as their mother tongue,\n\nDuring the period of 1835-1907, a large number of Indians, including Marathi people, were taken to the island of Mauritius as indentured labourers to work on sugarcane plantations. The Marathi people on the island form the oldest diaspora of Marathi people outside India.\n\nAfter India's independence in 1947, all princely states lying within the borders of the Bombay Presidency acceded to the Indian Union and were integrated into the newly created Bombay State in 1950.\n\nThe small community of Marathi Jews (Bene Israel - Sons of Insrael) started emigrating to the newly created country of Israel in the late 1940s and early 1950s. The number of Bene Israel remaining in India was estimated to be around 4,000-5,000 in 1988.\nthe\nIn 1956, the States Reorganisation Act reorganised the Indian states along linguistic lines, and Bombay Presidency State was enlarged by the addition of the predominantly Marathi-speaking regions of Marathwada (Aurangabad Division) from erstwhile Hyderabad state and Vidarbha region from the Central Provinces and Berar. The enlarged state also included Gujarati-speaking areas. The southernmost part of Bombay State was ceded to Mysore. From 1954 to 1955 the people of Maharashtra strongly protested against the bilingual Bombay state and the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti was formed. The Mahagujarat Movement was started, seeking a separate Gujarat state. A number of mainly Pune-based leaders such as Keshavrao Jedhe, S.M. Joshi, Shripad Amrit Dange, and Pralhad Keshav Atre formed the Samyukta Maharashtra Movement, with Vidarbha-based leaders such as Gopalrao Khedkar, to fight for a separate state of Maharashtra with Mumbai as its state capital. Mass protests, 105 deaths, and heavy losses in the Marathi speaking areas by the ruling Congress Party in the 1957 election, led the government under Prime Minister Nehru to change their policy and agree to the protesters' demands. On 1 May 1960, the separate Marathi-speaking state was formed by dividing earlier Bombay State into the new states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. The city of Mumbai was declared the capital of the new state. The state continues to have a dispute with Karnataka regarding the districts of Belgaum and Karwar both with a large population of Marathi people.\n\nFor the first time, the creation of Maharashtra brought most Marathi people under one state with the mainly rural Kunbi-Maratha community as the largest social group. This group has dominated the rural economy and politics of the state since 1960. The community accounts for 31% of the population of Maharashtra. They dominate the cooperative institutions and with the resultant economic power, control politics from the village level up to the Assembly and Lok Sabha seats. Since the 1980s, this group has also been active in setting up private educational institutions. Major past political figures of Maharashtra have been from this group. The rise of the Hindu Nationalist Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party in recent years have not dented Maratha representation in the Maharashtra Legislative assembly.\n\nAfter the Maratha-Kunbi cluster, the scheduled caste (SC) Mahars are numerically the second largest community among the Marathi people in Maharashtra. Most of them embraced Buddhism in 1956 with their leader, the late Dr. Ambedkar. Writers from this group in the 1950s and 60s were pioneers of Dalit Literature\n\nThe Portuguese-occupied enclave of Goa was liberated in 1962. The main political party formed immediately after liberation was the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. It wanted Goa to merge with Maharashtra because of the affinity between Goan Hindus and the Marathi people. However, the referendum held on this issue rejected the merger. Later, Konkani was made the official language of Goa, but Marathi is also allowed in any government correspondence.\n\nThe 1960s also saw the establishment by Bal Thackeray of Shiv Sena, a populist sectarian party advocating the rights of Marathi people in the heterogeneous city of Mumbai. Early campaigns by Shiv Sena advocated for more opportunities for Marathi people in government jobs. The party also led a campaign against the city's South Indian population. By the 1980s the party captured power in the Mumbai Corporation, and in the 1990s it led the government of Maharashtra's coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). During this transition from founding to capturing power, the party toned down its rhetoric against non-Marathi people and adopted a more Hindu nationalist stance.\n\nThe Marathi people form an ethnolinguistic group that is distinct from others in terms of its language, history, cultural and religious practices, social structure, literature, and art.\n\nThe traditional caste hierarchy was headed by the Brahmin castes-the deshasthas, chitpavans, karhades saraswats and the chandraseniya kayastha prabhus. In Mumbai during British rule, this included the Pathare Prabhu community., As per a census, the upper castes—Marathi Brahmins, Saraswat Brahmins, Prabhus (CKPs, Pathare Prabhus)—were only about 4% of the population. The Marathas were 31% in Western Maharashtra and the Kunbis were 7%, whereas the Other Backward Class population (other than the Kunbi) was 27%. The other castes in the intermediate category include: Lingayats who came from north Karnataka and settled in south Maharashtra, Gujjars and Rajputs who migrated centuries ago to Maharashtra from northern India - and settled in north Maharashtra. The population of the Mahars was 8%.\n\nMajority of Marathi Hindu belong either to the cultivator class (Maratha-Kunbi) or one of the village servant (Bara Balutedar)castes.\nThe Village servant castes include Lohar (Iron-smith), Suthar (carpenters), Mali ( florists/vegetable farmers & gardener), Gurav, Kumbhar (potters), Sonar, Teli (oil pressers), Chamar, Matang,* Koli(fisherman or water carrier) and Nabhik (barbers). The Mahar were one of the balutedar but adopted Buddhism in 1950s.Some of the other Marathi castes are:\n\n\nAs the Maratha Empire expanded across India, the Marathi population started migrating out of Maharashtra alongside their rulers.Peshwa, Holkars, Scindia and Gaekwad dynastic leaders took with them a considerable population of priests, clerks, army men, businessmen, and workers when they established new seats of power.Most of these migrants were from the literate classes such as various Brahmin sub-castes and CKP.These groups formed the backbone of administration in the new Maratha states in many places such as Baroda, Indore, Gwalior, Bundelkhand, and Tanjore.\nMany families belonging to these groups still follow typical Marathi traditions even though they have lived more than from Maharashtra for more than 200 years.\n\nOther people have migrated in modern times in search of jobs outside Maharashtra. These people have also settled in almost all parts of the country. They have set up community organizations called Maharashtra Mandals in many cities across the country. A national level central organization, the Brihan Maharashtra Mandal was formed in 1958 to promote Marathi culture outside Maharashtra. Several sister organizations of the Brihan Maharashtra Mandal have also been formed outside India.\n\nThis is a list of States and Union Territories of India by speakers of Marathi.\n\nIn the 1800s, a large number of Indian people were taken to Mauritius, Fiji, South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Suriname, Jamaica, and other places in the Caribbean as indentured laborers to work on sugarcane plantations. The majority of these migrants were from the Hindustani speaking areas or from Southern India, however, the migrants to Mauritius included a significant number of Marathis.\n\nSince the state of Israel was established in 1948, around 25,000-30,000 Jews have emigrated there, of which around 20,000 were from the Marathi speaking Bene Israel community of Konkan.\n\nIndians, including Marathi People, have migrated to Europe and particularly Great Britain for more than a century. The Maharashtra Mandal of London was founded in 1932. A small number of Marathi people also settled in British East Africa during the colonial era. After the African Great Lakes countries of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika gained independence from Britain, most of the South Asian population residing there, including Marathi people, migrated to the United Kingdom, or India.\n\nLarge-scale immigration of Indians into the United States started when the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 came into effect. Most of the Marathi immigrants who came after 1965 were professionals such as doctors, engineers or scientists. The second wave of immigration took place during the I.T. boom of the 1990s and later.\n\nSince the 1990s due to the I.T. boom and because of the general ease of travel, Marathi people are now found in greater numbers in all corners of the world including the United States, Australia, Canada, the Gulf countries, European countries, Japan, and China.\n\nThe majority of Marathi people are Hindus. Minorities by religion include Muslims, Buddhists, Jains, Christians and Jews.\n\nThe main life ceremonies in Hindu culture include those related to birth, weddings, initiation ceremonies, as well as death rituals. Other ceremonies for different occasions in Hindu life include \"Vastushanti\" and \"Satyanarayan\" which is performed before a family formally establishes residence in a new house. Satyanarayana Puja is a ceremony performed before commencing any new endeavour or for no particular reason. Invoking the name of the family's gotra and the \"kula daivat\" are important aspects of these ceremonies for many communities.\n\nLike most other Hindu communities, the Marathi people have a household shrine called a \"devaghar\" with idols, symbols, and pictures of various deities for daily worship. Ritual reading of religious texts known as \"pothi\" is also popular in some communities.\n\nIn some traditional families, food is first offered to the preferred deity in the household shrine, as \"naivedya\", before being consumed by family members and guests. Meals or snacks are not taken before this religious offering. In present times, the naivedya is offered by families only on days of special religious significance.\n\nMany Marathi people trace their paternal ancestors to one of the seven or eight sages, the saptarshi. They classify themselves as gotras, named after the ancestor rishi. Intra-marriage within gotras (Sagotra Vivaha) was uncommon until recently, being discouraged as it was likened to incest.\n\nMost Marathi families have their own family patron or protective deity or the \"Kuladaivat\". This deity is common to a lineage or a clan of several families who are connected to each other through a common ancestor. The Khandoba of Jejuri is an example of a Kuladaivat of some families; he is a common Kuladaivat to several castes ranging from Brahmins to Dalits. The practice of worshiping local or territorial deities as Kuladaivats began in the period of the Yadava dynasty. Other family deities of the people of Maharashtra are Bhavani of Tuljapur, Mahalaxmi of Kolhapur, Mahalaxmi of Amravati, Renuka of Mahur, Parashuram in Konkan, Saptashringi on Saptashringa hill at Vani in Nasik district, and Balaji . Despite being the most popular deity amongst Marathi people, very few families regard Vitthal or other popular Avatars of Vishnu such as Rama or Krishna as their Kuldaivat.\n\nAt birth, a child is initiated into the family ritually. The child's naming ceremony may happen many weeks or even months later, and it is called the \"barsa\". In many Indian Hindu communities, the naming is most often done by consulting the child's horoscope, which suggests various names depending on the child's Lunar sign (called \"Rashi\"). However, in Marathi Hindu families, the name that the child inevitably uses in secular functions is the one decided by their parents. If a name is chosen on the basis of the horoscope, then that is kept a secret to ward off the casting of a spell on the child during their life. During the naming ceremony, the child's paternal aunt has the honor of naming the infant. When the child is 11 months old, they get their first hair-cut. This is also an important ritual and is called \"Jawal\". In the Maratha community, the maternal uncle is given the honour of the first snip during the ceremony.\n\nIn Brahman, CKP and Gaud Saraswat Brahman communities when a male child reaches his eighth birthday, he undergoes the initiation thread ceremony variously known as Munja (in reference to the Munja grass that is of official ritual specification), \"Vratabandha\", or Upanayanam.\n\nMarathi Hindu people are historically endogamous within their caste but exogamous with their clan.Cross-cousin alliances are allowed by most Marathi Hindu communities. Hindu marriages, take place by negotiation. The Mangalsutra is the symbol of marriage for the woman. Studies show that most Indians' traditional views on caste, religion, and family background have remained unchanged when it came to marriage, that is, people marry within their own castes, and matrimonial advertisements in newspapers are still classified by caste and sub-caste.\n\nWhile arranging a marriage, \"gana\", \"gotra\", \"pravara\", \"devak\" are all kept in mind. Horoscopes are matched. Ghosal describes the marriage ceremony as, 'The groom, along with the bride's party goes to the bride's house. A ritual named \"Akshat\" is performed in which people around the groom and bride throw \"haldi\" (turmeric) and \"sindur\" (vermilion) colored rice grains on the couple. After the \"Kanyadan\" ceremony, there is an exchange of garlands between the bride and the groom. Then, the groom ties the Mangalsutra around the neck of the bride. This is followed by \"granthibandhan\" in which the end of the bride's \"sari\" is tied to the end of the groom's dhoti, and a feast is arranged at the groom's place.'\n\nElements of a traditional Marathi Hindu wedding ceremony include \"seemant poojan\" on the wedding eve. The \"dharmic\" wedding includes the \"antarpat\" ceremony followed by the vedic ceremony which involves the bridegroom and the bride walking around the sacred fire seven times to complete the marriage. Modern urban wedding ceremonies conclude with an evening reception. A Marathi Hindu woman becomes part of her husband's family after marriage and adopts the gotra as well as the traditions of her husband's family.\n\nAfter weddings and after thread ceremonies, many Maratha and Deshastha Brahmin families arrange a traditional religious singing performance by a Gondali group \n\nDecades ago, girls used to get married to the groom of their parents' choice by their early teens or before. Even today, girls are married off in their late teens by rural and less educated people. Urban women may choose to remain unmarried until the late 20s or even early 30s.\n\nMarathi Hindu people dispose their dead by cremation. The deceased's son carries the corpse to the cremation ground atop a bier. The eldest son lights the fire for the corpse at the head for males and at the feet for females. The ashes are gathered in an earthen pitcher and immersed in a river on the third day after death. This is a 13-day ritual with the \"pinda\" being offered to the dead soul on the 11th and a \"Śrāddha\" ceremony followed by a funeral feast on the 13th. Cremation is performed according to vedic rites, usually within a day of the individual's death. Like all other Hindus, the preference is for the ashes to be immersed in the Ganges river or Godavari river. \"Śrāddha\" becomes an annual ritual in which all forefathers of the family who have passed on are remembered. These rituals are expected to be performed only by male descendants, preferably the eldest son of the deceased.\n\nThe first day of the Hindu month of Chaitra (March - April)) is celebrated as Marathi New Year.\n\nMarathi Hindus celebrate most of the Indian Hindu festivals such as Dasara, Diwali and Raksha Bandhan. These are, however, celebrated with certain Maharashtrian regional variations. Others festivals like Ganeshotsav have a more characteristic Marathi flavour. The Marathi, Kannada and Telugu people follow the Deccan Shalivahana Hindu calendar, which may have subtle differences with calendars followed by other communities in India. The festivals described below are in a chronological order as they occur during a Shaka year, starting with Shaka new year festival of Gudhi Padwa.\n\n\n\n\nDuring this period, girls and women perform 'Bhondla/Hadga' as the Sun moves to the thirteenth constellation of the zodiac called 'Hasta' (Elephant). During the nine days, Bhondla (also known as 'Bhulabai' in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra) is celebrated in the garden or on the terrace during evening hours by inviting female friends of the daughter in the house. An elephant is drawn either with Rangoli on the soil or with a chalk on a slate and kept in the middle. The girls go around it in a circle, holding each other's hands and singing Bhondla songs. All Bhondla songs are traditional songs passed down through the generations. The last song typically ends with the words '...khirapatila kaay ga?' ('What is the special dish today?'). This 'Khirapat' is a special dish, or dishes, often made laboriously by the mother of the host girl. The food is served only after the rest of the girls have correctly guessed what the covered dish or dishes are. There are some variations with how the Navratri festival is celebrated. For example, in many Brahmin families, celebrations include offering lunch for nine days to a specially invited a group of guests. The guests include a married Woman (Marathi:सवाष्ण ), a Brahmin and, a Virgin (Marathi:कुमारिका). In the morning and evening, the head of the family ritually worships either the goddess Durga, Lakshmi or Saraswati. On the eighth day, a special rite is carried out in some families. A statue of the goddess Mahalakshmi, with the face of a rice mask, is prepared and worshiped by newly married girls. In the evening of that day, women blow into earthen or metallic pots as a form of worship to please the goddess. Everyone in the family accompanies them by chanting verses and Bhajans. The nine-day festival ends with a Yagna or reading of a Hindu Holy book (Marathi:पारायण ).\n\nThe celebration lasts for three days and ends on Kartiki Pournima or Tripurari Pournima.\n\n\nOn 14 October 1956 at Nagpur, Maharashtra, India, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar embraced Buddhist religion publicly and gave Deeksha of Buddhist religion to his more than 380,000 followers. The day is celebrated as Dharmacakra Pravartan Din. The grounds in Nagpur on which the conversion ceremony took place is known as Deekshabhoomi. Every year more than million Buddhist people especially Ambedkarite from all over the world visit Deekshabhoomi to commemorate Dhamma Chakra Pravartan Din.\n\nChristmas is celebrated to mark the birthday of Jesus Christ. Like in other parts of India, Christmas is celebrated with zeal by a large number of Marathi people, both Christians and non-Christians. Owing to the Portuguese influence on Maharashtra, Christmas is also known as 'Naataal' (Marathi:नाताळ), a word similar to 'Natal' used in Portuguese.\n\nThe many communities in Marathi society result in a diverse cuisine. This diversity extends to the family level because each family uses its own unique combination of spices. The majority of Maharashtrians do eat meat and eggs, but the Brahmin community is mostly lacto-vegetarian. The traditional staple food on Desh (the Deccan plateau) is usually \"bhakri\", spiced cooked vegetables, \"dal\" and rice. Bhakri is an unleavened bread made using Indian millet (\"jowar\"), \"bajra\" or \"bajri\". However, the North Maharashtrians and Urban people prefer roti, which is a plain bread made with wheat flour. In the coastal Konkan region, rice is the traditional staple food. An aromatic variety of \"ambemohar\" rice is more popular amongst Marathi people than the internationally known basmati rice. Malvani dishes use more wet coconut and coconut milk in their preparation. In the Vidarbha region, little coconut is used in daily preparations but dry coconut, along with peanuts, is used in dishes such as spicy \"savji\"s or mutton and chicken dishes.\n\n\"Thalipeeth\" is a popular traditional breakfast flat bread that is prepared using \"bhajani\", a mixture of many different varieties of roasted lentils.\n\nMarathi Hindu people observe fasting days when traditional staple food like rice and chapatis are avoided. However, milk products and non-native foods such as potatoes, peanuts and \"sabudana\" preparations (\"sabudana khicdi\") are allowed, which result in a carbohydrate rich alternative fasting cuisine.\n\nSome Maharashtrian dishes including \"sev bhaji\", \"misal pav\" and \"patodi\" are distinctly regional dishes within Maharashtra.\n\nIn metropolitan areas including Mumbai and Pune, the pace of life makes fast food very popular. The most popular forms of fast food amongst Marathi people in these areas are: \"bhaji\", \"vada pav\", \"misal pav\" and \"pav bhaji\". More traditional dishes are \"sabudana khichdi\", \"pohe\", \"upma\", \"sheera\" and \"panipuri\". Most Marathi fast food and snacks are purely lacto-vegetarian in nature.\n\nIn South Konkan, near Malvan, an independent exotic cuisine has developed called Malvani cuisine, which is predominantly non-vegetarian. \"Kombdi vade\", fish preparations and baked preparations are more popular here. Kombdi Vade, is a recipe from the Konkan region. Deep fried flat bread made from spicy rice and urid flour served with chicken curry, more specifically with Malvani chicken curry.\n\nDesserts are an important part of Marathi food and include \"puran poli\", \"shrikhand\", \"basundi\", \"kheer\", \"gulab jamun\", and \"modak\". Traditionally, these desserts were associated with a particular festival, for example, \"modak\"s are prepared during the Ganpati Festival.\n\nTraditionally, Marathi women commonly wore the sari, often distinctly designed according to local cultural customs. Most middle aged and young women in urban Maharashtra dress in western outfits such as skirts and trousers or salwar kameez with the traditionally \"nauvari\" or nine-yard sari, disappearing from the markets due to a lack of demand. Older women wear the five-yard sari. In urban areas, the five-yard sari is worn by younger women for special occasions such as weddings and religious ceremonies. Among men, western dress has greater acceptance. Men also wear traditional costumes such as the dhoti and pheta on cultural occasions. The Gandhi cap along with a long white shirt and loose pajama style trousers is the popular attire among older men in rural Maharathra. Women wear traditional jewellery derived from Marathas and Peshwas dynasties. Kolhapuri saaj, a special type of necklace, is also worn by Marathi women. In urban areas, many women and men wear western attire.\n\nMarathi Hindu people follow a partially Patronymic naming system.For example, it is customary to associate the father's name with the given name. In the case of married women, the husband's name is associated with the given name. Therefore, the constituents of a Marathi name as given name /first name, father/husband, family name /surname. For example:\n\nA large number of Maharashtrian surnames are derived by adding the suffix \"kar\" to the village from which the family originally hailed. For example, Junnarkar came from town of Junnar, Waghulkar comes from the town of Waghul. Names like Kumbhar, Sutar, Kulkarni, Deshpande, Deshmukh, Patil, Desai, and Joshi denote the family's ancestral trade or professions. >\n\nFamilies of the historical Maratha chiefs use their clan name as their surname.Some of these are Bhosale, Chavan, Shinde, Shirke, More, Nimbalkar, Pawar, and Ghatge.\nMembers of the numerically largest Maratha Kunbi cultivator class among Marathi people have also adopted some of the Maratha clan names, whether to indicate allegiance to the Maratha chief they served, or as an attempt at upward mobility. .\n\nIt has been noted by scholars that there is Dravidian influence in the development of the Marathi language.\n\nMarathi, also known as Suena at that time, was the court language during the reign of the Yadava Kings. Yadava king Singhania was known for his magnanimous donations. Inscriptions recording these donations are found written in Marathion on stone slabs in the temple at Kolhapur in Maharashtra. Composition of noted works of scholars like Hemadri are also found. Hemadri was also responsible for introducing a style of architecture called Hemandpanth. Among the various stone inscriptions are those found at Akshi in the Kolaba district, which are the first known stone inscriptions in Marathi. An example found at the bottom of the statue of Gomateshwar (Bahubali) at Shravanabelagola in Karnataka bears the inscription 'Chamundraye karaviyale, Gangaraye suttale karaviyale' which gives some information regarding the sculptor of the statue and the king who ordered its creation.\n\nMarathi people have a long literary tradition which started in the ancient era. It was the 13th-century saint, Dnyaneshwar who produced the first treatise in Marathi on the Geeta. The work called Dnyaneshwari is considered a masterpiece. Along with Dnyaneshwar, his contemporary, Namdev was also responsible for propagating Marathi religious Bhakti literature. Namdev is also important to the Sikh tradition, since several of his compositions were included in the Sikh Holy book, the \"Guru Granth Sahib\". Eknath, Sant Tukaram, \"Mukteshwar\" and Samarth Ramdas were equally important figures in the 17th century. In the 18th century, writers like Vaman Pandit, Raghunath Pandit, Shridhar Pandit, Mahipati, and Moropant produced some well-known works. All of the above-mentioned writers produced religious literature.\n\nThe first English book was translated into Marathi in 1817 while the first Marathi newspaper started in 1841. Many books on social reform were written by Baba Padamji (\"Yamuna Paryatana\", 1857), Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Lokhitawadi, Justice Ranade, and Hari Narayan Apte (1864–1919). Lokmanya Tilak's newspaper \"Kesari\" in Marathi was a strong voice in promoting Ganeshotsav or Shivaji festival. The newspaper also offered criticism of colonial government excesses. At this time, Marathi efficiently aided by Marathi Drama. Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar's newspaper, \"Bahishkrut Bharat,\" set up in 1927, provided a platform for sharing literary views.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, the 'little magazine movement' gained momentum. It published writings which were non-conformist, radical, and experimental. The Dalit literature movement also gained strength due to the little magazine movement. This radical movement was influenced by the philosophy of non-conformity, and challenged the literary establishment, which was largely middle class, urban, and upper caste. The little magazine movement was responsible for many excellent writers including the well-known novelist, critic, and poet Bhalchandra Nemade. Dalit writer N. D. Mahanor is well known for his work, while Dr. Sharad Rane is a well-known children's writer.\n\nAlthough ethnic Marathis have taken up military roles for many centuries, their martial qualities came to prominence in seventeenth century India, under the leadership of Chhatrapati Shivaji. He founded the Maratha Empire, which at the time of the mid 18th century controlled practically the entire Indian subcontinent. It was largely an ethnic Marathi polity, with its chiefs and nobles coming from the Marathi ethnicity, such as the Chhatrapatis (\"Maratha\" caste), Maharaja Holkars (\"Dhangar\" caste), Peshwas (1713 onwards) (\"Chitpavan\" caste), |Angres, chief of Maratha Navy (\"Koli\" caste)(1698 onwards). The Marathas are credited to a large extent for ending the Mughal rule in India. Further, they were also considered by the British as the most important native power of 18th century India. Today this ethnicity is represented in the Indian Army, with two regiments deriving their names from Marathi communities the Maratha Light Infantry and the Mahar Regiment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5412530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5412530", "title": "Mariana Renata", "text": "Mariana Renata\n\nMariana Renata (born Mariana Renata Dantec; 31 December 1983, Paris) is a French-Indonesian model and actress.\n\nBorn to a French father and an Indonesian mother of Javanese-Chinese-Dutch descent, Mariana started her modeling career at the age of 14 in Jakarta, Indonesia.\n\nShe obtained an undergraduate degree in English Culture and Literature from the University of Paris (Sorbonne) and her Master of Commerce at the University of New South Wales in International Business.\n\nIn 2005, she took a supporting role in the Indonesian film \"Janji Joni\", or \"Joni's Promise\", directed by Joko Anwar.\n\nShe won \"Most Favorite Supporting Actress\" at the MTV Indonesia Movie Awards for the role in December 2005.\n\nAmong other appearances, she was featured in the made-for-Indonesian-market version of Josh Groban's music video, \"She's Out of My Life\", appeared in the Indonesian version of Rivermaya's song \"Balisong\" (Filipino band), and appeared in the Indonesian TV Series \"Dunia Tanpa Koma\" (DTK), in a cameo role.\n\nShe was one of the Indonesian icons for the beauty soap product, Lux. The brand launched short movies for each of its stars and in 2006 Mariana starred in \"The Match Maker\", directed by Nia Dinata.\n\nShe has featured in tv commercials including Ponds, Sunsilk, Lux, Aqua, Olay, Tresemme, Sunsilk, LG, Impulse, Sunbeam, Qantas, Cadillac, Samsung.\n\nMariana has been based in New York City since 2011, where she is represented by Wilhelmina Models and Innovative Artists.\n"}
{"id": "6641318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6641318", "title": "Mark Barnes", "text": "Mark Barnes\n\nMark Barnes is an American attorney serving as partner in the Ropes & Gray health care practice and advocate based in Boston. He was Director of Policy for the New York State Department of Health AIDS Institute, and Associate Commissioner for Medical and Legal Policy for the New York City Department of Health under the mayoralty of David Dinkins. He worked on the National Health Care Reform Task Force in the Clinton Administration. His work includes focus on the fields of research compliance, the ethics of clinical trials, and medical privacy. He is past President of the New York State Bar Association's Health Law Section.\n\nBarnes is a native of Dadeville, Tallapoosa County, Alabama. He is the son of Elaine Robinson and Mike Barnes, and his family has lived around Tallapoosa for generations. According to his family oral history, he is a direct descendant of Daniel Boone. Barnes plans to retire to Dadeville, where he purchased family property. He has been with his partner since 1983.\n\nBarnes attended Bennington College. In 1984 Barnes graduated from Yale Law School with a juris doctor, and in 1991 he received his L.L.M. from Columbia University School of Law.\n\nIn 1988, as an associate professor of the Columbia Law School, Barnes founded the AIDS Law Clinic. He is a Lecturer at the Yale Medical School, where he teaches each Fall. He has also been an Adjunct Professor at a number of law schools, including NYU Law School, Brooklyn Law School, Cardozo Law School, and New York Law School. He has taught courses in the ethics and law of human subject research, healthcare law, public health, managed care law, occupational health and safety, and law and medicine.\n\nBarnes and Professor Deborah Greenberg at Columbia Law School founded the first legal clinic addressing the AIDS crisis, to allow law students to represent persons living with AIDS in anti-discrimination cases. The program was funded in part by the U.S. Department of Education and received referrals from the New York City Commission on Human Rights and the State Division of Human Rights. The clinical education director at Columbia said of Barnes: \"[He] is a leader in the field, and we're lucky to have him. He's highly knowledgeable, he's litigated on a precedented discrimination case, and he's sensitive to the AIDS crisis.\"\n\nThe clinic was praised by public health officials and by students as hands-on experience, but the school did not commit to continue it. When it did not renew Barnes' contract, students protested, and the issue was covered in the press. On April 12, 1989, 200 students protested Columbia Law School's attempts to close the \"school's successful and much praised 'AIDS' legal clinic.\" They held a sit-in at the law school building to demand the faculty committee renew Barnes's contract for another year. \"We thought one of the reasons for him not being reappointed is the lack of support for the clinic by the university,\" said Maya Wiley, 3L and protest organizer. Dean Barbara Black said the school supported the clinic, but declined to say why Barnes was not offered another one-year contract. Wiley said, \"In all of our conversations with the powers-that-be at this school, it's been very clear to us that the clinic is in jeopardy and that there is a prevailing attitude among the powers-that-be opposed to the clinical approach.\" Student Matt Levine said: \"We do care about Mark Barnes because he has run the clinic extremely well. But the core issue is the continuation of the AIDS clinic.\"\n\nOn April 19, co-founder Deborah Green announced the school would keep the clinic open. On June 28, 1989, the \"Columbia Spectator\" reported that Barnes was reappointed and promoted from Clinic Advisor to the Assistant Clinical Professor of Law by the faculty. \"I'm gratified that the clinic will continue for an additional semester, but the challenge for the Law School is going to be the continuation of the clinic after the fall semester,\" said Barnes.\n\nIn 1989, Barnes began working as the AIDS policy director for the New York State Department of Health. The appointment was criticized by an activist with ACT UP/Washington, who said that Barnes' appointment was a \"commitment to mediocrity\" and that a director living with AIDS should have been chosen. In 1992, he was appointed associate commissioner for medical and legal policy at the New York City Department of Health. He was appointed by then-Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala to the new National Human Research Protections Advisory Committee, which examined issues of ethical conduct in human medical experimentation. Barnes participated in the first-ever White House Conference on HIV and AIDS on December 6, 1995. He has been a consultant for the National Commission on AIDS, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Red Cross, and the National Minority Task Force on AIDS. In 2012 he co-founded, and continues to serve as faculty co-chair of, the Multi-Regional Clinical Trials Center of Harvard University and Brigham and Women’s Hospital, a project designed to improve the planning, conduct and regulation of multi-national clinical trials, with a special emphasis on trials in the emerging economies. In 2004, he was the founding executive director of the Harvard University AIDS treatment programs in Nigeria, Tanzania and Botswana funded under the PEPFAR program. In 1992, while serving as the associate commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, he wrote and managed the adoption of new health regulations that allowed the public health authorities to detain and treat patients with tuberculosis who had failed to take their anti-tuberculosis medications, reducing the rise of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in New York City in the early 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30113240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30113240", "title": "Mark Boerebach", "text": "Mark Boerebach\n\nMark Boerebach is a savant, able to recall Australian music chart top hits from the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nBoerebach was born blind and diagnosed with Asperger syndrome as a child. Prior to entering school, he underwent a series of operations which restored 20% of his eyesight, although he is blind in one eye. His condition made it difficult for him to socialize at school, but despite the difficulties he encountered, Boerebach has completed five TAFE music business courses. He lives in Sydney, Australia.\n\nBoerebach founded an Internet radio station called 2PR FM based in Sydney which plays continuous 1970s and 1980s pop music.\n\n"}
{"id": "3413502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3413502", "title": "Mary Esther Harding", "text": "Mary Esther Harding\n\nMary Esther Harding (1888–1971) was a British-American Jungian analyst who was the first significant Jungian psychoanalyst in the United States.\n\nMary Esther Harding was born in Shropshire, England as the fourth of six daughters of a dental surgeon. She was an avid reader and was home schooled until the age of eleven. Pursuing her goal of becoming a missionary doctor, she attended the London School of Medicine for Women, where she graduated in 1914 in a class of nine students. She was then an intern at the Royal Infirmary in London, the first hospital in London to accept women interns. At that time she wrote her first book, The \"Circulatory Failure of Diphtheria\" and later herself contracted the disease. After her recovery a friend named Constance Long gave her Beatrice Hinkle's translation of \"Psychology of the Unconscious\" by Carl Gustav Jung, which led her to move to Switzerland and enter analysis with him, along with a small group of other students attending Jung's Küsnacht home near Zurich.\n\nIn 1919, Eleanor Bertine and Kristine Mann traveled to Zurich following an International Conference of Medical Women. Eleanor Bertine and Esther Harding developed a close relationship there and, in 1924, decided to relocate to New York City. Each year they would travel to Zurich for two months of analysis and spend summers at Bailey Island, Maine, the ancestral summer home of Kristine Mann. There they saw analysands from the United States and Canada in a quiet, comfortable setting away from the distractions of daily life and conducive to profound experiences of the unconscious.\n\nMary Esther Harding became influential in the New York City Jungian Analytical psychology community. She was a prodigious writer and a frequent lecturer in the United States and Canada. Her first book on analytical psychology, entitled \"The Way of All Women\", was an instant-best seller and has been translated into many languages and introduced many people to Jung's psychology. Harding wrote many other well-known books, including: \"Psychic Energy\", \"Women's Mysteries\", \"The Parental Image\", and \"The I and not I\", along with numerous papers on a variety of subjects from depression to religion.\n\nHarding helped to found many Jungian organizations, such as the Analytical Psychology Club of New York in 1936, the Medical Society for Analytical Psychology - Eastern Division in 1946, and the C.G. Jung Foundation for Analytical Psychology in 1963. She died in 1971.\n\n\n\nAnthony, M. (1990). The Valkyries: The Women around Jung. Shaftesbury, Dorset: Element Books\n"}
{"id": "92764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92764", "title": "Matshishkapeu", "text": "Matshishkapeu\n\nIn Innu mythology, Matshishkapeu (literally the \"Fart Man\") is the most powerful spirit and is even more powerful than the Caribou Master. He proved himself when the Caribou Master refused to give the Innu any caribou to eat. Matshishkapeu was so angry that he cursed the Caribou Master with a painful case of constipation. Finally, the Caribou Master relented, and Matshishkapeu then cured him of his ailment.\n\n"}
{"id": "13956905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13956905", "title": "Maurice de Hond", "text": "Maurice de Hond\n\nMaurice de Hond (born 8 October 1947, Amsterdam) is a Dutch pollster and entrepreneur. He is the founder of the Steve JobsSchool, an elementary school which gives each student an iPad to encourage individualized learning. As of 2016, 35 public schools in the Netherlands adopted the school model. Two Steve JobsSchools opened in South Africa in 2016.\n\nDe Hond studied human geography at the University of Amsterdam, obtaining a degree in 1971. He worked for the university, as assistant with the Sociaal Geografisch Instituut, but became a project leader for Interview-NSS in 1973. He founded Cebeon with Hedy d'Ancona in 1975, a market research firm targeting the non-profit sector, which he left in 1980 to become a director at Interview-NSS, later a commissioner until 1999. Starting in the mid-80s, De Hond started doing consultancy work for various companies, including Vendex (for which he led the computer department Microcomputer Club Nederland (MCN) of the Vroom & Dreesmann department store and the Dixons electricals store in the 1980s), ITT and Wegener. In 1998, he was one of the founders of Newconomy, an internet start-up, which after a stock exchange listing in 2000, saw a market cap of €400 million, but sequently lost much of its market value. Eventually, De Hond had to resign from his leadership position. He now polls through his own company, and internet site Peil.nl.\n\nSince 2005, De Hond campaigned to reopen a murder case that happened in the Dutch city of Deventer. De Hond believed that a tax advisor named Ernest Louwes was wrongfully convicted, and that a handyman of the murdered woman, Michaël de Jong, was behind the murder. De Hond led his own investigation into the matter, but a subsequent investigation by the public prosecutors found no reason to reopen the case. De Jong brought De Hond to court over his allegations, which De Hond refused to subside after the matter was closed. A Dutch court found De Hond at fault in continuation of his allegations, after which De Hond was reprimanded and forced to pay De Jong and his girlfriend over €100,000.\n"}
{"id": "4260050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4260050", "title": "Melanie Marquez", "text": "Melanie Marquez\n\nMimilanie \"Melanie\" Laurel Marquez-Lawyer (born 16 July 1964), is a Filipino personality development coach, actress, film producer, author, and celebrity endorser. She is a former beauty queen and model from the Philippines who won the Miss International 1979 beauty pageant in Tokyo, Japan. Her victory meant that the Philippines was the first country to win the title thrice. She was the youngest winner of Miss International in history at the age of 15 when she competed in the Miss International 1979.\n\nMarquez won a local beauty pageant competition when she was 15 years old, and the 1979 Miss International Pageant. Subsequently, she evolved as a successful fashion and commercial model and was featured in the local and international magazine covers. As an international model, she toured Europe and the United States of America. As an actress, she has played parts in action and dramatic films, including the title role in her own bio-picture. Later, she has become a TV host, film producer, and celebrity endorser.\n\nIn 1985 Ms Marquez became the \"Face of the 80s\" winner in New York, USA. And in 1986, was the First Runner-up in the \"Supermodel\" competition. In 2000, she was voted the \"Most Beautiful Miss International Winner\" and in 2005, was one of the 6 Finalists in \"Mrs. World\" pageant held in India. She has appeared in the Binibining Pilipinas \"World of BC 2004\" and \"World of Canada 2004\" pageants.\n\nMarquez is a modeling and image-enhancement coach. She trained Ruffa Gutierrez (Miss World 1993 Second Princess); Charlene Gonzales (Miss Universe 1994 - Top 6 Finalist); and Miriam Quiambao (Miss Universe 1999 First Runner-up). She has been a judge, coach, commentator, or host in beauty pageants, modelling contests, and talent-search competitions. Recently, she opened a modelling school for training models, beauty pageant contestants, and actors.\n\nIn a 2000 poll, Marquez was voted as the \"Most Beautiful Miss International\", and in the TV magazine show, \"Ang Pinaka\" (\"Top Picks\"), she was ranked the Philippines show business number one \"most admired beauty queen\". Marquez endorses, and is the face of, the Psalmstre line of beauty products.\n\nMelanie Marquez was born in Mabalacat, Pampanga. She is a Mormon convert after her marriage to an American in Utah named Adam Lawyer, her fifth husband. Melanie was involved in her church's 50th foundation anniversary in the Philippines.\n\nIn 2006, Marquez graduated with a bachelor's degree in business administration from the International Academy of Management and Economics.\n\nMarquez has six children: two of whom have special needs, Mel one being the son of Filipino actor and politician Lito Lapid, and her daughter—a model—with businessman Frederick Dee, Michelle.\n\nShe is guesting in \"Eat Bulaga!'s\" \"Kalyeserye\" as Lola Nidora's friend.\n\nTelevision drama series\n\nAs herself\n\n"}
{"id": "43414273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414273", "title": "Mezidimestan Kadın", "text": "Mezidimestan Kadın\n\nMezidimestan Kadın (3 March 1869 – 21 January 1909) was the sixth wife of Sultan Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nMezidimestan Kadın was born on 3 March 1869 in Gagra, Abkhazia. Born as Kadriye Kamile Mikanba, she was a member of Abkhazian noble family Mikanba. Her father was Kaymat Bey Mikanba, and her mother was Princess Feryal Hanım Marshan, an Abkhazian. She was the first cousin of Nazikeda Kadın.\n\nIn 1876, she had been brought to Istanbul as a young child, where her uncle entrusted her to the imperial harem together with her cousins Emine, Daryal and Naciye, cousins Amine (1872 - 1946), Rumeysa (1875 - 1927), Pakize (1876 - 1943), and Fatima.\n\nMezidimestan married Abdul Hamid on 2 February 1885 at the Yıldız Palace. She was given the title of \"Beşinci Kadın\". On 19 December 1886, a year after the marriage, she gave birth to her only son, Şehzade Mehmed Burhaneddin.\n\nIn 1895, she was given the title of Dördüncü Kadın, and in 1901, she was given the title of Üçüncü Kadın. Abdul Hamid had presented her a villa located on the grounds of Yıldız Palace.\n\nHer cousin Daryal renamed Iryale was married to Şehzade Mehmed Selim, son of Sultan Abdul Hamid II. Her other cousin Amine renamed Nazikeda was married to Şehzade Yusuf Izzeddin, son of Sultan Abdülaziz.\n\nMezidimestan died on 21 February 1901 in the Yıldız Palace, and was buried in Yahya Efendi Cemetery, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11063051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11063051", "title": "Peace Monger", "text": "Peace Monger\n\nPeace Monger (Dr. Cobbleskill) is a fictional character, a mutant in the Marvel Universe. His first appearance was in \"Marvel Comics Presents #27\".\n\nDuring a fund-raising dinner, Dr. Cobbleskill was attacked by a group calling themselves the Knights of Saint Virgil. They meant to kill him, yet he stopped his bodyguards from acting. The American Eagle pulled the rug from under the knights. Cobbleskill wanted to punish the men himself, but American Eagle stopped him and left with the newspaper columnist Joanna Cargill. Later, at a rally in front of the Washington Monument, Cobbleskill led the crowd's emotions to a fever pitch. Joanna Cargill appeared, revealing Cobbleskill's forgery of the attack by the Knights of Saint Virgil, Cobbleskill attacked her physically. When the American Eagle showed up, Cobbleskill had fully transformed into the Peace Monger. A physical dispute followed, which the Peace Monger lost (the crowd's hatred turned to betrayal and confusion, as the Eagle put it), as well as an intellectual debate on fighting prejudice and oppression. Cobbleskill's powers depleted, the American Eagle carried him to the police.\n\nYears later, Dr. Cobbleskill incited riots in Brooklyn, employing gang members to stir up trouble against other ethnic groups, so he could feed off the hate they would generate amongst one another. An assault upon Korean shop-owners was broken up by the U.S. Agent, who followed gang-member Luis back to the Peace Monger, and fought him. The Peace Monger attempted to feed off the hate of the U.S. Agent himself in order to power-up, but to his horror, found the U.S. Agent was above something as trivial as hate. His own power vanished, leaving him a small, weak man, who the U.S. Agent easily clocked with a single punch.\n"}
{"id": "11751266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11751266", "title": "Robert George Clements", "text": "Robert George Clements\n\nRobert George Clements (1880 – 1947) was a physician and a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He is suspected of the murder of his fourth wife, who died of morphine poisoning. His first three wives also predeceased him, raising suspicions that he murdered them as well. Clements committed suicide by an overdose of morphine before he was caught by the police and therefore never stood trial.\n\nClements was born in 1880 in Belfast, Ireland. He graduated in 1904, aged 24.\n\nClement married four times. His first wife, Edith, died of \"sleeping sickness\" in 1920 aged 40. His second, Mary, died of endocarditis in 1925, aged 25, and his third, Kathleen, died of cancer. His last wife, Amy Victoria Burnett, was the daughter of a wealthy industrialist. She died on 27 May 1947 in suspicious circumstances in Southport. The previous day Clements had called in another doctor when his wife fell ill. She was taken to a nursing home where she died the next day. Both Clements and the other doctor called in diagnosed myeloid leukaemia, which was confirmed by a botched post-mortem carried out by another physician, Dr James Houston.\n\nThe circumstances of Burnett's death caused people at the time to question the deaths of Clement's first three wives. All, with the exception of the third, were wealthy women when he married them and were almost penniless at the time of their deaths. Clements signed the death certificates himself and although there were some suspicions voiced following the death of his third wife there wasn't any opportunity to perform a post-mortem as her body had already been cremated.\n\nWhen the police came to arrest Clements they found that he had committed suicide, leaving a note:\n\nA second autopsy was conducted by a Dr Grace who deduced that she had died from morphine poisoning. This was confirmed by Dr J.B. Firth, Director of the Home Office Laboratory in Preston. Clements is thought to have murdered Burnett in order to inherit her money. When Dr Houston found out that his post-mortem had missed the presence of morphine, he too committed suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55129717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55129717", "title": "Romeo Acquarone", "text": "Romeo Acquarone\n\nRomeo Acquarone (1895 – 1980) was a professional tennis player born in Monaco . He became a French citizen in 1937 . Acquarone won the Bristol Cup in France in 1920 (beating Joseph Negro in the final). The Bristol Cup was the top professional tournament in the world in the 1920s.\n"}
{"id": "31665644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31665644", "title": "Saint Peter", "text": "Saint Peter\n\nSaint Peter (Syriac/Aramaic: ܫܸܡܥܘܿܢ ܟܹ݁ܐܦ݂ܵܐ, \"Shemayon Keppa\"; ; ; ; ; r. AD 30; died between AD 64 and 68), also known as Simon Peter, Simeon, or Simon (, ), according to the New Testament, was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus Christ, leaders of the early Christian Great Church. Pope Gregory I called him repeatedly the \"Prince of the Apostles\". According to Catholic teaching, Jesus promised Peter in the \"Rock of My Church\" dialogue in Matthew a special position in the Church. He is traditionally counted as the first Bishop of Romeor popeand also by Eastern Christian tradition as the first Patriarch of Antioch. The ancient Christian churches all venerate Peter as a major saint and as the founder of the Church of Antioch and the Roman Church, but differ in their attitudes regarding the authority of his present-day successors (the primacy of the Bishop of Rome).\n\nThe New Testament indicates that Peter's father's name was John (or \"Jonah\" or \"Jona\") and was from the village of Bethsaida in the province of Galilee or Gaulanitis. His brother Andrew was also an apostle. According to New Testament accounts, Peter was one of twelve apostles chosen by Jesus from his first disciples. Originally a fisherman, he played a leadership role and was with Jesus during events witnessed by only a few apostles, such as the Transfiguration. According to the gospels, Peter confessed Jesus as the Messiah, was part of Jesus's inner circle, thrice denied Jesus and wept bitterly once he realised his deed, and preached on the day of Pentecost.\n\nAccording to Christian tradition, Peter was crucified in Rome under Emperor Nero. It is traditionally held that he was crucified upside down at his own request, since he saw himself unworthy to be crucified in the same way as Jesus. Tradition holds that he was crucified at the site of the Clementine Chapel. His remains are said to be those contained in the underground Confessio of St. Peter's Basilica, where Pope Paul VI announced in 1968 the excavated discovery of a first-century Roman cemetery. Every 29 June since 1736, a statue of Saint Peter in St. Peter's Basilica is adorned with papal tiara, ring of the fisherman, and papal vestments, as part of the celebration of the Feast of Saints Peter and Paul. According to Catholic doctrine, the direct papal successor to Saint Peter is the incumbent pope, currently Pope Francis.\n\nTwo general epistles in the New Testament are ascribed to Peter, but modern scholars generally reject the Petrine authorship of both. The Gospel of Mark was traditionally thought to show the influence of Peter's preaching and eyewitness memories. Several other books bearing his namethe Acts of Peter, Gospel of Peter, Preaching of Peter, Apocalypse of Peter, and Judgment of Peterare considered by Christian denominations as apocryphal, and are thus not included in their Bible canons.\n\nPeter's original name, as indicated in the New Testament, was \"Simon\" (Σίμων \"Simōn\" in Greek) or (only in Acts 15:14 and 2 Peter 1:1) \"Simeon\" (Συμεών in Greek). The Simon/Simeon variation has been explained as reflecting \"the well-known custom among Jews at the time of giving the name of a famous patriarch or personage of the Old Testament to a male child along with a similar sounding Greek/Roman name\".\n\nHe was later given the name כֵּיפָא (\"Kepha\") in Aramaic, which was rendered in Greek (by transliteration and the addition of a final sigma to make it a masculine word) as Κηφᾶς, whence Latin and English \"Cephas\" (9 occurrences in the New Testament); or (by translation with masculine termination) as Πέτρος, whence Latin \"Petrus\" and English \"Peter\" (156 occurrences in the New Testament).\n\nThe precise meaning of the Aramaic word is disputed, some saying that its usual meaning is \"rock\" or \"crag\", others saying that it means rather \"stone\" and, particularly in its application by Jesus to Simon, \"precious stone\" or \"jewel\", but most scholars agree that as a proper name it denotes a rough or tough character. Both meanings, \"stone\" (jewel or hewn stone) and \"rock\", are indicated in dictionaries of Aramaic and Syriac. Catholic theologian Rudolf Pesch argues that the Aramaic \"cepha\" means \"stone, ball, clump, clew\" and that \"rock\" is only a connotation; that in the Attic Greek \"petra\" denotes \"grown rock, rocky range, cliff, grotto\"; and that \"petros\" means \"small stone, firestone, sling stone, moving boulder\".\n\nThe combined name Σίμων Πέτρος (Simon Peter) appears 19 times in the New Testament. In some Syriac documents he is called, in English translation, Simon Cephas.\n\nPeter's life story is told in the four canonical gospels, the Acts of the Apostles, New Testament letters, the non-canonical Gospel of the Hebrews and other Early Church accounts of his life and death. In the New Testament, he is among the first of the disciples called during Jesus' ministry. Peter became the first listed apostle ordained by Jesus in the early church.\n\nPeter was a fisherman in Bethsaida. He was named Simon, son of Jonah or John. The three Synoptic Gospels recount how Peter's mother-in-law was healed by Jesus at their home in Capernaum ; this passage clearly depicts Peter as being married. has also been taken to imply that he was married.\n\nIn the Synoptic Gospels, Peter (then Simon) was a fisherman along with his brother, Andrew, and the sons of Zebedee, James and John. The Gospel of John also depicts Peter fishing, even after the resurrection of Jesus, in the story of the Catch of 153 fish. In Matthew and Mark, Jesus called Simon and his brother Andrew to be \"fishers of men\". \n\nA Franciscan church is built upon the traditional site of Apostle Peter's house.\nIn Luke, Simon Peter owns the boat that Jesus uses to preach to the multitudes who were pressing on him at the shore of Lake Gennesaret. Jesus then amazes Simon and his companions James and John (Andrew is not mentioned) by telling them to lower their nets, whereupon they catch a huge number of fish. Immediately after this, they follow him. The Gospel of John gives a comparable account of \"The First Disciples\". In John, we are told that it was two disciples of John the Baptist (Andrew and an unnamed disciple) who heard John the Baptist announce Jesus as the \"Lamb of God\" and then followed Jesus. Andrew then went to his brother Simon, saying, \"We have found the Messiah\", and then brought Simon to Jesus.\n\nThree of the four gospels – Matthew, Mark and John – recount the story of Jesus walking on water. Matthew additionally describes Peter walking on water for a moment but beginning to sink when his faith wavers.\n\nAt the beginning of the Last Supper, Jesus washed his disciples' feet. Peter initially refused to let Jesus wash his feet, but when Jesus responded: \"If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me\", Peter replied: \"Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head\". The washing of feet is often repeated in the service of worship on Maundy Thursday by some Christian denominations.\n\nThe three Synoptic Gospels all mention that, when Jesus was arrested, one of his companions cut off the ear of a servant of the High Priest. The Gospel of John also includes this event and names Peter as the swordsman and Malchus as the victim. Luke adds that Jesus touched the ear and miraculously healed it. This healing of the servant's ear is the last of the 37 miracles attributed to Jesus in the Bible.\n\nIn a dialogue between Jesus and his disciples (), Jesus asks, \"Who do people say that the Son of Man is?\" The disciples give various answers. When he asks, \"Who do \"you\" say that I am?\" Simon Peter answers, \"You are the Messiah, the Son of the living God.\" Jesus then declares:\nBlessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven. And I tell you that you are Cephas (Peter) (\"Petros\"), and on this rock (\"petra\") I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.\nA common view of Peter is provided by Jesuit Father Daniel J. Harrington, who suggests that Peter was an unlikely symbol of stability. While he was one of the first disciples called and was the spokesman for the group, Peter is also the exemplar of \"little faith\". In , Peter will soon have Jesus say to him, \"O you of little faith, why did you doubt?\", and he will eventually deny Jesus three times. Thus, in light of the Easter event, Peter became an exemplar of the forgiven sinner. Outside the Catholic Church, opinions vary as to the interpretation of this passage with respect to what authority and responsibility, if any, Jesus was giving to Peter.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church this passage is interpreted as not implying a special prominence to the person of Peter, but to Peter's position as representative of the Apostles. The word used for \"rock\" (\"petra\") grammatically refers to \"a small detachment of the massive ledge\", not to a massive boulder. Thus, Orthodox Sacred Tradition understands Jesus' words as referring to the apostolic faith.\n\n\"Petros\" had not previously been used as a name, but in the Greek-speaking world it became a popular Christian name, after the tradition of Peter's prominence in the early Christian church had been established.\n\nAll four canonical gospels recount that, during the Last Supper, Jesus foretold that Peter would deny him three times before the following cockcrow (\"before the cock crows twice\" in Mark's account).\n\nThe three Synoptics and John describe the three denials as follows:\n\n\nThe Gospel of John places the second denial while Peter was still warming himself at the fire, and gives as the occasion of the third denial a claim by someone to have seen him in the garden of Gethsemane when Jesus was arrested.\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke is a record of Christ telling Peter: \"Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.\"\n\nIn a reminiscent scene in John's epilogue, Peter affirms three times that he loves Jesus.\n\nIn John's gospel, Peter is the first person to enter the empty tomb, although the women and the beloved disciple see it before him. In Luke's account, the women's report of the empty tomb is dismissed by the apostles, and Peter is the only one who goes to check for himself, running to the tomb. After seeing the graveclothes he goes home, apparently without informing the other disciples.\n\nPaul's First Epistle to the Corinthians contains a list of resurrection appearances of Jesus, the first of which is an appearance to Peter. Here, Paul apparently follows an early tradition that Peter was the first to see the risen Christ, which, however, did not seem to have survived to the time when the gospels were written.\n\nIn the final chapter of the Gospel of John, Peter, in one of the resurrection appearances of Jesus, three times affirmed his love for Jesus, balancing his threefold denial, and Jesus reconfirmed Peter's position. The Church of the Primacy of St. Peter on the Sea of Galilee is seen as the traditional site where Jesus Christ appeared to his disciples after his resurrection and, according to Catholic tradition, established Peter's supreme jurisdiction over the Christian church.\n\nPeter is always listed first among the Twelve Apostles in the gospels and in the Book of Acts (Acts 1:13). He is also frequently mentioned in the gospels as forming with James the Elder and John a special group within the Twelve Apostles, present at incidents at which the others were not present, such as at the Transfiguration of Jesus, at the raising of Jairus' daughter and at the agony in the Garden of Gethsemane. Peter often confesses his faith in Jesus as the Messiah.\n\nPeter is often depicted in the gospels as spokesman of all the Apostles. Catholics refer to him as chief of the Apostles, as do the Eastern Orthodox and the Oriental Orthodox. In Coptic Orthodox Church liturgy, he is once referred to as \"prominent\" or \"head\" among the Apostles, a title shared with Paul in the text (\"The Fraction of Fast and Feast of the Apostles Peter and Paul in the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria\"). Some, including the Orthodox Churches, believe this is not the same as saying that the other Apostles were under Peter's orders. In contrast, Jewish Christians are said to have argued that James the Just was the leader of the group. Some argue James the Just was bishop of Jerusalem whilst Peter was bishop of Rome and that this position at times gave James privilege in some (but not all) situations. The early Church historian Eusebius (c. AD 325) records Clement of Alexandria (c. AD 190) as saying, \n\n\"For they say that Peter and James (the Greater) and John after the ascension of our Saviour, as if also preferred by our Lord, strove not after honor, but chose James the Just bishop of Jerusalem.\"\n\nPeter was considered along with James the Just and John the Apostle as pillars of the Church\" (Galatians 2:9)\". Paul affirms that Peter had the special charge of being apostle to the Jews, just as he, Paul, was apostle to the Gentiles.\n\nThe author of the Acts of the Apostles portrays Peter as an extremely important figure within the early Christian community, with Peter delivering a significant open-air sermon during Pentecost. According to the same book, Peter took the lead in selecting a replacement for Judas Iscariot. Following this appointment, we see Peter establish the conditions for being an apostle as those who have spent time with Jesus.\n\nPeter's authority lent to his role as an adjudicator in conflicts and moral matters. He takes on this role in the case of Ananias and Sapphira and holds them accountable for lying about their alms-giving. Peter passes judgement upon them and they are individually struck dead over the infraction.\n\nPeter's role wasn't always based around his leadership, but around his gifts for taking care of those in need. We see Peter establish these trends by reaching out to the sick and lame. Peter heals 2 individuals who cannot walk or are paralyzed as well as raising Tabitha from the dead. While these acts were miracles of compassion, they also contributed to the number of believers in the early church\n\nHe was twice arraigned, with John, before the Sanhedrin and directly defied them. After receiving a vision from God that allowed for the eating of previously unclean animals, Peter takes a missionary journey to Lydda, Joppa and Caesarea, becoming instrumental in the decision to evangelise the Gentiles. He applied the message of the vision on clean animals to the gentiles and follows his meeting with Cornelius by claiming that 'God shows no partiality.'\n\nFollowing the 13th chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, the narrative turns its attention away from Peter and to the activities of Paul, and the Bible is mostly silent on what occurred to Peter afterwards.\n\nJohn Vidmar, a Catholic scholar, writes: \"Catholic scholars agree that Peter had an authority that superseded that of the other apostles. Peter is their spokesman at several events, he conducts the election of Matthias, his opinion in the debate over converting Gentiles was crucial, etc.\n\nAccording to the Acts of the Apostles, Peter and John were sent from Jerusalem to Samaria (). \nPeter/Cephas is mentioned briefly in the opening chapter of Paul's Epistle to the Galatians, which mentions a trip by Paul to Jerusalem where he meets Peter (). Peter features again in Galatians, fourteen years later, when Paul (now with Barnabas and Titus) returned to Jerusalem (), and then, when Peter came to Antioch, Paul opposed Peter to his face \"because he [Peter] was in the wrong\" (NIV) ().\n\nAt the Council of Jerusalem (c. 50), the early Church, Paul and the leaders of the Jerusalem church met and decided to embrace Gentile converts. Acts portrays Peter and other leaders as successfully opposing the Christian Pharisees who insisted on circumcision.\n\nThe church in Rome was already flourishing when Paul wrote his Epistle to the Romans about AD 57, he greets some fifty people in Rome by name, but not Peter whom he knew. There is also no mention of Peter in Rome later during Paul's two-year stay there in , about AD 60–62. Some Church historians consider Peter and Paul to have been martyred under the reign of Nero, around AD 65.\n\nIn a strong tradition of the Early Church, Peter is said to have founded the Church in Rome with Paul, served as its bishop, authored two epistles, and then met martyrdom there along with Paul. Christians of different theological backgrounds are in disagreement as to the exact significance of Peter's ministry. For instance: \nSimilarly, historians of various backgrounds also offer differing interpretations of the Apostle's presence in Rome.\n\nAccording to the Epistle to the Galatians (), Peter went to Antioch where Paul rebuked him for separating himself from Gentiles (see the Incident at Antioch). Galatians is accepted as authentic by almost all scholars. These may be the earliest mentions of Peter to be written. Later accounts expand on the brief biblical mention of his visit to Antioch. The \"Liber Pontificalis\" (9th century) mentions Peter as having served as bishop of Antioch for seven years and having potentially left his family in the Greek city before his journey to Rome. Claims of direct blood lineage from Simon Peter among the old population of Antioch existed in the 1st century and continue to exist today, notably by certain Semaan families of modern-day Syria and Lebanon. Historians have furnished other evidence of Peter's sojourn in Antioch. Subsequent tradition held that Peter had been the first Patriarch of Antioch. According to the writings of Origen and Eusebius in his \"Church History (III, 36)\" Peter would have been the founder of the Church of Antioch and \"after having first founded the church at Antioch, went away to Rome preaching the Gospel, and he also, after [presiding over] the church in Antioch, presided over that of Rome until his death\".\n\nAfter presiding over the church in Antioch by a while, Peter would have been succeeded by Evodius, and after by Ignatius, who was a student of John the Apostle.\n\nEusebius of Caesarea, in his \"Historia Ecclesiastica (I,12:2)\" while naming some of the Seventy Disciples of Jesus, says:\nThe \"Clementine literature\", a group of related works written in the fourth century but believed to contain materials from earlier centuries, relate information about Peter that may come from earlier traditions. One is that Peter had a group of 12 to 16 followers, whom the Clementine writings name. Another is that it provides an itinerary of Peter's route from Caesarea Maritima to Antioch, where he debated his adversary Simon Magus; during this journey he ordained Zacchaeus as the first bishop of Caesarea and Maro as the first bishop of Tripolis. Fred Lapham suggests the route recorded in the Clementine writings may have been taken from an earlier document mentioned by Epiphanius of Salamis in his \"Panarion\" called \"The Itinerary of Peter\".\n\nEusebius of Caesarea relates that when Peter confronts Simon Magus at Judea (mentioned in Acts 8), Simon flees to Rome where the Romans got to regard him as a god. According to Eusebius, his luck did not last long since God sent Peter to Rome and Simon was quenched and immediately destroyed.\n\nAn apocryphal work, the \"Actus Vercellenses\" (7th century), a Latin text preserved in only one manuscript copy published widely in translation under the title Acts of Peter, sets Peter's confrontation with Simon Magus in Rome.\n\nPeter might have visited Corinth and maybe would have existed a party of \"Cephas\".\nFirst Corinthians suggests that perhaps Peter visited the city of Corinth, located at Greece, during their missions.\n\nDionysius, bishop of Corinth, in his Epistle to the Roman Church under Pope Soter (A.D. 165–174) declares that Peter and Paul founded the Church of Rome and the Church of Corinth, and they have lived in Corinth for some time and finally in Italy where they found death:\n\nYou have thus by such an admonition bound together the planting of Peter and of Paul at Rome and Corinth. For both of them planted and likewise taught us in our Corinth. And they taught together in like manner in Italy, and suffered martyrdom at the same time.\n\nIrenaeus of Lyons wrote in the 2nd century that Peter and Paul had been the founders of the Church in Rome and had appointed Linus as succeeding bishop.\n\nClement of Alexandria states that \"Peter had preached the Word publicly at Rome. \"(A.D. 190)\"\"\n\nAccording to Jerome \"Peter went to Rome in the second year of Claudius to overthrow Simon Magus, and held the sacerdotal chair there for twenty-five years until the last, that is the fourteenth, year of Nero.\"\n\nLactantius, in his book called \"Of the Manner in Which the Persecutors Died\", written around 318, noted that \"And while Nero reigned, the Apostle Peter came to Rome, and, through the power of God committed unto him, wrought certain miracles, and, by turning many to the true religion, built up a faithful and stedfast temple unto the Lord.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church speaks of the pope, the bishop of Rome, as the successor of Saint Peter. This is often interpreted to imply that Peter was the first Bishop of Rome. However, it is also said that the institution of the papacy is not dependent on the idea that Peter was Bishop of Rome or even on his ever having been in Rome. While accepting that Peter came to Rome and was martyred there, some scholars claim to find no historical evidence that he held episcopal office there.\n\nWhile the church in Rome was already flourishing when Paul wrote his Epistle to the Romans about AD 57, he greets some fifty people in Rome by name, but not Peter whom he knew. There is also no mention of Peter in Rome later during Paul's two-year stay there in , about AD 60–62. Some church historians consider Peter and Paul to have been martyred under the reign of Nero, around AD 65 such as after the Great Fire of Rome. Presently, most Catholic scholars, and many scholars in general, hold the view that Peter was martyred in Rome under Nero. There is no obvious biblical evidence that Peter was ever in Rome, but he does mention that \"The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son\" (). It is not certain whether this refers to the actual Babylon or to Rome, for which Babylon was a common nickname at the time, or to the Jewish diaspora in general, as a recent theory has proposed. Marcus, however, is a very typical Roman name, which strengthens the theory that Peter refers to Rome in his letter. In the preceding verse () he also mentions \"Silvanus\", another typical Roman name.\n\nIn two extensive studies published respectively in 2009 and 2013, held that \"there is not a single piece of reliable literary evidence (and no archaeological evidence either) that Peter ever was in Rome.\" Zwierlein's thesis has caused debate. Zwierlein has made a summary of his view available online in English. An edited volume in German was also written in rebuttal against Otto Zwierlein’s views. \n\nClement of Rome' First Letter, a document that has been dated from the 90s to the 120s, is one of the earliest sources adduced in support of Peter's stay in Rome, but Zwierlein questions the text's authenticity and whether it has any knowledge about Peter's life beyond what is contained in the New Testament Acts of the Apostles. The letter also does not mention any particular place, only saying: \"Peter, through unrighteous envy, endured not one or two, but numerous labours and when he had at length suffered martyrdom, departed to the place of glory due to him.\" (ch. 5) A letter attributed to Ignatius of Antioch to the Romans might imply that Peter and Paul had special authority over the Roman church, telling the Roman Christians: \"I do not command you, as Peter and Paul did\" (ch. 4), although Zwierlein says he could be simply referring to the Epistles of the Apostles, or their mission work in the city, not a special authority given or bestowed. Zwierlein has questioned the authenticity of this document and its traditional dating to c. 105–10, who says it may date from the final decades of the 2nd century instead of from the beginning.\n\nIn the epilogue of the Gospel of John, Jesus hints at the death by which Peter would glorify God, saying \"when you are old you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.\" This is interpreted by some as a reference to Peter's crucifixion. Theologians Donald Fay Robinson and Warren M. Smaltz have suggested that the incident in , where Peter is \"released by an angel\" and goes to \"another place\", really represents an idealized account of his death, which may have occurred in a Jerusalem prison in as early as 44 AD.\n\nThe Muratorian fragment, dated to the second century A.D., notes that the primary eyewitness to Acts, Luke, was not present at Peter's death. However, early Church Tradition (as indicated below) says that Peter probably died by crucifixion (with arms outstretched) at the time of the Great Fire of Rome in the year 64. The writings of the 1st century Church Father Ignatius of Antioch refer to Peter and Paul giving admonitions to the Romans, indicating Peter's presence in Rome. Margherita Guarducci, who led the research leading to the rediscovery of Peter's reputed tomb in its last stages (1963–1968), concludes Peter died on 13 October AD 64 during the festivities on the occasion of the \"dies imperii\" of Emperor Nero. This took place three months after the disastrous fire that destroyed Rome for which the emperor (Nero) wished to blame the Christians. This \"dies imperii\" (regnal day anniversary) was an important one, exactly ten years after Nero ascended to the throne, and it was 'as usual' accompanied by much bloodshed. Traditionally, Roman authorities sentenced him to death by crucifixion. In accordance with the apocryphal Acts of Peter, he was crucified head down. Tradition also locates his burial place where the Basilica of Saint Peter was later built, directly beneath the Basilica's high altar.\nAccording to the 1911 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", Peter labored in Rome during the last portion of his life, and there his life was ended by martyrdom.\n\nPope Clement I, in his \"Letter to the Corinthians\" (Chapter 5), written c. 80–98, speaks of Peter's martyrdom in the following terms: \"Let us take the noble examples of our own generation. Through jealousy and envy the greatest and most just pillars of the Church were persecuted, and came even unto death. … Peter, through unjust envy, endured not one or two but many labours, and at last, having delivered his testimony, departed unto the place of glory due to him.\"\n\nThe death of Peter is attested to by Tertullian at the end of the 2nd century, in his \"Prescription Against Heretics\", noting that Peter endured a passion like his Lord's: In his work \"Scorpiace 15\", he also speaks of Peter's crucifixion: \"The budding faith Nero first made bloody in Rome. There Peter was girded by another, since he was bound to the cross\".\n\nOrigen in his \"Commentary on the Book of Genesis III\", quoted by Eusebius of Caesaria in his \"Ecclesiastical History (III, 1)\", said: \"Peter was crucified at Rome with his head downwards, as he himself had desired to suffer.\" The Cross of St. Peter inverts the Latin cross based on this refusal, and his claim of being unworthy to die the same way as his Saviour.\n\nPeter of Alexandria, who was bishop of Alexandria and died around A.D. 311, wrote an epistle \"on Penance\", in which he says: \"Peter, the first of the apostles, having been often apprehended, and thrown into prison, and treated with ignominy, was last of all crucified at Rome\".\n\nJerome describes that \"At his Nero's hands Peter received the crown of martyrdom being nailed to the cross with his head towards the ground and his feet raised on high, asserting that he was unworthy to be crucified in the same manner as his Lord.\"\n\nThe apocryphal Acts of Peter (Vercelli Acts XXXV), is the source for the tradition about the Latin famous phrase \"Quo vadis, Domine?\" (in Greek: ), which means \"Where are you going, Lord?\". According to the story, Peter, fleeing Rome to avoid execution meets the risen Jesus. In the Latin translation, Peter asks Jesus, \"Quo vadis?\" He replies, \"Romam eo iterum crucifigi (\"I am going to Rome to be crucified again\"). Peter then gains the courage to continue his ministry and returns to the city, where he is martyred. This story is commemorated in an Annibale Carracci painting. The Church of Quo Vadis, near the Catacombs of Saint Callistus, contains a stone in which Jesus' footprints from this event are supposedly preserved, though this was apparently an \"ex-voto\" from a pilgrim, and indeed a copy of the original, housed in the Basilica of St Sebastian.\n\nThe ancient historian Josephus describes how Roman soldiers would amuse themselves by crucifying criminals in different positions, and it is likely that this would have been known to the author of the \"Acts of Peter\". The position attributed to Peter's crucifixion is thus plausible, either as having happened historically or as being an invention by the author of the \"Acts of Peter\". Death, after crucifixion head down, is unlikely to be caused by suffocation, the usual \"cause of death in ordinary crucifixion\".\n\nSt. Clement of Rome identifies Peter and Paul as the outstanding heroes of the faith. Papias reported that the Gospel of Mark was based on Peter's memoirs, a tradition still accepted by some scholars today.\n\nCatholic tradition holds that Peter's inverted crucifixion occurred at the spot now occupied by the Clementine Chapel in the grottoes of Saint Peter's Basilica, with the burial in Saint Peter's tomb nearby.\n\nCaius in his \"Disputation Against Proclus (A.D. 198)\", preserved in part by Eusebius, relates this of the places in which the remains of the apostles Peter and Paul were deposited: \"I can point out the trophies of the apostles. For if you are willing to go to the Vatican or to the Ostian Way, you will find the trophies of those who founded this Church\".\n\nAccording to Jerome, in his work \"De Viris Illustribus (A.D. 392)\", \"Peter was buried at Rome in the Vatican near the triumphal way where he is venerated by the whole world.\"\n\nIn the early 4th century, the Emperor Constantine I decided to honour Peter with a large basilica. Because the precise location of Peter's burial was so firmly fixed in the belief of the Christians of Rome, the church to house the basilica had to be erected on a site that was not convenient to construction. The slope of the Vatican Hill had to be excavated, even though the church could much more easily have been built on level ground only slightly to the south. There were also moral and legal issues, such as demolishing a cemetery to make room for the building. The focal point of the Basilica, both in its original form and in its later complete reconstruction, is the altar located over what is said to be the point of Peter's burial.\nAccording to a letter quoted by Bede, Pope Vitalian sent a cross containing filings said to be from Peter's chains to the queen of Oswy, Anglo-Saxon King of Northumbria in 665, as well as unspecified relics of the saint to the king.\n\nIn 1950, human bones were found buried underneath the altar of St. Peter's Basilica. The bones have been claimed by many to have been those of Peter. An attempt to contradict these claims was made in 1953 by the excavation of what some believe to be St Peter's tomb in Jerusalem. However along with this supposed tomb in Jerusalem bearing his previous name Simon (but not Peter), tombs bearing the names of Jesus, Mary, James, John, and the rest of the apostles were also found at the same excavation—though all these names were very common among Jews at the time.\n\nIn the 1960s, items from the excavations beneath St Peter's Basilica were re-examined, and the bones of a male person were identified. A forensic examination found them to be a male of about 61 years of age from the 1st century. This caused Pope Paul VI in 1968 to announce them most likely to be the relics of Apostle Peter. On November 24, 2013, Pope Francis revealed these relics of nine bone fragments for the first time in public during a Mass celebrated in St. Peter's Square.\n\nChurch tradition ascribes the epistles First and Second Peter to the Apostle Peter, as does the text of Second Peter itself. First Peter implies the author is in \"Babylon\", which has been held to be a coded reference to Rome ().\n\nMost Biblical scholars believe that \"Babylon\" is a metaphor for the pagan Roman Empire at the time it persecuted Christians, before the Edict of Milan in 313: perhaps specifically referencing some aspect of Rome's rule (brutality, greed, paganism).\n\nIn 4 Ezra, 2 Baruch and the Sibylline oracles, \"Babylon\" is a cryptic name for Rome. Reinhard Feldmeier speculates that \"Babylon\" is used to refer to Rome in . In it is said that she sits on \"seven mountains\", typically understood as the seven hills of Rome. A Roman coin minted under the Emperor Vespasian (ca. 70 AD) depicts Rome as a woman sitting on seven hills.\n\nAccording to the \"International Standard Bible Encyclopedia\", \"The characteristics ascribed to this Babylon apply to Rome rather than to any other city of that age: (a) as ruling over the kings of the earth (Revelation 17:18); (b) as sitting on seven mountains (Revelation 17:9); (c) as the center of the world's merchandise (Revelation 18:3, 11–13); (d) as the corrupter of the nations (Revelation 17:2; 18:3; 19:2); (e) as the persecutor of the saints (Revelation 17:6).\"\n\nAt that time in history, the ancient city of Babylon was no longer of any importance. E.g., Strabo wrote, \"The greater part of Babylon is so deserted that one would not hesitate to say ... The Great City is a great desert.\"\n\nAnother theory is that Babylon term refers to the Babylon in Egypt that was an important fortress city in Egypt, just north of today's Cairo and this, combined with the \"greetings from Mark\" (1 Peter 5:13), who may be Mark the Evangelist, regarded as the founder of the Church of Alexandria (Egypt), has led some scholars to regard the First Peter epistle as having been written in Egypt.\n\nEarly Church tradition reports that Peter wrote from Rome. Eusebius of Caesarea states:\n\nIf the reference is to Rome, it is the only biblical reference to Peter being there. Many scholars regard both First and Second Peter as not having been authored by him, partly because other parts of the Acts of the Apostles seem to describe Peter as an illiterate fisherman.\n\nAccording to Catholic belief, Simon Peter was distinguished by Jesus to hold the first place of honor and authority. Also in Catholic belief, Peter was, as the first Bishop of Rome, the first Pope. Furthermore, they consider every Pope to be Peter's successor and the rightful superior of all other bishops. Although Peter never bore the title of \"Pope\", or \"Vicar of Christ\", in this sense the Catholic Church considers Peter the first Pope.\n\nThe Catholic Church's recognition of Peter as head of its church on Earth (with Christ being its heavenly head) is based on its interpretation of two passages from the canonical gospels of the New Testament; as well as sacred tradition. The first passage is which is: \"Feed my lambs... feed my lambs... feed my sheep\" (within the Greek it is Ποίμαινε i.e., to feed and rule [as a Shepherd]., v. 16 while Βόσκε i.e., to feed., for v.15 & v. 17)—which is seen by Catholics as Christ promising the spiritual supremacy to Peter. The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" sees in this passage Jesus \"charging [Peter] with the superintendency of all his sheep, without exception; and consequently of his whole flock, that is, of his own church\".\n\nThe second passage is :\n\nJesus could have said the following phrase in Aramaic, which could have spoken:\n\nPaul of Tarsus called Peter as \"Cephas\", in the same way that Jesus did. This Hellenized Hebrew word of Aramaic ܟ݁ܺܐܦ݂ܳܐ (Cephas), was not a proper name, but Paul assigns him as such.\n\nPetros () and petra () are the Greek equivalent to the Syriac Cephas () which means \"rock\", and there is no difference at all between Petros and petra.\n\nTo better understand what Christ meant, St. Basil elaborates:\n\nIn reference to Peter's occupation before becoming an Apostle, the popes wear the Fisherman's Ring, which bears an image of the saint casting his nets from a fishing boat. The keys used as a symbol of the pope's authority refer to the \"keys of the kingdom of Heaven\" promised to Peter. The terminology of this \"commission\" of Peter is unmistakably parallel to the commissioning of Eliakim ben Hilkiah in . Peter is often depicted in both Western and Eastern Christian art holding a key or a set of keys.\n\nThough the authenticity of this account has been challenged, the general consensus is that these are Jesus' words.\n\nThe Roman Martyrology assigns 29 June as the feast day of both Peter and Paul, without thereby declaring that to be the day of their deaths. Augustine of Hippo says in his Sermon 295: \"One day is assigned for the celebration of the martyrdom of the two apostles. But those two were one. Although their martyrdom occurred on different days, they were one.\"\n\nThis is also the feast of both Apostles in the calendar of the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nIn the Roman Rite, the feast of the Chair of Saint Peter is celebrated on 22 February, and the anniversary of the dedication of the two papal basilicas of Saint Peter's and Saint Paul's outside the Walls is held on 18 November.\n\nBefore Pope John XXIII's revision in 1960, the Roman Calendar also included on 18 January another feast of the Chair of Saint Peter (denominated the Chair of Saint Peter in Rome, while the February feast was then called that of the Chair of Saint Peter at Antioch), and on 1 August the feast of Saint Peter in Chains.\nIn the original Greek the word translated as \"Peter\" is \"Πέτρος\" (Petros) and that translated as \"rock\" is \"πέτρα\" (petra), two words that, while not identical, give an impression of one of many times when Jesus used a play on words. Furthermore, since Jesus presumably spoke to Peter in their native Aramaic language, he would have used \"kepha\" in both instances. The Peshitta Text and the Old Syriac texts use the word \"kepha\" for both \"Peter\" and \"rock\" in . says Jesus called Simon \"Cephas\", as Paul calls him in some letters. He was instructed by Christ to strengthen his brethren, i.e., the apostles. Peter also had a leadership role in the early Christian church at Jerusalem according to The Acts of the Apostles chapters 1–2, 10–11, and 15.\n\nEarly Catholic Latin and Greek writers (such as St. John Chrysostom) considered the \"foundation rock\" as applying to both Peter personally and his confession of faith (or the faith of his confession) symbolically, as well as seeing Christ's promise to apply more generally to his twelve apostles and the Church at large. This \"double meaning\" interpretation is present in the current Catechism of the Catholic Church.\n\nProtestant counter-claims to the Catholic interpretation are largely based on the difference between the Greek words translated \"Rock\" in the Matthean passage. In popular-level writings, rather than in academic studies, they claim that in classical Attic Greek \"petros\" (masculine) generally meant \"pebble\", while \"petra\" (feminine) meant \"boulder\" or \"cliff\", and accordingly, taking Peter's name to mean \"pebble,\" they argue that the \"rock\" in question cannot have been Peter, but something else, either Jesus himself, or the faith in Jesus that Peter had just professed. These popular-level writings are rebutted in similar popular-level Catholic writings.\n\nThe New Testament was written in Koiné Greek, not Attic Greek, and some authorities say no significant difference existed between the meanings of \"petros\" and \"petra\". So far from meaning a pebble was the word \"petros\" that Apollonius Rhodius a writer of Koiné Greek of the third century B.C., used it to refer to \"a huge round \"boulder\", a terrible quoit of Ares Enyalius; four stalwart youths could not have raised it from the ground even a little\".\nThe feminine noun \"petra\" (πέτρα in Greek), translated as \"rock\" in the phrase \"on this rock I will build my church\", is also used at in describing Jesus Christ, which reads: \"They all ate the same spiritual food and drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ.\"\n\nAlthough is used as a primary proof-text for the Catholic doctrine of Papal supremacy, some Protestant scholars say that prior to the Reformation of the 16th century, Matthew 16 was very rarely used to support papal claims, despite it being well documented as being used in the 3rd century by Stephen of Rome against Cyprian of Carriage in a \"passionate disagreement\" about baptism and in the 4th century by Pope Damasus as a claim to primacy as a lesson of the Arian Controversy for stricter discipline and centralized control. Their position is that most of the early and medieval Church interpreted the 'rock' as being a reference either to Christ or to Peter's faith, not Peter himself. They understand Jesus' remark to have been his affirmation of Peter's testimony that Jesus was the Son of God.\n\nDespite this claim, many Fathers saw a connection between Matthew 16:18 and the primacy of Peter and his office, such as Tertullian, writing: \"the Lord said to Peter, 'On this rock I will build my Church, I have given you the keys of the kingdom of heaven [and] whatever you shall have bound or loosed on earth will be bound or loosed in heaven' [Matt. 16:18–19]. . . . Upon you, he says, I will build my Church; and I will give to you the keys, not to the Church.\"\n\nOther theologically conservative Christians, including Confessional Lutherans, also rebut comments made by Karl Keating and D.A. Carson who claim that there is no distinction between the words \"petros\" and \"petra\" in Koine Greek. The Lutheran theologians state that the dictionaries of Koine/NT Greek, including the authoritative Bauer-Danker-Arndt-Gingrich Lexicon, indeed list both words and the passages that give different meanings for each. The Lutheran theologians further note that:\n\nOscar Cullmann, a Lutheran theologian and distinguished Church historian, disagrees with Luther and the Protestant reformers who held that by \"rock\" Christ did not mean Peter, but meant either himself or the faith of His followers. He believes the meaning of the original Aramaic is very clear: that \"Kepha\" was the Aramaic word for \"rock\", and that it was also the name by which Christ called Peter.\n\nYet, Cullmann sharply rejects the Catholic claim that Peter began the papal succession. He writes: \"In the life of Peter there is no starting point for a chain of succession to the leadership of the church at large.\" While he believes the Matthew text is entirely valid and is in no way spurious, he says it cannot be used as \"warrant of the papal succession.\"\n\nCullmann concludes that while Peter \"was\" the original head of the apostles, Peter was not the founder of any visible church succession.\n\nThere are other Protestant scholars who also partially defend the historical Catholic position about \"Rock.\" Taking a somewhat different approach from Cullman, they point out that the Gospel of Matthew was not written in the classical Attic form of Greek, but in the Hellenistic Koine dialect in which there is no distinction in meaning between \"petros\" and \"petra\". Moreover, even in Attic Greek, in which the regular meaning of \"petros\" was a smallish \"stone,\" there are instances of its use to refer to larger rocks, as in Sophocles, \"Oedipus at Colonus\" v. 1595, where \"petros\" refers to a boulder used as a landmark, obviously something more than a pebble. In any case, a \"petros\"/\"petra\" distinction is irrelevant considering the Aramaic language in which the phrase might well have been spoken. In Greek, of any period, the feminine noun \"petra\" could not be used as the given name of a male, which may explain the use of \"Petros\" as the Greek word with which to translate Aramaic \"Kepha\".\n\nYet, still other Protestant scholars believe that Jesus in fact \"did\" mean to single out Peter as the very rock which he will build upon, but that the passage does nothing to indicate a continued succession of Peter's implied position. They assert that Matthew uses the demonstrative pronoun \"taute\", which allegedly means \"this very\" or \"this same\", when he refers to the rock on which Jesus' church will be built. He also uses the Greek word for \"and\", \"kai\". It is alleged that when a demonstrative pronoun is used with \"kai\", the pronoun refers back to the preceding noun. The second rock Jesus refers to must then be the same rock as the first one; and if Peter is the first rock he must also be the second.\n\nUnlike Oscar Cullmann, Confessional Lutherans and many other Protestant apologists agree that it's meaningless to elaborate the meaning of \"Rock\" by looking at the Aramaic language, this is true that the Jews spoke mostly Aramaic at home, however in public they usually spoke Greek. The few Aramaic words spoken by Jesus in public were unusual and that is why they are noted as such. And most importantly the New Testament was revealed in Koine Greek, \"not\" Aramaic.\n\nLutheran historians even report that the Catholic church itself didn't, at least unanimously, regard Peter as the \"Rock\" until the 1870s:\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church regards Apostle Peter, together with Apostle Paul, as \"Preeminent Apostles\". Another title used for Peter is \"Coryphaeus\", which could be translated as \"Choir-director\", or lead singer. The church recognizes Apostle Peter's leadership role in the early church, especially in the very early days at Jerusalem, but does not consider him to have had any \"princely\" role over his fellow Apostles.\n\nThe New Testament is not seen by the Orthodox as supporting any extraordinary authority for Peter with regard to faith or morals. The Orthodox also hold that Peter did not act as leader at the Council of Jerusalem, but as merely one of a number who spoke. The final decision regarding the non-necessity of circumcision (and certain prohibitions) was spelled out by James, the Brother of the Lord (though Catholics hold James merely reiterated and fleshed out what Peter had said, regarding the latter's earlier divine revelation regarding the inclusion of Gentiles).\n\nEastern and Oriental Orthodox do not recognize the Bishop of Rome as the successor of St. Peter but the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople sends a delegation each year to Rome to participate in the celebration of the feast of Sts. Peter and Paul. In the Ravenna Document of 13 October 2007, the representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Church agreed that \"Rome, as the Church that 'presides in love' according to the phrase of St. Ignatius of Antioch (To the Romans, Prologue), occupied the first place in the \"taxis\", and that the bishop of Rome was therefore the \"protos\" among the patriarchs, if the Papacy unites with the Orthodox Church. They disagree, however, on the interpretation of the historical evidence from this era regarding the prerogatives of the bishop of Rome as \"protos\", a matter that was already understood in different ways in the first millennium.\"\n\nWith regard to Jesus' words to Peter, \"Thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my church\", the Orthodox hold Christ is referring to the confession of faith, \"not\" the person of Peter as that upon which he will build the church. This is allegedly shown by the fact that the original Greek uses the feminine demonstrative pronoun when he says \"upon this rock\" (ταύτῃ τῇ πέτρᾳ); whereas, grammatically, if he had been referring to Peter, he would allegedly have used the masculine. This \"gender distinction\" argument is also held by some Protestants.\n\nIn the Orthodox Daily Office every Thursday throughout the year is dedicated to the Holy Apostles, including St. Peter. There are also two feast days in the year which are dedicated to him:\n\n\nThe Fathers of the Syriac Orthodox Church tried to give a theological interpretation to the primacy of Apostle Peter. They were fully convinced of the unique office of Peter in the primitive Christian community. Ephrem, Aphrahat and Maruthas who were supposed to have been the best exponents of the early Syriac tradition unequivocally acknowledge the office of Peter.\n\nThe Syriac Fathers, following the rabbinic tradition, call Jesus \"Kepha\" for they see \"rock\" in the Old Testament as a messianic Symbol (yet the Old Maronite Syriacs of Lebanon still refer to Saint Peter as \"Saint Simon the Generous\" or Simon Karam\"). When Christ gave his own name \"Kepha\" to Simon he was giving him participation in the person and office of Christ. Christ who is the Kepha and shepherd made Simon the chief shepherd in his place and gave him the very name Kepha and said that on Kepha he would build the Church. Aphrahat shared the common Syriac tradition. For him Kepha is in fact another name of Jesus, and Simon was given the right to share the name. The person who receives somebody else's name also obtains the rights of the person who bestows the name. Aphrahat makes the stone taken from Jordan a type of Peter. He wrote: \"Jesus son of Nun set up the stones for a witness in Israel; Jesus our Saviour called Simon Kepha Sarirto and set him as the faithful witness among nations\".\n\nAgain he wrote in his commentary on Deuteronomy that Moses brought forth water from \"rock\" (Kepha) for the people and Jesus sent Simon Kepha to carry his teachings among nations. God accepted him and made him the foundation of the Church and called him Kepha. When he speaks about the transfiguration of Christ he calls him Simon Peter, the foundation of the Church. Ephrem also shared the same view. In the Armenian version of De Virginitate records that Peter the rock shunned honour. In a \"mimro\" of Efrem found in Holy Week Liturgy points to the importance of Peter.\n\nBoth Aphrahat and Ephrem represent the authentic tradition of the Syrian Church. The different orders of liturgies used for sanctification of Church buildings, marriage, ordination etcetera, reveal that the primacy of Peter is a part of living faith of the Church.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church, who believes in the re-established Apostle ministry, sees Peter as the first Chief Apostle.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) teaches that Peter was the first leader of the early Christian church after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. While Mormons accept apostolic succession from Peter, they reject papal successors as illegitimate.\n\nIn interpreting , LDS Church leader Bruce R. McConkie stated, \"The things of God are known only by the power of his Spirit,\" and \"that which the world calls Mormonism is based upon the rock of revelation.\" In his April 1981 general conference address, McConkie identified the rock of which Jesus spoke as the rock of revelation: \"There is no other foundation upon which the Lord could build His Church and kingdom ... Revelation: Pure, perfect, personal revelation—this is the rock!\" Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, recorded in multiple revelations that Peter appeared to him and Oliver Cowdery in 1829, near Harmony Township, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, in order to bestow the apostleship and keys of the kingdom as part of a restoration of priesthood authority.\n\nMuslims consider Jesus a prophet of God. The Qur'an also speaks of Jesus's disciples but does not mention their names, instead referring to them as \"helpers to the prophet of God\". Muslim exegesis and Qur'an commentary, however, names them and includes Peter among the disciples. An old tradition, which involves the legend of Habib the Carpenter, mentions that Peter was one of the three disciples sent to Antioch to preach to the people there.\n\nShia Muslims see a parallel in the figure of Peter to Ali at Muhammad's time. They look upon Ali as being the vicegerent, with Muhammad being the prophet; likewise, they see Peter as the vicegerent, behind Jesus the prophet and Masih. Peter's role as the first proper leader of the church is also seen by Shias to be a parallel to their belief in Ali as the first caliph after Muhammad.\n\nIn his \"Advent of Divine Justice,\" Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith, refers to Peter:\n\n\"Peter,\" 'Abdu'l-Bahá has testified, \"according to the history of the Church, was also incapable of keeping count of the days of the week. Whenever he decided to go fishing, he would tie up his weekly food into seven parcels, and every day he would eat one of them, and when he had reached the seventh, he would know that the Sabbath had arrived, and thereupon would observe it.\" If the Son of Man was capable of infusing into apparently so crude and helpless an instrument such potency as to cause, in the words of Bahá'u'lláh, \"the mysteries of wisdom and of utterance to flow out of his mouth,\" and to exalt him above the rest of His disciples, and render him fit to become His successor and the founder of His Church, how much more can the Father, Who is Bahá'u'lláh, empower the most puny and insignificant among His followers to achieve, for the execution of His purpose, such wonders as would dwarf the mightiest achievements of even the first apostle of Jesus Christ!\n\nTraditionally, two canonical epistles (1 and 2 Peter) and several apocryphal works have been attributed to Peter.\n\nThe New Testament includes two letters (\"epistles\") ascribed to Peter. Both demonstrate a high quality of cultured and urban Greek, at odds with the linguistic skill that would ordinarily be expected of an Aramaic-speaking fisherman, who would have learned Greek as a second or third language. The textual features of these two epistles are such that a majority of scholars doubt that they were written by the same hand. Some scholars argue that theological differences imply different sources, and point to the lack of references to 2 Peter among the early Church Fathers.\n\nDaniel B. Wallace (who maintains that Peter was the author) writes that, for many scholars, \"the issue of authorship is already settled, at least negatively: the apostle Peter did not write this letter\" and that \"the vast bulk of NT scholars adopts this perspective without much discussion\". However, he later states, \"Although a very strong case has been made against Petrine authorship of 2 Peter, we believe it is deficient... Taken together, these external and internal arguments strongly suggest the traditional view, viz., that Peter was indeed the author of the second epistle which bears his name.\"\n\nOf the two epistles, the first epistle is considered the earlier. A number of scholars have argued that the textual discrepancies with what would be expected of the biblical Peter are due to it having been written with the help of a secretary or as an amanuensis.\n\nJerome explains:\n\nSome have seen a reference to the use of a secretary in the sentence: \"By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand\". However New Testament scholar Bart D. Ehrman in his 2011 book \"Forged\" states that \"scholars now widely recognize that when the author indicates that he wrote the book 'through Silvanus', he is indicating not the name of his secretary, but the person who was carrying his letter to the recipients.\" The letter refers to Roman persecution of Christians, apparently of an official nature. The Roman historian Tacitus and the biographer Suetonius do both record that Nero persecuted Christians, and Tacitus dates this to immediately after the fire that burned Rome in 64. Christian tradition, for example Eusebius of Caesarea (\"History\" book 2, 24.1), has maintained that Peter was killed in Nero's persecution, and thus had to assume that the Roman persecution alluded to in First Peter must be this Neronian persecution. On the other hand, many modern scholars argue that First Peter refers to the persecution of Christians in Asia Minor during the reign of the emperor Domitian (81–96), as the letter is explicitly addressed to Jewish Christians from that region:\n\nThose scholars who believe that the epistle dates from the time of Domitian argue that Nero's persecution of Christians was confined to the city of Rome itself, and did not extend to the Asian provinces mentioned in 1 Pet 1:1–2.\nThe Second Epistle of Peter, on the other hand, appears to have been copied, in part, from the Epistle of Jude, and some modern scholars date its composition as late as \"c.\" 150. Some scholars argue the opposite, that the Epistle of Jude copied Second Peter, while others contend an early date for Jude and thus observe that an early date is not incompatible with the text. Many scholars have noted the similarities between the apocryphal Second Epistle of Clement (2nd century) and Second Peter. Second Peter may be earlier than 150, there are a few possible references to it that date back to the 1st century or early 2nd century, e.g., 1 Clement written in \"c.\" AD 96, and the later church historian Eusebius wrote that Origen had made reference to the epistle before 250. \nJerome says that Peter \"wrote two epistles which are called Catholic, the second of which, on account of its difference from the first in style, is considered by many not to be by him\". \"(De Viris Illustribus 1)\" But he himself received the epistle, and explained the difference in style and character and structure of words by the assumption that Peter used different interpreters in the composition of the two epistles; and from his time onward the epistle was generally regarded as a part of the New Testament.\n\nEven in early times there was controversy over its authorship, and Second Peter was often not included in the biblical canon; it was only in the 4th century that it gained a firm foothold in the New Testament, in a series of synods. In the east the Syriac Orthodox Church still did not admit it into the canon until the 6th century.\n\nTraditionally, the Gospel of Mark was said to have been written by a person named John Mark, and that this person was an assistant to Peter, hence its content was traditionally seen as the closest to Peter's viewpoint. According to Eusebius' \"|Ecclesiastical History\", Papias recorded this belief from John the Presbyter:\n\nClement of Alexandria in the fragments of his work \"Hypotyposes (A.D. 190)\" preserved and cited by the historian Eusebius in his Church History (VI, 14: 6) writes that:\n\nAlso Irenaeus wrote about this tradition:\n\nBased on these quotes, and on the Christian tradition, the information in Mark's gospel about Peter would be based on eyewitness material. The gospel itself is anonymous, and the above passages are the oldest surviving written testimony to its authorship.\n\nThere are also a number of other apocryphal writings, that have been either attributed to or written about Peter. These include:\n\n\nTwo sayings are attributed to Peter in the gnostic Gospel of Thomas. In the first, Peter compares Jesus to a \"just messenger.\" In the second, Peter asks Jesus to \"make Mary leave us, for females don't deserve life.\" In the Apocalypse of Peter, Peter holds a dialogue with Jesus about the parable of the fig tree and the fate of sinners. In the Gospel of Mary, whose text is largely fragmented, Peter appears to be jealous of \"Mary\" (probably Mary Magdalene). He says to the other disciples, \"Did He really speak privately with a woman and not openly to us? Are we to turn about and all listen to her? Did He prefer her to us?\" In reply to this, Levi says \"Peter, you have always been hot tempered.\" Other noncanonical texts that attribute sayings to Peter include the Secret Book of James and the Acts of Peter.\n\nIn the Fayyum Fragment, which dates to the end of the 3rd century, Jesus predicts that Peter will deny him three times before a cock crows on the following morning. The account is similar to that of the canonical gospels, especially the Gospel of Mark. It is unclear whether the fragment is an abridged version of the accounts in the synoptic gospels, or a source text on which they were based, perhaps the apocryphal Gospel of Peter.\n\nThe fragmentary Gospel of Peter contains an account of the death of Jesus differing significantly from the canonical gospels. It contains little information about Peter himself, except that after the discovery of the empty tomb, \"I, Simon Peter, and Andrew my brother, took our fishing nets and went to the sea.\"\n\nThe earliest portrait of Peter dates back to the 4th century and was located in 2010. In traditional iconography, Peter has been shown very consistently since early Christian art as an oldish thick-set man with a \"slightly combative\" face and a short beard, and usually white hair, sometimes balding. He thus contrasts with Paul the Apostle who is bald except at the sides, with a longer beard and often black hair, and thinner in the face. One exception to this is in Anglo-Saxon art, where he typically lacks a beard. Both Peter and Paul are shown thus as early as the 4th century Catacombs of Marcellinus and Peter in Rome. Later in the Middle Ages his attribute is one or two large keys in his hand or hanging from his belt, first seen in the early 8th century. More than many medieval attributes, this continued to be depicted in the Renaissance and afterwards. By the 15th century Peter is more likely to be bald on the top of his head in the Western church, but he continues to have a good head of hair in Orthodox icons.\n\nThe depiction of Saint Peter as literally the keeper of the gates of heaven, popular with modern cartoonists, is not found in traditional religious art, but Peter usually heads groups of saints flanking God in heaven, on the right hand side (viewer's left) of God. Narrative images of Peter include several scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" where he is mentioned in the gospels, and he is often identifiable in scenes where his presence is not specifically mentioned. Usually he stands nearest to Christ. In particular, depictions of the \"Arrest of Christ\" usually include Peter cutting off the ear of one of the soldiers. Scenes without Jesus include his distinctive martyrdom, his rescue from prison, and sometimes his trial. In the Counter-Reformation scenes of Peter hearing the cock crow for the third time became popular, as a representation of repentance and hence the Catholic sacrament of Confession or Repentance.\n\nMany Protestant scholars accept the traditional story of Peter's martyrdom in Rome. Some Protestants, however, have rejected Peter's martyrdom as a later invention, arguing that evidence of Peter exists only in biblical accounts.\n\nIt has also been suggested that there was a serious division between Peter's Jewish Christian party and Paul's Hellenizing party, seen in e.g. the Incident at Antioch, which later Christian accounts have downplayed.\n\nAnother revisionist view was developed by supporters of the Christ myth theory, which holds that the figure of Peter is largely a development from some mythological doorkeeper figures. According to Arthur Drews and G. A. Wells, if there was a historical Peter, then all that is known about him is the brief mentions in Galatians.\n\n"}
{"id": "31969160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31969160", "title": "Subramanya Nagarajarao", "text": "Subramanya Nagarajarao\n\nSubramanya Nagarajarao (), also known as N. Subramanya, is an Indian author, researcher specialised on refugees and translator. He is currently Director of Indian Research Institute, Mysore.\n\nSubramanya Nagarajarao defended his thesis on Tibetan refugees and as awarded his Ph.D. in 1999 by the University of Mysore. He is post graduate in Political Science. He held tenure as Researcher under the UNHCR Chair at the National Law School of India University, Bangalore, during which he worked extensively on the refugee issue. He has guided many master's degree Students in preparation of their dissertations. He worked as Director of Indian Research Institute, Mysore and left it to join a teaching position at University of Mysore. He is also known as a translator from Kannada to English, a passion from his university days. He participated to translating the Sahitya Akademi Awarded book Government Brahmana of Prof. Aravind Malagathi. He is an Hon. Professor with the Indian Institute of Human Rights, New Delhi. In 2008, he published an article with Jan Magnusson and Geoff Childs in Journal of the International Association of Tibetan Studies. After teaching at University of Mysore, he has again taken charge as the Director of a not-for profit academic trust namely Indian Research Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51825", "title": "Sun Tzu", "text": "Sun Tzu\n\nSun Tzu (; also rendered as Sunzi; ) was a Chinese general, military strategist, writer, and philosopher who lived in the Eastern Zhou period of ancient China. Sun Tzu is traditionally credited as the author of \"The Art of War\", a widely influential work of military strategy that has affected both Western and East Asian philosophy and military thinking. Aside from his legacy as the author of \"The Art of War\", Sun Tzu is revered in Chinese and East Asian culture as a legendary historical and military figure. His birth name was Sun Wu, and he was known outside of his family by his courtesy name Changqing. The name \"Sun Tzu\" by which he is best known in the Western World is an honorific which means \"Master Sun\".\n\nSun Tzu's historicity is uncertain. The Han dynasty historian Sima Qian and other traditional Chinese historians placed him as a minister to King Helü of Wu and dated his lifetime to 544–496 BC. Modern scholars accepting his historicity nonetheless place the existing text of \"The Art of War\" in the later Warring States period based upon its style of composition and its descriptions of warfare. Traditional accounts state that the general's descendant Sun Bin also wrote a treatise on military tactics, also titled \"The Art of War\". Since both Sun Wu and Sun Bin were referred to as Sun Tzu in classical Chinese texts, some historians believed them identical prior to the rediscovery of Sun Bin's treatise in 1972.\n\nSun Tzu's work has been praised and employed throughout East Asian warfare since its composition. During the twentieth century, \"The Art of War\" grew in popularity and saw practical use in Western society as well. It continues to influence many competitive endeavors throughout the world, including culture, politics, business, and sports, as well as modern warfare.\n\nThe oldest available sources disagree as to where Sun Tzu was born. The \"Spring and Autumn Annals\" states that Sun Tzu was born in Qi, while Sima Qian's later \"Records of the Grand Historian\" (\"Shiji\") states that Sun Tzu was a native of Wu. Both sources agree that Sun Tzu was born in the late Spring and Autumn period and that he was active as a general and strategist, serving king Helü of Wu in the late sixth century BC, beginning around 512 BC. Sun Tzu's victories then inspired him to write \"The Art of War\". \"The Art of War\" was one of the most widely read military treatises in the subsequent Warring States period, a time of constant war among seven ancient Chinese states Zhao, Qi, Qin, Chu, Han, Wei, and Yan who fought to control the vast expanse of fertile territory in Eastern China.\n\nOne of the more well-known stories about Sun Tzu, taken from Sima Qian, illustrates Sun Tzu's temperament as follows: Before hiring Sun Tzu, the King of Wu tested Sun Tzu's skills by commanding him to train a harem of 360 concubines into soldiers. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, appointing the two concubines most favored by the king as the company commanders. When Sun Tzu first ordered the concubines to face right, they giggled. In response, Sun Tzu said that the general, in this case himself, was responsible for ensuring that soldiers understood the commands given to them. Then, he reiterated the command, and again the concubines giggled. Sun Tzu then ordered the execution of the king's two favored concubines, to the king's protests. He explained that if the general's soldiers understood their commands but did not obey, it was the fault of the officers. Sun Tzu also said that, once a general was appointed, it was his duty to carry out his mission, even if the king protested. After both concubines were killed, new officers were chosen to replace them. Afterwards, both companies, now well aware of the costs of further frivolity, performed their maneuvers flawlessly.\n\nSima Qian claimed that Sun Tzu later proved on the battlefield that his theories were effective (for example, at the Battle of Boju), that he had a successful military career, and that he wrote \"The Art of War\" based on his tested expertise. However, the \"Zuo zhuan\", a historical text written centuries earlier than the \"Shiji\", provides a much more detailed account of the Battle of Boju, but does not mention Sun Tzu at all.\n\nBeginning around the 12th century, some scholars began to doubt the historical existence of Sun Tzu, primarily on the grounds that he is not mentioned in the historical classic \"Zuo zhuan\", which mentions most of the notable figures from the Spring and Autumn period. The name \"Sun Wu\" () does not appear in any text prior to the \"Shiji\", and may have been a made-up descriptive cognomen meaning \"the fugitive warrior\": the surname \"Sun\" can be glossed as the related term \"fugitive\" (\"xùn\" ), while \"Wu\" is the ancient Chinese virtue of \"martial, valiant\" (\"wǔ\" ), which corresponds to Sun Tzu's role as the hero's \"doppelgänger\" in the story of Wu Zixu. The only historical battle attributed to Sun Tzu, the Battle of Boju, has no record of him fighting in that battle.\n\nSkeptics cite possible historical inaccuracies and anachronisms in the text, and that the book was actually a compilation from different authors and military strategists. Attribution of the authorship of \"The Art of War\" varies among scholars and has included people and movements including Sun; Chu scholar Wu Zixu; an anonymous author; a school of theorists in Qi or Wu; Sun Bin; and others. Sun Bin appears to have been an actual person who was a genuine authority on military matters, and may have been the inspiration for the creation of the historical figure \"Sun Tzu\" through a form of euhemerism. The name Sun Wu does appear in later sources such as the \"Shiji\" and the \"Wu Yue Chunqiu\", but were written centuries after Sun Tzu's era.\n\nThe use of the strips in other works however, such as \"The Methods of the Sima\" is considered proof of Sun Tzu's historical priority. According to Ralph Sawyer, it is very likely Sun Tzu did exist and not only served as a general but also wrote the core of the book that bears his name. It is argued that there is a disparity between the large-scale wars and sophisticated techniques detailed in the text and the more primitive small-scale battles that many believe predominated in China during the 6th century BC. Against this, Sawyer argues that the teachings of Sun Wu were probably taught to succeeding generations in his family or a small school of disciples, which eventually included Sun Bin. These descendants or students may have revised or expanded upon certain points in the original text.\n\nSkeptics who identify issues with the traditionalist view point to possible anachronisms in \"The Art of War\" including terms, technology (such as anachronistic crossbows and the unmentioned cavalry), philosophical ideas, events, and military techniques that should not have been available to Sun Wu. Additionally, there are no records of professional generals during the Spring and Autumn period; these are only extant from the Warring States period, so there is doubt as to Sun Tzu's rank and generalship. This caused much confusion as to when \"The Art of War\" was actually written. The first traditional view is that it was written in 512 BC by the historical Sun Wu, active in the last years of the Spring and Autumn period (c. 722–481 BC). A second view, held by scholars such as Samuel Griffith, places \"The Art of War\" during the middle to late Warring States period (c. 481–221 BC). Finally, a third school claims that the slips were published in the last half of the 5th century BC; this is based on how its adherents interpret the bamboo slips discovered at Yinque Shan in 1972 AD.\n\n\"The Art of War\" is traditionally ascribed to Sun Tzu. It presents a philosophy of war for managing conflicts and winning battles. It is accepted as a masterpiece on strategy and has been frequently cited and referred to by generals and theorists since it was first published, translated, and distributed internationally.\n\nThere are numerous theories concerning when the text was completed and concerning the identity of the author or authors, but archeological recoveries show \"The Art of War\" had taken roughly its current form by at least the early Han. Because it is impossible to prove definitively when the \"Art of War\" was completed before this date, the differing theories concerning the work's author or authors and date of completion are unlikely to be completely resolved. Some modern scholars believe that it contains not only the thoughts of its original author but also commentary and clarifications from later military theorists, such as Li Quan and Du Mu.\n\nOf the military texts written before the unification of China and Shi Huangdi's subsequent book burning in the second century BC, six major works have survived. During the much later Song dynasty, these six works were combined with a Tang text into a collection called the \"Seven Military Classics\". As a central part of that compilation, \"The Art of War\" formed the foundations of orthodox military theory in early modern China. Illustrating this point, the book was required reading to pass the tests for imperial appointment to military positions.\n\nSun Tzu's The \"Art of War\" uses language that may be unusual in a Western text on warfare and strategy. For example, the eleventh chapter states that a leader must be \"serene and inscrutable\" and capable of comprehending \"unfathomable plans\". The text contains many similar remarks that have long confused Western readers lacking an awareness of the East Asian context. The meanings of such statements are clearer when interpreted in the context of Taoist thought and practice. Sun Tzu viewed the ideal general as an enlightened Taoist master, which has led to \"The Art of War\" being considered a prime example of Taoist strategy.\n\nThe book has also become popular among political leaders and those in business management. Despite its title, \"The Art of War\" addresses strategy in a broad fashion, touching upon public administration and planning. The text outlines theories of battle, but also advocates diplomacy and the cultivation of relationships with other nations as essential to the health of a state.\n\nOn April 10, 1972, the Yinqueshan Han Tombs were accidentally unearthed by construction workers in Shandong. Scholars uncovered a collection of ancient texts written on unusually well-preserved bamboo slips. Among them were \"The Art of War\" and Sun Bin's \"Military Methods\". Although Han dynasty bibliographies noted the latter publication as extant and written by a descendant of Sun, it had previously been lost. The rediscovery of Sun Bin's work is regarded as extremely important by scholars, both because of Sun Bin's relationship to Sun Tzu and because of the work's addition to the body of military thought in Chinese late antiquity. The discovery as a whole significantly expanded the body of surviving Warring States military theory. Sun Bin's treatise is the only known military text surviving from the Warring States period discovered in the twentieth century and bears the closest similarity to \"The Art of War\" of all surviving texts.\n\nSun Tzu's \"Art of War\" has influenced many notable figures. The Chinese historian Sima Qian recounted that China's first historical emperor, Qin's Shi Huangdi, considered the book invaluable in ending the time of the Warring States. In the 20th century, the Chinese Communist leader Mao Zedong partially credited his 1949 victory over Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang to \"The Art of War\". The work strongly influenced Mao's writings about guerrilla warfare, which further influenced communist insurgencies around the world.\n\n\"The Art of War\" was introduced into Japan and the book quickly became popular among Japanese generals. Through its later influence on Oda Nobunaga, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, and Tokugawa Ieyasu, it significantly affected the unification of Japan in the early modern era. Before the Meiji Restoration, mastery of its teachings was honored among the samurai and its teachings were both exhorted and exemplified by influential \"daimyōs\" and \"shōguns\". It remained popular among the Imperial Japanese armed forces. The Admiral of the Fleet Tōgō Heihachirō, who led Japan's forces to victory in the Russo-Japanese War, was an avid reader of Sun Tzu.\n\nHo Chi Minh translated the work for his Vietnamese officers to study. His general Võ Nguyên Giáp, the strategist behind victories over French and American forces in Vietnam, was likewise an avid student and practitioner of Sun Tzu's ideas.\n\nAmerica's Asian conflicts against Japan, North Korea, and North Vietnam brought Sun Tzu to the attention of American military leaders. The Department of the Army in the United States, through its Command and General Staff College, has directed all units to maintain libraries within their respective headquarters for the continuing education of personnel in the art of war. \"The Art of War\" is mentioned as an example of works to be maintained at each facility, and staff duty officers are obliged to prepare short papers for presentation to other officers on their readings. Similarly, Sun Tzu's \"Art of War\" is listed on the Marine Corps Professional Reading Program. During the Gulf War in the 1990s, both Generals Norman Schwarzkopf Jr. and Colin Powell employed principles from Sun Tzu related to deception, speed, and striking one's enemy's weak points. However, the United States and other Western countries have been criticised for not truly understanding Sun Tzu's work and not appreciating \"The Art of War\" within the wider context of Chinese society.\n\nDaoist rhetoric is a component incorporated in the \"Art of War\". According to Steven C. Combs in \"Sun-zi and the \"Art of War\": The Rhetoric of Parsimony\", warfare is \"used as a metaphor for rhetoric, and that both are philosophically based arts.\" Combs writes \"Warfare is analogous to persuasion, as a battle for hearts and minds.\" The application of \"The Art of War\" strategies throughout history is attributed to its philosophical rhetoric. Daoism is the central principle in the \"Art of War\". Combs compares ancient Daoist Chinese to traditional Aristotelian rhetoric, notably for the differences in persuasion. Daoist rhetoric in the art of war warfare strategies is described as \"peaceful and passive, favoring silence over speech\". This form of communication is parsimonious. Parsimonious behavior, which is highly emphasized in \"The Art of War\" as avoiding confrontation and being spiritual in nature, shapes basic principles in Daoism.\n\nMark McNeilly writes in \"Sun Tzu and the Art of Modern Warfare\" that a modern interpretation of Sun and his importance throughout Chinese history is critical in understanding China's push to becoming a superpower in the twenty-first century. Modern Chinese scholars explicitly rely on historical strategic lessons and \"The Art of War\" in developing their theories, seeing a direct relationship between their modern struggles and those of China in Sun Tzu's time. There is a great perceived value in Sun Tzu's teachings and other traditional Chinese writers, which are used regularly in developing the strategies of the Chinese state and its leaders.\n\nIn 2008, the Chinese television producer Zhang Jizhong adapted Sun Tzu's life story into a 40-episode historical drama television series entitled \"Bing Sheng\", starring Zhu Yawen as Sun Tzu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4159033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4159033", "title": "Tracy Wilson", "text": "Tracy Wilson\n\nTracy Wilson, (born September 25, 1961) is a Canadian ice dancer. With partner Rob McCall, she won the Canadian national championship seven times (1982–1988), is a three-time World bronze medalist, and the 1988 Olympic bronze medalist.\n\nTracy Wilson was born on September 25, 1961 in Lachine, Quebec, Canada. She grew up in Port Moody, British Columbia. As child she did swimming and diving, competing at provincials three times. She first swam with the Coquitlam Sharks in 1967 before moving, in 1970, to Port Moody Aquarians. She attended college for one semester before her partnership with Rob McCall began.\n\nIn 1987, Wilson married Brad Kinsella. Though she did not change her name at the time, her name is sometimes printed as Tracy Wilson-Kinsella or Tracy Wilson Kinsella. Together they have three kids – two sons who play hockey and a daughter who competes in equestrianism. They live in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nWilson started skating when she was six years old in Coquitlam. After moving she became a member of Port Moody's Inlet Skating Club. She competed in ice dancing for the first time when she was fifteen. On the junior level, Wilson competed with Mark Stokes. They were the 1980 Canadian junior national champions.\n\nIn the summer of 1981, Wilson teamed up with Rob McCall. Their partnership started at the Elgin Barrow Arena in Richmond Hill, Ontario and they trained in Richmond Hill throughout their competitive careers. Together they won the Canadian national championship seven times, from 1982–1988. They won the Skate Canada International competition in 1983 and 1987. The 1983 gold was the first time a Canadian team won the event. The pair were three-time World bronze medalists (1986-1988). They competed at the 1984 Winter Olympic and the 1988 Winter Olympic, winning a bronze medal in the 1988 Games. That medal was Canada's first Olympic medal in ice dancing.\n\nAfter the 1988 Worlds, they decided to go pro. They competed in professional competition, including winning the World Professional Championships in 1989. The team also performed with Stars on Ice for two years and other shows. In March/April 1990, McCall was diagnosed with AIDS and his health was deteriorating. Disregarding the mass public fear of AIDS at the time, Wilson continued to skate with McCall. The pair did some shows and skated at the 1990 World Professional Championships. Wilson had to stop skating with the birth of her first child in 1991. Soon after McCall deteriorated further and he died November 15, 1991. Wilson retired from ice dancing, but she did skate a solo, while pregnant with her second child, at the tribute show for McCall on November 21, 1992.\n\nIn 2006, Wilson and Brian Orser were hired by the Toronto Cricket Skating and Curling Club as consultants to help rebuild the skating program. The two decided to stay and coach there, training kids, adults, and elite skaters.\n\nHer current students include: \n\nHer former students include: \n\nSince 1990, Wilson has worked as a television figure skating analyst for American and Canadian networks, including CBS, NBC, CBC, CTV (TSN), ABC, and Turner Sports (TNT). She has also written several articles for TSN's website.\n\nWilson has also done some choreography, including for Canadian junior ice dance team Edrea Khong / Edbert Khong.\n\nWilson is also an AIDS activist. She was one of the primary organizers of the \"Skate the Dream: A Tribute to Rob McCall\" ice show, a fundraiser for AIDS research, which took place on November 21, 1992.\n\nShe is an ambassador for S'port for Kids Foundation, a charitable organization whose goal is to involve kids in organized athletics.\n\nIn 1988, Wilson and McCall were made Members of the Order of Canada. This is the highest civilian honor given by the Canadian government.\n\nWilson was also inducted into several halls of fame, including:\n\nIn 1995, the Tracy Wilson and Rob McCall Trophy was established to annually recognize a Canadian pairs team. Past winners included pairs in rowing, bobsleigh, and tennis.\n"}
{"id": "57969289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57969289", "title": "Uzziel Ndagijimana", "text": "Uzziel Ndagijimana\n\nUzziel Ndagijimana is a Rwandan economist. He is the current minister of finance and economic planning of Rwanda.\n\nNdagijimana started his career as a lecturer in the faculty of Economics, Social Sciences and Management at the National University of Rwanda in 1999. In 2002, he moved to leadership positions of the Government of Rwanda.\n\nHe served as the Rector of School of Finance and Banking in Kigali, Rwanda from 2002 to 2007 after which he moved on to be the Vice Rector of the National University of Rwanda from 2007 to 2011.\n\nHe was the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Republic of Rwanda from May 2011 to July 2014. He was also the Minister of State in charge of Economic Planning in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN).\n\nDuring the annual general meeting of Afreximbank in Abuja to commemorate it's 25th anniversary, Kemi Adeosun, Nigeria's finance minister succeeded Ndagijimana as chairman of the board of the bank\n\nOn April 7, 2018, he was appointed Rwanda’s Minister of Finance and Economic Planning by President Paul Kagame.\n\nUzziel Ndagijimana was a member of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of Rwanda and the Board of Directors of National University of Rwanda. He also served as Chairman of Economic Advisory Council of the President of the Republic of Rwanda.\n"}
{"id": "31914545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31914545", "title": "Wilson Muruli Mukasa", "text": "Wilson Muruli Mukasa\n\nWilson Muruli Mukasa is a Ugandan politician. He has been Cabinet Minister of Public Service in the Ugandan Cabinet, since 6 June 2016. He has previously served as Cabinent Minister of Gender and Social Issues from 1 March 2015, until 6 June 2016. Previously he served as Minister of Security from 27 May 2011 until 1 March 2015. Muruli Mukasa also serves as the Member of Parliament for Budyebo County, Nakasongola District.\n\nHe was born in Nakasongola District on 5 July 1952. He attend local elementary and secondary schools. He studied at Makerere University, Uganda's oldest and largest university, earning the combined degree/diploma of Bachelor of Arts with the Diploma in Education (BA.Dip.Ed.) in 1975. In 1987, he earned the Certificate in Hotel Management, from an undisclosed institution in Tripoli, Libya.\n\nFor eleven years, from 1975 until 1986, Muruli Mukasa was a teacher; for the last two years he was the principal of the school where he taught. Since 1989, he has been a member of parliament, representing his home constituency. He was appointed Minister of Security in May 2011. He replaced Amama Mbabazi, who was appointed Prime Minister of Uganda. In addition to his docket of Security, Mukasa has served as Minister for Kampala, before a substantive minister was appointed in 2011, and in 2014, when the line Minister, Frank Tumwebaze, took a leave of absence. In a cabinet reshuffle on 1 March 2015, he was transferred to the post of Minister of Gender and Social Issues, replacing Mary Karooro Okurut, who was named Minister for Security. On 6 June 2016, he was named Cabinet Minister for Public Service, in the cabinet list announced that day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41171436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41171436", "title": "Winston Day Chief", "text": "Winston Day Chief\n\nWinston Day Chief (born November 23, 1987) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He is currently playing with the Wheeling Nailers of the ECHL.\n\nA member of the Blackfoot Kainai Nation, Day Chief was raised on the Blood Indian Reserve No. 148 in Alberta, Canada. He attended the University of Alaska Anchorage before enrolling with the University of Lethbridge where he played three seasons of CIS hockey with the Lethbridge Pronghorns, scoring 23 goals and 36 assists for 58 points, while earning 88 penalty minutes, in 68 games played. In his final year he was recognized for his outstanding play when he was named to the Canada West All-Stars Roster as competition for the Canada men's national junior ice hockey team.\n\nOn March 27, 2012, Day Chief was signed as an amateur by the Rapid City Rush then of the Central Hockey League for their 2012 playoff run. He was re-signed by the Rush for the 2012–13 season, but in his third game he broke his shoulder when he slid hard into the boards. Returning to duty after missing two months of play, Day Chief played out the season, impressing Rapid City's head coach Joe Ferras who described his play as \"fearless\" saying \"He plays hard. He finishes his checks. He's strong on the pucks and he's got great hands for a big man\". On August 29, 2013, the Rapid City Rush announced that Day Chief had been retained to play the 2013–14 CHL season.\n\nAfter 5 seasons within the Rush organization, Day Chief opted to turn to Europe, signing a one-year contract with MAC Budapest of the MOL Liga on August 8, 2016. At the conclusion of the 2016-17 campaign with Budapest, Day Chief opted to return to the ECHL, agreeing to a contract with the Cincinnati Cyclones on September 6, 2017.\n\nWinston Day Chief signed a contract with the Wheeling Nailers on October 10, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "24241615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241615", "title": "Yevgeny Zhovtis", "text": "Yevgeny Zhovtis\n\nEvgeniy Aleksandrovich Zhovtis Евгений Александрович Жовтис (born 17 August 1955) is a Kazakhstan human rights activist and director of the Kazakhstan International Bureau for Human Rights and Rule of Law.\n\nAfter graduating as a mining engineer, he became vice president of the Independent Trade Union of Kazakhstan and represented the interests of miners, who worked under often inhumane conditions. He also became a member of the executive board of the Civic Organisation Memorial, working for public awareness of human rights and democratic values under the repressive conditions in the USSR.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union and independence for Kazakhstan in 1991, Zhovtis continued working for human rights and qualified as a lawyer to help that work. In 1992, with the support of the Union of Councils for Jews in the Former Soviet Union, he founded the Kazakhstan American Bureau on Human Rights and Rule of Law. This later became an independent organisation under its present name.\n\nZhovtis is married, with a daughter and a son.\n\nWhile driving near Almaty in late July 2009, the car Zhovtis was driving accidentally hit and killed a pedestrian. On 3 September 2009 Zhovtis was found guilty and sentenced to four years' imprisonment on charges of manslaughter. Local and international human rights activists say the trial was flawed and used by the authorities as a convenient way to imprison him. After two and a half years in prison, Zhovtis was granted amnesty on 17 February 2012.\n\n"}
