{"id": "577921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577921", "title": "Aga Khan Award for Architecture", "text": "Aga Khan Award for Architecture\n\nThe Aga Khan Award for Architecture (AKAA) is an architectural prize established by Aga Khan IV in 1977. It aims to identify and reward architectural concepts that successfully address the needs and aspirations of Islamic societies in the fields of contemporary design, social housing, community development and improvement, restoration, reuse and area conservation, as well as landscape design and improvement of the environment. It is presented in three-year cycles to multiple projects and has a monetary award, with prizes totalling US$ 1 million. Uniquely among architectural awards, it recognizes projects, teams, and stakeholders in addition to buildings and people.\n\nThe award is associated with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), an agency of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN).\n\nThe award is aimed at societies in which Muslims have a significant presence. It is organised on the basis of a three-year cycle and is governed by a steering committee chaired by the Aga Khan IV.\n\nA new committee is constituted each cycle to establish the eligibility criteria for projects, provide thematic direction with reference to current concerns, and to develop plans for the long-term future of the award. The \"Steering Committee\" is responsible for the selection of the \"Master Jury\" appointed for each award cycle, and for activities such as seminars and field visits, the award ceremony, publications and exhibitions.\n\nThe \"Chairman's Award\" is given in honour of accomplishments that fall outside the mandate of the Master Jury. It recognises lifetime achievements. It has been presented four times: in 1980 to Egyptian architect and urban planner Hassan Fathy, in 1986 to Iraqi architect and educator Rifat Chadirji, in 2001 to Sri Lankan architect Geoffrey Bawa, and in 2010 to historian of Islamic art and architecture Oleg Grabar.\n\nThe Aga Khan Foundation funded the television series \"Architects on the Frontline\" which was about entries to the competition. The media watchdog Ofcom criticised BBC World News for breaking United Kingdom broadcasting rules with the series, which praised the competition; viewers were not informed that it was sponsored content.\n\nPrizes totalling up to US$ 1m, constituting the largest architectural award in the world, are presented every three years to projects selected by the Master Jury. Since 1977, documentation has been compiled on over 7500 building projects located throughout the world, of which over 100 projects have received awards.\n\nThe 1980 award ceremony took place at the Shalimar Gardens in Lahore, Pakistan. During this cycle, the Chairman's Award was given to Hassan Fathy in recognition of his lifelong commitment to architecture in the Muslim world. Prominent architect Muzharul Islam was a member of the Master Jury of the first Aga Khan Award for Architecture.\n\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 1983 award ceremony took place at the Topkapı Palace in Istanbul.\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 1986 award ceremony took place at El Badi Palace in Marrakesh, Morocco. The brief prepared by the Steering Committee for this award cycle focused on the preservation and continuation of cultural heritage, community building and social housing, and excellence in contemporary architectural expression.\n\nSix winners were chosen from among 213 entries. The conservation of Mostar Old Town and restoration of Al-Aqsa Mosque were examples of cultural heritage, the first theme, while the Yama Mosque and Bhong Mosque were noted for their innovation in translating traditional techniques and materials to meet contemporary requirements. The Social Security Complex and Dar Lamane Housing address the issues of community and social housing while remaining sensitive to local culture. The Chairman's Award for Lifetime Achievements was given to Iraqi architect Rifat Chadirji.\n\nAward recipients:\nThe 1989 award ceremony took place at the Citadel of Salah Ed-Din in Cairo.\nThe fourth cycle of the award considered 241 project nominations. Of these, 32 were short-listed for technical review and the Master Jury selected 11 winners. Two themes were noted as areas of focus in this cycle: Revival of past vernacular traditions, and projects that reflect the efforts of individual patrons and of non-governmental organisations in improving society.\n\nProjects such as the Great Omari Mosque and the Rehabilitation of Asilah seek to reconstruct and preserve heritage buildings for continued use, demonstrating the significance of these spaces within their communities. Meanwhile, the Grameen Bank Housing Programme and Sidi el-Aloui Primary School apply architectural solutions to address current socioeonomic issues.\n\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 1992 award ceremony took place at the Registan Square in Samarkand, Uzbekistan.\nUzbek government also released a postal stamp to commemorate the award ceremony & restoration of Registan Square in Partnership with Aga Khan Trust for Culture.\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 1995 award ceremony took place at the Kraton Surakarta in Surakarta, Indonesia.\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 1998 award ceremony took place at the Alhambra in Granada, Spain. The Master Jury selected seven winning projects of the 424 presented. During this cycle, special emphasis was placed on projects that responded creatively to the emerging forces of globalization. Issues such as demographic pressure, environmental degradation, and the crisis of the nation-state, and the changes in lifestyle, cultural values, and relationships among social groups and between governments and people at large they prompted, were considered.\n\nOf the winning projects, the rehabilitation of Hebron Old Town and Slum Networking of Indore City sought to reclaim community space in environments strained by social, physical and environmental degradation. The Lepers Hospital created a sustainable and dignified shelter for a marginalized segment of society. The remaining projects were recognized for their contribution in evolving an architectural vocabulary in response to contemporary social and environmental challenges.\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 2001 Award Presentation Ceremony took place at the Citadel of Aleppo in Syria. During this cycle, the Chairman's Award was given to Geoffrey Bawa to honour and celebrate his lifetime achievements in and contribution to the field of architecture.\n\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 2004 award ceremony took place at the Humayun's Tomb in New Delhi, India.\nDuring the ninth cycle, 378 projects were nominated. Of these, 23 were site-reviewed, and the Master Jury selected seven award recipients. Notable among the recipients are the \"Sandbag Shelter Prototypes\", developed by Nader Khalili to enable victims of natural disasters and war to build their own shelter using earth-filled sandbags and barbed wire. The resulting structures - made up of arches, domes and vaulted spaces built using superadobe techniques - provide earthquake resistance, shelter from hurricanes and flood resistance, while being aesthetically pleasing.\nOther winning projects include a primary school in Gando, Burkina Faso, that combines high-caliber architectural design with local materials, techniques and community participation. The Bibliotheca Alexandria in Egypt and the Petronas Towers in Malaysia are examples of high-profile landmark buildings.\n\nAward recipients:\n\nThe 2007 Award Presentation Ceremony was held at the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.\nThis cycle marked the 30th anniversary of the award. A total of 343 projects were presented for consideration, and 27 were reviewed on site by international experts.\n\nThe award recipients were:\n\nThe 2010 Award Presentation Ceremony was held at the Museum of Islamic Art, Doha. A total of 401 projects were nominated of which 19 were shortlisted.\n\nThe Chairman's Award went to Oleg Grabar.\n\nThe award recipients were:\n20 projects were shortlisted for the ceremony held in Lisbon in September 2013.\n\nThe winning projects are:\n\nA total of 348 projects from 69 countries have been nominated. The winners are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12830932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12830932", "title": "Anima locus", "text": "Anima locus\n\nThe Anima locus is the 'soul' of a place, its essential personality. A concept linked to the supernatural spirits of nature as residing in stones, springs, mountains, islands, trees, etc.\n\nIn witchcraft, the Anima Locus is often referred to a spirit of the place, sprite, fairy, guardian.\n"}
{"id": "39283739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39283739", "title": "Baldachin of Ribes", "text": "Baldachin of Ribes\n\nThe baldachin of Ribes () is a fragmentary altar-canopy in the Romanesque style now in the Episcopal Museum of Vic. It is the masterpiece of the so-called \"Ripoll workshop\" (\"taller de Ripoll\"). It dates to the second quarter of the twelfth century. The surviving fragment is only one fourth the size of the original, which contained a central mandorla with the figure of Christ and four angels on each side.\n\nThe style of the baldachin shows strong south French influence, and borrows many features from the tympanum of Moissac Abbey, especially in the robes of Christ. The robes of the angels, however, and the hairstyles of all the figures are more typically Iberian.\n"}
{"id": "26764866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26764866", "title": "Black Theatre Workshop", "text": "Black Theatre Workshop\n\nBlack Theatre Workshop is a professional not-for-profit theatre company based in Montreal, and is Canada's oldest Black theatre company in Quebec.\n\nBlack Theatre Workshop was incorporated in 1972 but has roots going back to the Trinidad and Tobago Drama Committee. The Drama Committee was created by Clarence Bayne and Arther Goddard, both of whom were the founders of the Trinidad and Tobago Association and wrote its first Constitution and bylaws. Dr Bayne invited a number of professional Black Trinidadian artists resident in Montreal in the late sixties (1968) to conduct Black Workshops as part of the activities of the Drama Committee. It was the Black Workshops under the auspices of the Trinidad and Tobago Association that produced the first professional play of the BTW, written by Professor Lorris Elliott, and named \"How Now Black Man\". Dr. Bayne was appointed by the Trinidad and Tobago Association to be the Executive Producer of that production and to represent the Association's interest. Except for a brief absence from the company 1970-1972, Dr, Bayne continued to hold the position of Executive producer and president of the company for early the formative years of the company between 1973-4 to 1990. He negotiated the first professional grant from Canada Council with matching funds from the Multicultural Directorate (Ottawa) that launched the company as a professional theatre company in 1984, making it eligible for funding from all three level of the cultural funding agencies]] . The Black Theatre Workshop company is committed to reflecting Black culture and community by developing and providing visibility for Black Canadian artists; and the creation of a Black Canadian theatre and literature. Black Theatre Workshop is an award-winning English-speaking theatre company. Its first play \"How Now Black Man\" was produced in 1970 under the name Black Workshop at the Centaur Theatre. But Black [Theatre] Workshop defacto existed from July 17 1968. \n\nOver the years the theatre has had many artistic directors including Dr. Clarence Bayne, Errol Sitahal, Terry Donald, Dwight Bacquie, Lorena Gale, Don Jordan, Winston Sutton, Fleurette Fernando, Nancy Delva, Kate Bligh and Rachael Van Fossen, and Tyrone Benskin. Since August 2011, the Artistic Director has been Quincy Armorer. He is a graduate of the Theatre Department at Concordia University and also studied at the Birmingham Conservatory for Classical Theatre at the Stratford Festival.\n\nBlack Theatre Workshop's mission is to encourage and promote the development of a Black and Canadian Theatre, rooted in a literature that reflects the creative will of Black Canadian writers and artists, and the creative collaborations between Black and other artists. Black Theatre Workshop aims to promote and produce Black theatre that educates, entertains and delights its audiences.\n\nAmong its early ambitious productions was Derek Walcott's Dream on Monkey Mountain (1973-74 season). Then Executive Director Dr. Clarence Bayne secured a Canada Council grant in 1976 and contributed new plays for the theater, including The Black Experience, Bonanza 70 and Martin Luther King Who?. Many prominent Black Canadian Playwrights have had their work produced by the theater including George Boyd (Wade in the Water, Le Code Noir), Vadney Haynes (Blacks Don't Bowl), Lorris Elliot. (How Now Black Man, David Edgecombe ( Sunavavitch, Coming Home to Roost, and Strong Current), Dwight Bacquie, (), Walter Borden,(), one of the first plays in the history of Black Canadian literature to directly present themes of male homosexuality. Djanet Sears (The Adventures of a Black Girl in Search of God, Afrika Solo, Harlem Duet), Andrew Moodie (Riot, A Common Man's Guide to Loving Women, The Lady Smith), d'bi Young (blood.claat: one woman story), Donna-Michelle St. Bernard (Gas Girls, ), Lorena Gale (Angelique) the infamous story of Marie-Joseph Angélique a slave woman who was hung for allegedly setting fire to her master's house and most of what is today known as Old Montreal. Some emerging playwrights as well including Omari Newton (Sal Capone: The Lamentable Tragedy of), Anne-Marie Woods (She Said/He Said), Chimwemwe Miller (When Elephant was King) Djennie Laguerre (Rendez-Vous with Home).\n\nSince 1986 the theatre has given out the annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Achievement Award, presented to an individual who has made a significant contribution to African-Canadian artistic and cultural life in Canada. BTW presents the gala each year to celebrate the contributions of Dr. Martin Luther King to non-violent social change. BTW presents an award for lifetime achievement, among recipients honorees include: Recipients of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Achievement Award – In 1987, the 1st Vision Celebration Gala was given to Oscar Peterson: Music. In 1988, Ranee Lee: Music / Actor [Jazz]. 1989, Charlie Biddle: Music [Jazz]. 1990, Rufus Rockhead (posthumously): Music [Jazz]. 1991, Dr. Dorothy Wills: Community / Arts. 1992, Dr. Clarence Bayne: Theatre & Educator. 1993, Oliver Jones: Music [Pianist]. 1994, Professor Trevor Payne: Music. 1995, Dr. Daisy Peterson-Sweeny: Music. 1996, Salome Bay: Music / Actor. 1997, Lorraine Klaasen: Music [Singer]. 1998, Anthony Sherwood: Actor. 1999, Austin Clarke: Writer. 2000, Michelle Sweeney: Music [Singer]. 2001, Aldwin Albino: Music. 2002, Anthony Salah I. Wilson: Music [Steel pan]. 2003, Djanet Sears: Theatre. 2004, George Elliot Clarke: Poet. 2005, Jeri Brown: Music [Jazz]. 2006, Walter Borden: Theatre. 2007, Charles Ellison: Music [Jazz]. 2008, Terry Donald: Theatre. 2009, Ethel Bruneau: Dance [Tap]. 2010, Bertrand A. Henry: Theatre. 2011, Doudou Boicel: Music. 2012, Tonya Lee Williams: Film & Television. 2013, Gregory Charles: Music. 2014. Zab Maboungou: Dance. 2015, Dany Laferrière: Literature. 2016, Jackie Richardson: Theatre & Music. 2017, Winston Sutton: Theatre, Don Jordan: Dance & Theatre, 2018.\n\nIn 2005 BTW was recognized by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Legacy Committee of Montreal for its Historic Contribution to the Development of Black Performing Arts in Canada. It has also received a Trail Blazer Award (Black History Month Round Table Award) in recognition of its exceptional dedication to the development of the community by promoting cultural diversity, educational awareness and social consciousness.\n\nThis award has been created by the Black Theatre Workshop in recognition of and to honour of the exceptional dedication and contributions of Dr Clarence Bayne to Black arts and culture in Canada; and his tireless work in the development of the Black community in Quebec and Canada. He is an exemplary model of selfless devotion to community and commitment to the creation of a truly just, equitable and sustainable multicultural society in Canada. His contributions span some sixty years and addresses a wide range of issues and problems affecting the full participation, growth and development of Blacks in Canadian societies. The Workshop truly believes that his life achievements serve as a guide and motivator to successor generations of Black community leaders. \n\nDr. Clarence Bayne is a founding past President of the National Black Coalition of Canada; a founder of the Black Community Council of Quebec; a founder and member of the Board of Directors of the Queen Elizabeth Health Complex; a collaborator in the creation of the Monkland Community Center (NDG); a founder of the Montreal CEDEC. He is the Founding Director of the Institute for Community Entrepreneurship and Development (ICED) , Concordia University, Montreal. He is a founding member of the Quebec Board of Black Educators and Founding President of the Black Studies Center, Montreal. He is a founder and Senior Editor in Chief of the International Journal for Community Development and Management Sciences; a Full professor Emeritus in the Department of Supply Chain and Business Technology Management. JMSB, Concordia University. He is widely published in the field of social economy and community development.\nA crowning achievement is that he is the founder and sitting member and past president of the Black Theatre Workshop of Montreal. For his selfless volunteer work Dr. Bayne has received a vast number of awards from numerous community organizations and public institutions; national and international governments: several Governor General Awards including the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Award; The Trinidad and Tobago Commemorative Award on the 50th Anniversary of the Independence of Trinidad and Tobago; The Black History Month Laureate Award and a special mention as a member of the community group that spear-headed the naming of February Black History Month in Montreal; a Seniors Montreal Award; The Community Contact Award as one of 19 Top Contributors to the Black Community of Montreal; and the prestigious Martin Luther King life time Achievement Award (Black Theatre Workshop). Dr Bayne is also a published Black poet,essayist, and social critic whose writings appear in several academic journals and publications.\nThus, against this background and the critical importance of Dr Bayne’s contributions to the creation and development of Black theatre and culture in Montreal and Canada, making the srts a critical factor in community development and the building of a better society, the Black Theatre Workshop at each Vision Celebration shines the spot light on volunteerism and community building, by presenting the Dr. Clarence Bayne Community Service Award to someone who demonstrates exemplary selflessness, persistence, and creative drive in working for the betterment of our community and the creation of a better Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "14900970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14900970", "title": "California Society of Printmakers", "text": "California Society of Printmakers\n\nThe California Society of Printmakers (CSP) is the oldest continuously operating association of printmakers and friends of printmakers in the United States. CSP is a non-profit arts organization with an international membership of print artists and supporters of the art of fine printmaking. CSP promotes professional development and opportunity for printmakers, and educates artists and the public about printmaking. New members are admitted by portfolio review. Friends and supporters of printmaking are admitted by fee. They are based in San Francisco, California.\n\nAmerican print clubs or printmaking societies were prolific in the 19th century. Their impetus was primarily exhibition, technical exchange, shared equipment, and the promotion of printmaking as a fine art, as opposed to a method of reproducing images. The invention of photography meant that reproduction of art works could be achieved photographically instead of through the graphic arts of etching, engraving, and lithography. Thus, these methods of printmaking were freed from their reproducing role to develop as pure fine arts. In addition to the rise of printmaking societies/clubs, individual printmaking artists also sought to distinguish their work as a fine art, as opposed to a craft. Generally these artists from the 19th century were referred to as painter-etchers. Nineteenth century printmaking societies in the United States were the New York Etchers Club (1877), Boston Etchers Club (1880?), Philadelphia Society of Etchers (1880), Brooklyn Etchers Club (1881), Brooklyn Scratchers Club (1882), Society of American Etchers (1888), Cincinnati Etchers Club (circa 1890).\n\nEarly 20th century printmaking societies were the very influential Chicago Society of Etchers (1910), begun and promoted by Bertha Jaques. After the Chicago Society, a flurry of other printmakers' societies followed. Next was the California Society of Etchers (1912), the Los Angeles group called the Printmakers of California (1914), and the Brooklyn Society of Etchers (1915).\n\nThe California Society of Etchers (CSE) merged with Bay Printmakers Society in 1968 when the current name, California Society of Printmakers (CSP), was adopted. Throughout the 1950s and well into the 1980s short histories of the society penned by various elected officers always referred to CSE/CSP as \" the second oldest\" continuous operating club in the United States. However, these historians failed to mention what the oldest society was. A little research revealed that the oldest American society of printmakers was the Chicago Society of Etchers. The California Society of Etchers was very aware of its Chicago predecessor, as the Chicago founder Bertha Jaques encouraged printmakers to establish their own local societies. Jaques also joined the California Society of Etchers in 1913, when non-resident members were first admitted. The Chicago Society of Etchers ceased operations in 1956, leaving California Society of Printmakers as the longest lived printmakers' society in the U.S.\n\nThe California Society of Etchers (CSE) was founded in San Francisco in December 1912 and announced in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" on January 19, 1913 (\"Etchers Form a State Organization\", p. 27). Several sources cite an earlier 1911 date, such Marilyn S. Kushner's detailed chapter, \"Genesis of the Twentieth-Century Print Club\", although she does not cite her source. Robert B. Harshe, founder, and later first president of California Society of Etchers, leaves the founding date ambiguous in his chapter in the 1916 book, \"Art in California\". His chapter mentions the four years of the society, although the chapter itself is undated. Mary Millman and Dave Bohn's very thorough biography of John W. Winkler, cited above, supports the CSE founding date of 1912.\n\nThe founding of CSE is intimately connected with the Panama-Pacific International Exposition (PPIE), a world’s fair held in 1915 in San Francisco to showcase the city’s recovery from the 1906 earthquake. It was Joseph Pennell, scheduled to be a juror for this event, who inspired a handful of local printmakers to launch the California Society of Etchers in preparation for that great event. Pennell, perhaps the best known American etcher, local to New York City and London, had traveled to Panama to sketch the construction of the Canal, then traveled to San Francisco where he produced a series of etchings of San Francisco, exhibiting them in 1912 in San Francisco. It is said that his presence in San Francisco achieved its purpose: encouraging local printmakers to get prepared and organized to take advantage of the promotional opportunities afforded by the upcoming San Francisco PPIE, the largest display of original art work of its time.\n\nThe four founders of the California Society of Etchers were artist colleagues: Robert B. Harshe (1879–1938), himself an etcher and then art professor at Stanford University; Pedro Joseph J. Lemos (1882–1954), then etcher and professor at the San Francisco Institute of Art (now San Francisco Art Institute); Gottardo Piazzoni (1872–1945), painter and muralist; and Ralph Stackpole (1885–1973), a sculptor, printmaker, and at that time Piazzoni's studio assistant.\n\nThe young organization began exhibiting immediately, with its first annual exhibition in April 1913 at Vickery, Atkins and Torrey Print Gallery, 550 Sutter Street, San Francisco. Its second annual exhibition was also held in 1913.\n\nAdmission of artist members to the Society was originally not by juried portfolio review, as it is today. Then the society was open to all artists, painters and sculptors alike, any artist who had experience with etching techniques. Artist membership was expanded beyond California in 1913 to include artists throughout the United States as well as American printmakers living abroad. It is not clear when precisely CSE began accepting international printmakers, but 1964 was CSE's first major international print competition.\n\nThe primary purpose of the Society was exhibition and education, promoting printmaking as a fine art, and sharing workspace and equipment. Non-artist members, then as now, were accepted as Associate or Patron members. Membership in both artist and associate categories grew quickly. The four founding members grew to fifteen charter members, those who were members at the time of publication of the first Constitution of the CSE in 1915; among these charter members was Gertrude Partington Albright. By 1925 there were 41 artist members and 107 associate members. Among the most prominent associate members were the Moore S. Achenbachs, the Sigmund Sterns, Dr. Leon Kolb, the Milton Esbergs, the Zellerbachs, Albert M. Bender, and institutions such as the De Young Museum, Oakland Public Library, and the Print Club of Albany New York.\n\nCalifornia Society of Etchers (CSE) had enjoyed a dedicated executive secretary, Nicholas Dunphy (1896–1955), for more than 20 years, from 1932 to his death in 1955. Understandably, Dunphy’s death created a huge hole in CSE's leadership. Nonetheless, annual membership shows continued except for the year of his death, with Elizabeth Ginno (1911–1991) becoming secretary after Dunphy's death. Ginno, Ginno's husband John W. Winkler, aka Winks (1890–1979), and Mark Luca (1918–2005), were active CSE members between 1955 and 1968, the year that CSE merged with Bay Printmakers Society to form California Society of Printmakers (CSP)\n\nIn 1955 two graduate students from Oakland's California College of Arts and Crafts (now the California College of the Arts) were eager for exhibition opportunities. According to Jean Womack, former CSP historian, Mel Strawn (1929–) and Will Petersen (1928–1994) placed an ad in a national art magazine announcing themselves as the Bay Printmakers Society hosting a national exhibition. Work was to be sent to the address cited even though a location for the actual show had not yet been established. As the work poured in, Paul Mills, then director of the Oakland Museum of Art, provided the venue, and remained a strong supporter during the next five national exhibitions. The first exhibition was juried by John Paul Jones, respected printmaker from UCLA. The jurying took place at the home of Eldon Mills, friend of Mel Strawn, and an active supporter of Bay Printmakers; it was monitored/observed by Sabro Hasegawa, a visiting teacher from Japan at CCAC.\n\nCharter members of the Bay Printmakers Society included artists Beth Van Hoesen (1926–2010 ), John Ihle (1925–2002), Karl Kasten (1916–2010 ), Nathan Oliveira (1928–2010 ), Gordon Cook (1927–1985), Virginia Vandegrift, and art collector Eldon Mills. Their activities were focused exclusively on the national show. Between 1955 and 1960, Bay Printmakers generally had one-person juries for their open national shows. After John Paul Jones, BPS jurors were printmaker Leonard Edmondson (1916–2002); poet Kenneth Patchen (1911–1972); and Director of the Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Arts Ernst Gunter Troche (1909–1971).\n\nBetween 1959 and 1965 CSE created three-person jury teams for their national open, juried print exhibitions. These generally consisted of one artist member, one critic, and one museum curator. In 1959 the jurors were Ernest Freed, John Winkler, and John LaPlante. In 1960 the jurors were Doel Reed, E. Gunter Troche, and Raymond E. Lewis. Other CSE national annual jurors were: 1961 Gordon Cook; 1965 Wayne Thiebaud, Alan Lynch, and Moses Lasky.\n\nIn 1968 Ginno invited Bay Printmaker member John Ihle to join CSE, probably the first dual member of both organizations. Ginno then approached Bay Printmaker president Karl Kasten, who had help create the etching studios at the new San Francisco State University campus in 1949 and then joined UC Berkeley's art department in printmaking, about the possibility of merging CSE and BPS. Kasten took up the suggestion immediately. Both organizations met at the Oakland Museum in 1968 and approved the merger, electing Kasten as the first president of the new society, which they named California Society of Printmakers. A new constitution was created, and exhibitions, education of members and the public, and publications continued.\n\nToday, CSP has approximately 250 artist members, 19 honorary members, and 12 associate and patron memberships. CSP publishes the annual \"California Printmaker Journal\" and previously published \nthe semi-annual \"California Printmaker Newsbrief\".\n\nCalifornia Society of Printmakers maintains two separate archives: one of its records, the other of prints. The California Society of Printmakers Records were given to The Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley by the California Society of Printmakers in January 1988. Additions were made in 1991, 1992, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005, and 2007. A finding aid to the records may be found at the Online Archive of California.\n\nA small archive of prints is maintained by CSP at a San Francisco storage facility. An inventory has not yet been created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29086722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29086722", "title": "Cascade Yachts", "text": "Cascade Yachts\n\nCascade Yachts was a pioneering U.S.-based builder of fiberglass monohull sloop-rigged sailboats ranging in sizes from 23 to in length. It was founded in 1954 in Portland, Oregon by a group of local sailors interested in experimenting with fiberglass sailboat construction.\n\nIn 1954 the company was launched by five sailors under the name Yacht Constructors. The first design, the Chinook, came from the desk of well-known Philadelphia naval architect Frederick Geiger, adapted from a wood design. The first five were launched in 1956-1957 to the founders, and began winning local races and gathering attention in the press. Eventually 70 were produced, making it arguably the first production fiberglass sailboat.\n\nRobarta A. Smith, a former Sparkman & Stephens designer, would later design a series of boats for the company:\n\nLike many early producers of fiberglass boats, the company's production methods resulted in yachts that were heavier than later builders. Experimenting with fiberglass, at that time a relatively novel material for boat construction, the founders made test samples that were shot at from with various firearms to test the material strength. The test samples repelled .45 slugs and became the foundation of the company's reputation for producing bulletproof yachts. In various cases Cascade Yachts have been dropped off slings, fallen off a trailer at highway speed, and submerged in a mudslide, and suffered little consequential damage. Many Cascade hulls were sold in various stages of completion for owners to finish the interiors.\n\nIn 1989 the company's assets were sold to a new owner who continued production under the name Cascade Yachts.\n\nIn 2007 the company was sold to Russell Mead and moved to Warrenton, Oregon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27356916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27356916", "title": "Cookfox", "text": "Cookfox\n\nCOOKFOX Architects (formerly Cook+Fox Architects) is a firm of architects founded by Rick Cook and Robert F. Fox, Jr. in 2003. The firm provides both new projects and works on the adaptive reuse of existing buildings. COOKFOX is best known for designing the Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park.\n\nThe firm’s portfolio includes a range of commercial, institutional and residential projects. COOKFOX has completed multiple projects in New York City’s historic Landmarks districts. Works include the redevelopment of Historic Front Street, a revitalization of a 19th-century neighborhood that won an AIA-NY/Boston Society of Architects Honor Award for Housing Design; 401 W 14th Street, a mixed-use building in Manhattan’s Meatpacking District that won an AIA-NY State Award for Adaptive Reuse; and the redevelopment of Henry Miller’s Theatre, a newly constructed theater with a Landmarked 1918 façade that will receive LEED Gold certification—making it Broadway’s first green theater.\nRecent projects, notably the Bank of America Tower and Henry Miller’s Theatre (renamed the Stephen Sondheim Theatre), focus on creating a healthy workplace.\nIn 2009 the firm was completing construction on the LiveWorkHome, a green, affordable home in Syracuse, NY that was one of three winning entries in the “From the Ground Up” Competition. It was also completing the Center for Friends Without a Border, a visitors’ center at the Angkor Hospital for Children in Siem Reap, Cambodia.\n\nThe firm itself has won awards including the Museum of the City of New York’s Gotham Giant Award and New York School of Interior Design’s inaugural Honor Roll of Green Design Award. COOKFOX’s LEED Platinum office – the first LEED Platinum project in New York State – is located in Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood. The office’s interior was restored and the firm built a green roof, which was featured in National Geographic’s May 2009 issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "33903887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33903887", "title": "Dante's Inferno (song)", "text": "Dante's Inferno (song)\n\n\"Dante's Inferno\" is a song by the American heavy metal band Iced Earth. The song was originally released on the group's 1995 album \"Burnt Offerings\", and was re-recorded in 2011, with the current line-up of the band. \"Dante's Inferno\" is also one of the longest songs the band has ever recorded, with the original clocking in at sixteen minutes and twenty-six seconds and the re-recorded version clocking in at seventeen minutes and twenty-eight seconds.\n\nThe song is based on the \"Inferno\" -segment of Dante Alighieri's epic poem the \"Divine Comedy\". In it, Dante travels through the nine circles of Hell, guided by the Roman poet Virgil. The circles are concentric, representing a gradual increase in wickedness, and culminating at the centre of the earth, where Satan is held in bondage. Each circle's sinners are punished in a fashion fitting their crimes: each sinner is afflicted for all of eternity by the chief sin they committed.\n\nThe first circle is Limbo, where reside the unbaptized and the virtuous pagans, who, though not sinful, did not accept Christ. Beyond the first circle, all of those condemned for active, deliberately willed sin are judged by the serpentine Minos, who sentences each soul to one of the lower eight circles. In the second circle are those overcome by lust. These souls are blown back and forth by the terrible winds of a violent storm, without hope of rest. The third circle is gluttony, where the gluttons, guarded by Cerberus, are forced to lie in a vile slush produced by ceaseless foul, icy rain. Those whose attitude toward material goods deviated from the appropriate mean are punished in the fourth circle, avarice. They include the avaricious or miserly, who hoarded possessions, and the prodigal, who squandered them. The two groups are guarded by a figure Dante names as Pluto. The two groups joust, using as weapons great weights which they push with their chests. In the fifth circle, anger, in the swamp-like water of the river Styx, the wrathful fight each other on the surface, and the sullen lie gurgling beneath the water, withdrawn \"into a black sulkiness which can find no joy in God or man or the universe.\"\n\nThe lower parts of Hell are contained within the walls of the city of Dis, which is itself surrounded by the Stygian marsh. Punished within Dis are active (rather than passive) sins. The walls of Dis are guarded by fallen angels. Virgil is unable to convince them to let Dante and him enter, while Furies and Medusa threaten Dante. An angel sent from Heaven secures entry for the poets, opening the gate by touching it with a wand, and rebuking those who opposed Dante. In the sixth circle, the heretics are trapped in flaming tombs. The seventh circle houses the violent. Its entry is guarded by the Minotaur, and it is divided into three rings: the outer ring (which houses the violent against people and property), the middle ring (where lie the suicides) and the inner ring (the violent against God and the violent against nature). The last two circles of Hell punish sins that involve conscious fraud or treachery. In the ninth circle, the very centre of Hell, condemned for committing the ultimate sin (personal treachery against God), is Satan. Satan is described as a giant, terrifying beast with three faces, one red, one black, and one a pale yellow. Satan is waist deep in ice, weeping tears from his six eyes, and beating his six wings as if trying to escape, although the icy wind that emanates only further ensures his imprisonment (as well as that of the others in the ring). Each face has a mouth that chews on a prominent traitor, with Brutus and Cassius feet-first in the left and right mouths respectively. In the central, most vicious mouth is Judas Iscariot. Judas is being administered the most horrifying torture of the three traitors, his head gnawed by Satan's mouth, and his back being forever skinned by Satan's claws. Dante and Virgil finally escape Hell by climbing down Satan's ragged fur, passing through the centre of the earth.\n\nAfter its release in 1995, the song was only performed live in 1999, for the \"Alive in Athens\" concert. Rhythm guitarist Jon Schaffer later shed light on why the song was only played at said concert:\n\n\"The simple reason why we haven’t [played the song] is because the original click track was erased, therefore requiring a keyboard player to do the parts live. That's OK for a special event like when we recorded Alive in Athens, but to hire a keyboard player for a full tour, for one song, just isn't financially feasible.\"\n\nAfter Iced Earth re-recorded \"Dante's Inferno\" in 2011, they announced that the song would be played on all dates of the upcoming Dystopia World Tour. According to Jon Schaffer, it may be the last tour on which the song will be performed.\n\nIn 2011, Iced Earth re-recorded \"Dante's Inferno\" with the line-up of rhythm guitarist Jon Schaffer (who also played on the original recording), lead guitarist Troy Seele, bassist Freddie Vidales, drummer Brent Smedley and singer Stu Block. Stu Block had just joined Iced Earth earlier that year, and according to Schaffer, the band had already planned to re-record \"Dante's Inferno\" prior to the leaving of previous vocalist Matt Barlow (who also sang on the original \"Dante's Inferno\"). The re-recorded \"Dante's Inferno\" was given away for free on the band's official website on September 5, 2011.\n\nNow that the band had re-recorded the song, they were in possession of a new click track, which meant that they no longer required a keyboard player to the play the song live. As a result, \"Dante's Inferno\" was brought back in to Iced Earth's setlist for their Dystopia World Tour. A CD version of the song was also sold on the tour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24718299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24718299", "title": "Devil's door", "text": "Devil's door\n\nDevil's doors are structural features found in the north wall of some medieval and older churches in the United Kingdom. They are particularly common in the historic county of Sussex, where more than 40 extant churches have one. They have their origins in the early Christian era, when pre-Christian worship was still popular, and were often merely symbolic structures—although they were sometimes used as genuine entrances.\n\nBefore and during the Middle Ages, the north face of a church was considered to belong to the Devil and to people considered heathen. Churches were invariably built to the north of roads and tracks, to ensure their main entrance was on the south side. It was also common for them to be built on pre-Christian sacred sites. Such places were still considered sacred by their former worshippers, who would often continue to visit them. A doorway would often be inserted in the \"heathen\" north side of the church to allow them to enter and worship on the site. Because of the association of that side with the Devil, the name \"Devil's door\" became established.\n\nA later, and more common purpose, (especially in Sussex) was to allow the Devil to escape from the church. A widespread belief in the Middle Ages held that the Devil resided in an unbaptised child's soul; at the baptism, the Devil would be driven out of the child and had to be able to leave. Accordingly, a door was often built into the north wall for this purpose. These doors were often too small to have any real use, and were therefore only figurative. Most of the doors that remain have been bricked up—reputedly to prevent the Devil re-entering.\n\nDevil's doors can be found throughout Britain, but they are concentrated in Sussex: churches in that county with visible examples include St Margaret's Church, Ditchling; St Peter's Church, Hamsey; St Helen's Church, Hangleton; All Saints Church, Patcham; St Mary the Blessed Virgin, Sompting and St Nicholas' Church, Worth.\n\n"}
{"id": "10030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10030", "title": "Edmund Burke", "text": "Edmund Burke\n\nEdmund Burke (; 12 January <nowiki>[</nowiki>NS<nowiki>]</nowiki> 17299 July 1797) was an Irish statesman born in Dublin, as well as an author, orator, political theorist and philosopher, who after moving to London in 1750 served as a member of parliament (MP) between 1766 and 1794 in the House of Commons with the Whig Party.\n\nBurke was a proponent of underpinning virtues with manners in society and of the importance of religious institutions for the moral stability and good of the state. These views were expressed in his \"A Vindication of Natural Society\". Burke criticized British treatment of the American colonies, including through its taxation policies. He also supported the rights of the colonists to resist metropolitan authority, though he opposed the attempt to achieve independence. Burke is remembered for his support for Catholic emancipation, the impeachment of Warren Hastings from the East India Company and for his staunch opposition to the French Revolution. In his \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\", Burke asserted that the revolution was destroying the fabric of good society and traditional institutions of state and society, and condemned the persecution of the Catholic Church that resulted from it. This led to his becoming the leading figure within the conservative faction of the Whig Party, which he dubbed the \"Old Whigs\", as opposed to the pro-French Revolution \"New Whigs\", led by Charles James Fox.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Burke was praised by both conservatives and liberals. Subsequently, in the twentieth century he became widely regarded as the philosophical founder of modern conservatism.\n\nBurke was born in Dublin, Ireland. His mother Mary \"née\" Nagle (c. 1702–1770) was a Roman Catholic who hailed from a declasse County Cork family (and a cousin of Nano Nagle), whereas his father, a successful solicitor, Richard (died 1761), was a member of the Church of Ireland; it remains unclear whether this is the same Richard Burke who converted from Catholicism. The Burke dynasty descends from an Anglo-Norman knight surnamed de Burgh (Latinised as \"de Burgo\") who arrived in Ireland in 1185 following Henry II of England's 1171 invasion of Ireland and is among the chief \"Gall\" (or \"Old English\") families that assimilated into Gaelic society, becoming \"more Irish than the Irish themselves\".\n\nBurke adhered to his father's faith and remained a practising Anglican throughout his life, unlike his sister Juliana who was brought up as and remained a Roman Catholic. Later, his political enemies repeatedly accused him of having been educated at the Jesuit College of St. Omer, near Calais, France, and of harbouring secret Catholic sympathies at a time when membership of the Catholic Church would disqualify him from public office (\"see\" Penal Laws in Ireland). As Burke told Frances Crewe:\n\nMr. Burke's Enemies often endeavoured to convince the World that he had been bred up in the Catholic Faith, & that his Family were of it, & that he himself had been educated at St. Omer—but this was false, as his father was a regular practitioner of the Law at Dublin, which he could not be unless of the Established Church: & it so happened that though Mr. B—was twice at Paris, he never happened to go through the Town of St. Omer.\n\nAfter being elected to the House of Commons, Burke was required to take the oath of Allegiance and abjuration, the oath of supremacy, and declare against transubstantiation. Although never denying his Irishness, Burke often described himself as \"an Englishman\". According to the historian J. C. D. Clark, this was in an age \"before 'Celtic nationalism' sought to make Irishness and Englishness incompatible\".\n\nAs a child he sometimes spent time away from the unhealthy air of Dublin with his mother's family in the Blackwater Valley in County Cork. He received his early education at a Quaker school in Ballitore, County Kildare, some from Dublin; and possibly, like his cousin Nano Nagle at a Hedge school. He remained in correspondence with his schoolmate from there, Mary Leadbeater, the daughter of the school's owner, throughout his life.\n\nIn 1744, Burke started at Trinity College Dublin, a Protestant establishment, which up until 1793, did not permit Catholics to take degrees.\nIn 1747, he set up a debating society, \"Edmund Burke's Club\", which, in 1770, merged with TCD's Historical Club to form the College Historical Society; it is the oldest undergraduate society in the world. The minutes of the meetings of Burke's Club remain in the collection of the Historical Society. Burke graduated from Trinity in 1748. Burke's father wanted him to read Law, and with this in mind he went to London in 1750, where he entered the Middle Temple, before soon giving up legal study to travel in Continental Europe. After eschewing the Law, he pursued a livelihood through writing.\n\nThe late Lord Bolingbroke's \"Letters on the Study and Use of History\" was published in 1752 and his collected works appeared in 1754. This provoked Burke into writing his first published work, \"A Vindication of Natural Society: A View of the Miseries and Evils Arising to Mankind\", appearing in Spring 1756. Burke imitated Bolingbroke's style and ideas in a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of his arguments for atheistic rationalism, in order to demonstrate their absurdity.\nBurke claimed that Bolingbroke's arguments against revealed religion could apply to all social and civil institutions as well. Lord Chesterfield and Bishop Warburton (and others) initially thought that the work was genuinely by Bolingbroke rather than a satire. All the reviews of the work were positive, with critics especially appreciative of Burke's quality of writing. Some reviewers failed to notice the ironic nature of the book, which led to Burke stating in the preface to the second edition (1757) that it was a satire.\n\nRichard Hurd believed that Burke's imitation was near-perfect and that this defeated his purpose: an ironist \"should take care by a constant exaggeration to make the \"ridicule\" shine through the Imitation. Whereas this \"Vindication\" is everywhere enforc'd, not only in the language, and on the principles of L. Bol., but with so apparent, or rather so real an earnestness, that half his purpose is sacrificed to the other\". A minority of scholars have taken the position that, in fact, Burke did write the \"Vindication\" in earnest, later disowning it only for political reasons.\n\nIn 1757, Burke published a treatise on aesthetics, \"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful\", which attracted the attention of prominent Continental thinkers such as Denis Diderot and Immanuel Kant. It was his only purely philosophical work, and when asked by Sir Joshua Reynolds and French Laurence to expand it thirty years later, Burke replied that he was no longer fit for abstract speculation (Burke had written it before he was nineteen years of age).\n\nOn 25 February 1757, Burke signed a contract with Robert Dodsley to write a \"history of England from the time of Julius Caesar to the end of the reign of Queen Anne\", its length being eighty quarto sheets (640 pages), nearly 400,000 words. It was to be submitted for publication by Christmas 1758. Burke completed the work to the year 1216 and stopped; it was not published until after Burke's death, being included in an 1812 collection of his works, entitled \"An Essay Towards an Abridgement of the English History\". G. M. Young did not value Burke's history and claimed that it was \"demonstrably a translation from the French\". Lord Acton, on commenting on the story that Burke stopped his history because David Hume published his, said \"it is ever to be regretted that the reverse did not occur\".\n\nDuring the year following that contract, with Dodsley, Burke founded the influential \"Annual Register\", a publication in which various authors evaluated the international political events of the previous year. The extent to which Burke contributed to the \"Annual Register\" is unclear: in his biography of Burke, Robert Murray quotes the \"Register\" as evidence of Burke's opinions, yet Philip Magnus in his biography does not cite it directly as a reference. Burke remained the chief editor of the publication until at least 1789 and there is no evidence that any other writer contributed to it before 1766.\n\nOn 12 March 1757, Burke married Jane Mary Nugent (1734–1812), daughter of Dr Christopher Nugent, a Catholic physician who had provided him with medical treatment at Bath. Their son Richard was born on 9 February 1758; an elder son, Christopher, died in infancy. Burke also helped raise a ward, Edmund Nagle (\"later\" Admiral Sir Edmund Nagle), the son of a maternal cousin orphaned in 1763.\n\nAt about this same time, Burke was introduced to William Gerard Hamilton (known as \"Single-speech Hamilton\"). When Hamilton was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, Burke accompanied him to Dublin as his private secretary, a position he held for three years. In 1765 Burke became private secretary to the liberal Whig statesman, Charles, Marquess of Rockingham, then Prime Minister of Great Britain, who remained Burke's close friend and associate until his untimely death in 1782. Rockingham also introduced Burke as a Freemason.\n\nIn December 1765, Burke entered the House of Commons of the British Parliament as Member for Wendover, a pocket borough in the gift of Lord Fermanagh, later 2nd Earl Verney and a close political ally of Rockingham. After Burke delivered his maiden speech, William Pitt the Elder said he had \"spoken in such a manner as to stop the mouths of all Europe\" and that the Commons should congratulate itself on acquiring such a Member.\n\nThe first great subject Burke addressed was the controversy with the American colonies, which soon developed into war and ultimate separation; in reply to the 1769 Grenvillite pamphlet, \"The Present State of the Nation\", he published his own pamphlet on, \"Observations on a Late State of the Nation\". Surveying the finances of France, Burke predicts \"some extraordinary convulsion in that whole system\".\n\nDuring the same year, with mostly borrowed money, Burke purchased \"Gregories\", a estate near Beaconsfield. Although the estate included saleable assets such as art works by Titian, \"Gregories\" proved a heavy financial burden in the following decades and Burke was never able to repay its purchase price in full. His speeches and writings, having made him famous, led to the suggestion that he was the author of the \"Letters of Junius\".\n\nAt about this time, Burke joined the circle of leading intellectuals and artists in London of whom Samuel Johnson was the central luminary. This circle also included David Garrick, Oliver Goldsmith, and Joshua Reynolds. Edward Gibbon described Burke as 'the most eloquent and rational madman that I ever knew'. Although Johnson admired Burke's brilliance, he found him a dishonest politician.\n\nBurke took a leading role in the debate regarding the constitutional limits to the executive authority of the king. He argued strongly against unrestrained royal power and for the role of political parties in maintaining a principled opposition capable of preventing abuses, either by the monarch, or by specific factions within the government. His most important publication in this regard was his \"Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents\" of 23 April 1770. Burke identified the \"discontents\" as stemming from the \"secret influence\" of a neo-Tory group he labelled as, the \"king's friends\", whose system \"comprehending the exterior and interior administrations, is commonly called, in the technical language of the Court, \"Double Cabinet\"\". Britain needed a party with \"an unshaken adherence to principle, and attachment to connexion, against every allurement of interest\". Party divisions \"whether operating for good or evil, are things inseparable from free government\".\nDuring 1771, Burke wrote a Bill that, if passed, would have given juries the right to determine what was libel. Burke spoke in favour of the Bill but it was opposed by some, including Charles James Fox thus not becoming law. Fox, when introducing his own Bill in 1791 in Opposition, repeated almost verbatim the text of Burke's Bill without acknowledgement. Burke also was prominent in securing the right to publish debates held in Parliament.\n\nSpeaking in a parliamentary debate on the prohibition on the export of grain on 16 November 1770, Burke argued in favour of a free market in corn: \"There are no such things as a high, & a low price that is encouraging, & discouraging; there is nothing but a natural price, which grain brings at an universal market.\" In 1772 Burke was instrumental in the passing of the Repeal of Certain Laws Act 1772, which repealed various old laws against dealers and forestallers in corn.\n\nIn the \"Annual Register\" for 1772 (published in July 1773), Burke condemned the Partition of Poland. He saw it as \"the first very great breach in the modern political system of Europe\" and as upsetting the balance of power in Europe.\n\nOn 4 November 1774, Burke was elected Member for Bristol, at the time \"England's second city\" and a large constituency with a genuine electoral contest. The platform on which he was elected included the \"Speech to the Electors of Bristol\", a remarkable disclaimer of the constituent-imperative form of democracy, for which he substituted his statement of the \"representative mandate\" form.\n\nIn May 1778, Burke supported a parliamentary motion revising restrictions on Irish trade. His constituents, citizens of the great trading city of Bristol, however urged Burke to oppose free trade with Ireland. Burke resisted their protestations and said: \"If, from this conduct, I shall forfeit their suffrages at an ensuing election, it will stand on record an example to future representatives of the Commons of England, that one man at least had dared to resist the desires of his constituents when his judgment assured him they were wrong\".\n\nBurke published, \"Two Letters to Gentlemen of Bristol on the Bills relative to the Trade of Ireland\", in which he espoused \"some of the chief principles of commerce; such as the advantage of free intercourse between all parts of the same kingdom...the evils attending restriction and monopoly...and that the gain of others is not necessarily our loss, but on the contrary an advantage by causing a greater demand for such wares as we have for sale\".\n\nBurke also supported the attempts of Sir George Savile to repeal some of the penal laws against Catholics. Burke also called capital punishment \"the Butchery which we call justice\" in 1776 and in 1780 he condemned the use of the pillory for two men convicted for attempting to practice sodomy.\n\nThis support for unpopular causes, notably free trade with Ireland and Catholic Emancipation, led to Burke losing his seat in 1780. For the remainder of his parliamentary career, Burke represented Malton, another pocket borough under the Marquess of Rockingham's patronage.\n\nBurke expressed his support for the grievances of the American Colonies under the government of King George III and his appointed representatives. On 19 April 1774 Burke made a speech, \"On American Taxation\" (published in January 1775), on a motion to repeal the tea duty:\n\nAgain and again, revert to your old principles—seek peace and ensue it; leave America, if she has taxable matter in her, to tax herself. I am not here going into the distinctions of rights, nor attempting to mark their boundaries. I do not enter into these metaphysical distinctions; I hate the very sound of them. Leave the Americans as they anciently stood, and these distinctions, born of our unhappy contest, will die along with it... Be content to bind America by laws of trade; you have always done it... Do not burthen them with taxes... But if intemperately, unwisely, fatally, you sophisticate and poison the very source of government by urging subtle deductions, and consequences odious to those you govern, from the unlimited and illimitable nature of supreme sovereignty, you will teach them by these means to call that sovereignty itself in question... If that sovereignty and their freedom cannot be reconciled, which will they take? They will cast your sovereignty in your face. No body of men will be argued into slavery.\n\nOn 22 March 1775, in the House of Commons, Burke delivered a speech (published during May 1775) on reconciliation with America. Burke appealed for peace as preferable to civil war and reminded the House of America's growing population, its industry, and its wealth. He warned against the notion that the Americans would back down in the face of force, since most Americans were of British descent:\n\n... the people of the colonies are descendants of Englishmen... They are therefore not only devoted to liberty, but to liberty according to English ideas and on English principles. The people are Protestants... a persuasion not only favourable to liberty, but built upon it... My hold of the colonies is in the close affection which grows from common names, from kindred blood, from similar privileges, and equal protection. These are ties which, though light as air, are as strong as links of iron. Let the colonies always keep the idea of their civil rights associated with your government—they will cling and grapple to you, and no force under heaven will be of power to tear them from their allegiance. But let it be once understood that your government may be one thing and their privileges another, that these two things may exist without any mutual relation—the cement is gone, the cohesion is loosened, and everything hastens to decay and dissolution. As long as you have the wisdom to keep the sovereign authority of this country as the sanctuary of liberty, the sacred temple consecrated to our common faith, wherever the chosen race and sons of England worship freedom, they will turn their faces towards you. The more they multiply, the more friends you will have; the more ardently they love liberty, the more perfect will be their obedience. Slavery they can have anywhere. It is a weed that grows in every soil. They may have it from Spain, they may have it from Prussia. But, until you become lost to all feeling of your true interest and your natural dignity, freedom they can have from none but you.\n\nBurke prized peace with America above all else, pleading with the House of Commons to remember that the interest by way of money received from the American colonies was far more attractive than any sense of putting the colonists in their place:\n\nThe proposition is peace. Not peace through the medium of war, not peace to be hunted through the labyrinth of intricate and endless negotiations, not peace to arise out of universal discord... it is simple peace, sought in its natural course and in its ordinary haunts. It is peace sought in the spirit of peace, and laid in principles purely pacific.\n\nBurke was not merely presenting a peace agreement to Parliament; rather, he stepped forward with four reasons against using force, carefully reasoned. He laid out his objections in an orderly manner, focusing on one before moving to the next. His first concern was that the use of force would have to be temporary, and that the uprisings and objections to British governance in Colonial America would not be. Second, Burke worried about the uncertainty surrounding whether Britain would win a conflict in America. \"An armament\", Burke said, \"is not a victory\". Third, Burke brought up the issue of impairment; it would do the British Government no good to engage in a scorched earth war and have the object they desired (America) become damaged or even useless. The American colonists could always retreat into the mountains, but the land they left behind would most likely be unusable, whether by accident or design. The fourth and final reason to avoid the use of force was experience; the British had never attempted to rein in an unruly colony by force, and they did not know if it could be done, let alone accomplished thousands of miles away from home. Not only were all of these concerns reasonable, but some turned out to be prophetic—the American colonists did not surrender, even when things looked extremely bleak, and the British were ultimately unsuccessful in their attempts to win a war fought on American soil.\n\nIt was not temporary force, uncertainty, impairment, or even experience that Burke cited as the number one reason for avoiding war with the American colonies, however; it was the character of the American people themselves: \"In this character of Americans, a love of freedom is the predominating feature which marks and distinguishes the whole... this fierce spirit of liberty is stronger in the English colonies, probably, than in any other people of the earth... [the] men [are] acute, inquisitive, dextrous, prompt in attack, ready in defense, full of resources...\" Burke concludes with another plea for peace, and a prayer that Britain might avoid actions which, in Burke's words, \"may bring on the destruction of this Empire\".\n\nBurke proposed six resolutions to settle the American conflict peacefully:\n\nThe effect of these resolutions, had they been passed, can never be known. Unfortunately, Burke delivered this speech just less than a month before the explosive conflict at Concord and Lexington, and as these resolutions were not enacted, little was done that would help to dissuade conflict.\n\nAmong the reasons this speech was so greatly admired was its passage on Lord Bathurst (1684–1775); Burke describes an angel in 1704 prophesying to Bathurst the future greatness of England and also of America: \"Young man, There is America—which at this day serves little more than to amuse you with stories of savage men, and uncouth manners; yet shall, before you taste of death, shew itself equal to the whole of that commerce which now attracts the envy of the world\". Samuel Johnson was so irritated at hearing it continually praised, that he made a parody of it, where the devil appears to a young Whig and predicts that in short time, Whiggism will poison even the paradise of America!\n\nThe administration of Lord North (1770–1782) tried to defeat the colonist rebellion by military force. British and American forces clashed in 1775 and, in 1776, came the American Declaration of Independence. Burke was appalled by celebrations in Britain of the defeat of the Americans at New York and Pennsylvania. He claimed the English national character was being changed by this authoritarianism. Burke wrote: \"As to the good people of England, they seem to partake every day more and more of the Character of that administration which they have been induced to tolerate. I am satisfied, that within a few years there has been a great Change in the National Character. We seem no longer that eager, inquisitive, jealous, fiery people, which we have been formerly\".\n\nIn Burke's view, the British Government was fighting \"the American English\" (\"our English Brethren in the Colonies\"), with a Germanic king employing \"the hireling sword of German boors and vassals\" to destroy the English liberties of the colonists. On American independence, Burke wrote: \"I do not know how to wish success to those whose Victory is to separate from us a large and noble part of our Empire. Still less do I wish success to injustice, oppression and absurdity\".\n\nDuring the Gordon Riots in 1780, Burke became a target of hostility and his home was placed under armed guard by the military.\n\nThe fall of North led to Rockingham being recalled to power in March 1782. Burke was appointed Paymaster of the Forces and a Privy Counsellor, but without a seat in Cabinet. Rockingham's unexpected death in July 1782 and replacement with Shelburne as Prime Minister, put an end to his administration after only a few months, however, Burke did manage to introduce two Acts.\n\nThe Paymaster General Act 1782 ended the post as a lucrative sinecure. Previously, Paymasters had been able to draw on money from HM Treasury at their discretion. Now they were required to put the money they had requested to withdraw from the Treasury into the Bank of England, from where it was to be withdrawn for specific purposes. The Treasury would receive monthly statements of the Paymaster's balance at the Bank. This act was repealed by Shelburne's administration, but the act that replaced it repeated verbatim almost the whole text of the Burke Act.\n\nThe Civil List and Secret Service Money Act 1782 was a watered down version of Burke's original intentions as outlined in his famous \"Speech on Economical Reform\" of 11 February 1780. He managed, however, to abolish 134 offices in the royal household and civil administration. The third Secretary of State and the Board of Trade were abolished and pensions were limited and regulated. The Act was anticipated to save £72,368 a year.\n\nIn February 1783, Burke resumed the post of Paymaster of the Forces when Shelburne's government fell and was replaced by a coalition headed by North that included Charles James Fox. That coalition fell in 1783, and was succeeded by the long Tory administration of William Pitt the Younger, which lasted until 1801. Accordingly, having supported Fox and North, Burke was in opposition for the remainder of his political life.\n\nIn 1774, Burke's \"Speech to the Electors at Bristol at the Conclusion of the Poll\" was noted for its defence of the principles of representative government against the notion that elected officials should merely be delegates:\n\n... it ought to be the happiness and glory of a representative to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence, and the most unreserved communication with his constituents. Their wishes ought to have great weight with him; their opinion, high respect; their business, unremitted attention. It is his duty to sacrifice his repose, his pleasures, his satisfactions, to theirs; and above all, ever, and in all cases, to prefer their interest to his own. But his unbiased opinion, his mature judgment, his enlightened conscience, he ought not to sacrifice to you, to any man, or to any set of men living. These he does not derive from your pleasure; no, nor from the law and the constitution. They are a trust from Providence, for the abuse of which he is deeply answerable. Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but his judgment; and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to your opinion.\n\nPolitical scientist Hanna Pitkin points out that Burke linked the interest of the district with the proper behaviour of its elected official, explaining, \"Burke conceives of broad, relatively fixed interest, few in number and clearly defined, of which any group or locality has just one. These interests are largely economic or associated with particular localities whose livelihood they characterize, in his over-all prosperity they involve.\"\n\nBurke was a leading sceptic with respect to democracy. While admitting that theoretically, in some cases it might be desirable, he insisted a democratic government in Britain in his day would not only be inept, but also oppressive. He opposed democracy for three basic reasons. First, government required a degree of intelligence and breadth of knowledge of the sort that occurred rarely among the common people. Second, he thought that if they had the vote, common people had dangerous and angry passions that could be aroused easily by demagogues; he feared that the authoritarian impulses that could be empowered by these passions would undermine cherished traditions and established religion, leading to violence and confiscation of property. Third, Burke warned that democracy would create a tyranny over unpopular minorities, who needed the protection of the upper classes.\n\nFor years Burke pursued impeachment efforts against Warren Hastings, formerly Governor-General of Bengal, that resulted in the trial during 1786. His interaction with the British dominion of India began well before Hastings' impeachment trial. For two decades prior to the impeachment, Parliament had dealt with the Indian issue. This trial was the pinnacle of years of unrest and deliberation. In 1781 Burke was first able to delve into the issues surrounding the East India Company when he was appointed Chairman of the Commons Select Committee on East Indian Affairs—from that point until the end of the trial; India was Burke's primary concern. This committee was charged \"to investigate alleged injustices in Bengal, the war with Hyder Ali, and other Indian difficulties\". While Burke and the committee focused their attention on these matters, a second 'secret' committee was formed to assess the same issues. Both committee reports were written by Burke. Among other purposes, the reports conveyed to the Indian princes that Britain would not wage war on them, along with demanding that the East India Company should recall Hastings. This was Burke's first call for substantive change regarding imperial practices. When addressing the whole House of Commons regarding the committee report, Burke described the Indian issue as one that \"began 'in commerce' but 'ended in empire.'\"\n\nOn 28 February 1785, Burke delivered a now-famous speech, \"The Nabob of Arcot's Debts\", wherein he condemned the damage to India by the East India Company. In the province of the Carnatic the Indians had constructed a system of reservoirs to make the soil fertile in a naturally dry region, and centred their society on the husbandry of water:\n\nThese are the monuments of real kings, who were the fathers of their people; testators to a posterity which they embraced as their own. These are the grand sepulchres built by ambition; but by the ambition of an insatiable benevolence, which, not contented with reigning in the dispensation of happiness during the contracted term of human life, had strained, with all the reachings and graspings of a vivacious mind, to extend the dominion of their bounty beyond the limits of nature, and to perpetuate themselves through generations of generations, the guardians, the protectors, the nourishers of mankind.\n\nBurke held that the advent of British dominion, and in particular the conduct of the East India Company, had destroyed much that was good in these traditions and that, as a consequence of this, and the lack of new customs to replace them, the Indians were suffering. He set about establishing a set of British expectations, whose moral foundation would, in his opinion, warrant the empire.\n\nOn 4 April 1786, Burke presented the Commons with the \"Article of Charge of High Crimes and Misdemeanors\" against Hastings. The impeachment in Westminster Hall, which did not begin until 14 February 1788, would be the \"first major public discursive event of its kind in England\", bringing the morality and duty of imperialism to the forefront of public perception. Burke already was known for his eloquent rhetorical skills and his involvement in the trial only enhanced its popularity and significance. Burke's indictment, fuelled by emotional indignation, branded Hastings a 'captain-general of iniquity'; who never dined without 'creating a famine'; whose heart was 'gangrened to the core', and who resembled both a 'spider of Hell' and a 'ravenous vulture devouring the carcasses of the dead'. The House of Commons eventually impeached Hastings, but subsequently, the House of Lords acquitted him of all charges.\n\nInitially, Burke did not condemn the French Revolution. In a letter of 9 August 1789, he wrote: \"England gazing with astonishment at a French struggle for Liberty and not knowing whether to blame or to applaud! The thing indeed, though I thought I saw something like it in progress for several years, has still something in it paradoxical and Mysterious. The spirit it is impossible not to admire; but the old Parisian ferocity has broken out in a shocking manner\". The events of 5–6 October 1789, when a crowd of Parisian women marched on Versailles to compel King Louis XVI to return to Paris, turned Burke against it. In a letter to his son, Richard Burke, dated 10 October he said: \"This day I heard from Laurence who has sent me papers confirming the portentous state of France—where the Elements which compose Human Society seem all to be dissolved, and a world of Monsters to be produced in the place of it—where Mirabeau presides as the Grand Anarch; and the late Grand Monarch makes a figure as ridiculous as pitiable\". On 4 November Charles-Jean-François Depont wrote to Burke, requesting that he endorse the Revolution. Burke replied that any critical language of it by him should be taken \"as no more than the expression of doubt\" but he added: \"You may have subverted Monarchy, but not recover'd freedom\". In the same month he described France as \"a country undone\". Burke's first public condemnation of the Revolution occurred on the debate in Parliament on the army estimates on 9 February 1790, provoked by praise of the Revolution by Pitt and Fox:\n\nSince the House had been prorogued in the summer much work was done in France. The French had shewn themselves the ablest architects of ruin that had hitherto existed in the world. In that very short space of time they had completely pulled down to the ground, their monarchy; their church; their nobility; their law; their revenue; their army; their navy; their commerce; their arts; and their manufactures... [there was a danger of] an imitation of the excesses of an irrational, unprincipled, proscribing, confiscating, plundering, ferocious, bloody and tyrannical democracy... [in religion] the danger of their example is no longer from intolerance, but from Atheism; a foul, unnatural vice, foe to all the dignity and consolation of mankind; which seems in France, for a long time, to have been embodied into a faction, accredited, and almost avowed.\n\nIn January 1790, Burke read Dr. Richard Price's sermon of 4 November 1789 entitled, \"A Discourse on the Love of Our Country\", to the Revolution Society. That society had been founded to commemorate the Glorious Revolution of 1688. In this sermon Price espoused the philosophy of universal \"Rights of Men\". Price argued that love of our country \"does not imply any conviction of the superior value of it to other countries, or any particular preference of its laws and constitution of government\". Instead, Price asserted that Englishmen should see themselves \"more as citizens of the world than as members of any particular community\".\n\nA debate between Price and Burke ensued that was \"the classic moment at which two fundamentally different conceptions of national identity were presented to the English public\". Price claimed that the principles of the Glorious Revolution included \"the right to choose our own governors, to cashier them for misconduct, and to frame a government for ourselves\".\n\nImmediately after reading Price's sermon, Burke wrote a draft of what eventually became \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\". On 13 February 1790, a notice in the press said that shortly, Burke would publish a pamphlet on the Revolution and its British supporters, however he spent the year revising and expanding it. On 1 November he finally published the \"Reflections\" and it was an immediate best-seller. Priced at five shillings, it was more expensive than most political pamphlets, but by the end of 1790, it had gone through ten printings and sold approximately 17,500 copies. A French translation appeared on 29 November and on 30 November the translator, Pierre-Gaëton Dupont, wrote to Burke saying 2,500 copies had already been sold. The French translation ran to ten printings by June 1791.\n\nWhat the Glorious Revolution had meant was as important to Burke and his contemporaries as it had been for the last one hundred years in British politics. In the \"Reflections\", Burke argued against Price's interpretation of the Glorious Revolution and instead, gave a classic Whig defence of it. Burke argued against the idea of abstract, metaphysical rights of humans and instead advocated national tradition:\n\nBurke said \"We fear God, we look up with awe to kings; with affection to parliaments; with duty to magistrates; with reverence to priests; and with respect to nobility. Why? Because when such ideas are brought before our minds, it is \"natural\" to be so affected\". Burke defended this prejudice on the grounds that it is \"the general bank and capital of nations, and of ages\" and superior to individual reason, which is small in comparison. \"Prejudice\", Burke claimed, \"is of ready application in the emergency; it previously engages the mind in a steady course of wisdom and virtue, and does not leave the man hesitating in the moment of decision, skeptical, puzzled, and unresolved. Prejudice renders a man's virtue his habit\". Burke criticised social contract theory by claiming that society is indeed, a contract, but \"a partnership not only between those who are living, but between those who are living, those who are dead, and those who are to be born\".\n\nThe most famous passage in Burke's \"Reflections\" was his description of the events of 5–6 October 1789 and the part of Marie-Antoinette in them. Burke's account differs little from modern historians who have used primary sources. His use of flowery language to describe it, however, provoked both praise and criticism. Philip Francis wrote to Burke saying that what he wrote of Marie-Antoinette was \"pure foppery\". Edward Gibbon, however, reacted differently: \"I adore his chivalry\". Burke was informed by an Englishman who had talked with the Duchesse de Biron, that when Marie-Antoinette was reading the passage, she burst into tears and took considerable time to finish reading it. Price had rejoiced that the French king had been \"led in triumph\" during the October Days, but to Burke this symbolised the opposing revolutionary sentiment of the Jacobins and the natural sentiments of those who shared his own view with horror—that the ungallant assault on Marie-Antoinette—was a cowardly attack on a defenceless woman.\n\nLouis XVI translated the \"Reflections\" \"from end to end\" into French. Fellow Whig MPs Richard Sheridan and Charles James Fox, disagreed with Burke and split with him. Fox thought the \"Reflections\" to be \"in very bad taste\" and \"favouring Tory principles\". Other Whigs such as the Duke of Portland and Earl Fitzwilliam privately agreed with Burke, but did not wish for a public breach with their Whig colleagues. Burke wrote on 29 November 1790: \"I have received from the Duke of Portland, Lord Fitzwilliam, the Duke of Devonshire, Lord John Cavendish, Montagu (Frederick Montagu MP), and a long et cetera of the old Stamina of the Whiggs a most full approbation of the principles of that work and a kind indulgence to the execution\". The Duke of Portland said in 1791 that when anyone criticised the \"Reflections\" to him, he informed them that he had recommended the book to his sons as containing the true Whig creed.\n\nIn the opinion of Paul Langford, Burke crossed something of a Rubicon when he attended a levee on 3 February 1791 to meet the king, later described by Jane Burke:\n\nOn his coming to Town for the Winter, as he generally does, he went to the Levee with the Duke of \"Portland\", who went with Lord William to kiss hands on his going into the Guards—while Lord William was kissing hands, The King was talking to The Duke, but his Eyes were fixed on [Burke] who was standing in the Crowd, and when He said His say to The Duke, without waiting for [Burke]'s coming up in his turn, The King went up to him, and, after the usual questions of how long have you been in Town and the weather, He said you have been very much employed of late, and very much confined. [Burke] said, no, Sir, not more than usual—You have and very well employed too, but there are none so deaf as those that w'ont hear, and none so blind as those that w'ont see—[Burke] made a low bow, Sir, I certainly now understand you, but was afraid my vanity or presumption might have led me to imagine what Your Majesty has said referred to what I have done—You cannot be vain—You have been of \"use to us all\", it is a general opinion, is it not so Lord Stair? who was standing near. It is said Lord Stair;—Your Majesty's adopting it, Sir, will make the opinion general, said [Burke]—I know it is the general opinion, and I know that there is no Man who calls himself a Gentleman that must not think himself obliged to you, for you have supported the cause of the Gentlemen—You know the tone at Court is a whisper, but The King said all this loud, so as to be heard by every one at Court.\n\nBurke's \"Reflections\" sparked a pamphlet war. Mary Wollstonecraft was one of the first into print, publishing \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\" a few weeks after Burke. Thomas Paine followed with the \"Rights of Man\" in 1791. James Mackintosh, who wrote \"Vindiciae Gallicae\", was the first to see the \"Reflections\" as \"the manifesto of a Counter Revolution\". Mackintosh later agreed with Burke's views, remarking in December 1796 after meeting him, that Burke was \"minutely and accurately informed, to a wonderful exactness, with respect to every fact relating to the French Revolution\". Mackintosh later said: \"Burke was one of the first thinkers as well as one of the greatest orators of his time. He is without parallel in any age, excepting perhaps Lord Bacon and Cicero; and his works contain an ampler store of political and moral wisdom than can be found in any other writer whatever\".\n\nIn November 1790, François-Louis-Thibault de Menonville, a member of the National Assembly of France, wrote to Burke, praising \"Reflections\" and requesting more \"very refreshing mental food\" that he could publish. This Burke did in April 1791 when he published \"A Letter to a Member of the National Assembly\". Burke called for external forces to reverse the revolution and included an attack on the late French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, as being the subject of a personality cult that had developed in revolutionary France. Although Burke conceded that Rousseau sometimes showed \"a considerable insight into human nature\" he mostly was critical. Although he did not meet Rousseau on his visit to Britain in 1766–67 Burke was a friend of David Hume, with whom Rousseau had stayed. Burke said Rousseau \"entertained no principle either to influence of his heart, or to guide his understanding—but \"vanity\"\"—which he \"was possessed to a degree little short of madness\". He also cited Rousseau's \"Confessions\" as evidence that Rousseau had a life of \"obscure and vulgar vices\" that was not \"chequered, or spotted here and there, with virtues, or even distinguished by a single good action\". Burke contrasted Rousseau's theory of universal benevolence and his having sent his children to a foundling hospital: \"a lover of his kind, but a hater of his kindred\".\n\nThese events and the disagreements that arose from them within the Whig Party, led to its break-up and to the rupture of Burke's friendship with Fox. In debate in Parliament on Britain's relations with Russia, Fox praised the principles of the revolution, although Burke was not able to reply at this time as he was \"overpowered by continued cries of question from his own side of the House\". When Parliament was debating the Quebec Bill for a constitution for Canada, Fox praised the revolution and criticised some of Burke's arguments, such as hereditary power. On 6 May 1791, during another debate in Parliament on the Quebec Bill, Burke used the opportunity to answer Fox, and to condemn the new French Constitution and \"the horrible consequences flowing from the French idea of the Rights of Man\". Burke asserted that those ideas were the antithesis of both the British and the American constitutions. Burke was interrupted, and Fox intervened, saying that Burke should be allowed to carry on with his speech. A vote of censure was moved against Burke, however, for noticing the affairs of France, which was moved by Lord Sheffield and seconded by Fox. Pitt made a speech praising Burke, and Fox made a speech—both rebuking and complimenting Burke. He questioned the sincerity of Burke, who seemed to have forgotten the lessons he had learned from him, quoting from Burke's own speeches of fourteen and fifteen years before.\n\nBurke's response was:\n\nIt certainly was indiscreet at any period, but especially at his time of life, to parade enemies, or give his friends occasion to desert him; yet if his firm and steady adherence to the British constitution placed him in such a dilemma, he would risk all, and, as public duty and public experience taught him, with his last words exclaim, \"Fly from the French Constitution\".\n\nAt this point, Fox whispered that there was \"no loss of friendship\". \"I regret to say there is\", Burke replied, \"I have indeed made a great sacrifice; I have done my duty though I have lost my friend. There is something in the detested French constitution that envenoms every thing it touches\". This provoked a reply from Fox, yet he was unable to give his speech for some time since he was overcome with tears and emotion, he appealed to Burke to remember their inalienable friendship, but also repeated his criticisms of Burke and uttered \"unusually bitter sarcasms\". This only aggravated the rupture between the two men. Burke demonstrated his separation from the party on 5 June 1791 by writing to Fitzwilliam, declining money from him.\n\nBurke was dismayed that some Whigs, instead of reaffirming the principles of the Whig Party he laid out in the \"Reflections\", had rejected them in favour of \"French principles\" and that they criticised Burke for abandoning Whig principles. Burke wanted to demonstrate his fidelity to Whig principles and feared that acquiescence to Fox and his followers would allow the Whig Party to become a vehicle for Jacobinism.\n\nBurke knew that many members of the Whig Party did not share Fox's views and he wanted to provoke them into condemning the French Revolution. Burke wrote that he wanted to represent the whole Whig party \"as tolerating, and by a toleration, countenancing those proceedings\" so that he could \"stimulate them to a public declaration of what every one of their acquaintance privately knows to be...their sentiments\". Therefore, on 3 August 1791 Burke published his \"Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs\", in which he renewed his criticism of the radical revolutionary programmes inspired by the French Revolution and attacked the Whigs who supported them, as holding principles contrary to those traditionally held by the Whig party.\n\nBurke owned two copies of what has been called \"that practical compendium of Whig political theory\", \"The Tryal of Dr. Henry Sacheverell\" (1710). Burke wrote of the trial: \"It rarely happens to a party to have the opportunity of a clear, authentic, recorded, declaration of their political tenets upon the subject of a great constitutional event like that of the [Glorious] Revolution\". Writing in the third person, Burke asserted in his \"Appeal\":\n\n... that the foundations laid down by the Commons, on the trial of Doctor Sacheverel, for justifying the revolution of 1688, are the very same laid down in Mr. Burke's Reflections; that is to say,—a breach of the \"original contract\", implied and expressed in the constitution of this country, as a scheme of government fundamentally and inviolably fixed in King, Lords and Commons.—That the fundamental subversion of this antient constitution, by one of its parts, having been attempted, and in effect accomplished, justified the Revolution. That it was justified \"only\" upon the \"necessity\" of the case; as the \"only\" means left for the recovery of that \"antient\" constitution, formed by the \"original contract\" of the British state; as well as for the future preservation of the \"same\" government. These are the points to be proved.\n\nBurke then provided quotations from Paine's \"Rights of Man\" to demonstrate what the New Whigs believed. Burke's belief that Foxite principles corresponded to Paine's was genuine. Finally, Burke denied that a majority of \"the people\" had, or ought to have, the final say in politics and alter society at their pleasure. People had rights, but also duties, and these duties were not voluntary. Also, the people could not overthrow morality derived from God.\n\nAlthough Whig grandees such as Portland and Fitzwilliam privately agreed with Burke's \"Appeal\", they wished he had used more moderate language. Fitzwilliam saw the \"Appeal\" as containing \"the doctrines I have sworn by, long and long since\". Francis Basset, a backbench Whig MP, wrote to Burke: \"...though for reasons which I will not now detail I did not then deliver my sentiments, I most perfectly differ from Mr. Fox & from the great Body of opposition on the French Revolution\". Burke sent a copy of the \"Appeal\" to the king and the king requested a friend to communicate to Burke that he had read it \"with great Satisfaction\". Burke wrote of its reception: \"Not one word from one of our party. They are secretly galled. They agree with me to a title; but they dare not speak out for fear of hurting Fox. ... They leave me to myself; they see that I can do myself justice\". Charles Burney viewed it as \"a most admirable book—the best & most useful on political subjects that I have ever seen\" but believed the differences in the Whig Party between Burke and Fox should not be aired publicly.\n\nEventually, most of the Whigs sided with Burke and gave their support to Pitt's \"conservative\" government, which, in response to France's declaration of war against Britain, declared war on France's Revolutionary Government in 1793.\n\nIn December 1791, Burke sent Government ministers his \"Thoughts on French Affairs\" where he put forward three main points: no counter-revolution in France would come about by purely domestic causes; the longer the Revolutionary Government exists the stronger it becomes; and the Revolutionary Government's interest and aim is to disturb all of the other governments of Europe.\n\nBurke, as a Whig, did not wish to see an absolute monarchy again in France after the extirpation of Jacobinism. Writing to an \"émigré\" in 1791, Burke expressed his views against a restoration of the \"ancien régime\":\n\nWhen such a complete convulsion has shaken the State, and hardly left any thing whatsoever, either in civil arrangements, or in the Characters and disposition of men's minds, exactly where it was, whatever shall be settled although in the former persons and upon old forms, will be in some measure a new thing and will labour under something of the weakness as well as other inconveniences of a Change. My poor opinion is that you mean to establish what you call 'L'ancien Régime,' If any one means that system of Court Intrigue miscalled a Government as it stood, at Versailles before the present confusions as the thing to be established, that I believe will be found absolutely impossible; and if you consider the Nature, as well of persons, as of affairs, I flatter myself you must be of my opinion. That was tho' not so violent a State of Anarchy as well as the present. If it were even possible to lay things down exactly as they stood, before the series of experimental politicks began, I am quite sure that they could not long continue in that situation. In one Sense of L'Ancien Régime I am clear that nothing else can reasonably be done.\n\nBurke delivered a speech on the debate of the Aliens Bill on 28 December 1792. He supported the Bill as it would exclude \"murderous atheists, who would pull down Church and state; religion and God; morality and happiness\". The peroration included a reference to a French order for 3,000 daggers. Burke revealed a dagger he had concealed in his coat and threw it to the floor: \"This is what you are to gain by an alliance with France\". Burke picked up the dagger and continued:\n\nWhen they smile, I see blood trickling down their faces; I see their insidious purposes; I see that the object of all their cajoling is—blood! I now warn my countrymen to beware of these execrable philosophers, whose only object it is to destroy every thing that is good here, and to establish immorality and murder by precept and example—'Hic niger est hunc tu Romane caveto' ['Such a man is evil; beware of him, Roman'. Horace, \"Satires\" I. 4. 85.].\n\nBurke supported the war against revolutionary France, seeing Britain as fighting on the side of the royalists and \"émigres\" in a civil war, rather than fighting against the whole nation of France. Burke also supported the royalist uprising in La Vendée, describing it on 4 November 1793 in a letter to William Windham, as \"the sole affair I have much heart in\". Burke wrote to Henry Dundas on 7 October urging him to send reinforcements there, as he viewed it as the only theatre in the war that might lead to a march on Paris. Dundas did not follow Burke's advice, however.\n\nBurke believed the Government was not taking the uprising seriously enough, a view reinforced by a letter he had received from the Prince Charles of France (\"S.A.R. le comte d'Artois\"), dated 23 October, requesting that he intercede on behalf of the royalists to the Government. Burke was forced to reply on 6 November: \"I am not in His Majesty's Service; or at all consulted in his Affairs\". Burke published his \"Remarks on the Policy of the Allies with Respect to France\", begun in October, where he said: \"I am sure every thing has shewn us that in this war with France, one Frenchman is worth twenty foreigners. La Vendée is a proof of this\".\n\nOn 20 June 1794, Burke received a vote of thanks from the Commons for his services in the Hastings Trial and he immediately resigned his seat, being replaced by his son Richard. A tragic blow fell upon Burke with the loss of Richard in August 1794, to whom he was tenderly attached, and in whom he saw signs of promise, which were not patent to others and which, in fact, appear to have been non-existent (though this view may have rather reflected the fact that Richard Burke had worked successfully in the early battle for Catholic emancipation). King George III, whose favour he had gained by his attitude on the French Revolution, wished to create him Earl of Beaconsfield, but the death of his son deprived the opportunity of such an honour and all its attractions, so the only award he would accept was a pension of £2,500. Even this modest reward was attacked by the Duke of Bedford and the Earl of Lauderdale, to whom Burke replied in his \"Letter to a Noble Lord\" (1796): \"It cannot at this time be too often repeated; line upon line; precept upon precept; until it comes into the currency of a proverb, \"To innovate is not to reform\"\". He argued that he was rewarded on merit, but the Duke of Bedford received his rewards from inheritance alone, his ancestor being the original pensioner: \"Mine was from a mild and benevolent sovereign; his from Henry the Eighth\". Burke also hinted at what would happen to such people if their revolutionary ideas were implemented, and included a description of the British constitution:\n\nBut as to \"our\" country and \"our\" race, as long as the well compacted structure of our church and state, the sanctuary, the holy of holies of that ancient law, defended by reverence, defended by power, a fortress at once and a temple, shall stand inviolate on the brow of the British Sion—as long as the British Monarchy, not more limited than fenced by the orders of the State, shall, like the proud Keep of Windsor, rising in the majesty of proportion, and girt with the double belt of its kindred and coeval towers, as long as this awful structure shall oversee and guard the subjected land—so long as the mounds and dykes of the low, fat, Bedford level will have nothing to fear from all the pickaxes of all the levellers of France.\n\nBurke's last publications were the \"Letters on a Regicide Peace\" (October 1796), called forth by negotiations for peace with France by the Pitt government. Burke regarded this as appeasement, injurious to national dignity and honour. In his \"Second Letter\", Burke wrote of the French Revolutionary Government: \"Individuality is left out of their scheme of government. The State is all in all. Everything is referred to the production of force; afterwards, everything is trusted to the use of it. It is military in its principle, in its maxims, in its spirit, and in all its movements. The State has dominion and conquest for its sole objects—dominion over minds by proselytism, over bodies by arms\".\n\nThis is held to be the first explanation of the modern concept of totalitarian state. Burke regarded the war with France as ideological, against an \"armed doctrine\". He wished that France would not be partitioned due to the effect this would have on the balance of power in Europe, and that the war was not against France, but against the revolutionaries governing her. Burke said: \"It is not France extending a foreign empire over other nations: it is a sect aiming at universal empire, and beginning with the conquest of France\".\n\nIn November 1795, there was a debate in Parliament on the high price of corn and Burke wrote a memorandum to Pitt on the subject. In December Samuel Whitbread MP introduced a bill giving magistrates the power to fix minimum wages and Fox said he would vote for it. This debate probably led Burke to editing his memorandum, as there appeared a notice that Burke would soon publish a letter on the subject to the Secretary of the Board of Agriculture, Arthur Young; but he failed to complete it. These fragments were inserted into the memorandum after his death and published posthumously in 1800 as, \"Thoughts and Details on Scarcity\". In it, Burke expounded \"some of the doctrines of political economists bearing upon agriculture as a trade\". Burke criticised policies such as maximum prices and state regulation of wages, and set out what the limits of government should be:\n\nThat the State ought to confine itself to what regards the State, or the creatures of the State, namely, the exterior establishment of its religion; its magistracy; its revenue; its military force by sea and land; the corporations that owe their existence to its fiat; in a word, to every thing that is \"truly and properly\" public, to the public peace, to the public safety, to the public order, to the public prosperity.\n\nThe economist Adam Smith remarked that Burke was \"the only man I ever knew who thinks on economic subjects exactly as I do, without any previous communications having passed between us\".\n\nWriting to a friend in May 1795, Burke surveyed the causes of discontent: \"I think I can hardly overrate the malignity of the principles of Protestant ascendency, as they affect Ireland; or of Indianism [i.e. corporate tyranny, as practiced by the British East Indies Company], as they affect these countries, and as they affect Asia; or of Jacobinism, as they affect all Europe, and the state of human society itself. The last is the greatest evil\". By March 1796, however Burke had changed his mind: \"Our Government and our Laws are beset by two different Enemies, which are sapping its foundations, Indianism, and Jacobinism. In some Cases they act separately, in some they act in conjunction: But of this I am sure; that the first is the worst by far, and the hardest to deal with; and for this amongst other reasons, that it weakens discredits, and ruins that force, which ought to be employed with the greatest Credit and Energy against the other; and that it furnishes Jacobinism with its strongest arms against all \"formal\" Government\".\n\nFor more than a year prior to his death, Burke knew that his 'stomach' was \"irrecoverably ruind\". After hearing that Burke was nearing death, Fox wrote to Mrs. Burke enquiring after him. Fox received the reply the next day:\n\nMrs. Burke presents her compliments to Mr. Fox, and thanks him for his obliging inquiries. Mrs. Burke communicated his letter to Mr. Burke, and by his desire has to inform Mr. Fox that it has cost Mr. Burke the most heart-felt pain to obey the stern voice of his duty in rending asunder a long friendship, but that he deemed this sacrifice necessary; that his principles continue the same; and that in whatever of life may yet remain to him, he conceives that he must live for others and not for himself. Mr. Burke is convinced that the principles which he has endeavoured to maintain are necessary to the welfare and dignity of his country, and that these principles can be enforced only by the general persuasion of his sincerity.\n\nBurke died in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, on 9 July 1797, and was buried there alongside his son and brother. His wife survived him by nearly fifteen years.\n\nBurke is regarded by most political historians in the English-speaking world as the father of modern British conservatism. Burke was utilitarian and empirical in his arguments, while Joseph de Maistre, a fellow conservative from the Continent, was more a providentialist and sociological, and deployed a more confrontational tone in his arguments.\n\nBurke believed that property was essential to human life. Because of his conviction that people desire to be ruled and controlled, the division of property formed the basis for social structure, helping develop control within a property-based hierarchy. He viewed the social changes brought on by property as the natural order of events, which should be taking place as the human race progressed. With the division of property and the class system, he also believed that it kept the monarch in check to the needs of the classes beneath the monarch. Since property largely aligned or defined divisions of social class, class too, was seen as natural—part of a social agreement that the setting of persons into different classes, is the mutual benefit of all subjects. Concern for property is not Burke's only influence. As Christopher Hitchens summarises, \"If modern conservatism can be held to derive from Burke, it is not just because he appealed to property owners in behalf of stability but also because he appealed to an everyday interest in the preservation of the ancestral and the immemorial.\"\n\nBurke's support for Irish Catholics and Indians often led him to be criticised by Tories. His opposition to British imperialism in Ireland and India and his opposition to French imperialism and radicalism in Europe, made it difficult for Whig or Tory to accept Burke wholly as their own.\n\nIn the nineteenth century Burke was praised by both liberals and conservatives. Burke's friend Philip Francis wrote that Burke \"was a man who truly & prophetically foresaw all the consequences which would rise from the adoption of the French principles\" but because Burke wrote with so much passion, people were doubtful of his arguments. William Windham spoke from the same bench in the House of Commons as Burke had, when he had separated from Fox, and an observer said Windham spoke \"like the ghost of Burke\" when he made a speech against peace with France in 1801. William Hazlitt, a political opponent of Burke, regarded him as amongst his three favourite writers (the others being Junius and Rousseau), and made it \"a test of the sense and candour of any one belonging to the opposite party, whether he allowed Burke to be a great man\". William Wordsworth was originally a supporter of the French Revolution and attacked Burke in 'A Letter to the Bishop of Llandaff' (1793), but by the early nineteenth century he had changed his mind and came to admire Burke. In his \"Two Addresses to the Freeholders of Westmorland\" Wordsworth called Burke \"the most sagacious Politician of his age\" whose predictions \"time has verified\". He later revised his poem \"The Prelude\" to include praise of Burke (\"Genius of Burke! forgive the pen seduced/By specious wonders\") and portrayed him as an old oak. Samuel Taylor Coleridge came to have a similar conversion: he had criticised Burke in \"The Watchman\", but in his \"Friend\" (1809–10) Coleridge defended Burke from charges of inconsistency. Later, in his \"Biographia Literaria\" (1817) Coleridge hails Burke as a prophet and praises Burke for referring \"habitually to \"principles\". He was a \"scientific\" statesman; and therefore a \"seer\"\". Henry Brougham wrote of Burke: \"... all his predictions, save one momentary expression, had been more than fulfilled: anarchy and bloodshed had borne sway in France; conquest and convulsion had desolated Europe...the providence of mortals is not often able to penetrate so far as this into futurity\". George Canning believed that Burke's \"Reflections\" \"has been justified by the course of subsequent events; and almost every prophecy has been strictly fulfilled\". In 1823 Canning wrote that he took Burke's \"last works and words [as] the manual of my politics\". The Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli \"was deeply penetrated with the spirit and sentiment of Burke's later writings\".\n\nThe 19th-century Liberal Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone considered Burke \"a magazine of wisdom on Ireland and America\" and in his diary recorded: \"Made many extracts from Burke—\"sometimes almost divine\"\". The Radical MP and anti-Corn Law activist Richard Cobden often praised Burke's \"Thoughts and Details on Scarcity\". The Liberal historian Lord Acton considered Burke one of the three greatest Liberals, along with William Gladstone and Thomas Babington Macaulay. Lord Macaulay recorded in his diary: \"I have now finished reading again most of Burke's works. Admirable! The greatest man since Milton\". The Gladstonian Liberal MP John Morley published two books on Burke (including a biography) and was influenced by Burke, including his views on prejudice. The Cobdenite Radical Francis Hirst thought Burke deserved \"a place among English libertarians, even though of all lovers of liberty and of all reformers he was the most conservative, the least abstract, always anxious to preserve and renovate rather than to innovate. In politics he resembled the modern architect who would restore an old house instead of pulling it down to construct a new one on the site\". Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" was controversial at the time of its publication, but after his death, it was to become his best known and most influential work, and a manifesto for Conservative thinking.\n\nTwo contrasting assessments of Burke also were offered long after his death by Karl Marx and Winston Churchill. In \"Das Kapital\", Marx wrote:\nThe sycophant—who in the pay of the English oligarchy played the romantic \"laudator temporis acti\" against the French Revolution just as, in the pay of the North American colonies at the beginning of the American troubles, he had played the liberal against the English oligarchy—was an out-and-out vulgar bourgeois. \"The laws of commerce are the laws of Nature, and therefore the laws of God.\" (E. Burke, l.c., pp. 31, 32) No wonder that, true to the laws of God and Nature, he always sold himself in the best market.\nWinston Churchill, in \"Consistency in Politics\", wrote:\nOn the one hand [Burke] is revealed as a foremost apostle of Liberty, on the other as the redoubtable champion of Authority. But a charge of political inconsistency applied to this life appears a mean and petty thing. History easily discerns the reasons and forces which actuated him, and the immense changes in the problems he was facing which evoked from the same profound mind and sincere spirit these entirely contrary manifestations. His soul revolted against tyranny, whether it appeared in the aspect of a domineering Monarch and a corrupt Court and Parliamentary system, or whether, mouthing the watch-words of a non-existent liberty, it towered up against him in the dictation of a brutal mob and wicked sect. No one can read the Burke of Liberty and the Burke of Authority without feeling that here was the same man pursuing the same ends, seeking the same ideals of society and Government, and defending them from assaults, now from one extreme, now from the other.\nThe historian Piers Brendon asserts that Burke laid the moral foundations for the British Empire, epitomised in the trial of Warren Hastings, that was ultimately to be its undoing: when Burke stated that \"The British Empire must be governed on a plan of freedom, for it will be governed by no other\", this was \"...an ideological bacillus that would prove fatal. This was Edmund Burke's paternalistic doctrine that colonial government was a trust. It was to be so exercised for the benefit of subject people that they would eventually attain their birthright—freedom\". As a consequence of this opinion, Burke objected to the opium trade, which he called a \"smuggling adventure\" and condemned \"the great Disgrace of the British character in India\".\n\nA Royal Society of Arts blue plaque commemorates Burke at 37 Gerrard Street now in London's Chinatown.\n\nOne of Burke's largest and most developed critics was Leo Strauss, who was thoroughly analyzed by Steven Lenzner. Strauss in his book \"Natural Right and History\" makes a series of points in which he somewhat harshly evaluates Burke's writings.\n\nOne of the topics that he first addresses is the fact that Burke creates a definitive separation between happiness and virtue, and explains that \"Burke, therefore, seeks the foundation of government 'in a conformity to our duties' and not in 'imaginary rights of man\"\nStrauss views Burke as believing that government should focus solely on the duties that a man should have in society as opposed to trying to address any additional needs or desires. Government is simply a practicality to Burke, and not necessarily meant to function as a tool to help individuals live their best lives. Strauss also argues that in a sense, Burke's theory could be seen as opposing the very idea of forming such philosophies. Burke expresses the view that theory cannot adequately predict future occurrences, and thus, men need to have instincts that can't be practiced or derived from ideology.\n\nThis leads to an overarching criticism that Strauss holds regarding Burke, which is his rejection of the use of logic. Burke dismisses a widely held view amongst theorists that reason should be the primary tool in the forming of a constitution or contract. Burke instead believes that constitutions should be made based on 'natural processes' as opposed to rational planning for the future. Strauss points out, however, that criticising rationality actually works against Burke's original stance of returning to traditional ways because some amount human reason is inherent, and therefore is in part grounded in tradition. In regards to this formation of legitimate social order, Strauss does not necessarily support Burke's opinion— that order cannot be established by individual wise people, but exclusively by a culmination of individuals with historical knowledge of past functions to use as a foundation. Strauss notes that Burke would oppose more newly formed republics due to this thought, although Lenzner adds the fact that he did seem to believe that America's constitution could be justified given the specific circumstances. France's constitution, on the other hand, was much too radical as it relied too heavily on enlightened reasoning as opposed to traditional methods and values.\n\nBurke's religious writing comprises published works and commentary on the subject of religion. Burke's religious thought was grounded in the belief that religion is the foundation of civil society. He sharply criticised deism and atheism, and emphasised Christianity as a vehicle of social progress. Born in Ireland to a Catholic mother and a Protestant father, Burke vigorously defended the Anglican Church, but also demonstrated sensitivity to Catholic concerns. He linked the conservation of a state (established) religion with the preservation of citizens' constitutional liberties and highlighted Christianity's benefit not only to the believer's soul, but also to political arrangements.\n\nThe statement that \"The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing\" is often attributed to Burke despite the debated origin of this quote. In 1770, however, it is known that in \"Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents\", Burke wrote that:\nJohn Stuart Mill later made a similar statement in an inaugural address delivered before the University of St. Andrews during 1867:\nBurke is sometimes credited with George Santayana's quote: \"Those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it\", but scholars have not found any reliable evidence indicating that Burke actually spoke (or wrote) those words.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28391726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28391726", "title": "Einstein group", "text": "Einstein group\n\nAlbert Einstein, in searching for the transformation group for his unified field theory, wrote:\n\nEvery attempt to establish a unified field theory must start, in my opinion, from a group of transformations which is no less general than that of the continuous transformations of the four coordinates. For we should hardly be successful in looking for the subsequent enlargement of the group for a theory based on a narrower group.\n\nThe Poincaré group, the transformation group of special relativity, being orthogonal, the inverse of a transformation equals its transpose, introducing discrete reflections. This, in turn, violates Einstein's dictum for a group \"no less general than that of the continuous transformations of the four coordinates.\" Specifically, any pair of Euler angles \"θ\" and −\"θ\" are not independent, nor are any pair of boosts \"v\"/\"c\" and −\"v\"/\"c\". Available parameters are thus reduced, from the 16 needed to express all transformations in a curved spacetime, per the general principle of relativity, ∂\"x\"/∂\"x\", to the 10 of the Poincaré group.\n\nMendel Sachs, in the 1960s, found the transformation group that Einstein had sought, the \"Einstein\" group. The Einstein group can be obtained by factorizing the squared spacetime invariant interval\n\ninto a quaternion-valued form and its conjugate, \"ds\" \"ds*\", where\n\nand \"q\"(\"x\") is a four-vector of Hermitian quaternions.\n\nNote that the Einstein group approaches—but never reaches—the Poincare group as the flat spacetime (special relativity limit) is approached.\n"}
{"id": "169836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169836", "title": "Entertainment Software Rating Board", "text": "Entertainment Software Rating Board\n\nThe Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) is an American self-regulatory organization that assigns age and content ratings to consumer video games. The ESRB was established in 1994 by the Entertainment Software Association (formerly the Interactive Digital Software Association), in response to criticism of controversial video games with excessively violent or sexual content.\n\nThe board assigns ratings to games based on their content, using judgment similar to the motion picture rating systems used in many countries, using a combination of six age-based levels intended to aid consumers in determining a game's content and suitability, along with a system of \"content descriptors\" which detail specific types of content present in a particular game. The ESRB maintains a code of ethics for the advertising and promotion of video games—ensuring that marketing materials for games are targeted to appropriate audiences. In 2011, the ESRB began offering a system to automatically assign ratings for digitally-distributed games and mobile apps, which utilizes a survey answered by the product's publisher as opposed to a manual assessment by ESRB staff. Through the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC), this method can generate equivalent ratings for other territories. Alongside its game rating operation, the ESRB also provides certification services for online privacy on websites and mobile apps.\n\nThe ESRB ratings system is enforced via the voluntary leverage of the North American video game and retail industries; most stores require customers to present photo identification when purchasing games carrying the ESRB's highest age ratings, and do not stock games which have not been rated. Additionally, major console manufacturers will not license games for their systems unless they carry ESRB ratings, while console manufacturers and most stores will refuse games that the ESRB has rated as being appropriate for adults only. The ESRB ratings system is not enforced under federal laws in any of the countries where it is actively used, although it is enforced under provincial laws in some regions of Canada.\n\nDue to the level of consumer and retail awareness of the ratings system, along with the organization's efforts to ensure that retailers comply with the ratings system and that publishers comply with its marketing code, the ESRB has considered its system to be effective, and was praised by the Federal Trade Commission for being the \"strongest\" self-regulatory organization in the entertainment sector. Despite its positive reception, the ESRB has still faced criticism from politicians and other watchdog groups for the structure of its operations, particularly in the wake of a 2005 incident that surrounded the organization's handling of \"hidden\", objectionable content in a which could be accessed using a user-created modification.\n\nCritics of the ESRB have asserted that the organization has a conflict of interest because of its vested interest in the video game industry, and that the ESRB does not rate certain games, such as the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, harshly enough for their violent or sexual content in order to protect their commercial viability. Contrarily, other critics have argued that, at the same time, the ESRB rates certain games too strongly for their content, and that its influence has stifled the viability of adult-oriented video games due to the board's restrictions on how they are marketed and sold.\n\nVideo games with objectionable content date back as far as 1976; the arcade game \"Death Race\" required users to run over \"gremlins\" with a vehicle and avoid the gravestones they leave behind. Although its graphics were relatively primitive, the game's overall theme and the sound effects made when gremlins were killed were considered disturbing by players, prompting media attention. A developer known as Mystique became known for making sexually explicit adult video games for the Atari 2600 console, but garnered the most attention with its controversial 1982 game \"Custer's Revenge\", which infamously featured a crude simulation of the rape of a Native American woman. Atari received numerous complaints about the game, and responded by trying to sue the game's makers.\n\nA 1983 industry crash, caused by the market being overrun with low-quality products, prompted a higher degree of regulation by future console manufacturers: when the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) was launched in the United States in 1985, Nintendo of America instituted requirements and restrictions on third-party developers, including the requirement for all games to be licensed by the company. The console itself also included a lockout chip to enforce this requirement and prevent the console from loading unlicensed games. Such leverage on developers has since become a standard practice among console makers, although Nintendo of America also had stringent content policies, frequently censoring blood, sexual content, and references to religion, tobacco and alcohol from games released on its consoles in the United States.\n\nWhen asked in 1987 about the suitability of a film-like rating system for video games, a representative of the Software Publishers Association said that \"Adult computer software is nothing to worry about. It's not an issue that the government wants to spend any time with ... They just got done with a big witchhunt in the music recording industry, and they got absolutely nowhere\". The association did recommend voluntary warnings for games like \"Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards\" (1987).\n\nVideo games' progression into the 1990s brought dramatic increases in graphics and sound capabilities, and the ability to use full-motion video (FMV) content in games. In the United States Senate, Democratic Senators Joe Lieberman of Connecticut and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin led hearings on video game violence and the corruption of society which began in 1992. Two games of this era were specifically cited in the hearings for their content; the fighting game \"Mortal Kombat\" featured realistic, digitized sprites of live-action actors, blood, and the ability to use violent \"fatality\" moves to defeat opponents, while \"Night Trap\" featured 90 minutes of FMV content, with scenes that were considered to be sexually suggestive and exploitive. Both Nintendo and Sega had differing views on objectionable content in video games; a port of \"Mortal Kombat\" for the Super NES was censored to remove the game's overly violent content, whereas the port for Sega consoles retained much of this content, which helped increase sales.\n\nSega had implemented its own voluntary ratings system, the Videogame Rating Council (VRC), largely to rate games released for its own consoles. \"Mortal Kombat\" and \"Night Trap\" were rated \"MA-13\" and \"MA-17\" on Sega's scale respectively. During the hearings, Howard Lincoln and Bill White (chairmen of Nintendo and Sega's U.S. divisions respectively) attacked each other's stances on objectionable content in video games; Lincoln condemned Sega for even releasing \"Night Trap\" and felt it \"simply has no place in our society\", while White argued that Sega was more responsible to consumers because they actually had a rating system in place, rather than a blanket presumption that all its games would be suitable for general audiences. Fragmentation would also develop in the classification of games; The 3DO Company created their own age-based rating system, the 3DO Rating System, for games released on its 3DO Interactive Multiplayer platform, and the Recreational Software Advisory Council (RSAC) was formed for rating PC games, which used a system that rated the intensity of specific classes of objectionable content, but did not use age recommendations. However, Lieberman did not believe that these systems were sufficient, and in February 1994, threatened to propose the creation of a federal commission for regulating and rating video games.\n\nWith the threat of federal regulations, a group of major video game developers and publishers, including Acclaim Entertainment and Electronic Arts along with Nintendo and Sega, formed a political trade group known as the Interactive Digital Software Association in April 1994, with a goal to create a self-regulatory framework for assessing and rating video games. While Sega had proposed that the industry use its VRC rating system, Nintendo representatives objected to the idea because they did not want to associate themselves with the work of their main competitor; instead, a vendor-neutral rating system known as the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) was developed. The formation of the ESRB was officially announced to Congress on July 29, 1994. The ESRB was officially launched on September 16, 1994; its system consisted of five age-based ratings; \"Early Childhood\", \"Kids to Adults\" (later renamed \"Everyone\" in 1998), \"Teen\", \"Mature\", and \"Adults Only\". The ESRB would also use \"descriptors\" with brief explanations of the content contained in a game.\n\nThe U.S. arcade gaming industry did not adopt the ESRB system, with the American Amusement Machine Association (AAMA) having cited \"fundamental differences between the coin-operated and consumer segments of the video game industry\" as reasoning. The AAMA, the Amusement & Music Operators Association, and the International Association for the Leisure and Entertainment Industry, adopted their own three-tier \"Parental Advisory System\" in 1994, which uses three color-coded levels of content intensity (designated by green, yellow, and red stickers affixed to arcade cabinet artwork).\n\nAlongside its efforts to classify video games, the ESRB also formed a division known as Entertainment Software Rating Board Interactive (ESRBi), which rated internet content using a similar system to its video game ratings. ESRBi also notably partnered with the internet service provider America Online to integrate these ratings into its existing parental controls. ESRBi was discontinued in 2003.\n\nIn 2002, Dr. Arthur Pober, the original president of the ESRB, stepped down so he could focus on academics. In November 2002, he was formally replaced by Patrica Vance, who formerly worked for The Princeton Review and The Walt Disney Company. In March 2005, the ESRB introduced a new rating, \"Everyone 10+\", designating games with content of a relatively higher impact than those of games rated \"Everyone\", but still not high enough to garner a \"Teen\" rating.\n\nIn response to the growth of smartphone use, in November 2011, CTIA, a group of major U.S. companies representing the wireless industry, and ESRB announced the co-development of a free, voluntary ratings process for mobile app stores. The system uses ESRB's icons and content descriptors, along with four additional \"Interactive Elements\" (\"Digital Purchases\", \"Shares Info,\" \"Shares Location,\" and \"Users Interact\") to inform users of an app's behavior in regards to data collection and interactions with others. Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile US were among the first to implement the system for their own application storefronts, and Microsoft's Windows Phone Marketplace already supported ESRB ratings upon its introduction. ESRB president Patricia Vance explained that the partnership was intended to help broaden the ESRB's reach into the mobile market, and that \"consumers, especially parents, benefit from having a consistently applied set of ratings for games rather than a fragmented array of different systems.\"\n\nIn November 2012, the ESRB and other video game ratings boards, including PEGI, the Australian Classification Board, and USK among others, established a consortium known as the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC). The group sought to design an online, questionnaire-based rating process for digitally-distributed video games that could generate ratings for multiple video game ratings organizations at once. The resulting ratings information is tied to a unique code, which can then be used by online storefronts to display the corresponding rating for the user's region. The three major console makers, Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo have all committed to supporting IARC for their digital storefronts, including ESRB ratings for North American markets. Google Play Store was updated in March 2015 to adopt and display ESRB ratings for apps in North America through IARC. Windows Store also implemented IARC in January 2016. Apple's App Store still uses its own generic age rating system and does not use the ESRB or IARC systems.\n\nTo obtain a rating for a game, a publisher submits a detailed questionnaire and a DVD containing footage of the most graphic and extreme content found in the game to the ESRB, including content related to the game's context, storyline, reward system, unlockable and otherwise \"hidden\" content, and other elements that may affect its rating. They may also provide printed copies of the game's script and lyrics from songs in the game. The footage is reviewed by a team of at least three raters, who discuss what the most appropriate and \"helpful\" rating for the game would be, based on the footage and details provided. Raters represent various demographics, including parents, along with casual and \"hardcore\" gamers. Raters were formerly hired on a part-time basis, but in 2007, ESRB transitioned to a team of seven full-time raters, who all live in the New York City area.\n\nIf a publisher does not agree with the rating that they were assigned, they may edit the game and submit the revised version for a new rating; for example, an initial cut of \"The Punisher\" was given an AO rating due to the extremely violent nature of certain scenes contained within the game. To lessen their impact, the developer changed these scenes to be rendered in black and white: the revised cut of the game was re-submitted, and received the M rating. There is also an appeals process, but it has never been used.\n\nWhen the game is ready for release, the publisher sends copies of the final version of the game to the ESRB, who reviews the game's packaging, and a random number of games they receive are play tested for more thorough review. Penalties apply to publishers who misrepresent the content of their games, including the potential for fines up to US $1 million and a product recall, if deemed necessary. The ESRB typically posts rating information for new titles on its website 30 days after the rating process is complete; in 2008, in response to incidents where this practice inadvertently leaked information about games that had not yet been announced, the ESRB began to allow publishers to place embargoes on the release of ratings information until a game is officially announced.\n\nIn April 2011, the ESRB introduced its Short Form, a free streamlined, automated process for assigning ratings for console downloadable games as a way to address the rapidly growing volume of digitally-delivered games. Rather than having raters review each product (the Long Form), publishers of these games complete a series of multiple-choice questions that address content across relevant categories, including violence, sexual content, language, etc. The responses automatically determine the game's rating category and content descriptors. Games rated via this process may be tested post-release to ensure that content was properly disclosed. The survey-based method is also used in the ESRB/CTIA and IARC rating programs for mobile apps. The ESRB planned to phase out the Short Form for digital-only games, instead directing those developers and publishers to use the similar free questionnaire-driven IARC program, which was being adopted beyond mobile app stores, including the Nintendo eShop and PlayStation Store, as a requirement for posting.\n\nIn response to concerns from Sony on the growing number of indie game titles that were receiving physical releases alongside retail ones, the ESRB began instituting new rules around August 2017 that any retail product was mandated to undergo the standard Long Form review for the game, disallowing the use of the Short Form for such titles. Alongside this, ESRB introduced a \"value tier\" for the Long Form review process for games developed at lower budgets (under $1 million), with a cost of $3000 for obtaining the retail rating. This decision has impacted the choice of several boutique indie game publishers, who have either cancelled plans for retail versions or had to stop selling retail versions to comply with the new ESRB rules.\n\nESRB ratings are primarily identified through icons, which are displayed on the packaging and promotional materials for a game. Each icon contains a stylized alphabetical letter representing the rating. In addition to the main age-based, ratings, ESRB ratings also incorporate one or more of 30 \"content descriptors\" which provide detailed information about the specific types and levels of objectionable content contained in a game, including categories covering different levels of violence, language, sexual content, nudity, use of alcoholic beverages or other drugs, crude and mature humor, or gambling. The full label, containing both the descriptors and rating, are typically displayed on the back of a game's packaging.\n\nGames which incorporate online features must display the additional notice \"Online Interactions Not Rated by the ESRB\" (previously \"Game Experience May Change During Online Play\"), which disclaims that the rating only applies to the content contained within the game itself, and does not cover any user-generated content available within. Games that provide post-release downloadable content must have ensure that the new content remains consistent with the original ESRB rating; otherwise the ESRB requires that the original game be re-evaluated and remarked with the more appropriate rating in considering this new content. Ratings information also disclaims if a game offers digital goods or other premiums (including downloadable content, microtransactions, and \"loot boxes\") that require payment of real money to obtain.\n\nThe appearance of the ratings icons themselves have been updated several times; originally carrying a stylized, pixelated look, they were first updated in 1999 to carry a cleaner appearance. In August 2013, the rating icons were streamlined again; the textual name of the rating became black text on white, the \"content rated by\" tagline was removed, and registered trademark symbols were moved to the bottom-right corner. The changes were intended to increase the icons' clarity at smaller sizes (such as on mobile devices), reflecting the growth in the digital distribution of video games.\n\nThe ESRB rating system is primarily enforced on a self-regulatory basis by the video game and retail industries; in markets where it is used, retailers typically enforce the \"Mature\" rating using photo identification, and refuse to stock video games that have not been rated by the organization, or are rated \"Adults Only\". Modern video game consoles may also include parental controls that can be configured to restrict games played by specific users, using factors such as their ESRB rating. The ESRB has also taken action against video game distributors who use the ratings icons in advertising without authorization or having actually been issued the rating by the board.\n\nSteam, the largest digital distribution storefront for personal computers, does display ratings when available, and allows games to be categorized and filtered based on categories, but an ESRB rating is not mandatory. As of June 2018, following complaints regarding inconsistent enforcement of its previous guidelines, Steam only bans the sale of games that contain blatantly illegal content, or games that it classifies as being \"straight up trolling\".\n\nIn the United States, there have been attempts at the state and federal level to introduce laws requiring retailers to enforce the ESRB ratings system. In 2004, California Assemblyman Leland Yee sponsored a state bill requiring retailers to stock M-rated games on separate shelves that are at least from the ground. The bill was passed, after it was modified to only require that retailers promote awareness of the ESRB ratings system to their customers.\n\nThe following year, California passed AB 1179, a second bill sponsored by Yee, which banned the sale of \"violent video games\" to minors. The term was defined using a variation of the Miller test (originally created to judge whether a work is obscene), separate from any rating the game may have received. In a landmark ruling, the law was struck down by the Supreme Court in \"Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association\", which ruled that AB 1179 was unconstitutional because video games are a protected form of expression.\n\nIn Canada, ESRB ratings are enforced under provincial laws by film ratings boards in Manitoba, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, and Saskatchewan. As in the U.S., most retailers voluntarily enforce the ratings regardless. Prior to the implementation of the Film Classification Act, 2005, which gave it the power to enforce ESRB ratings, the Ontario Film Review Board had used its own powers to classify the M-rated \"Manhunt\" as a film and give it a \"Restricted\" rating, legally barring its sale to those under 18. By contrast, the British Columbia Film Classification Office considered the ESRB rating to be appropriate.\n\nThe ESRB enforces guidelines that have been adopted by the video game industry in order to ensure responsible advertising and marketing practices. These include ensuring that game packaging, advertisements, and trailers properly display rating information, restricting where advertising materials for games rated \"Teen\" or higher can appear, forbidding publishers from \"glamoriz[ing] or exploiting\" a game's rating in advertising, and requiring online marketing of games rated \"Mature\" or higher to be restricted to users who are appropriately aged. This allows the ESRB to restrict video game advertising \"to consumers for whom the product is not rated as appropriate.\" The board also forbids ratings from other organizations from being shown alongside ESRB ratings on publishers' websites or social media outlets. A group of online gaming publications known as the ESRB Website Council operates under a similar code of conduct, which requires them to display ESRB ratings information for games that they cover, and implement systems to restrict access to audiovisual content depicting M or AO-rated games to users who are appropriately aged.\n\nIn March 2013, the ESRB eased certain restrictions on the promotion of M-rated games. Firstly, trailers for games that are or are anticipated to be rated \"Mature\" can be cleared by the ESRB as being appropriate for \"general\" audiences—similarly to the \"green band\" ratings issued by the MPAA for film trailers. Secondly, the board began to allow, on a case-by-case basis depending on the target demographic of the game, M-rated games to be cross-promoted in the marketing materials of games with lower ratings.\n\nIn addition to its video game ratings operation, the ESRB also offers an online privacy program which helps websites adopt privacy policies and data usage practices which comply with relevant laws and best practices for the collection and use of personal information, and provides \"Privacy Certified\" seals indicating certification under the ESRB's privacy guidelines. In June 2013, the service was extended to mobile apps, with a particular emphasis on helping application developers comply with the then-upcoming changes to the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act.\n\nThe ESRB has considered its system to be effective, due in part to initiatives by the Board to promote enforcement and consumer awareness of the system, and efforts by retailers to prevent the sale of M-rated games to minors.\n\nIn the year following its 1994 launch, the ESRB rating system had achieved widespread usage across the console game industry, although adoption was not yet as high within the PC gaming industry. Lieberman and Kohl also reported that some retailers were reluctant to the idea of removing older, non-rated games from their shelves, and that some retail employees lacked knowledge of the new system. By 2008, the Federal Trade Commission reported 20% of underaged mystery shoppers were able to successfully purchase an M-rated video game from a selection of retailers—a 22 percent reduction from 2007. By 2011, these numbers had dropped further to 13%. In its 2009 Report to Congress, the FTC recognized the ESRB for having \"the strongest self-regulatory code\" of all entertainment sectors because of its enforcement of advertising and marketing guidelines.\n\nThe ESRB has often been accused of not rating certain games, such as \"Manhunt\" and the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, harshly enough for violence and other related themes, and for lacking transparency in certain aspects of the ratings process. Critics have argued that some games only received the M rating rather than the stricter AO rating because of the commercial effects of such a rating; console manufacturers and most retailers refuse to distribute AO-rated games, dramatically affecting their commercial availability. An ESRB representative stated that the Board uses the AO rating when warranted, even due to violence, and that in most occasions, publishers would edit the game to meet the M rating to ensure wide commercial availability instead of keeping the AO rating. The film classification boards of the Canadian provinces of British Columbia and Ontario respectively classified the M-rated games \"Soldier of Fortune\" and \"Manhunt\" as films due to concerns over the nature of their content, and gave them \"Restricted\" ratings, legally restricting their sale to adults.\n\nThere has been a correlation between the M rating and sales; a 2007 study by Electronic Entertainment Design and Research found that M-rated games \"have both the highest average Metacritic scores and the highest average gross sales in the United States\", and NPD Group found that 7 of the top 20 video games of 2010 (including the #1 game, \"\") were M-rated, even though only 5% of games released that year carried the rating.\n\nIn 2005, the National Institute on Media and the Family criticized the ESRB for seldom-using the Adults Only rating, arguing because it has a vested interest in the video game industry, it did not want to perform actions that would affect their commercial availability. The organization stated that \"study after study shows that ratings would be stricter if parents were doing the job. It took explicit porn to get \"\" an AO rating, even though the original version, still rated M, rewards players whose on-screen persona had sex with prostitutes and then killed them. We have been calling for AO ratings for the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series for years—now it is clear why the ESRB has ignored our request.\" The ESRB disputed these claims, arguing that the organization \"relies on flawed research and ignores any and all conflicting evidence\", was \"imposing its own narrow values and morality on the rest of the country, regardless that it has little evidence to show that parents agree with their point of view\", and did not reply to the ESRB's request for comments following its report card in 2004. The board also pointed out that the NIMF's study and \"report card\" used data from PSVRatings, a for-profit competitor to the ESRB.\n\nOn the other hand, some have felt that the \"Mature\" rating is too broad; video game journalist Ben Kuchera noted that \"Halo 3\"—a sci-fi first-person shooter whose level of violence was, in his opinion, comparable to a \"Star Wars\" film, had received an M rating for \"Blood and Gore,\" \"Mild Language\" and \"Violence\". He argued that \"having a game like \"Halo 3\" share the same rating as \"Saints Row IV\", which carries the 'Blood,' Intense Violence,' 'Partial Nudity,' 'Sexual Content,' 'Strong Language' and 'Use of Drugs' descriptors was always silly, and it weakened the thrust of the ratings system.\" Likewise, he felt that the tone and content of the PG-13 rated film \"The Dark Knight\" was relatively harsher to children than that of the \"Saints Row\" series due to the latter's light-hearted tone, but still noted that \"as parents we know what's right and what isn't for our kids, and being aware of the content they consume is a large part of our job as parents.\" \"\", the most recent installment in the franchise, received a \"Teen\" rating instead of \"Mature\". Microsoft Xbox division executive Aaron Greenberg argued that consumers had been \"surprised\" by the M rating on previous installments \"given the style of the game and the lack of real graphic violence and things like that\", but that the \"Teen\" rating would theoretically enable the game to reach a broader audience of younger players.\n\nThe \"Adults Only\" (AO) rating has attracted a negative stigma among the video game industry—one which has been criticized for stifling the ability for developers to have creative freedom in their portrayal of certain themes in a game, at the risk of being commercially unviable due to publishers' objections to AO-rated content. AO-rated games cannot be published for major video game console platforms, and most retailers do not stock AO-rated games. ESRB President Patricia Vance argued that applying self-censorship to ensure marketability was a compromise that is \"true in every entertainment medium\", but still believed that the idea of the AO rating eventually becoming acceptable would be a good thing for the ESRB system. The stigma is primarily affected by a perception by the industry and other activists that video games are generally considered children's products; for example, the availability of a Wii version of \"Manhunt 2\" was condemned by Senator Hillary Clinton over fears that children could use the game's motion controls to act out the game's \"many graphic torture scenes and murders\".\n\nAttitudes towards AO-rated games have also been influenced by the types of games that have received the rating; Peter Payne, head of Peach Princess, a publisher of English translations of Japanese eroge visual novels, believed that the \"Adults Only\" rating had acquired a \"smutty\" and \"tasteless\" reputation since the majority of AO-rated titles were either niche pornographic titles such as eroge games, or immature titles such as \"Riana Rouge\" (which \"Polygon\" described as a game which had the quality of an adult movie, and \"[aimed] to do nothing more than tell low-brow jokes and show nude women prancing around\") and \"Lula 3D\" (whose packaging advertised the inclusion of \"Bouncin' Boobs Technology\").\n\nBy contrast, the ESRB has only officially issued the AO rating for extreme violence three times: \"Thrill Kill\", a fighting game with heavy sexual overtones, received an AO rating with content descriptors for \"Animated Violence\" and \"Animated Blood and Gore\". Due to objections over the game's content, \"Thrill Kill\" was canceled by Electronic Arts after it acquired the North American operations of the game's publisher, Virgin Interactive. \"Manhunt 2\" also received an AO rating for its extreme violence; while the uncut version would be released exclusively for PCs, the console versions were edited to meet the M rating criteria. In January 2015, \"Hatred\", a controversial game whose plot centers around a character indiscriminately murdering everyone he encounters, received the rating for its extreme violence and harsh language; one of the game's developers disputed the rating, arguing that \"its violence isn't really that bad and this harsh language isn't overused\", but also acknowledged the rarity of their situation.\n\nIn 2005, members of the mod community discovered that the PC version of \"\" could be modified to unlock an incomplete sex minigame known as \"Hot Coffee\", which Rockstar North had decided to leave out of the final game. The discovery of the minigame caused California State Assemblyman Leland Yee to rebuke both Rockstar and the ESRB, arguing that the ESRB was not doing its job properly. US Senators Hillary Clinton and Joe Lieberman also expressed their disapproval. Rockstar initially claimed that the minigame was created by the mod community and was not a part of the original game. This was disproven when it was discovered that a third-party cheat device could be used to unlock the \"Hot Coffee\" scenes in console versions of the game. Following an investigation, the ESRB changed its rating from M to AO, setting a precedent that games can be re-rated due to the presence of pertinent content that exists on the game's disc, even if that content is programmed to not be playable without modification or unauthorized use of a third-party cheat device. Following the release of a version excluding the content, the rating was reverted to M.\n\nIn May 2006, \"\" had its rating changed from T to M due to \"more detailed depictions of blood and gore than were considered in the original rating\", along with a third-party mod for the PC version allowing the use of topless female characters. The game's publisher, Bethesda Softworks, decided not to re-edit the game or contest the new rating, but noted that \"Oblivion\"s content was \"not typical\" of games with the M rating, and that the game \"does not present the central themes of violence that are common to those products.\"\n\nIn the wake of these two incidents, the ESRB changed its policies in June 2006 to account for hidden content; publishers must disclose information surrounding all unlockable or otherwise \"hidden\" content in the game as part of the ratings process, and publishers can be fined up to US$1 million if they are found to have misrepresented the content of their game after further reviews. In response to the aftermath of Hot Coffee and the resulting policy changes, ESRB President Patricia Vance stated that in her opinion, \"there is no other industry self-regulatory system willing or capable of imposing such swift and sweeping sanctions on its own members, which in this particular case resulted in the removal of a top-selling product from the market and a major loss of sales.\" However, several U.S. politicians, including Senator Sam Brownback, California Senator Leland Yee, and Michigan Senator Fred Upton (who was a major critic against Rockstar during the controversy), still felt that the ESRB had \"lost\" its trust of consumers, believing that video game developers were taking advantage of the board's conflict of interest with the industry to incorporate objectionable content into their products without the ESRB's full knowledge.\n\nIn late 2006, both Upton and Brownback tabled bills to place governmental oversight on aspects of the ESRB rating process, and make it illegal for publishers to misrepresent the playable content of a video game to a ratings board; Upton proposed a bill known as the Video Game Decency Act, explaining that developers had \"done an end-run around the process to deliver violent and pornographic material to our kids\", and that the bill would \"[go] hand in hand with the mission of the industry’s own ratings system.\" Brownback proposed a bill known as the Truth in Video Game Rating Act, which would have also forced the ESRB to have full, hands-on access to games instead of just video footage, and have initiated a government study on the \"effectiveness\" of the organization and the possibility of forming a ratings organization independent from the video game industry.\n\nIn October 2017, in response to growing criticism of the loot box model for video game microtransactions (which grant chances at earning randomized items of various rarities, typically cosmetic in nature, in exchange for payment), the ESRB stated their opinion that they were not a form of gambling. They described them as a voluntary and optional aspect of a video game, and comparable to booster packs for collectible card games because their purchase guarantees that a user will receive items at all, but not necessarily high-value items all the time. The ESRB added that games that contain actual wagering of real money would hold the Adults Only rating.\n\nOn February 14, 2018, U.S. senator Maggie Hassan asked the ESRB to examine if games with loot box microtransactions were being marketed in an \"ethical and transparent way\" that \"adequately protects the developing minds of young children from predatory practices.\" The ESRB subsequently announced on February 27, 2018, that it would introduce a new label for any games that contain \"the ability to purchase digital goods or premiums with real world currency\". The announcement was criticized for being overreaching and ambiguous, as it applies to not only microtransactions, but any purchases of digital goods in relation to a game (which includes downloadable content), and would thus apply to almost all modern video games. Patrica Vance stated that the ESRB avoided references to specific types of microtransactions, so that the advisory label could be understood by parents unaware of specific details. Vance added that the ESRB was \"unable to find any evidence that children specifically have been [psychologically] impacted by loot boxes\" or that they caused children to develop \"some sort of tendency towards gambling.\"\n\nWhilst ESRB ratings are officially recognised in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and their respective territories, most major game publishers extended their use as \"de facto\" in various South American countries (except for Brazil due to its own rating system), and, in Nintendo's case, some Asian countries.\n"}
{"id": "2455462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455462", "title": "Ero guro", "text": "Ero guro\n\nThe term itself is an example of \"wasei-eigo\", a Japanese combination of English words or abbreviated words: \"ero\" from \"ero(tic)\", \"guro\" from \"gro(tesque)\", and \"nansensu\" from \"nonsense\". \nIn actuality the \"grotesqueness\" implied in the term refers to things that are malformed, unnatural, or horrific. Items that are pornographic and bloody are not necessarily \"ero guro\", and vice versa. The term is often used incorrectly by western audiences to mean \"gore\"—depictions of horror, blood, and guts.\n\nEro guro nansensu, characterized as a \"prewar, bourgeois cultural phenomenon that devoted itself to explorations of the deviant, the bizarre, and the ridiculous,\" manifested in the popular culture of Taishō Tokyo during the 1920s. Writer Ian Buruma describes the social atmosphere of the time as \"a skittish, sometimes nihilistic hedonism that brings Weimar Berlin to mind.\" Its roots go back to artists such as Tsukioka Yoshitoshi, who, besides erotic shunga, also produced woodblock prints showing decapitations and acts of violence from Japanese history. Ukiyo-e artists such as Utagawa Kuniyoshi presented similar themes with bondage, rape and erotic crucifixion.\n\nEro guro's first distinct appearance began in 1920s and 1930s Japanese literature. The Sada Abe Incident of 1936, where a woman strangled her lover to death and castrated his corpse, struck a chord with the ero guro movement and came to represent that genre for years to come. Other like activities and movements were generally suppressed in Japan during World War II, but re-emerged in the postwar period, especially in manga and music.\n\nOver time, the ero guro movement's influence expanded into parts of Japanese theatre, art, manga, and eventually into film and music.\n\nEro guro is also an element of many Japanese horror films and \"pinku eiga\", particularly of the 1960s and 1970s. Examples include Teruo Ishii's \"Shogun's Joys of Torture\" (1968) and \"Horrors of Malformed Men\" (1969) and Yasuzo Masumura's \"Blind Beast\" (1969), the latter two based on the works of Edogawa Rampo. A more recent example of ero guro in cinema is Sion Sono's \"Strange Circus\" (2005).\n\nThere are modern guro artists, some of whom cite Erotic Grotesque Nonsense as an influence on their work. These artists explore the macabre intermingled with sexual overtones. Often the erotic element, even when not explicit, is merged with grotesque themes and features similar to the works of H. R. Giger. Others produce ero guro as a genre of Japanese pornography and hentai involving blood, gore, disfiguration, violence, mutilation, urine, enemas, or feces.\n\nWell-known guro manga artists include Suehiro Maruo, Hajime Yamano, Jun Hayami, Go Nagai, Shintaro Kago, Toshio Maeda, Henmaru Machino, Yamamoto Takato, Horihone Saizō, and Waita Uziga.\n\nThe modern genre of tentacle rape began within the category of ero guro (although it has much older roots in Japanese art; see \"Octopi and shell diver\") but became so popular that it is now usually considered separately.\n\nSome visual kei bands have a concept or theme relating to ero guro, most notably Cali Gari. Western visual kei fans assumed their theme was a subgenre of visual kei and linked it with other similar bands.\n\nThe 2014 Flying Lotus album \"You're Dead!\" prominently featured ero guro artwork from Japanese manga artist Shintaro Kago on the cover and inner sleeve, with further art being utilised in the accompanying live show. Much of the drawings featured men and women being disfigured and mutilated in unrealistic, hi-tech ways with a significant amount of gore and nudity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43494", "title": "Fairy tale", "text": "Fairy tale\n\nA fairy tale, wonder tale, magic tale, or Märchen is a folklore genre that takes the form of a short story. Such stories typically feature entities such as dwarfs, dragons, elves, fairies, giants, gnomes, goblins, griffins, mermaids, talking animals, trolls, unicorns, or witches, and usually magic or enchantments. Fairy tales may be distinguished from other folk narratives such as legends (which generally involve belief in the veracity of the events described) and explicit moral tales, including beast fables. The term is mainly used for stories with origins in European tradition and, at least in recent centuries, mostly relates to children's literature.\n\nIn less technical contexts, the term is also used to describe something blessed with unusual happiness, as in \"fairy-tale ending\" (a happy ending) or \"fairy-tale romance\". Colloquially, the term \"fairy tale\" or \"fairy story\" can also mean any far-fetched story or tall tale; it is used especially of any story that not only is not true, but could not possibly be true. Legends are perceived as real; fairy tales may merge into legends, where the narrative is perceived both by teller and hearers as being grounded in historical truth. However, unlike legends and epics, fairy tales usually do not contain more than superficial references to religion and to actual places, people, and events; they take place \"once upon a time\" rather than in actual times.\n\nFairy tales occur both in oral and in literary form; the name \"fairy tale\" was first ascribed to them by Madame d'Aulnoy in the late 17th century. Many of today's fairy tales have evolved from centuries-old stories that have appeared, with variations, in multiple cultures around the world. The history of the fairy tale is particularly difficult to trace because only the literary forms can survive. Still, according to researchers at universities in Durham and Lisbon, such stories may date back thousands of years, some to the Bronze Age more than 6,500 years ago. Fairy tales, and works derived from fairy tales, are still written today.\n\nFolklorists have classified fairy tales in various ways. The Aarne-Thompson classification system and the morphological analysis of Vladimir Propp are among the most notable. Other folklorists have interpreted the tales' significance, but no school has been definitively established for the meaning of the tales.\n\nSome folklorists prefer to use the German term \"Märchen\" or \"wonder tale\" to refer to the genre over \"fairy tale\", a practice given weight by the definition of Thompson in his 1977 [1946] edition of \"The Folktale\": \"a tale of some length involving a succession of motifs or episodes. It moves in an unreal world without definite locality or definite creatures and is filled with the marvellous. In this never-never land, humble heroes kill adversaries, succeed to kingdoms and marry princesses.\" The characters and motifs of fairy tales are simple and archetypal: princesses and goose-girls; youngest sons and gallant princes; ogres, giants, dragons, and trolls; wicked stepmothers and false heroes; fairy godmothers and other magical helpers, often talking horses, or foxes, or birds; glass mountains; and prohibitions and breaking of prohibitions.\n\nA fairy tale with a tragic rather than a happy end is called an anti-fairy tale.\n\nAlthough the fairy tale is a distinct genre within the larger category of folktale, the definition that marks a work as a fairy tale is a source of considerable dispute. The term itself comes from the translation of Madame D'Aulnoy's \"Conte de fées\", first used in her collection in 1697.) Common parlance conflates fairy tales with beast fables and other folktales, and scholars differ on the degree to which the presence of fairies and/or similarly mythical beings (e.g., elves, goblins, trolls, giants, huge monsters) should be taken as a differentiator. Vladimir Propp, in his \"Morphology of the Folktale\", criticized the common distinction between \"fairy tales\" and \"animal tales\" on the grounds that many tales contained both fantastic elements and animals. Nevertheless, to select works for his analysis, Propp used all Russian folktales classified as a folklore Aarne-Thompson 300-749 – in a cataloguing system that made such a distinction – to gain a clear set of tales. His own analysis identified fairy tales by their plot elements, but that in itself has been criticized, as the analysis does not lend itself easily to tales that do not involve a quest, and furthermore, the same plot elements are found in non-fairy tale works.\n\nAs Stith Thompson points out, talking animals and the presence of magic seem to be more common to the fairy tale than fairies themselves. However, the mere presence of animals that talk does not make a tale a fairy tale, especially when the animal is clearly a mask on a human face, as in fables.\n\nIn his essay \"On Fairy-Stories\", J. R. R. Tolkien agreed with the exclusion of \"fairies\" from the definition, defining fairy tales as stories about the adventures of men in \"Faërie\", the land of fairies, fairytale princes and princesses, dwarves, elves, and not only other magical species but many other marvels. However, the same essay excludes tales that are often considered fairy tales, citing as an example \"The Monkey's Heart\", which Andrew Lang included in \"The Lilac Fairy Book\".\n\nSteven Swann Jones identified the presence of magic as the feature by which fairy tales can be distinguished from other sorts of folktales. Davidson and Chaudri identify \"transformation\" as the key feature of the genre. From a psychological point of view, Jean Chiriac argued for the necessity of the fantastic in these narratives.\n\nIn terms of aesthetic values, Italo Calvino cited the fairy tale as a prime example of \"quickness\" in literature, because of the economy and concision of the tales.\n\nOriginally, stories that would contemporarily be considered fairy tales were not marked out as a separate genre. The German term \"Märchen\" stems from the old German word \"Mär\", which means story or tale. The word \"Märchen\" is the diminutive of the word \"Mär\", therefore it means a \"little story\". Together with the common beginning \"once upon a time\" it means a fairy tale or a märchen was originally a little story from a long time ago when the world was still magic. (Indeed, one less regular German opening is \"In the old times when wishing was still effective\".)\n\nThe English term \"fairy tale\" stems from the fact that the French \"contes\" often included fairies.\n\nRoots of the genre come from different oral stories passed down in European cultures. The genre was first marked out by writers of the Renaissance, such as Giovanni Francesco Straparola and Giambattista Basile, and stabilized through the works of later collectors such as Charles Perrault and the Brothers Grimm. In this evolution, the name was coined when the \"précieuses\" took up writing literary stories; Madame d'Aulnoy invented the term \"Conte de fée\", or fairy tale, in the late 17th century.\n\nBefore the definition of the genre of fantasy, many works that would now be classified as fantasy were termed \"fairy tales\", including Tolkien's \"The Hobbit\", George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\", and L. Frank Baum's \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\". Indeed, Tolkien's \"On Fairy-Stories\" includes discussions of world-building and is considered a vital part of fantasy criticism. Although fantasy, particularly the subgenre of fairytale fantasy, draws heavily on fairy tale motifs, the genres are now regarded as distinct.\n\nThe fairy tale, told orally, is a sub-class of the folktale. Many writers have written in the form of the fairy tale. These are the literary fairy tales, or \"Kunstmärchen\". The oldest forms, from \"Panchatantra\" to the \"Pentamerone\", show considerable reworking from the oral form. The Brothers Grimm were among the first to try to preserve the features of oral tales. Yet the stories printed under the Grimm name have been considerably reworked to fit the written form.\n\nLiterary fairy tales and oral fairy tales freely exchanged plots, motifs, and elements with one another and with the tales of foreign lands. The literary fairy tale came into fashion during the 17th century, developed by aristocratic women as a parlour game. This, in turn, helped to maintain the oral tradition. According to Jack Zipes, \"The subject matter of the conversations consisted of literature, mores, taste, and etiquette, whereby the speakers all endeavoured to portray ideal situations in the most effective oratorical style that would gradually have a major effect on literary forms.\" Many 18th-century folklorists attempted to recover the \"pure\" folktale, uncontaminated by literary versions. Yet while oral fairy tales likely existed for thousands of years before the literary forms, there is no pure folktale, and each literary fairy tale draws on folk traditions, if only in parody. This makes it impossible to trace forms of transmission of a fairy tale. Oral story-tellers have been known to read literary fairy tales to increase their own stock of stories and treatments.\n\nThe oral tradition of the fairy tale came long before the written page. Tales were told or enacted dramatically, rather than written down, and handed down from generation to generation. Because of this, the history of their development is necessarily obscure and blurred. Fairy tales appear, now and again, in written literature throughout literate cultures, as in \"The Golden Ass\", which includes \"Cupid and Psyche\" (Roman, 100–200 AD), or the \"Panchatantra\" (India 3rd century BC), but it is unknown to what extent these reflect the actual folk tales even of their own time. The stylistic evidence indicates that these, and many later collections, reworked folk tales into literary forms. What they do show is that the fairy tale has ancient roots, older than the \"Arabian Nights\" collection of magical tales (compiled \"circa\" 1500 AD), such as \"Vikram and the Vampire\", and \"Bel and the Dragon\". Besides such collections and individual tales, in China, Taoist philosophers such as Liezi and Zhuangzi recounted fairy tales in their philosophical works. In the broader definition of the genre, the first famous Western fairy tales are those of Aesop (6th century BC) in ancient Greece.\n\nJack Zipes writes in \"When Dreams Came True\", \"There are fairy tale elements in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\", Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", and ... in many of William Shakespeare plays.\" \"King Lear\" can be considered a literary variant of fairy tales such as \"Water and Salt\" and \"Cap O' Rushes\". The tale itself resurfaced in Western literature in the 16th and 17th centuries, with \"The Facetious Nights of Straparola\" by Giovanni Francesco Straparola (Italy, 1550 and 1553), which contains many fairy tales in its inset tales, and the Neapolitan tales of Giambattista Basile (Naples, 1634–36), which are all fairy tales. Carlo Gozzi made use of many fairy tale motifs among his Commedia dell'Arte scenarios, including among them one based on \"The Love For Three Oranges\" (1761). Simultaneously, Pu Songling, in China, included many fairy tales in his collection, \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\" (published posthumously, 1766). The fairy tale itself became popular among the \"précieuses\" of upper-class France (1690–1710), and among the tales told in that time were the ones of La Fontaine and the \"Contes\" of Charles Perrault (1697), who fixed the forms of \"Sleeping Beauty\" and \"Cinderella\". Although Straparola's, Basile's and Perrault's collections contain the oldest known forms of various fairy tales, on the stylistic evidence, all the writers rewrote the tales for literary effect.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, a vogue for magical tales emerged among the intellectuals who frequented the salons of Paris. These salons were regular gatherings hosted by prominent aristocratic women, where women and men could gather together to discuss the issues of the day.\n\nIn the 1630s, aristocratic women began to gather in their own living rooms, salons, in order to discuss the topics of their choice: arts and letters, politics, and social matters of immediate concern to the women of their class: marriage, love, financial and physical independence, and access to education. This was a time when women were barred from receiving a formal education. Some of the most gifted women writers of the period came out of these early salons (such as Madeleine de Scudéry and Madame de Lafayette), which encouraged women's independence and pushed against the gender barriers that defined their lives. The salonnières argued particularly for love and intellectual compatibility between the sexes, opposing the system of arranged marriages.\n\nSometime in the middle of the 17th century, a passion for the conversational parlour game based on the plots of old folk tales swept through the salons. Each salonnière was called upon to retell an old tale or rework an old theme, spinning clever new stories that not only showcased verbal agility and imagination but also slyly commented on the conditions of aristocratic life. Great emphasis was placed on a mode of delivery that seemed natural and spontaneous. The decorative language of the fairy tales served an important function: disguising the rebellious subtext of the stories and sliding them past the court censors. Critiques of court life (and even of the king) were embedded in extravagant tales and in dark, sharply dystopian ones. Not surprisingly, the tales by women often featured young (but clever) aristocratic girls whose lives were controlled by the arbitrary whims of fathers, kings, and elderly wicked fairies, as well as tales in which groups of wise fairies (i.e., intelligent, independent women) stepped in and put all to rights.\n\nThe salon tales as they were originally written and published have been preserved in a monumental work called \"Le Cabinet des Fées\", an enormous collection of stories from the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe first collectors to attempt to preserve not only the plot and characters of the tale, but also the style in which they were told, was the Brothers Grimm, collecting German fairy tales; ironically, this meant although their first edition (1812 & 1815) remains a treasure for folklorists, they rewrote the tales in later editions to make them more acceptable, which ensured their sales and the later popularity of their work.\n\nSuch literary forms did not merely draw from the folktale, but also influenced folktales in turn. The Brothers Grimm rejected several tales for their collection, though told orally to them by Germans, because the tales derived from Perrault, and they concluded they were thereby French and not German tales; an oral version of \"Bluebeard\" was thus rejected, and the tale of \"Little Briar Rose\", clearly related to Perrault's \"The Sleeping Beauty\", was included only because Jacob Grimm convinced his brother that the figure of Brynhildr, from much earlier Norse mythology, proved that the sleeping princess was authentically Germanic folklore.\n\nThis consideration of whether to keep \"Sleeping Beauty\" reflected a belief common among folklorists of the 19th century: that the folk tradition preserved fairy tales in forms from pre-history except when \"contaminated\" by such literary forms, leading people to tell inauthentic tales. The rural, illiterate, and uneducated peasants, if suitably isolated, were the \"folk\" and would tell pure \"folk\" tales. Sometimes they regarded fairy tales as a form of fossil, the remnants of a once-perfect tale. However, further research has concluded that fairy tales never had a fixed form, and regardless of literary influence, the tellers constantly altered them for their own purposes.\n\nThe work of the Brothers Grimm influenced other collectors, both inspiring them to collect tales and leading them to similarly believe, in a spirit of romantic nationalism, that the fairy tales of a country were particularly representative of it, to the neglect of cross-cultural influence. Among those influenced were the Russian Alexander Afanasyev (first published in 1866), the Norwegians Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe (first published in 1845), the Romanian Petre Ispirescu (first published in 1874), the English Joseph Jacobs (first published in 1890), and Jeremiah Curtin, an American who collected Irish tales (first published in 1890). Ethnographers collected fairy tales throughout the world, finding similar tales in Africa, the Americas, and Australia; Andrew Lang was able to draw on not only the written tales of Europe and Asia, but those collected by ethnographers, to fill his \"coloured\" fairy books series. They also encouraged other collectors of fairy tales, as when Yei Theodora Ozaki created a collection, \"Japanese Fairy Tales\" (1908), after encouragement from Lang. Simultaneously, writers such as Hans Christian Andersen and George MacDonald continued the tradition of literary fairy tales. Andersen's work sometimes drew on old folktales, but more often deployed fairytale motifs and plots in new tales. MacDonald incorporated fairytale motifs both in new literary fairy tales, such as \"The Light Princess\", and in works of the genre that would become fantasy, as in \"The Princess and the Goblin\" or \"Lilith\".\n\nTwo theories of origins, have attempted to explain the common elements in fairy tales found spread over continents. One is that a single point of origin generated any given tale, which then spread over the centuries; the other is that such fairy tales stem from common human experience and therefore can appear separately in many different origins.\n\nFairy tales with very similar plots, characters, and motifs are found spread across many different cultures. Many researchers hold this to be caused by the spread of such tales, as people repeat tales they have heard in foreign lands, although the oral nature makes it impossible to trace the route except by inference. Folklorists have attempted to determine the origin by internal evidence, which can not always be clear; Joseph Jacobs, comparing the Scottish tale \"The Ridere of Riddles\" with the version collected by the Brothers Grimm, \"The Riddle\", noted that in \"The Ridere of Riddles\" one hero ends up polygamously married, which might point to an ancient custom, but in \"The Riddle\", the simpler riddle might argue greater antiquity.\n\nFolklorists of the \"Finnish\" (or historical-geographical) school attempted to place fairy tales to their origin, with inconclusive results. Sometimes influence, especially within a limited area and time, is clearer, as when considering the influence of Perrault's tales on those collected by the Brothers Grimm. \"Little Briar-Rose\" appears to stem from Perrault's \"The Sleeping Beauty\", as the Grimms' tale appears to be the only independent German variant. Similarly, the close agreement between the opening of the Grimms' version of \"Little Red Riding Hood\" and Perrault's tale points to an influence, although the Grimms' version adds a different ending (perhaps derived from \"The Wolf and the Seven Young Kids\").\nFairy tales tend to take on the color of their location, through the choice of motifs, the style in which they are told, and the depiction of character and local color.\n\nThe Brothers Grimm believed that European fairy tales derived from the cultural history shared by all Indo-European peoples and were therefore ancient, far older than written records. This view is supported by research by the anthropologist Jamie Tehrani and the folklorist Sara Graca Da Silva using phylogenetic analysis, a technique developed by evolutionary biologists to trace the relatedness of living and fossil species. Among the tales analysed were \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", traced to the time of splitting of Eastern and Western Indo-European, over 5000 years ago. Both \"Beauty and the Beast\" and \"Rumpelstiltskin\" appear to have been created some 4000 years ago. The story of \"The Smith and the Devil\" (Deal with the Devil) appears to date from the Bronze Age, some 6000 years ago.\n\nOriginally, adults were the audience of a fairy tale just as often as children. Literary fairy tales appeared in works intended for adults, but in the 19th and 20th centuries the fairy tale became associated with children's literature.\n\nThe \"précieuses\", including Madame d'Aulnoy, intended their works for adults, but regarded their source as the tales that servants, or other women of lower class, would tell to children. Indeed, a novel of that time, depicting a countess's suitor offering to tell such a tale, has the countess exclaim that she loves fairy tales as if she were still a child. Among the late \"précieuses\", Jeanne-Marie Le Prince de Beaumont redacted a version of \"Beauty and the Beast\" for children, and it is her tale that is best known today. The Brothers Grimm titled their collection \"Children's and Household Tales\" and rewrote their tales after complaints that they were not suitable for children.\n\nIn the modern era, fairy tales were altered so that they could be read to children. The Brothers Grimm concentrated mostly on sexual references; Rapunzel, in the first edition, revealed the prince's visits by asking why her clothing had grown tight, thus letting the witch deduce that she was pregnant, but in subsequent editions carelessly revealed that it was easier to pull up the prince than the witch. On the other hand, in many respects, violenceparticularly when punishing villainswas increased. Other, later, revisions cut out violence; J.R.R.Tolkien noted that \"The Juniper Tree\" often had its cannibalistic stew cut out in a version intended for children. The moralizing strain in the Victorian era altered the classical tales to teach lessons, as when George Cruikshank rewrote \"Cinderella\" in 1854 to contain temperance themes. His acquaintance Charles Dickens protested, \"In an utilitarian age, of all other times, it is a matter of grave importance that fairy tales should be respected.\"\n\nPsychoanalysts such as Bruno Bettelheim, who regarded the cruelty of older fairy tales as indicative of psychological conflicts, strongly criticized this expurgation, because it weakened their usefulness to both children and adults as ways of symbolically resolving issues. Fairy tales do teach children how to deal with difficult times. To quote Rebecca Walters (2017, p. 56) “Fairytales and folktales are part of the cultural conserve that can be used to address children’s fears …. and give them some role training in an approach that honors the children’s window of tolerance”. These fairy tales teach children how to deal with certain social situations and helps them to find their place in society. Fairy tales teach children other important lessons too. For example, Tsitsani et al. carried out a study on children to determine the benefits of fairy tales. Parents of the children who took part in the study found that fairy tales, especially the color in them, triggered their child's imagination as the read them.Jungian Analyst and fairy tale scholar, Marie Louise Von Franz interprets fairy tales based on Jung‘s view of fairy tales as a spontaneous and naive product of soul, which can only express what soul is. That means, she looks at fairy tales as images of different phases of experiencing the reality of the soul. They are the “purest and simplest expression of collective unconscious psychic processes” and “they represent the archetypes in their simplest, barest and most concise form” because they are less overlaid with conscious material than myths and legends. “In this pure form, the archetypal images afford us the best clues to the understanding of the processes going on in the collective psyche”. “The fairy tale itself is its own best explanation; that is, its meaning is contained in the totality of its motifs connected by the thread of the story. [...] Every fairy tale is a relatively closed system compounding one essential psychological meaning which is expressed in a series of symbolical pictures and events and is discoverable in these”. “I have come to the conclusion that all fairy tales endeavour to describe one and the same psychic fact, but a fact so complex and far-reaching and so difficult for us to realize in all its different aspects that hundreds of tales and thousands of repetitions with a musician’s variation are needed until this unknown fact is delivered into consciousness; and even then the theme is not exhausted. This unknown fact is what Jung calls the Self, which is the psychic reality of the collective unconscious. [...] Every archetype is in its essence only one aspect of the collective unconscious as well as always representing also the whole collective unconscious.\n\nOther famous people commented on the importance of fairy tales, especially for children. For example, Albert Einstein once showed how important he believed fairy tales were for children’s intelligence in the quote “If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairytales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairytales.\"\n\nThe adaptation of fairy tales for children continues. Walt Disney's influential \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" was largely (although certainly not solely) intended for the children's market. The anime \"Magical Princess Minky Momo\" draws on the fairy tale \"Momotarō\". Jack Zipes has spent many years working to make the older traditional stories accessible to modern readers and their children.\n\nIn contemporary literature, many authors have used the form of fairy tales for various reasons, such as examining the human condition from the simple framework a fairytale provides. Some authors seek to recreate a sense of the fantastic in a contemporary discourse. Some writers use fairy tale forms for modern issues; this can include using the psychological dramas implicit in the story, as when Robin McKinley retold \"Donkeyskin\" as the novel \"Deerskin\", with emphasis on the abusive treatment the father of the tale dealt to his daughter. Sometimes, especially in children's literature, fairy tales are retold with a twist simply for comic effect, such as \"The Stinky Cheese Man\" by Jon Scieszka and \"The ASBO Fairy Tales\" by Chris Pilbeam. A common comic motif is a world where all the fairy tales take place, and the characters are aware of their role in the story, such as in the film series Shrek.\n\nOther authors may have specific motives, such as multicultural or feminist reevaluations of predominantly Eurocentric masculine-dominated fairy tales, implying critique of older narratives. The figure of the damsel in distress has been particularly attacked by many feminist critics. Examples of narrative reversal rejecting this figure include \"The Paperbag Princess\" by Robert Munsch, a picture book aimed at children in which a princess rescues a prince, and Angela Carter's \"The Bloody Chamber\", which retells a number of fairy tales from a female point of view.\n\nThere are also many contemporary erotic retellings of fairy tales, which explicitly draw upon the original spirit of the tales, and are specifically for adults. Modern retellings focus on exploring the tale through use of the erotic, explicit sexuality, dark and/or comic themes, female empowerment, fetish and BDSM, multicultural, and heterosexual characters. Cleis Press has released several fairy tale themed erotic anthologies, including \"Fairy Tale Lust\", \"Lustfully Ever After\", and \"A Princess Bound\".\n\nIt may be hard to lay down the rule between fairy tales and fantasies that use fairy tale motifs, or even whole plots, but the distinction is commonly made, even within the works of a single author: George MacDonald's \"Lilith\" and \"Phantastes\" are regarded as fantasies, while his \"The Light Princess\", \"The Golden Key\", and \"The Wise Woman\" are commonly called fairy tales. The most notable distinction is that fairytale fantasies, like other fantasies, make use of novelistic writing conventions of prose, characterization, or setting.\n\nFairy tales have been enacted dramatically; records exist of this in commedia dell'arte, and later in pantomime. The advent of cinema has meant that such stories could be presented in a more plausible manner, with the use of special effects and animation. The Walt Disney Company has had a significant impact on the evolution of the fairy tale film. Some of the earliest short silent films from the Disney studio were based on fairy tales, and some fairy tales were adapted into shorts in the musical comedy series \"Silly Symphony\", such as \"Three Little Pigs\". Walt Disney's first feature-length film \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", released in 1937, was a ground-breaking film for fairy tales and, indeed, fantasy in general. Disney and his creative successors have returned to traditional and literary fairy tales numerous times with films such as \"Cinderella\" (1950), \"Sleeping Beauty\" (1959) and \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). Disney's influence helped establish the fairy tale genre as a genre for children, and has been accused by some of bowdlerizing the gritty naturalism – and sometimes unhappy endings – of many folk fairy tales. However, others note that the softening of fairy tales occurred long before Disney, some of which was even done by the Grimm brothers themselves.\n\nMany filmed fairy tales have been made primarily for children, from Disney's later works to Aleksandr Rou's retelling of \"Vasilissa the Beautiful\", the first Soviet film to use Russian folk tales in a big-budget feature. Others have used the conventions of fairy tales to create new stories with sentiments more relevant to contemporary life, as in \"Labyrinth\", \"My Neighbor Totoro\", \"Happily N'Ever After\", and the films of Michel Ocelot.\n\nOther works have retold familiar fairy tales in a darker, more horrific or psychological variant aimed primarily at adults. Notable examples are Jean Cocteau's \"Beauty and the Beast\" and \"The Company of Wolves\", based on Angela Carter's retelling of \"Little Red Riding Hood\". Likewise, \"Princess Mononoke\", \"Pan's Labyrinth\", \"Suspiria\", and \"Spike\" create new stories in this genre from fairy tale and folklore motifs.\n\nIn comics and animated TV series, \"The Sandman\", \"Revolutionary Girl Utena\", \"Princess Tutu\", \"Fables\" and \"MÄR\" all make use of standard fairy tale elements to various extents but are more accurately categorised as fairytale fantasy due to the definite locations and characters which a longer narrative requires.\n\nA more modern cinematic fairy tale would be Luchino Visconti's \"Le Notti Bianche\", starring Marcello Mastroianni before he became a superstar. It involves many of the romantic conventions of fairy tales, yet it takes place in post-World War II Italy, and it ends realistically.\n\nAny comparison of fairy tales quickly discovers that many fairy tales have features in common with each other. Two of the most influential classifications are those of Antti Aarne, as revised by Stith Thompson into the Aarne-Thompson classification system, and Vladimir Propp's \"Morphology of the Folk Tale\".\n\nThis system groups fairy and folk tales according to their overall plot. Common, identifying features are picked out to decide which tales are grouped together. Much therefore depends on what features are regarded as decisive.\n\nFor instance, tales like \"Cinderella\" – in which a persecuted heroine, with the help of the fairy godmother or similar magical helper, attends an event (or three) in which she wins the love of a prince and is identified as his true brideare classified as type 510, the persecuted heroine. Some such tales are \"The Wonderful Birch\"; \"Aschenputtel\"; \"Katie Woodencloak\"; \"The Story of Tam and Cam\"; \"Ye Xian\"; \"Cap O' Rushes\"; \"Catskin\"; \"Fair, Brown and Trembling\"; \"Finette Cendron\"; \"Allerleirauh\".\n\nFurther analysis of the tales shows that in \"Cinderella\", \"The Wonderful Birch\", \"The Story of Tam and Cam\", \"Ye Xian\", and \"Aschenputtel\", the heroine is persecuted by her stepmother and refused permission to go to the ball or other event, and in \"Fair, Brown and Trembling\" and \"Finette Cendron\" by her sisters and other female figures, and these are grouped as 510A; while in \"Cap O' Rushes\", \"Catskin\", and \"Allerleirauh\", the heroine is driven from home by her father's persecutions, and must take work in a kitchen elsewhere, and these are grouped as 510B. But in \"Katie Woodencloak\", she is driven from home by her stepmother's persecutions and must take service in a kitchen elsewhere, and in \"Tattercoats\", she is refused permission to go to the ball by her grandfather. Given these features common with both types of 510, \"Katie Woodencloak\" is classified as 510A because the villain is the stepmother, and \"Tattercoats\" as 510B because the grandfather fills the father's role.\n\nThis system has its weaknesses in the difficulty of having no way to classify subportions of a tale as motifs. \"Rapunzel\" is type 310 (The Maiden in the Tower), but it opens with a child being demanded in return for stolen food, as does \"Puddocky\"; but \"Puddocky\" is not a Maiden in the Tower tale, while \"The Canary Prince\", which opens with a jealous stepmother, is.\n\nIt also lends itself to emphasis on the common elements, to the extent that the folklorist describes \"The Black Bull of Norroway\" as the same story as \"Beauty and the Beast\". This can be useful as a shorthand but can also erase the coloring and details of a story.\n\nVladimir Propp specifically studied a collection of Russian fairy tales, but his analysis has been found useful for the tales of other countries. Having criticized Aarne-Thompson type analysis for ignoring what motifs \"did\" in stories, and because the motifs used were not clearly distinct, he analyzed the tales for the \"function\" each character and action fulfilled and concluded that a tale was composed of thirty-one elements ('functions') and seven characters or 'spheres of action' ('the princess and her father' are a single sphere). While the elements were not all required for all tales, when they appeared they did so in an invariant order – except that each individual element might be negated twice, so that it would appear three times, as when, in \"Brother and Sister\", the brother resists drinking from enchanted streams twice, so that it is the third that enchants him. Propp's 31 functions also fall within six 'stages' (preparation, complication, transference, struggle, return, recognition), and a stage can also be repeated, which can affect the perceived order of elements.\n\nOne such element is the \"donor\" who gives the hero magical assistance, often after testing him. In \"The Golden Bird\", the talking fox tests the hero by warning him against entering an inn and, after he succeeds, helps him find the object of his quest; in \"The Boy Who Drew Cats\", the priest advised the hero to stay in small places at night, which protects him from an evil spirit; in \"Cinderella\", the fairy godmother gives Cinderella the dresses she needs to attend the ball, as their mothers' spirits do in \"Bawang Putih Bawang Merah\" and \"The Wonderful Birch\"; in \"The Fox Sister\", a Buddhist monk gives the brothers magical bottles to protect against the fox spirit. The roles can be more complicated. In \"The Red Ettin\", the role is split into the motherwho offers the hero the whole of a journey cake with her curse or half with her blessingand when he takes the half, a fairy who gives him advice; in \"Mr Simigdáli\", the sun, the moon, and the stars all give the heroine a magical gift. Characters who are not always the donor can act like the donor. In \"Kallo and the Goblins\", the villain goblins also give the heroine gifts, because they are tricked; in \"Schippeitaro\", the evil cats betray their secret to the hero, giving him the means to defeat them. Other fairy tales, such as \"The Story of the Youth Who Went Forth to Learn What Fear Was\", do not feature the donor.\n\nAnalogies have been drawn between this and the analysis of myths into the Hero's journey.\n\nMany fairy tales have been interpreted for their (purported) significance. One mythological interpretation saw many fairy tales, including \"Hansel and Gretel\", \"Sleeping Beauty\", and \"The Frog King\", as solar myths; this mode of interpretation subsequently became rather less popular. Freudian, Jungian, and other psychological analyses have also explicated many tales, but no mode of interpretation has established itself definitively.\n\nSpecific analyses have often been criticized for lending great importance to motifs that are not, in fact, integral to the tale; this has often stemmed from treating one instance of a fairy tale as the definitive text, where the tale has been told and retold in many variations. In variants of \"Bluebeard\", the wife's curiosity is betrayed by a blood-stained key, by an egg's breaking, or by the singing of a rose she wore, without affecting the tale, but interpretations of specific variants have claimed that the precise object is integral to the tale.\n\nOther folklorists have interpreted tales as historical documents. Many German folklorists, believing the tales to have preserved details from ancient times, have used the Grimms' tales to explain ancient customs.\n\nOne approach sees the topography of European Märchen as echoing the period immediately following the last Ice Age.\nOther folklorists have explained the figure of the wicked stepmother in a historical/sociological context: many women did die in childbirth, their husbands remarried, and the new stepmothers competed with the children of the first marriage for resources.\n\nIn a 2012 lecture, Jack Zipes reads fairy tales as examples of what he calls \"childism\". He suggests that there are terrible aspects to the tales, which (among other things) have conditioned children to accept mistreatment and even abuse.\n\nFairy tales have inspired music, namely opera, such as the French Opéra féerie and the German Märchenoper. French examples include Gretry's \"Zémire et Azor\", and Auber's \"Le cheval de bronze\", German operas are Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\", Humperdinck's \"Hänsel und Gretel\", Siegfried Wagner's \"An allem ist Hütchen schuld!\", which is based on many fairy tales, and Carl Orff's \"Die Kluge\". Even contemporary fairy tales have been written for the purpose of inspiration in the music world. \"Raven Girl\" by Audrey Niffenegger was written to inspire a new dance for the Royal Ballet in London.\n\nAuthors and works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325081", "title": "House management", "text": "House management\n\nIn theatre, house management concerns the selling of tickets, the ushering of patrons in front of house areas, and the maintenance and management of the theatre building. House management staff usually work for the theatre, under the supervision of the \"house manager\", and not for the theatrical troupe which is occupying it. Often in regional or smaller theatres the responsibility falls under the aegis of the \"production manager\". In any case, house management works closely with the production management team for the presentation of the theatrical production.\n\nIn domestic services, \"house management\" refers to the overseeing of employees that make up the staff of the household, including drivers, nannies, and housekeepers.\n\nBibliography and articles on house management by Paul Iles at https://archive.is/20130420222858/http://www.laughingaudience.co.uk/house_management.html\n"}
{"id": "33466548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33466548", "title": "Housewares Design Awards", "text": "Housewares Design Awards\n\nThe Housewares Design Awards is an annual U. S. product design award competition focused on the housewares industry. The competition was introduced in 2003 by \"HomeWorld Business\", a leading housewares industry trade publication, to recognize design innovation as one of the major drivers for housewares industry growth. \nThe Housewares Design Awards attracts hundreds of product entries each year. These entries are evaluated by an independent panel of judges made up of renowned designers and retailer buyers, a process managed by the Housewares Design Awards LLC. Products are evaluated along multiple dimensions. Criteria include unique appearance, functionality, positioning, innovative technology or materials, safety, environmental benefits, emotional appeal, social impact and the ability to meet consumer needs.\n\nTwelve “Best in Category” Awards and three “Best of the Best” awards are presented at the gold, silver and bronze levels. The “Green House Design Awards,” which honor eco-friendly housewares products, are also given each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35561147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35561147", "title": "Janka Boga", "text": "Janka Boga\n\nJanka Boga Dénesné (January 31, 1886 – 4 October 1963) was a Hungarian writer and teacher.\n\nBorn in Gyergyóújfalu (now Suseni, Romania) in 1886, Boga worked as a teacher in Kecskemét and retired in 1952. In 1920, she started publishing her writings in several local publications, and Szeged was the place for the first performances of her theatre plays.\n\n"}
{"id": "13053597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13053597", "title": "Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy", "text": "Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy\n\nThe Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy began in July 2007 with a series of drawings by Swedish artist Lars Vilks that depicted the Islamic prophet Muhammad as a roundabout dog (a form of street installation in Sweden). Several art galleries in Sweden declined to show the drawings, citing security concerns and fear of violence. The controversy gained international attention after the Örebro-based regional newspaper \"Nerikes Allehanda\" published one of the drawings on 18 August as part of an editorial on self-censorship and freedom of religion.\n\nWhile several other leading Swedish newspapers had published the drawings already, this particular publication led to protests from Muslims in Sweden as well as official condemnations from several foreign governments including Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Egypt, and Jordan, as well as by the inter-governmental Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC). The controversy occurred about a year and a half after the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy in Denmark in early 2006.\n\nOn 11 June 2007, Vilks was invited to participate in an art exhibition on the theme \"The Dog in Art\" () that was to be held in the small town of Tällerud in Värmland. Vilks submitted three pen and ink drawings on A4 paper depicting Muhammad as a roundabout dog. At this time, Vilks was already participating with drawings of Muhammad in another exhibition in Vestfossen, Norway, on the theme \"Oh, My God\". Vilks, who is a known proponent of institutional art, has stated that his original intention with the drawings was to \"examine the political correctness within the boundaries of the art community\". According to Vilks, the art and culture communities in Sweden repeatedly criticize the United States and Israel, whereas Muslim values are rarely even questioned.\n\nOn 20 July, the day before the opening of the exhibition in Tällerud, the organizers decided to withdraw Vilks's drawings from the exhibition due to security concerns and fear of violence from Islamic extremists (\"see Islam and blasphemy and Islam and animals\"). Märta Wennerström, the exhibition's organizer, said that at first she \"didn't realize the gravity of the situation\" and that she made the decision to remove the drawings after consulting Swedish government agencies and private persons.\n\nFollowing the first refusal to publish the drawings, Vilks submitted his drawings to the Gerlesborg School of Fine Art in Bohuslän (where he is a frequent lecturer) for a special teachers' exhibition that was going to be opened on 18 August. On 13 August, however, the school announced that they also had decided to reject the drawings due to security concerns. This second rejection started an intense debate in the Swedish media about self-censorship and freedom of expression.\n\nOn 18 August, the Örebro-based regional newspaper \"Nerikes Allehanda\" published one of Vilks's drawings in an editorial on freedom of expression. The editorial defended \"Muslims' right to freedom of religion\" but also said it must be permitted to \"ridicule Islam's most foremost symbols — just like all other religions' symbols.\" On the same day, the drawings were also published in several other Swedish newspapers including \"Aftonbladet\", \"Dagens Nyheter\", \"Expressen\" and \"Upsala Nya Tidning\".\n\nOn 27 August, the Swedish \"chargé d'affaires\" in Tehran, Gunilla von Bahr, was summoned to the Iranian foreign ministry where she received a protest from the Iranian government against the publication in \"Nerikes Allehanda\". On 28 August the President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, commented on the drawings during a press conference. He was quoted by the Islamic Republic News Agency as saying: \"Religions call for friendship, equality, justice, peace and respect for divine prophets. The Zionists only pretend to believe in religion. They are telling lies. They are perpetrating oppression against the Europeans and putting at risk the prestige of Europe.\" \n\nOn 30 August, the Swedish \"chargé d'affaires\" in Islamabad, Lennart Holst, was summoned to the Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs to receive a similar protest from the Pakistani government. The Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs later issued a statement where it condemned the publication \"in the strongest terms\".\n\nOn the same day the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), an inter-governmental organization which represents 57 Muslim countries, issued a statement where it strongly condemned the publishing of blasphemous caricatures of Muhammad by Swedish artist Lars Vilks in the \"Nerikes Allehanda\" newspaper. The secretary-general of OIC, Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, further called on the Swedish government to take \"immediate punitive actions against the artist and the publishers of the cartoon and asked for their unqualified apology\".\n\nOn 31 August, supporters from Islamic parties in Pakistan burned the Swedish flag in the city of Lahore. In Karachi, others torched an effigy of the Swedish Prime Minister to protest the cartoon.\n\nOn 1 September, the Afghan newspaper \"Kabul Times\" published a statement by religious scholars, imams and the Afghan Ministry of Islamic Guidance. The statement said that \"The sold-out enemies of Islam draw the cartoon of the respected Prophet of Islam once more. This has disturbed the Islamic world and aroused the indignation of all Muslims\". The statement demanded those responsible be handed over to a court for prosecution and punishment.\n\nOn 3 September, the Egyptian Ministry of Religious Endowments condemned the publication, saying that \"such an irresponsible act is not conducive to friendly ties between the Islamic world and the west\". On the same day, also the Jordanian government condemned the publication. A spokesperson for the government said that \"The publication of this cartoon, which seeks to attack the character of the Prophet Mohammed, is unacceptable, rejected and condemned\".\n\nOn 25 August, a group of about 60 Muslims held a demonstration outside \"Nerikes Allehanda\"'s office in Örebro to protest against the publication.\n\nOn 31 August, Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt commented on the issue and said: \"I think it's important to say two things. First, we are eager to ensure that Sweden remains a country in which Muslims and Christians, people who believe in God and people who don't believe in God, can live side by side in a spirit of mutual respect [...] We are also eager to stand up for freedom of expression, which is enshrined in the constitution and comes naturally to us, and which ensures that we do not make political decisions about what gets published in the newspapers. I want to make sure we keep things that way.\" The same day, around 300 demonstrators – led by the Islamic Cultural Centre in Örebro – assembled outside the offices of \"Nerikes Allehanda\" to protest against the newspaper's publication.\n\nOn 7 September, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt met with ambassadors from 22 Muslim countries to discuss the issue. Reinfeldt said that he had \"explained how Swedish society works and that we don't have elected representatives making editorial decisions\", adding that \"this is an open country, a tolerant country\". Prior to the meeting, Egyptian ambassador Mohamed Sotouhi said, according to the news agency TT, that he and a group of fellow ambassadors had agreed on a list of measures that Sweden needed to take and to present it to the Prime Minister. \"We want to see action, not just nice words. We have to push for a change in the law\", he said.\n\nAfter the meeting however, Reinfeldt denied that any such list had been presented to him. According to the Syrian Arab News Agency, a statement had been delivered from the Swedish embassy in Damascus to Syria's Grand Mufti Ahmad Bader Hassoun in which Reinfeldt \"expressed his regret of the incident which has offended and upset Muslims, calling against instigating or offending other religions\". The Swedish government has not commented on this statement.\nAlso on 7 September, a group of about 550 Muslims gathered outside the offices of the newspaper \"Upsala Nya Tidning\" in Uppsala, to protest against the newspaper's publication of the cartoons.\n\nFollowing the publication in \"Nerikes Allehanda\", the Swedish police raised the security level around the newspaper's headquarters and some of its employees have been forced to use bodyguards after receiving death threats. Vilks himself has also received several death threats. One Muslim woman in western Sweden has been arrested on charges of issuing a death threat () against Vilks in an e-mail. The woman confirmed in police interrogation that she had written the mail and said that she did not have any regrets about it. On 6 September, one actual roundabout dog created by Vilks and local children was set alight as an apparent threat.\n\nOn 15 September, it was reported that the group Islamic State of Iraq had placed a bounty of at least $100,000 on the head of Lars Vilks and 50,000 dollars on Ulf Johansson, editor-in-chief of \"Nerikes Allehanda\". The statement was found in an audio file on an Islamist website and was read by a person who identified himself as Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, the purported head of the Islamic State of Iraq. \"We announce a reward of $100,000 to anyone who kills this infidel criminal. This reward will be raised to $150,000 if he is slaughtered like a lamb,\" the statement said. The statement also threatened attacks on Swedish companies unless unspecified \"crusaders\" issued an apology. Vilks responded to the statement by saying: \"I suppose this makes my art project a bit more serious. It's also good to know how much one is worth\".\n\nThe United States-based SITE Institute has reported that websites run by militant Islamists have listed the names of over 100 Swedish companies with addresses, maps and logos. The websites called for their readers to boycott these firms and \"take revenge\" on Sweden for the publication of the drawings.\n\nThe European Council for Fatwa and Research (ECFR) and the Federation of Islamic Organizations in Europe (FIOE) both condemned the death threats against Vilks and Johansson. ECFR also said it planned to issue a \"counter fatwa\" against the threats.\n\nThe World Association of Newspapers (WAN), which represents over 18,000 newspapers around the world, issued a statement where it condemned the death threats and expressed support for \"Nerikes Allehanda\" in its right to publish the drawing.\n\nOn 9 March 2010, seven people were arrested in the Republic of Ireland over an alleged plot to assassinate Vilks. The arrested were originally from Morocco and Yemen and had refugee status. Of the seven, three men and two women were arrested in Waterford and Tramore and another man and woman at Ballincollig, near Cork. Garda Síochána (the Irish police force), which conducted the arrests with support from the counter-terror Special Detective Unit and the National Support Services, said the suspects range in age from mid 20s to late 40s. They (Garda Síochána) also added that throughout the investigation they had been \"working closely with law enforcement agencies in the United States and in a number of European countries\".\n\nThe same day, Colleen R. LaRose from the Philadelphia, US, suburbs, had her federal indictment unsealed charging her with trying to recruit Islamic terrorists to murder Vilks.\n\nAn emailed threat sent to a news agency and to the Swedish Security Service occurred made reference to this incident. Afterwards, two bombs exploded, injuring two people and killing the would-be attacker.\n\nAt the time of the December 2010 terror arrests, Lars Vilks' home page was subject to a hacker attack. According to Vilks' blog, the hacker declared the attacks would be continued with no end and that the targets are Vilks, Kurt Westergaard, and Geert Wilders.\n\nIn 2013, cartoonist Stéphane \"Charb\" Charbonnier was added to Al-Qaeda's most wanted list, along with Lars Vilks and three \"Jyllands-Posten\" staff members: Kurt Westergaard, Carsten Juste, and Flemming Rose.\n\nOn 14 February 2015, shots were fired at a public meeting in Denmark attended by Vilks, leaving one civilian dead and three policemen wounded. The attacker fled after a brief gunfight with police and was later shot dead the next day after committing another shooting at a Jewish synagogue, killing one person and injuring two policemen.\n"}
{"id": "14587381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14587381", "title": "Leges inter Brettos et Scottos", "text": "Leges inter Brettos et Scottos\n\nThe Leges inter Brettos et Scottos or Laws of the Brets and Scots was a legal codification under David I of Scotland (reigned 1124 – 1153). Only a small fragment of the original document survives, describing the penalties for several offences against people.\n\nHistorically, the term \"Brets\" refers to Brythonic peoples, while \"Scots\" refers to Gaelic-speaking peoples. Skene however, asserted that here \"Scots\" refers to all of the peoples living north of the firths of Clyde and Forth.\n\nAside from the document's intrinsic importance to Scottish history, it is significant in its similarity to corresponding areas both of Irish Brehon law and of Welsh law, which are better-preserved than the laws of medieval southern Scotland, allowing reasonable conjectures to be made regarding the laws and customs of the region, as few historical records exist.\n\nThe Laws or their precursor were relevant in the early twelfth century, as the \"Laws of the Four Burghs\" (Latin: \"Leges Quatuor Burgorum\") explicitly banned parts of it relating to the \"cro\" (or weregild).\nThe Laws are known to have been relevant until 1305, as Edward I of England specifically abolished them in that year, following his invasion of Scotland. There is no further mention of them, and when Scotland successfully reasserted its independence, the feudal Scots law then became applicable.\n\nThe surviving clauses show the society's origins as a tribal culture, where a perpetrator's family is responsible for the perpetrator's transgressions, and the family of a victim is compensated for the loss of a family member. As with other Celtic societies, the rights and obligations of women are explicitly guaranteed (though at a lesser standing than that of men). Marriages are treated as relationships between different families, and payments accrue to the family of the victim's spouse under some circumstances, but accrue to the victim's family under other circumstances.\n\nDefinition of the penalties\n\n\nPenalty amount according to social position\n\nThe amounts to be paid were on a scale according to the social position of the victim, with the king at the top with the greatest value, then with a lesser amount for his son or high-ranking noble, an even lesser amount for other nobles, and so on down to the least amount for a common person. Amounts for homicide were given both as a number of cows, and as an equivalent amount of gold. Amounts for wounding or insult were given in gold only.\n\nPayments for a female victim were one third less than that of her husband (but equal to that of her brother if she were unmarried), and make clear that women retained their original kinship and rights after marriage, as death penalties were owed by her family (and not by her husband's family), while death payments were made to her family (and not to the husband's family). Also, the importance of the marriage is acknowledged in that some payments for insult accrue to the spouse of the victim, rather than to the victim's family.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "23971427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23971427", "title": "Lexcycle", "text": "Lexcycle\n\nLexcycle was a software company that made electronic book reading software. They were responsible for Stanza, which ran on the iPhone, iPod Touch, Microsoft Windows and Apple Macintosh platforms. In April 2009, Lexcycle was acquired by Amazon.com. In 2012, Amazon.com removed Stanza from all app stores.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1874281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1874281", "title": "List of book titles taken from literature", "text": "List of book titles taken from literature\n\nMany authors will use quotations from literature as the title for their works. This may be done as a conscious allusion to the themes of the older work or simply because the phrase seems memorable. The following is a partial list of book titles taken from literature. It does not include phrases altered for parody. (Titles taken from works by William Shakespeare do not appear here: see List of titles of works taken from Shakespeare.)\n"}
{"id": "1233123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233123", "title": "List of books set in New York City", "text": "List of books set in New York City\n\nThis article provides an incomplete list of fiction books set in New York City. Included is the date of first publication.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23972861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23972861", "title": "List of performances and events at Woodstock Festival", "text": "List of performances and events at Woodstock Festival\n\nThe Woodstock Music & Art Fair was a music festival held on a 600-acre (2.4 km²; 240 ha, 0.94 mi²) dairy farm in the rural town of Bethel, New York from August 15 to August 18, 1969. Thirty-two acts performed during the sometimes rainy weekend in front of nearly half a million concertgoers. It is widely regarded as one of the greatest moments in popular music history and was listed on \"Rolling Stone\"s \"50 Moments That Changed the History of Rock and Roll\".\n\nThe first day officially began at 5:07 p.m. with Richie Havens and featured folk artists. 32 acts performed during the sometimes rainy weekend in front of nearly half a million concertgoers.\n\n5:07pm – 6:00pm\n\n7:10pm – 7:20pm\n\n7:30pm – 8:10pm\n\n8:20pm – 9:15pm\n\n9:20pm – 9:45pm\n\nwith a three-song set, played through the rain\n10:00pm – 10:35pm\n\n10:50pm – 11:20pm\n\n11:55pm – 12:25am\n\n12:55am – 2:00am \n\nThe day opened at 1:20 pm, and featured some of the event's biggest psychedelic and guitar rock headliners.\n\n12:15pm – 12:45pm\n\n1:00pm – 1:30pm\n\n2:00pm – 2:45pm\n\n3:30pm – 3:55pm\n\n4:45pm – 5:30pm\n\n6:00pm – 6:30pm\n\n7:30pm – 8:30pm\n\n9:00pm – 10:00pm\n\n10:30pm – 12:05am \n\n12:30am – 1:20am\n\nwith The Kozmic Blues Band2:00am – 3:00am\n\n3:30am – 4:20am\n\n5:00am – 6:05am kicking off a 25-song set including \"Tommy\"\n\n8:00am – 9:40am\n\nJoe Cocker was the first act on the last officially booked day (Sunday); he opened up the day's events at 2 PM. His set was preceded by at least two instrumentals by The Grease Band.\n\n2:00pm – 3:25pm\n\n6:30pm – 8:00pm\n\n8:15pm – 9:15pm\n\n10:00pm – 10:50pm\n\n12:00am – 1:05am featuring his brother, Edgar Winter, on three songs.\n\n1:30am – 2:30am\n\n3:00am – 4:00am with separate acoustic and electric sets. Chip Monck announced the act as \"Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young\", but the name Young was dropped from the movie and film soundtrack for the performance of \"Suite Judy Blue Eyes\".\nNeil Young skipped most of the acoustic set (the exceptions being his compositions \"Mr. Soul\" and \"Wonderin'\") and joined Crosby, Stills & Nash during the electric set, but refused to be filmed; by his own report, Young felt the filming was distracting both performers and audience from the music. Despite his refusal, footage does exist of him performing \"Mr. Soul\" and \"Long Time Gone.\" The \"Mr. Soul\" performance can be found as an Easter Egg on his Archives 1963-1972 DVD box set, however because of his resistance to being filmed during much of the performance the camera remains focused on Stills. Young's \"Sea of Madness,\" heard on the album, was drawn from the Fillmore East concert, one month after the festival. The original recording was later restored on the six-CD boxed set \"Woodstock: 40 Years On [Back To Yasgur's Farm]\"\n\n6:00am – 6:45am\n\n7:30am - 8:00am\n\n9:00am – 11:10amAfter being introduced as the Jimi Hendrix Experience, Hendrix corrected the new group's name to \"Gypsy Sun and Rainbows, for short it's nothin' but a band of gypsies.\" Later during the set he introduced them as \"Sky Church.\"\n"}
{"id": "56555481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56555481", "title": "Louis XIV furniture", "text": "Louis XIV furniture\n\nLouis XIV furniture was massive and lavishly covered with sculpture and ornament of gilded bronze in the earlier part of his personal reign (1660–1690). After about 1690, thanks in large part to the furniture designer André Charles Boulle, a more original and delicate style appeared. It was based on the use of marquetry, the inlay of piece of ebony and other rare woods, a technique first used in Florence in the 15th century, which was refined and developed by Boulle and others working for the King. Furniture was inlaid with thin plaques of ebony, copper, mother of pearl, and exotic woods of different colors in elaborate designs.\n\nNew and often enduring types of furniture appeared; the commode, with two to four drawers, replaced the old \"coffre\", or chest. The \"canapé\", or sofa, appeared, in the form of a combination of two or three armchairs. New kinds of armchairs appeared, including the \"fauteuil en confessionale\" or \"Confessional armchair\", which had padded cushions ions on either side of the back of the chair. The console table also made its first appearance; it was designed to be placed against a wall. Another new type of furniture was the \"table à gibier\", a marble-topped table for holding dishes. Early varieties of the desk appeared; the Mazarin desk had a central section set back, placed between two columns of drawers, with four feet on each column.\n\nIn the period of the King's youth, (1643–1660) when France was effectively run by the Regent, Anne of Austria, the furniture style was that of Louis XIII, mixed with the Italian influence brought by Cardinal Mazarin. Rooms were dominated by massive cabinets, decorated with columns, frontons, pilasters, balustrades, niches and other decoration. which matched the elaborate carved wood paneling, called \"lambris\", placed is squares or rectangles on the walls, and the sculpted ceilings with similar decorations. Cabbinets, tables and chairs were geometric. Armchairs appeared with high backs, made with pieces of \"bois tourné\", cut in a spiral form. \n\nThe second period, from 1660 to about 1690, was the beginning of the personal reign of Louis XIV, Much of the furniture of this period was made for the decoration of the grand new halls of the Palace of Versailles designed by Louis Le Vau and then by Jules Hardouin-Mansart. The characteristics of the first style in decoration and furniture were richness of materials and an effort to achieve a monumental effect. Decorative elements on the walls and furniture were often military; helmets, crossed weapons, oak leave clusters symbolizing victory, sculpted, gilded, and placed on the walls. Other common decorations were masks of Apollo (the Sun God symbolized Louis, the \"Sun King\"); the eagle of Jupiter, the lion, the rooster, and a wide variety of crowns, scepters and royal batons. \n\nThe Royal furniture manufactory was established in 1667, part of the royal art establishment which included the Academy of Fine Arts and the royal tapestry manufactory at Sèvres. Its designers and craftsmen created most of the new furniture made for the Palace of Versailles and other royal residences. \n\nIn the final period, from about 1690 onwards, under the influence of Haroudin-Mansart, Pierre Lapautre and other designers, the style of decor and furniture became less grandiose and more elegant; marble on walls was replaced by wood paneling in light colors, or natural wood that was waxed or vanished. As heating systems improved, fireplaces became smaller; as glass technology improved, mirrors became larger, and could cover entire walls, as they soon did at Versailles. New and lighter decorative themes appeared that were often exotic and playful, notably putti or cherubs, and grotesques, arabesques and lace-like \"dentelle\" designs. \n\nThe style of the last period was strongly influenced by the marquetry of the \"ebeniste\" André-Charles Boulle, who between 1675-80 greatly refined the classic techniques of applying thin plaques of ebony, exotic woods, copper, tortoise shell, and mother-of-pearl. Sometimes copper decoration was placed on a background of tortoise shell, and sometimes the tortoise shell design was on a background of copper. The decor became more and more elaborate, fanciful and exotic, particularly in the work of another influential designer, Jean Bérain the Elder. Another popular decoration on furniture was bronze ornament, sculpted and gilded. Reliefs of gilded bronze covered the faces of the pieces of furniture, decorating the keyholes and the angles. The corners of commodes were occupied by sculptures of women or angels, and the feet were dressed in gilded bronze shoes or sculpted lions' or deer feet. \n\nIn the later style, the geometric forms were gradually replaced by curving lines, and an assortment of new, more portable furniture appeared, including folding chairs and small tables, called \"tabourets\", which could be moved easily from room to room. These tendencies led directly to the more fanciful and curving forms of Louis XV furniture.\n\nThe armchairs chairs of the early Louis XIV style had legs in a form called \"en gain\" or \"en balustre\", which were lavishly decorated with sculpted and often gilded ornaments called \"godsons\", \"cannelures\", \"and feuillages\" or leaves. The four legs were connected for support by a cross beam under the chair in the form of an 'H', which evolved into an 'X'. The chairs were upholstered either with leather or with tapestry. The feet of chairs were either \"en gain\", or geometric and tapering, or \"en console\", with a curved 'S' form. An early version of the sofa appeared, a \"canapé\" which looked like two armchairs joined together. In the later period of the Louis XIV style, the amount of decoration on the frame diminished, and their form became more graceful and curving. The feet 'en console' often ended in the form known as a 'deer's foot', or a gilded bronze shoe. The \"Fauteuil a la Reine\" or Queen's armchair, was introduced, and became a popular form, which continued to be made, with various modifications, throughout the reigns of Louis XV and XVI. The \"fauteuil en confessional\" was another innovation, an armchair with wings with thick cushions on either side of the head. Another innovation was the Fauteuil \"à os de mouton\", which featured braces between the legs in the form of curving sheep bones.\n\nIn the early years of the reign, the King demanded that all members of the court, no matter what their rank, remain standing, often for very long periods, while he was seated in a fauteuil, or armchair. Later, princes and princesses were allowed to sit on simple \"tabourets\", stools made of cane. Gradually this privilege was extended to Duchessses, then other high nobility, and eventually to all the official members of the Court Portable chairs were invented to meet the changing demands of court protocol. These included chairs with cane backs, folding chairs (\"ployants\") and a variety of (\"tabourets\").\n\nTables had the same two types of feet and legs as chairs; either \"en gaine\" or \"en baluster\". The brace between the legs underneath was often in an X form, and the meeting place often had a very elaborate console with reverse S shapes. The \"ceinture\" or belt around the edge of the table was richly ornamented with sculptural decoration, which often cascaded downwards.\n\nThe console was a particular type of table made to stand against a wall; It usually had a plaque of marble on top, and was richly ornamented, but only on side facing the room.\n\nIn the later Louis XIV period, under the influence of Boulle, marquetry became the dominant decoration of tables. A particularly fine example is a table by Andre-Charles Boulle, from 1670–80, which features marquetry made with an assortment of woods, plus pewter, brass, copper, horn, and tortoiseshell It is now in the California Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco. A variant of this design by Boulle from the same period is found in the Getty Museum in Los Angeles.\nThe ornate and heavy chests of Louis XIII gradually disappeared were replaced by a new item of furniture, the commode, which had a column of drawers. In the earlier years of Louis XIV the chests were massive an geometric, sometimes with columns and pediments and panels of wood with carved decorative elements in diamond and other geometric shapes. The early chests and commodes were often of dark wood, which made them sombre. André-Charles Boulle lightened the appearance of the commodes with marquetry of ivory, mother of pearl, tin, and brass. He also used different colored woods to create elaborate floral bouquets and other designs.\n\nA variety of specialized chests were created, including \"bibliotheques\" or bookcases; \"Médailliers\" for displaying medals; and special cabinets or stands for clocks, which were large and heavy. \nThe bureau or desk in its rough modern form appeared under Louis XIV. The earliest version was the Mazarin desk, named for Louis's prime minister, Cardinal Mazarin. It had two columns of three drawers each, each mounted on four feet and connected by an E-shaped brace, supporting a flat writing surface with a single drawer beneath. Later variations included a folding top. Later in the reign, the Mazarin desk was replaced by a large flat topped writing table with four legs and two drawers. A very elegant version of this desk was made by André-Charles Boulle, for Nicolas Fouquet, the King's minister of finance, for his chateau at Vaux-le-Vicomte.\nThe bedroom was a place of ceremony under Louis XIV. The formal awakening of the King at the Palace of Versaille was a daily event, which any member of the Court or visitor to the Palace could attend. It was common for members of the nobility to receive guests when they were in bed. The beds had very high canopies and draperies supported by four posts and a rectangual frame or panel, called a tester, above. The draperies were largely to keep heat in and drafts out. The beds were separated from the rest of the room by a balustrade.\n\n"}
{"id": "28738853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28738853", "title": "Marilyn Duckworth", "text": "Marilyn Duckworth\n\nMarilyn Duckworth OBE (born 10 November 1935 in New Zealand) is a novelist, poet and short story writer. She has published 16 novels, one novella, a collection of short stories and a collection of poetry. She has also written for television and radio.\n\nDuckworth was born in Auckland, New Zealand, but spent the years between 1939 and 1947 in England. Her father was Cyril John Adcock, her sister is the poet Fleur Adcock. Duckworth’s first novel, \"A Gap in the Spectrum\", was published when she was 23.\n\nHer debut in 1959 puts her in the second generation of New Zealand novelists of the Provincial period.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27306717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27306717", "title": "Marvel Cinematic Universe", "text": "Marvel Cinematic Universe\n\nThe Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is an American media franchise and shared universe that is centered on a series of superhero films, independently produced by Marvel Studios and based on characters that appear in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The franchise has expanded to include comic books, short films, television series, and digital series. The shared universe, much like the original Marvel Universe in comic books, was established by crossing over common plot elements, settings, cast, and characters. Phil Coulson, portrayed by Clark Gregg, is an original character to the MCU and the only character to appear across all its different media.\n\nThe first film released in the MCU was \"Iron Man\" (2008), which began the first phase of films culminating in the crossover film \"Marvel's The Avengers\" (2012). Phase Two began with \"Iron Man 3\" (2013), and concluded with \"Ant-Man\" (2015). The films are currently in Phase Three, which began with the release of \"\" (2016) and is set to conclude with an untitled Avengers film (2019). Marvel Television expanded the universe further, first to network television with \"Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" on ABC in the 2013–14 television season, followed by online streaming with \"Marvel's Daredevil\" on Netflix in 2015 and \"Marvel's Runaways\" on Hulu in 2017, and then to cable television with \"Marvel's Cloak & Dagger\" on Freeform in 2018. Marvel Television has also produced the digital series \"\", which is a supplement to \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D\". Soundtrack albums have been released for all of the films, along with many of the television series, as well as the release of compilation albums containing existing music heard in the films. The MCU also includes tie-in comics published by Marvel Comics, while Marvel Studios has also produced a series of direct-to-video short films and a viral marketing campaign for its films and the universe with the faux news program \"WHIH Newsfront\".\n\nThe franchise has been commercially successful as a multimedia shared universe, though some critics have found that some of its films and television series have suffered in service of the wider universe. It has inspired other film and television studios with comic book character adaptation rights to attempt to create similar shared universes. The MCU has also been the focus of other media, outside of the shared universe, including attractions at various Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, an attraction at Discovery Times Square, a Queensland Gallery of Modern Art exhibit, two television specials, guidebooks for each film, multiple tie-in video games, and commercials.\n\nBy 2005, Marvel Entertainment began planning to independently produce its own films and distribute them through Paramount Pictures. Previously, Marvel had co-produced several superhero films with Columbia Pictures, New Line Cinema and others, including a seven-year development deal with 20th Century Fox. Marvel made relatively little profit from its licensing deals with other studios and wanted to get more money out of its films while maintaining artistic control of the projects and distribution. Avi Arad, head of Marvel's film division, was pleased with Sam Raimi's Spider-Man films at Sony, but was less pleased about others. As a result, they decided to form Marvel Studios, Hollywood's first major independent movie studio since DreamWorks.\n\nArad's second-in-command, Kevin Feige, realized that unlike Spider-Man and the X-Men, whose film rights were licensed to Sony and Fox, respectively, Marvel still owned the rights to the core members of the Avengers. Feige, a self-professed \"fanboy\", envisioned creating a shared universe just as creators Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had done with their comic books in the early 1960s. To raise capital, the studio secured funding from a seven-year, $525 million revolving credit facility with Merrill Lynch. Marvel's plan was to release individual films for their main characters and then merge them in a crossover film. Arad, who doubted the strategy yet insisted that it was his reputation that helped secure the initial financing, resigned the following year.\nIn 2007, at 33 years old, Feige was named studio chief. In order to preserve its artistic integrity, Marvel Studios formed a creative committee of six people familiar with its comic book lore: Feige, Marvel Studios co-president Louis D'Esposito, Marvel Comics' president of publishing Dan Buckley, Marvel's chief creative officer Joe Quesada, writer Brian Michael Bendis, and Marvel Entertainment president Alan Fine, who oversaw the committee. Feige initially referred to the shared narrative continuity of these films as the \"Marvel Cinema Universe\", but later used the term \"Marvel Cinematic Universe\". Marvel has designated the Marvel Cinematic Universe as Earth-199999 within the continuity of the company's multiverse, a collection of fictional alternate universes.\n\nIn November 2013, Feige said that \"in an ideal world\" releases each year would include one film based on an existing character and one featuring a new character, saying it's \"a nice rhythm\" in that format. While not always the case, as evident by the 2013 releases of \"Iron Man 3\" and \"Thor: The Dark World\", he said it is \"certainly something to aim for.\" Feige expanded on this in July 2014, saying, \"I don't know that we'll keep to [that model] \"every\" year\", but we're doing that in 2014 and 2015, \"so I think it would be fun to continue that sort of thing.\" In February 2014, Feige stated that Marvel Studios wants to mimic the \"rhythm\" that the comic books have developed, by having the characters appear in their own films, and then come together, much like \"a big event or crossover series,\" with \"Avengers\" films acting as \"big, giant linchpins.\" After the reveal of multiple release dates for films through 2019 in July 2014, Feige stated, \"I think if you look at some of those dates that we've announced, we're going to three in a few of those years. Again, not because there's a number cruncher telling us to go to three, do more than two pictures a year, but because of the very reason just laid out: it is about managing [existing] franchises, film to film, and when we have a team ready to go, why tell them to go away for four years just because we don't have a slot? We'd rather find a way to keep that going.\" After the titles were revealed in October 2014, Feige said, \"The studio's firing on all cylinders right now ... which made us comfortable for the first time ... to increase to three films a year [in 2017 and 2018] instead of just two, without changing our methods.\"\n\nOn expanding the characters in the universe and letting individual films breathe and work on their own, as opposed to having Avenger team-ups outside of \"Avengers\" films, Feige stated, it's about \"teaching the general movie-going audience about the notion of the characters existing separately, coming together for specific events and going away and existing separately in their own worlds again. Just like comic readers have been doing for decades and decades ... people sort of are accepting that there's just a time when they should be together and there's a time when they're not.\" In April 2014, Feige revealed that Edgar Wright's pitch for \"Ant-Man\" in 2006 helped shape the early films of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, saying, \"We changed, frankly, some of the MCU to accommodate this version of Ant-Man. Knowing what we wanted to do with Edgar and with Ant-Man, going years and years back, helped to dictate what we did with the roster for \"Avengers\" the first time. It was a bit of both in terms of his idea for the Ant-Man story influencing the birth of the MCU in the early films leading up to \"Avengers\".\"\n\nIn October 2014, Marvel held a press event to announce the titles of their Phase Three films. The event, which drew comparisons to Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference, was done because all the information was ready. As Feige explained, \"We wanted to do this at [San Diego] Comic-Con this year. Things were not set ... So the plan has been, since a few weeks before Comic-Con when we realized we weren't going to be able to do everything we wanted to do, is to decide 'let's do either something we haven't done in a long time, or something we've never done.' Which is a singular event, just to announce what we have when it's ready. I thought that might be early August, or mid-September, it ended up being [at the end of October].\"\n\nBy September 2015, after Marvel Studios was integrated into The Walt Disney Studios with Feige reporting to Walt Disney Studios chairman Alan Horn instead of Marvel Entertainment CEO Isaac Perlmutter, the studios' creative committee had \"nominal\" input on the films moving forward, though they continued to consult on Marvel Television productions, which remained under Perlmutter's control. All key film decisions going forward will be made by Feige, D'Esposito and Victoria Alonso. At the end of the month, on how much story is developed for future films of the universe, Feige said there are \"broad strokes\" though sometime \"super-specific things. But for the most part, in broad strokes that are broad enough and loose enough that, if through the development of four of five movies before we get to the culmination ... we still have room to sway and to move and to go and to surprise ourselves in places that we end up. So that all the movies, hopefully when they're finished, will feel like they're all interconnected and meant to be and planned far ahead, but really can live and breathe enough as individual movies to be satisfying each and of themselves.\" The studio also has various contingency plans for the direction of all of their films, in the event they are unable to secure a certain actor to reprise a role, or re-acquire the film rights to a character, such as was done in February 2015 with Spider-Man.\n\nIn April 2016, on moving the universe to Phase Four and reflecting on the first three, Feige said, \"I think there will be a finality to moments of Phase Three, as well as new beginnings that will mark a different, a different, a distinctively different chapter in what will someday be a complete first saga made up of three phases.\" Joe Russo added, \"You build things up and people enjoy the experiences you've built up. But then you kind of reach an apex or you reach a climax, a moment where you go, 'This structure is really going to start to be repetitious if we do this again, so what do we do now?' So now, you deconstruct it. We're in the deconstruction phase with \"\" and leading into \"\", which are the culmination films.\" A year later, Feige felt after the conclusion of Phase Three, Marvel might abandon grouping the films by phases, saying, \"it might be a new thing.\" Feige also mentioned that the Untitled Avengers film would provide \"a definitive end\" to the films and storylines preceding it, with the franchise having \"two distinct periods. Everything before \"Avengers 4\" and everything after.\"\n\nOn the potential for \"superhero fatigue\", Feige stated, \"This year [2016], we've got \"Civil War\" and we've got \"Doctor Strange\" in November, two completely different movies. To me, and to all of Marvel Studios, that's what keeps it going. As long as we're surprising people, as long as we're not falling into things becoming too similar ... next year, [\"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\"], [\"\"], \"\". Those are three totally different movies ... as long as the only shared thing is they come from the same source material and they've got our Marvel logo in front of the movies. Other than that they can be very distinct. What other studios do, what other properties, nothing we can do about it.\"\n\nIn December 2017, The Walt Disney Company agreed to acquire assets from 21st Century Fox, including 20th Century Fox, for $52.4 billion. The following June, after a counter offer from Comcast worth $65 billion, Disney increased its offer to $71.3 billion. The acquisition would see the return of the film rights to Deadpool, and the X-Men and Fantastic Four characters to Marvel Studios, which would \"create richer, more complex worlds of inter-related characters and stories.\"\n\nOver time, the distribution rights to Marvel Studios' films changed hands on multiple occasions. In November 2006, Universal Pictures announced that it would distribute \"The Incredible Hulk\", in an arrangement separate from Marvel's 2005 deal with Paramount, which was distributing Marvel's other films. In September 2008, after the international success of \"Iron Man\", Paramount signed a deal to have worldwide distribution rights for \"Iron Man 2\", \"Iron Man 3\", \"Thor\", \"Captain America: The First Avenger\", and \"Marvel's The Avengers\".\n\nIn late December 2009, The Walt Disney Company purchased Marvel Entertainment for $4 billion. Additionally, in October 2010, Walt Disney Studios bought the distribution rights for \"The Avengers\" and \"Iron Man 3\" from Paramount Pictures, with Paramount's logo remaining on the films, as well as for promotional material and merchandise, although Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures is the only studio credited at the end of these films. Disney has distributed all subsequent Marvel Studios films. In July 2013, Disney purchased the distribution rights to \"Iron Man\", \"Iron Man 2\", \"Thor\" and \"Captain America: The First Avenger\" from Paramount. \"The Incredible Hulk\" was not part of the deal, due to an agreement between Marvel and Universal, where Marvel owns the film rights and Universal owns the distribution rights, for this film as well as the right of first refusal to distribute future Hulk films. According to \"The Hollywood Reporter\", a potential reason why Marvel has not bought the film distribution rights to the Hulk as they did with Paramount for the Iron Man, Thor, and Captain America films is because Universal holds the theme park rights to several Marvel characters that Disney wants for its own theme parks.\n\nIn February 2015, Sony Pictures Entertainment and Marvel Studios announced a licensing deal that would allow Spider-Man to appear in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with the character first appearing in \"Captain America: Civil War\". Marvel Studios also explored opportunities to integrate other characters of the Marvel Cinematic Universe into future \"Spider-Man\" films financed, distributed, and controlled by Sony Pictures, with Robert Downey Jr. the first confirmed to reprise his role as Tony Stark / Iron Man in \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\". In June 2015, Feige clarified that the initial Sony deal does not apply to the MCU television series, as it was \"very specific ... with a certain amount of back and forth allowed.\" Both studios have the ability to terminate the agreement at any point, and no money was exchanged with the deal. However, a small adjustment was made to a 2011 deal formed between the two studios (where Marvel gained full control of Spider-Man's merchandising rights, in exchange for making a one-time payment of $175 million to Sony and paying up to $35 million for each future Spider-Man film, and forgoing receiving their previous 5% of any Spider-Man film's revenue), with Marvel getting to reduce their $35 million payment to Sony if \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\" grossed more than $750 million.\n\nIn June 2010, Marvel Television was launched with Jeph Loeb as head. By July 2012, the division had entered into discussions with ABC to create a show set in the MCU, and in August, ABC ordered a pilot for a show called \"S.H.I.E.L.D.\", with \"The Avengers\" writer/director Joss Whedon involved; it was later renamed \"Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" In January 2014, the series \"Marvel's Agent Carter\" was announced, joining \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" at ABC, while a put pilot order for the half-hour live-action comedy series, \"Marvel's Damage Control\", was revealed in October 2015. While talking about Marvel potentially making comedy series, Loeb said in January 2016 that Marvel always feels humor should be a part of anything they produce, despite possibly fitting more within a darker genre, as \"Daredevil\" and \"Jessica Jones\" do, while also staying \"grounded and real\". He added, \"There are moments of levity that are in life that you need to bring to the table, or else it just becomes overwhelmingly oppressive ... If you're going to [explore comic book elements], it's always a good idea to make sure that the audience is aware that, yeah, it's funny [too].\"\n\nIn May 2016, after ABC had canceled \"Agent Carter\" and passed on \"Marvel's Most Wanted\", ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey said that Marvel and ABC were working together, looking \"at series that would be beneficial to both brands\" moving forward. In November 2016, Marvel and IMAX Corporation announced \"Marvel's Inhumans\", based on the species of the same name, after a planned film based on the characters had been removed from Marvel Studios' slate. The first two episodes of the series were set to premiere in IMAX theaters in September 2017 for two weeks, before airing on ABC with the remainder of the series. Ben Sherwood, president of Disney–ABC Television Group, said, \"We've worked very carefully with our friends at Marvel Studios—and this is a critical point—to make sure that calendar-wise and content-wise we are only enhancing\" the MCU; the theatrical debut of the series was timed to not interfere with the release of any Marvel Studios films—the theatrical run of the series will take place between the releases of \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\" and \"Thor: Ragnarok\". The deal was initially suggested to Marvel by IMAX after they had held a successful IMAX event with \"Game of Thrones\" in 2015. Sherwood described it as \"a quadruple win—a win for IMAX, a win for Marvel, a win for ABC Studios and a win for ABC to launch a show in an innovative way and get attention\" in an increasingly crowded market. Sherwood hoped that this would be the first of \"several innovative ways to launch [television] programming.\"\n\nBy October 2013, Marvel was preparing four drama series and a miniseries, totaling 60 episodes, to present to video on demand services and cable providers, with Netflix, Amazon, and WGN America expressing interest. In November 2013, Disney was set to provide Netflix with live-action series based on Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage, leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders. Disney CEO Bob Iger stated that Netflix was chosen to air the shows, \"when Disney realized it could use the streaming service as a way to grow the popularity of the characters\". He added that, if the characters prove popular, they could become feature films. Loeb later stated that Marvel was not \"interested in making four pilots and then hoping someday that they could all get together. Netflix really understood what it is we wanted to do. They're very open to directors that might not have that same opportunity in broadcast television. The notion of having all 13 episodes at one time, particularly in serialized storytelling, is very appealing.\" Loeb also added that the four characters chosen \"all had a previous existing relationship and all grew up on the same kind of stoop in New York [in the comics]. So it lent itself to a world. Does that mean these shows are going to be the same? No. They can't be. The characters have different issues, different problems, different feelings about them ... the example that I continually give is that I cannot think of two films that are more different in tone than \"\" and \"Guardians of the Galaxy\". And yet, if you watch them back to back, they feel very Marvel. They feel very much like, 'Oh, it is still the same universe that I'm in.'\"\n\nQuesada confirmed in April 2014 that the Netflix series would be set within the MCU. Loeb explained that \"Within the Marvel universe there are thousands of heroes of all shapes and sizes, but the Avengers are here to save the universe and Daredevil is here to save the neighborhood ... It does take place in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. It's all connected. But that doesn't necessarily mean that we would look up in the sky and see [Iron Man]. It's just a different part of New York that we have not yet seen in the Marvel movies.\" In January 2015, Netflix COO Ted Sarandos said Netflix planned to release a Marvel series approximately a year apart from each other after \"Daredevil\"s April 2015 release. A year later, Sarandos noted that the release schedules of the Marvel Netflix series are dependent on the \"long production times and long post times. In some cases, when we have characters crossover, it makes it more difficult to manage production. It's not the goal to put out more than one or two [each] year ... The complex one is really \"The Defenders\". \"The Defenders\" production schedule will determine a lot of the season 2 and 3 output of those shows.\" He also noted on potential spin-offs that \"all the characters in the universe could also spin out\" into their own series at some point, with Netflix ordering \"Marvel's The Punisher\", a spin-off from \"Daredevil\", that April. Sarandos later stated that Netflix was trying to close the gap between releases of Marvel seasons, but would always prioritize the quality of the series over higher numbers of releases per year. He also said that Netflix was open to exploring the MCU beyond the \"Defenders\" series, including potential crossovers with ABC's Marvel series. In July 2016, Marvel and Netflix committed to complete production on 135 episodes by the end of 2017, making the deal the largest television production commitment in New York State. Production for the different series had engaged 500 local vendors and small businesses for various stages of development, and had required over 14,000 production-related hires.\n\nIn October 2018, Netflix canceled \"Iron Fist\" after two seasons, with \"Deadline Hollywood\" reporting that Disney was considering reviving the series on its streaming service Disney+. Sarandos confirmed that the series were Netflix's to renew or cancel if they wished, and the company was \"super happy with [the other series'] performance so far\". Despite this, \"Luke Cage\" was canceled by the streamer a week after \"Iron Fist\" was. \"Deadline Hollywood\" reported there were no plans to revive the series on Disney+ as with \"Iron Fist\". Shortly after, at the end of November 2018, Netflix canceled \"Daredevil\" after three seasons, with \"Deadline Hollywood\" again reporting there was the potential for the series to be revived on Disney+. Conversely, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" felt it was unlikely the series would be revived on Disney+ and also noted the two other remaining series at the time (\"Jessica Jones\" and \"The Punisher\") would remain on Netflix \"until they run their course\".\n\nIn August 2016, Marvel announced that \"Marvel's Runaways\" had received a pilot order from Hulu, eventually receiving a 10 episode order the following May. That July, Loeb confirmed the series would take place in the MCU saying, \"It all lives in the same world, how it's connected and where it's connected and what it's going to be connected to remains to be seen.\" He added that the characters would not be concerned with the actions of other in the universe, instead focusing on their own issues. This allowed showrunners Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage to deal with concepts such as superheroics and fantasy without explaining them to the audience, since they are already well established in the MCU, while still focusing on their own characters, which they described as \"liberating\".\n\nBy November 2017, Disney was looking to develop a new Marvel television series for their streaming service Disney+. In July 2018, Feige noted discussions had begun with Disney regarding any potential involvement Marvel Studios could have with the streaming service, since Feige felt the service was \"an important thing for the company\". In September 2018, it was reported that Marvel Studios was developing several limited series centered on \"second tier\" characters from the MCU films who had not and were unlikely to star in their own films. Each series was expected to be six to eight episodes, and would be produced by Marvel Studios rather than Marvel Television, with Feige taking a \"hands-on role\" in each series' development. Feige noted the series being developed for the streaming service would \"tell stories... that we wouldn't be able to tell in a theatrical experience — a longer-form narrative\".\n\nIn April 2016, the ABC-owned cable network Freeform announced \"Marvel's Cloak & Dagger\", based on the characters of the same name, with a straight-to-series order for 2018. The network confirmed that the series would be \"its first venture into the Marvel Cinematic Universe\", and described the show as a \"superhero love story\", a premise that \"Variety\" called \"a seamless fit for Freeform\" given the network's target audience of \"Becomers\" (the 14–34 age demographic). This younger-skewing content was continued with the comedy series \"Marvel's New Warriors\" ordered in April 2017, with Freeform executive Karey Burke saying, Marvel \"started to see our strength with young adults and together we could create a pipeline for content that was specific to our audience that felt younger than what they're doing at the other channels... It was important to both of us to find the right characters that felt like they would speak directly to Freeform's audience. The Avengers wouldn't work here but the about-to-be-Avengers works here.\" Loeb noted that it was \"exciting\" to Marvel \"to be able to explore the world of the hero and how it affects someone who is trying to figure out who they are as opposed to already knows who they are and now their whole life has to take a left. That's the journey we're going on with these kinds of characters\" in \"Cloak & Dagger\", \"New Warriors\" and Hulu's \"Runaways\". By November 2017, \"New Warriors\" was no longer set to air on Freeform and was being shopped to other networks.\n\n\"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" executive producer Jeffrey Bell revealed at the show's 2014 PaleyFest panel that the producers and writers are able to read the screenplays for upcoming MCU films to know where the universe is heading. He noted that since the films have to be \"big\" and move \"quickly through a lot of huge pieces\", it is beneficial for the films to have the television series fill in any \"gaps\" for them. His fellow executive producer Jed Whedon explained that each Marvel project is intended to standalone first before there is any interweaving, and noted that the series has to be aware of the film division's plans so as not to interfere when introducing someone or something to the universe. Bell said this was preferable so that people who do not watch the films can still follow the series, and vice versa. Joss Whedon noted that this process \"unfortunately just means the TV show gets, you know, leftovers.\" He stated that, for example, the series' creative team initially wanted to use Loki's scepter from \"The Avengers\" but were unable due to his plans for it in \"\".\n\nIn April 2014, Quesada stated that, beyond connecting to themselves, the Netflix series would connect with the films and other television series. In October 2014, Feige said the opportunity \"certainly\" exists for characters in the Netflix series to appear in \"\". In March 2015, Loeb spoke on the ability for the Netflix series to crossover with the films and the ABC series, saying, \"As it is now, in the same way that our films started out as self-contained and then by the time we got to \"The Avengers\", it became more practical for Captain America to do a little crossover into \"Thor 2\" and for Bruce Banner to appear at the end of \"Iron Man 3\". We have to earn that. The audience needs to understand who all of these characters are and what the world is before you then start co-mingling\". In September 2015, Feige elaborated on the films referencing the television series, saying \"I think that's inevitable at some point ... The schedules do not always quite match up to make that possible. It's easier for [the shows]. They're more nimble and faster and produce things quicker than we do, which is one of the main reasons you see the repercussions of \"Winter Soldier\" or [\"\"] in the show ... by the time we start doing a movie, they'd be mid-way through a season. By the time our movie comes out, they'd be [starting the next season]. So finding the timing on that is not always easy.\"\n\nLoeb talked further on the subject in July 2016, reiterating the issue of scheduling by saying \"if I'm shooting a television series and that's going to go on over a six-month or eight-month period, how am I going to get [a television series actor] to be able to go be in a movie?\" He noted that this would not be as much of an issue if characters were making very minor cameo appearances, but explained that Marvel was not interested in cameos and easter eggs just for the sake of fan service, which could detract from the story being told; \"As I often get reported by you folks for saying #ItsAllConnected, our feeling is that the connection isn't just whether or not somebody is walking into a movie or walking out of a television show. It's connected in the way that the shows come from the same place, that they are real, that they are grounded.\" Eric Carroll, producer on \"\", felt with the introduction of Queens-based Spider-Man to the MCU it \"would be really fun\" to make mention of the Defenders based in Manhattan, adding, \"it's definitely a card I would love to see played, if not sooner rather than later.\"\n\nIn January 2017, Vincent D'Onofrio, who portrays Wilson Fisk in \"Daredevil\", said he \"would love to switch over to the movies, but I think it's pretty much been said it's not going to happen. Or at least not for a very, very long time.\" D'Onofrio cited Feige's previous reasoning as well as the fact that the films already had difficulty \"bringing big characters in that they have to service in the writing\" and adding characters from the television series would be \"just too many characters\" since the films were \"trying to figure out already how to individualize more and at the same time keep \"The Avengers\" going.\" In March 2017, Anthony Mackie, who portrays Sam Wilson / Falcon in the films, felt a crossover between the films and television series \"wouldn't work at all\" given they are \"different universes, different worlds, different companies, different designs\" and that \"Kevin Feige is very specific about how he wants the Marvel Universe to be seen in the film world.\" That May, Feige noted that a character appearing in a television series would not necessarily exclude them from appearing in a film, adding that \"at some point, there's going to be a crossover. Crossover, repetition, or something.\" Regarding the potential for the Avengers to learn in the films that Phil Coulson is alive, Loeb stated, \"It's certainly something that will get resolved, and it may get resolved in a very surprising way.\"\n\nLoeb said in July 2017 that Marvel Television had no plans for series to crossover across networks. Specifically for the similarly themed \"Cloak & Dagger\", \"New Warriors\", and \"Runaways\", which all deal with young heroes, Loeb noted, \"You'll see things that comment on each other; we try to touch base wherever we can... things that are happening in L.A. [where \"Runaways\" is set] are not exactly going to be affecting what's happening in New Orleans [where \"Cloak & Dagger\" is set]... It's being aware of it and trying to find a way for it to be able to discuss in a way that makes sense.\" He added in October that scheduling of each series factors into why crossovers between them are more difficult to pull off, and that network \"feelings\" need to be considered. He also spoke on why the television series do not show Avengers Tower as it appears in the films when they depict New York City, and stated that Marvel Television wanted to be \"less specific\" about the television characters' relationships to the tower because that \"helps the audience understand that this could be on any street corner\" and that the characters could be in an area of the city where you would not be able to see the tower, even though it exists.\n\nIn June 2018, speaking to how the MCU television series would be affected by the events of \"Avengers: Infinity War\", Loeb noted that \"For the most part our stories will take place before Thanos clicked his fingers. A lot of that has to do with production and when we are telling our stories versus when the movies come out.\" In September 2018, with the report of Marvel Studios developing limited series for Disney's streaming service, it was expected that the actors that portrayed the characters in the films would portray them again for the limited series.\n\nIn 2008, the first official tie-in comic was released. Quesada outlined his plan to expand the MCU into comic books, saying, \"The MCU [comics] are going to be stories set within movie continuity. [They are] not necessarily direct adaptations of the movies, but maybe something that happened off screen and was mentioned in the movie ... Kevin Feige is involved with these and in some cases maybe the writers of the movies would be involved [as well.]\" Marvel Comics worked with Brad Winderbaum, Jeremy Latcham, and Will Corona Pilgrim at Marvel Studios to decide which concepts should be carried over from the Marvel Comics Universe to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, what to show in the tie-in comics, and what to leave for the films. Marvel has clarified which of the tie-in comics are considered official canonical MCU stories, with the rest merely inspired by the MCU, \"where we get to show off all the characters from the film in costume and in comic form.\"\n\nIn August 2011, Marvel announced a series of direct-to-video short films called Marvel One-Shots, the name derived from the label used by Marvel Comics for their one-shot comics. Co-producer Brad Winderbaum said \"It's a fun way to experiment with new characters and ideas, but more importantly it's a way for us to expand the Marvel Cinematic Universe and tell stories that live outside the plot of our features.\" Each short film is designed to be a self-contained story that provides more backstory for characters or events introduced in the films. In July 2012, D'Esposito stated that Marvel was considering the idea of introducing established characters who may not yet be ready to carry their own feature films in future One-Shots, stating, \"There's always a potential to introduce a character. We have 8,000 of them, and they can't all be at the same level. So maybe there are some that are not so popular, and we introduce them [with a short] – and they take off. I could see that happening.\"\n\nIn March 2015, Marvel's Vice President of Animation Development and Production, Cort Lane, stated that animated tie-ins to the MCU were \"in the works\". That July, Marvel Studios partnered with Google to produce the faux news program \"WHIH Newsfront with Christine Everhart\", a series of in-universe YouTube videos serving as the center of a viral marketing campaign to promote the films and universe. In December 2016, a six-part web series, \"\", was revealed, which debuted on ABC.com on December 13, 2016. It follows Elena \"Yo-Yo\" Rodriguez on a secret mission, shortly before the start of \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\"s fourth season, with Natalia Cordova-Buckley reprising her role.\n\nMarvel Studios developed specific business practices to create its shared universe, including choosing filmmakers that were considered \"out-of-left-field\", given their previous work. Feige remarked, \"You don't have to have directed a big, giant visual-effects movie to do a big, giant visual-effects movie for us. You just have to have done something singularly sort of awesome,\" adding \"It's worked out well for us when we've taken people [such as Jon Favreau, Joss Whedon, Kenneth Branagh, and the Russo brothers,] that have done very, very good things. Very rarely are one of those good things a big giant blockbuster superhero movie.\" The studio looks for filmmakers to hire who are able to guide a film. When hiring directors, the studio usually has \"a kernel of an idea of what we want\", which is presented to potential directors over the course of several meetings to discuss and further expand. \"And if over the course of three or four or five meetings they make it way better than what we initially were spewing to them, they usually get the job\", according to Feige. Later expanding on this process, Feige explained that before talking to any directors on a film, Marvel Studios often puts together a \"lookbook\" of influences from the comics and art by Marvel's visual development department, to create a visual template for the film. These are put together at company retreats, which the studio holds every \"18 months or so\" to plan out and develop the phases of the MCU. These lookbooks are not always shown to directors, though, with Marvel sometimes preferring to let the director offer their own ideas first.\n\nScott Derrickson did not see a lookbook for \"Doctor Strange\", instead putting together his own presentation, with concept art and storyboards by himself and professionals he hired, to sell himself and his vision of the film to Marvel. In contrast, Marvel shared several different ideas for what \"Thor: Ragnarok\" could be with prospective filmmakers, who then went away and developed what they thought the film should be from that. Taika Waititi created a sizzle reel using clips from other films to present his vision based on Marvel's ideas, a practice that Marvel discourages as they \"oftentimes can be really terrible\". However, Marvel thought Waititi's was \"amazing\". Derrickson and Waititi were both eventually hired for the films. For \"Captain America: The Winter Soldier\", Joe and Anthony Russo met with the studio four times over two months before they were hired, during which they \"kept getting more and more specific about what our vision was\", putting together \"reference videos, storyboards, script pages, you name it. We did like a 30-page book that had everything that we'd do with the character, from the theme of the movie to the tone of the film to the fighting style to what we liked about the character and what we didn't like\". This meant that by the time they were hired they had already \"figured the movie out\".\n\nWhen the studio hired Kenneth Branagh and Joe Johnston to direct \"Thor\" and \"\", respectively, it made sure both directors were open to the idea of a shared universe and including \"Avengers\" set-up scenes in their films. Joe Russo stated, \"That's the exciting component of [incorporating references to the larger universe]. 'What can we set up for the future?' You're constantly pitching out ideas that not only affect your movie, but may have a ripple effect that affects other films ... It's a weird sort of tapestry of writers and directors working together to create this universe that's sort of organic.\" Anthony added, \"The great thing about the Marvel [Cinematic Universe], just like the publishing [arm], it's a very vast, inter-connected universe, where characters will have their rise and fall, so to speak, and hand off to other characters. As the cinematic universe moves forward, you may start to see the cinematic universe adopt that same pattern, as the publishing has, where there's closure with some characters and new beginnings with other characters.\" He added that, for directors to \"fit\" in at Marvel, they must understand how to \"take a larger story and wrangle it into a moment\", yet keep it connected.\nOn allowing directors and writers to work within Marvel's shared universe concept, Joe Russo said that Feige has \"big pieces that he knows he wants to build towards, but the way that you get there is open to interpretation and improv a little bit.\" For the Russos in \"The Winter Soldier\", they had to deal with the idea of S.H.I.E.L.D. being infiltrated by Hydra, with Joe saying, \"how we get there is all up to us. And I think why Marvel has been so successful is because it's been such a clear plan, that everything is interconnected and they're building emotional capital with each movie that you can then trade off of in the next film.\" Joe later elaborated that once each film's creative team \"come up with conceptually what we want to do\" for a film, then we will ask questions about whether this would interfere with a storyline in another movie. Or, what's going on in that film, can we pull some of that into this film? That's where you start looking for the interconnectedness, but it's very important early on that the concept be created in a bubble because you have to protect the idea, it has to be driven by storytelling. Kevin's ... always in the mindset of \"let's just make this movie now and worry about the next movie when it comes.\"\n\nLoeb explained that Marvel Television sees \"ourselves as producers who are working to support the vision of our showrunner. But we're involved in every aspect of the production—whether it's being in the writers' room, editing on set, casting—every step of the production goes through the Marvel team to tell the best story that we can.\" He added that the studio is able to work on so many series across different networks and platforms because \"it just requires that we make sure that there's always someone from Marvel there to help guide the process.\"\nMarvel Studios also began contracting their actors for multiple films, including signing actor Samuel L. Jackson to a then \"unprecedented\" nine-movie contract. In July 2014, Feige said that the studio has all actors sign contracts for multiples films, with the norm being for 3 or more, and the 9 or 12 film deals \"more rare\". Actor's contracts also feature clauses that allows Marvel to use up to three minutes of an actor's performance from one film for another, which Marvel describes as \"bridging material\". At Marvel Television, actors such as Charlie Cox (Matt Murdock / Daredevil in \"Daredevil\") and Adrianne Palicki (Bobbi Morse / Mockingbird in \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\") are contractually obliged to appear in a Marvel film if asked. In May 2015, after starring as Claire Temple in the first season of \"Daredevil\", Rosario Dawson signed with Marvel to return for the second season of the series as part of an \"exclusive TV deal\" that also allows her to appear in any other Marvel Netflix series. Dawson's character has been featured as well in all the other Netflix shows, except \"The Punisher\", linking them together similarly to Jackson's Nick Fury in the films. Dawson explained that she signs on with Marvel for a year at a time, for a certain amount of episodes, and finds out which series the episodes are for closer to the time of filming.\n\nIn August 2012, Marvel signed Joss Whedon to an exclusive contract through June 2015 for film and television. With the deal, Whedon would \"contribute creatively\" on Phase Two of the MCU and develop the first television series set in the universe. In March 2013, Whedon expanded on his consulting responsibilities, saying, \"I understand what Kevin [Feige] is going for and where he's heading, and I read the scripts and watch cuts and talk to the directors and writers and give my opinion. Occasionally there could be some writing. But I'm not trying to get in anybody's soup, I'm just trying to be helpful.\" Whedon later elaborated that \"Since the story has already been approved and everybody knows what we're doing with \"Avengers 2\", we can really lay it out. It's not like anyone's saying \"well I don't know, what if I need that?\" It's like \"doing this is troublesome for us, whereas doing this will actually help us.\" ... You want to honor the events of the last movie but you don't want to be beholden to them, because some people will see \"Avengers[: Age of Ultron]\" who did not see any of the movies in between or even \"Avengers 1\".\" He also found working in television and script doctoring to be \"great training ground[s] for dealing with this ... because you're given a bunch of pieces and told to make them fit—even if they don't.\"\n\nFor the Russo brothers and writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely working on \"Avengers: Infinity War\" and Phase Three, they saw \"a through line from \"Winter Soldier\", through \"Civil War\", right to \"Infinity War\"\", with films like \"Doctor Strange\" and \"Thor: Ragnarok\" laying groundwork for the \"culmination\" in \"Infinity War\". Subsequently, they talked \"to the directors and writers of the other Phase 3 movies on an almost weekly basis, to make sure everything lines up right.\" Peyton Reed, director of \"Ant-Man\" and \"Ant-Man and the Wasp\", felt the relationship and collaboration between the Phase Three directors was \"probably the closest thing that this generation will have to a '30s- or '40s-era studio system where you are all on the lot and you are all working on different things.\" Similarly, when developing the crossover miniseries \"The Defenders\", showrunner Marco Ramirez consulted with the creators of all the individual Marvel Netflix series, having them read each of the scripts for \"The Defenders\" and provide insight into the individual character's world. In April 2017, along with his announcement that he was returning to write and direct \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3\", James Gunn revealed he would be working with Marvel \"to help design where these stories go, and make sure the future of the Marvel Cosmic Universe is as special and authentic and magical as what we have created so far.\" However, in July 2018, Disney and Marvel severed ties with Gunn following controversy surrounding several old jokes Gunn had made.\n\nList indicator(s)\n\nAdditionally, Paul Bettany was the first actor to portray two main characters within the universe, voicing Tony Stark's artificial intelligence J.A.R.V.I.S. in the \"Iron Man\" and \"Avengers\" films, and portraying Vision in \"Avengers\" films and \"Captain America: Civil War\". Stan Lee, creator or co-creator of many of the characters seen in the MCU, has cameo appearances in all of the feature films and television series except \"Inhumans\". In \"Iron Fist\", it is revealed his on-set photograph cameo in the Marvel Netflix series is as NYPD Captain Irving Forbush. His cameo in \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\" sees Lee appearing as an informant to the Watchers, discussing previous adventures that include Lee's cameos in other MCU films; he specifically mentions his time as a FedEx delivery man, referring to Lee's cameo in \"Captain America: Civil War\". This acknowledged the fan theory that Lee may be portraying the same character in all his cameos, with writer and director James Gunn noting that \"people thought Stan Lee is <nowiki>[</nowiki>Uatu the Watcher<nowiki>]</nowiki> and that all of these cameos are part of him being a Watcher. So, Stan Lee as a guy who is working for the Watchers was something that I thought was fun for the MCU.\" Feige added that Lee \"clearly exists, you know, above and apart from the reality of all the films. So the notion that he could be sitting there on a cosmic pit stop during the jump gate sequence in \"Guardians\"...really says, so wait a minute, he's this same character who's popped up in all these films?\"\n\nJim Vorel of \"Herald & Review\" called the Marvel Cinematic Universe \"complicated\" and \"impressive\", but said, \"As more and more heroes get their own film adaptations, the overall universe becomes increasingly confusing.\" Kofi Outlaw of \"Screen Rant\" stated that while \"The Avengers\" was a success, \"Marvel Studios still has room to improve their approach to building a shared movie universe\". Some reviewers criticized the fact that the desire to create a shared universe led to films that did not hold as well on their own. In his review of \"Thor: The Dark World\", \"Forbes\" critic Scott Mendelson likened the MCU to \"a glorified television series\", with \"The Dark World\" being a \"'stand-alone' episode that contains little long-range mythology.\" Collider's Matt Goldberg considered that while \"Iron Man 2\", \"Thor\" and \"Captain America: The First Avenger\" were quality productions, \"they have never really been their own movies\", feeling that the plot detours to S.H.I.E.L.D. or lead-ups to \"The Avengers\" dragged down the films' narratives.\n\nThe metaphor of the MCU as \"the world's biggest TV show\" was discussed again, after the release of \"Captain America: Civil War\", by Todd VanDerWerff of \"Vox\", who felt that film in particular highlighted Marvel's success with the model, saying, \"Viewed in complete isolation, the plot of \"Captain America: Civil War\" makes little to no sense ... [but] when you think about where [Captain America] has been in earlier Marvel films ... his leeriness about being subject to oversight makes a lot more sense.\" VanDerWerff continued that when thinking about the MCU as a television series, many \"common criticisms people tend to level at it take on a new context\" such as complaints that the films are formulaic, lack \"visual spark\", or \"shoehorn in story elements\" that \"are necessary to set up future films\", all characteristics that \"are fairly typical on television, where a director's influence is much lower than that of the showrunner\", in this case, Feige. Comparing the films to the series \"Game of Thrones\" specifically, VanDerWerff noted that each solo film checks \"in on various characters and their individual side stories, before bringing everyone together in the finale (or, rather, an Avengers film)\", with \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" being equivalent to the character Daenerys Targaryen—\"both separated by long distances from everybody else.\" He noted that this format was an extension of early \"TV-like\" film franchises such as \"Star Wars\", as well as the format of the comics upon which the films are based. \"I say all of this not to suggest that film franchises resembling TV series is necessarily a good trend\", VanDerWerff concluded, \"For as much as I generally enjoy the Marvel movies, I'm disheartened by the possibility that their particular form might take over the film industry ... But I also don't think it's the end of the world if Marvel continues on ... there's a reason TV has stolen so much of the cultural conversation over the past few decades. There's something legitimately exciting about the way the medium tells stories when it's good, and if nothing else, Marvel's success shows the film world could learn from that.\"\n\nFollowing the conclusion of season one of \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\", Mary McNamara at the \"Los Angeles Times\" praised the connections between that series and the films, stating that \"never before has television been literally married to film, charged with filling in the back story and creating the connective tissue of an ongoing film franchise ... [\"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\"] is now not only a very good show in its own right, it's part of Marvel's multiplatform city-state. It faces a future of perpetual re-invention, and that puts it in the exhilarating first car of television's roller-coaster ride toward possible world domination.\" Terri Schwartz of Zap2it agreed with this sentiment, stating that \"the fact that [\"Captain America: The Winter Soldier\"] so influenced the show is game-changing in terms of how the mediums of film and television can be interwoven\", though \"the fault there seems to be that \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" had to bide time until \"The Winter Soldier\"s release\", which led to much criticism.\n\nIn January 2015, Michael Doran of Newsarama and Graeme McMillian of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" had a \"point-counterpoint\" debate in response to the first \"Ant-Man\" trailer. Doran stated, \"Marvel has raised the bar high that as opposed to just allowing another film to finish under the [MCU] bar, we're all overly and perhaps even eager to overreact to the first thing that doesn't clear it\". McMillian responded, \"at this point, Marvel's brand is such that I'm not sure it can offer up something like [the trailer] it seeming like a crushing disappointment ... part of Marvel's brand is that it offer the kind of run-of-the-mill superhero movie that you're talking about, that it's ... at least different enough to tweak and play with the genre somehow ... The fact that there's such upset about this trailer being ... well, okay ... suggests to me that the audience expecting something to knock their socks off.\" Doran concluded, \"That does seem to be the point here—the expectations fans now have for everything Marvel Studios ... [and] Marvel going to eventually falter.\"\n\nAfter seeing the portrayal of Yellowjacket in \"Ant-Man\", the antagonist of the film, McMillian noted, It's hardly a secret that Marvel Studios has a bit of a problem when it comes to offering up exciting characters for their heroes to fight against ... [their] villains generally fall into one of two camps. There's the Unstoppable Monster ... or there's the Professional White Guy In A Suit With An Ego ... No matter which of the groups the above villains fall into, they share one common purpose: \"evil\". The motivations for evil likely differ—although, invariably, they fall under the umbrella of 'misguided belief in a greater good that doesn't exist'—but that really doesn't matter, because without fail, there will be so little time in the movie to actually properly explore those motivations, meaning that to all intents and purposes, the villain is being evil for reasons of plot necessity and little else ... The strange thing about this is that Marvel's comic books offer a number of wonderful, colorful bad guys who could step outside the above parameters and offer an alternative to the formulaic villains audiences have gotten used to (and arguably bored with) ... In future movies, we can only hope [they are] treated in such a way that their freak flags are allowed to fly free.\n\nFollowing the release of \"Jessica Jones\", David Priest at c<nowiki>|</nowiki>net wrote about how the series rescues \"Marvel from itself ... \"Jessica Jones\" takes big steps forward in terms of theme, craft and diversity. It's a good story first, and a superhero show second. And for the first time, the MCU seems like it matters. Our culture needs stories like this. Here's hoping Marvel keeps them coming.\" For Paul Tassi and Erik Kain of \"Forbes\", watching the series made them question the MCU, with Kain feeling that the \"morally complex, violent, dark world of \"Jessica Jones\" has no place in the MCU ... right now, the MCU is holding back shows like \"Jessica Jones\" and \"Daredevil\", while those shows are contributing absolutely nothing to the MCU.\" Tassi went so far as to wonder what \"the point of the Marvel Cinematic Universe\" is, lamenting the lack of major crossovers in the franchise since the \"Winter Soldier\" reveal on \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\", and saying that \"Jessica Jones\" is \"so far removed from the world of \"The Avengers\", it might as well not be in the same universe at all ... [I] really don't understand the point of [the MCU] if they're going to keep everything within it separated off in these little boxes\". Conversely, Eric Francisco of Inverse called \"Jessica Jones\"s lack of overt connections to the MCU \"the show's chief advantage. Besides demonstrating how physically wide open the MCU's scope really is, \"Jessica Jones\" also proves the MCU's thematic durability.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Marvel Studios revealed that Alfre Woodard would appear in \"Captain America: Civil War\", having already been cast as Mariah Dillard in \"Luke Cage\" the previous year. This \"raised hopes that Marvel could be uniting its film and Netflix universes\", with \"one of the first and strongest connections\" between the two. However, \"Civil War\" writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely revealed that Woodard would instead be portraying Miriam Sharpe in the film, explaining that she had been cast on the suggestion of Robert Downey, Jr., and they had not learnt of her casting in \"Luke Cage\" until afterwards. This was not the first instance of actors being cast in multiple roles in the MCU, but this casting was called more \"significant\", and seen by many as a \"disappointing\" indication of \"the growing divide\" and \"lack of more satisfying cooperation\" between Marvel Studios and Marvel Television following the September 2015 corporate reshuffling of Marvel Entertainment.\n\nSpeaking to the 1990s setting of \"Captain Marvel\", \"the MCU's first full period piece since Phase One's \"\" in 2011\", Richard Newby of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" felt the return of younger versions of some characters introduced and killed in earlier films \"open[ed] up the MCU in a whole new way and broaden[ed] the franchise's mantra of 'it's all connected'.\" Speaking specifically to Clark Gregg's appearance as Agent Phil Coulson in the film, Newby noted the appearance \"doesn't exactly mend fences between Marvel's film and TV divisions, [but] it does strengthen the connective tissue and the sense that these characters still matter in the grand scheme of Marvel's film plans.\" He also hoped that continuity from \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" would be maintained in \"Captain Marvel\", especially since Coulson has dealt with the Kree in the series. Newby also added that shifting to different time periods would help Marvel Studios \"sustain this cinematic universe for the next 10 years\" by allowing them to repeat some of the genres previously used, as they could then feel \"fresh\" and have \"different rules and different restraints,\" as well as allow them to build upon material established in the television series such as \"Agent Carter\". He concluded, \"Marvel Studios has an entire sandbox to play in, but, for necessary reasons, has largely chosen to remain in a small corner in order to ground audiences in these concepts. Now that the basis has been laid, the opportunity for exploration in both film and television lies ahead, with \"Captain Marvel\" leading the way. Wherever Marvel Studios plans to take the MCU in the future, it's refreshing to know that its past is expansive and filled with infinite possibilities.\"\n\nAfter the release of \"The Avengers\" in May 2012, Tom Russo of Boston.com noted that aside from the occasional \"novelty\" such as \"Aliens vs. Predator\" (2004), the idea of a shared universe was virtually unheard of in Hollywood. Since that time, the shared universe model created by Marvel Studios has begun to be replicated by other film studios that held rights to other comic book characters. In April 2014, Tuna Amobi, a media analyst for Standard & Poor's Equity Research Services, stated that in the previous three to five years, Hollywood studios began planning \"megafranchises\" for years to come, opposed to working one blockbuster at a time. Amobi added, \"A lot of these superhero characters were just being left there to gather dust. Disney has proved that this [approach and genre] can be a gold mine.\" However, with additional studios now \"playing the megafranchise game\", Doug Creutz, media analyst for Cowen and Company, feels the allure will eventually die for audiences: \"If Marvel's going to make two or three films a year, and Warner Brothers is going to do at least a film every year, and Sony's going to do a film every year, and Fox [is] going to do a film every year, can everyone do well in that scenario? I'm not sure they can.\" In March 2018, Patrick Shanley of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" opined that \"the key differences between a regular franchise, such as \"The Fast and the Furious\" or \"Pitch Perfect\" films, and a shared universe is the amount of planning and interweaving that goes into each individual film. Its all too easy to make a film that exists solely for the purpose of setting up future installments and expanding a world, rather than a film that stands on its own merits while deftly hinting or winking at its place in the larger mythos. In that, the MCU has flourished.\" He felt that \"Iron Man\" \"itself was aimed at being an enjoyable stand-alone experience, not as an overall advertisement for 17 subsequent movies. That mentality has persisted through most of the MCU films over the past decade, which is all the more impressive as its roster of heroes now exceeds the two-dozen mark.\"\n\nIn October 2012, following its legal victory over Joe Shuster's estate for the rights to Superman, Warner Bros. Pictures announced that it planned to move ahead with its long-awaited Justice League film, uniting such DC Comics superheroes as Batman, Superman, and Wonder Woman. The company was expected to take the opposite approach to Marvel, releasing individual films for the characters after they have appeared in a team-up film. The release of \"Man of Steel\" in 2013 was intended to be the start of a new shared universe for DC, \"laying the groundwork for the future slate of films based on DC Comics.\" In 2014, Warner Bros. announced that slate of films, similarly to Disney and Marvel claiming dates for films years in advance. That year, DC CCO Geoff Johns stated that the television series \"Arrow\" and \"The Flash\" were set in a separate universe from the new film one, later clarifying that \"We look at it as the multiverse. We have our TV universe and our film universe, but they all co-exist. For us, creatively, it's about allowing everyone to make the best possible product, to tell the best story, to do the best world. Everyone has a vision and you really want to let the visions shine through ... It's just a different approach [to Marvel's].\"\n\nDiscussing the apparent failure of the cinematic universe's first team-up film, \"\", to establish a successful equivalent to the MCU, Todd VanDerWerff noted that where the MCU has a television-like \"showrunner\" in Feige, \"the visionary behind Marvel's entire slate\", the DCEU has director Zack Snyder, whose DC films \"seemingly start from the assumption that people have come not to see an individual story but a long series of teases for other ones. It's like he knows what he needs to do but can't focus on the task at hand. TV certainly isn't immune to that problem, but shows that get caught up in high-concept premises and big-picture thinking before doing the necessary legwork to establish characters and their relationships tend to be canceled.\" Subsequently, in May 2016, Warner Bros. gave oversight of the DCEU to Johns and executive Jon Berg in an attempt to \"unify the disparate elements of the DC movies\" and emulate Marvel's success. The two were made producers on the \"Justice League\" films, on top of Johns' involvement in several \"solo\" films, such as the post-production process of \"Suicide Squad\" or the writing process of a standalone Batman film. After the successful release of \"Wonder Woman\" in June 2017, DC decided to begin deemphasizing the shared nature of their films, with DC Entertainment president Diane Nelson stating, \"Our intention, certainly, moving forward is using the continuity to help make sure nothing is diverging in a way that doesn't make sense, but there's no insistence upon an overall story line or interconnectivity in that universe... Moving forward, you'll see the DC movie universe being a universe, but one that comes from the heart of the filmmaker who's creating them.\" Additionally, DC began focusing on films \"completely separate from everything else, set entirely outside the\" DCEU as part of a new label, with the first centered on the Joker.\n\nIn November 2012, 20th Century Fox announced plans to create their own shared universe, consisting of Marvel properties that it holds the rights to including the Fantastic Four and X-Men, with the hiring of Mark Millar as supervising producer. Millar said, \"Fox are thinking, 'We're sitting on some really awesome things here. There is another side of the Marvel Universe. Let's try and get some cohesiveness going.' So they brought me in to oversee that really. To meet with the writers and directors to suggest new ways we could take this stuff and new properties that could spin out of it.\" \"\", released in 2014, was Fox's first step towards expanding their stable of Marvel properties and creating this universe, ahead of the release of a \"Fantastic Four\" reboot film the next year. However, in May 2014, \"Days of Future Past\" and \"Fantastic Four\" screenwriter Simon Kinberg stated that the latter film would not take place in the same universe as the \"X-Men\" films, explaining that \"none of the \"X-Men\" movies have acknowledged the notion of a sort of superhero team—the Fantastic Four. And the Fantastic Four acquire powers, so for them to live in a world where mutants are prevalent is kind of complicated, because you're like, 'Oh, you're just a mutant.' Like, 'What's so fantastic about you?' ... they live in discrete universes.\" In July 2015, \"X-Men\" director Bryan Singer said that there was still potential for a crossover between the \"X-Men\" and \"Fantastic Four\" franchises, if reaction to \"Fantastic Four\" and \"\" warranted it.\n\nFeeling that Singer's efforts in \"Apocalypse\" to establish a larger world, similar to the MCU, did not meet the standards established by Marvel, VanDerWerff noted that unlike Feige's ability to serve as \"pseudo-showrunner\", Singer is instead \"steeped in film and the way movie stories have always been told\", so \"when it comes time to have \"Apocalypse\" dovetail with story threads from the earlier \"\" (which was directed by Matthew Vaughn), both Singer's direction and Simon Kinberg's script rely on hackneyed devices and clumsy storytelling\", indicating a lack of \"the kind of big-picture thinking this sort of mega franchise requires\".\n\nIn November 2013, Sony Pictures Entertainment Co-Chairman Amy Pascal announced that the studio intended to expand their universe created within the Marc Webb \"Amazing Spider-Man\" series, with spin-off adventures for supporting characters, in an attempt to replicate Marvel and Disney's model. The next month, Sony announced Venom and Sinister Six films, both set in the \"Amazing Spider-Man\" universe. With this announcement, IGN stated that the spin-offs are \"the latest example of what we can refer to as \"the \"Avengers\" effect\" in Hollywood, as studios work to build interlocking movie universes.\" Sony chose not to replicate the Marvel Studios model of introducing individual characters first before bringing them together in a team-up film, instead making the Spider-Man adversaries the stars of future films. However, in February 2015, Sony Pictures and Marvel Studios announced that the \"Spider-Man\" franchise would be retooled, with a new film co-produced by Feige and Pascal being released in July 2017, and the character being integrated into the MCU. Sony Pictures would continue to finance, distribute, own, and have final creative control of the \"Spider-Man\" films. With this announcement, sequels to \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\" were canceled, and by November 2015 the Venom and Sinister Six films, as well as spin-offs based on female characters in the Spider-Man universe, were no longer moving forward. By March 2016, the Venom film had itself been retooled, to start its own franchise unrelated to the MCU Spider-Man. A year later, Sony officially announced the Venom film to be in development, for an October 5, 2018 release, along with a film centered on the characters Silver Sable and Black Cat known as \"Silver & Black\". Both projects were not intended to be a part of the MCU nor spin-offs to \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\", but rather part of an intended separate shared universe known as Sony's Marvel Universe.\n\nAfter Sony canceled their shared universe plans and started sharing the Spider-Man character with Marvel Studios, multiple critics discussed their failure at replicating the MCU. Scott Meslow of \"The Week\" noted the perceived flaws of the first \"Amazing Spider-Man\" film, outside of its lead performances, and how the sequel \"doubles down on all the missteps of the original while adding a few of its own. …We now have a textbook example of how not to reboot a superhero franchise, and if Sony and Marvel are wise, they'll take virtually all those lessons to heart as they chart Spider-Man's next course.\" Scott Mendelson noted that \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\" \"was sold as less a sequel to \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" than a backdoor pilot for \"Spider-Man vs. the Sinister Six\". …Had Sony stuck with the original plan of a scaled-down superhero franchise, one that really was rooted in romantic drama, they would have at least stuck out in a crowded field of superhero franchises. When every superhero film is now going bigger, \"Amazing Spider-Man\" could have distinguished itself by going small and intimate.\" This would have saved Sony \"a boatload of money\", and potentially reversed the film's relative financial failure.\n\nIn September 2014, the University of Baltimore announced a course beginning in the 2015 spring semester revolving around the Marvel Cinematic Universe, to be taught by Arnold T. Blumberg. \"Media Genres: Media Marvels\" examines \"how Marvel's series of interconnected films and television shows, plus related media and comic book sources and Joseph Campbell's monomyth of the 'hero's journey', offer important insights into modern culture\" as well as Marvel's efforts \"to establish a viable universe of plotlines, characters, and backstories.\"\n\nAfter the acquisition by Disney in 2009, Marvel films began to be marketed at the Innoventions attraction in Tomorrowland at Disneyland. For \"Iron Man 3\", the exhibit, entitled Iron Man Tech Presented by Stark Industries, features the same armor display that was shown at the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con, with the Marks I-VII and the new Mark XLII. In addition, there is a simulator game, titled \"Become Iron Man\", that uses Kinect-like technology to allow the viewer to be encased in an animated Mark XLII armor and take part in a series of \"tests,\" in which you fire repulsor rays and fly through Tony Stark's workshop. The game is guided by J.A.R.V.I.S., who is voiced again by Paul Bettany. The exhibit also has smaller displays that include helmets and chest pieces from the earlier films and the gauntlet and boot from an action sequence in \"Iron Man 3\". The exhibit for \"Thor: The Dark World\" is called Thor: Treasures of Asgard, and features displays of Asgardian relics and transports guests to Odin's throne room, where they are greeted by Thor. \"Captain America: The Winter Soldier\"s exhibit, Captain America: The Living Legend and Symbol of Courage, features a meet and greet experience.\n\nFrom May to September 2017, Disneyland Resort featured the \"Summer of Heroes\", which sees members of the Guardians and Avengers making appearances throughout the Disneyland Resort. Additionally, the Guardians of the Galaxy: Awesome Dance Off event was featured, which involved Peter Quill / Star-Lord blasting music from his boombox, along with the Avengers Training Initiative, a limited experience where Black Widow and Hawkeye \"assemble a group of young recruits to see if they have what it takes to be an Avenger.\" Marvel related food and merchandise was also available throughout Hollywood Land at Disney California Adventure during the \"Summer of Heroes\".\n\nIn March 2018, The Walt Disney Company announced three new Marvel-themed areas inspired by the MCU to Disney California Adventure, Walt Disney Studios Paris, and Hong Kong Disneyland. The developments will be designed by Walt Disney Imagineering in collaboration with Marvel Studios and Marvel Themed Entertainment.\n\nIn October 2013, the Iron Man Experience attraction was announced for Hong Kong Disneyland. It is set in the Tomorrowland section of the park, with the area built to look like a new Stark Expo created by Tony Stark after the 2010 one, as seen in \"Iron Man 2\", with various exhibit halls that include the Mark III armor from the films. The area also has Iron Man and Marvel-themed merchandise items and memorabilia, plus an interactive game where guests can have the chance to try on Iron Man's armor. Iron Man Experience sees guests assist Iron Man in defeating Hydra throughout Hong Kong, and opened on January 11, 2017.\n\nIn March 2018, The Walt Disney Company announced a new Marvel-themed area inspired by the MCU to Hong Kong Disneyland and a new attraction where guests team up with Ant-Man and the Wasp, to join Iron Man Experience. Inspired by \"Ant-Man and the Wasp\", Ant Man and the Wasp: Nano Battle! is an enclosed interactive dark ride that sees guests use laser powered weapons to team up with Ant-Man and the Wasp to defeat Arnim Zola and his army of Hydra swarm bots. Ant Man and the Wasp: Nano Battle! replaces the Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters ride, and is scheduled to open in 2019.\n\nBy San Diego Comic-Con 2016, the Tower of Terror at Disney California Adventure was set to be replaced by a new attraction, . Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Dave Bautista and Benicio del Toro all filmed exclusive footage for the attraction, reprising their roles as Peter Quill / Star-Lord, Gamora, Drax and Taneleer Tivan / The Collector, respectively. James Gunn, director of \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" and its sequel, directed footage for the attraction and consulted on all aspects of it. Guardians of the Galaxy – Mission: Breakout! sees visitors assisting Rocket to rescue the other Guardians from the Collector's fortress, while the attraction features randomized events during the experience and music inspired by the \"\" soundtrack. The attraction opened on May 27, 2017. Despite having multiple references to the MCU, the attraction is not part of the MCU, rather the start of its own theme park universe that is inspired by the MCU.\n\nIn March 2018, The Walt Disney Company announced a new Marvel-themed area inspired by the MCU to Disney California Adventure, anchored by Mission: Breakout!, that will see characters from the MCU such as Iron Man and Spider-Man join the Guardians of the Galaxy in a \"completely immersive superhero universe.\" The area will replace the \"A Bug's Land\" area, which closed in mid-2018 to start construction on the Marvel area.\n\nIn March 2018, The Walt Disney Company announced a new Marvel-themed area inspired by the MCU to Disneyland Paris' Walt Disney Studios Park. The area will include a reimagined attraction where riders will team up with Iron Man and other Avengers on a \"hyper-kinetic adventure\" in 2020. The park will also host the \"Summer of Super Heroes\" live-action stage show from June–September 2018.\n\nIn May 2014, the Avengers S.T.A.T.I.O.N. (Scientific Training and Tactical Intelligence Operative Network) exhibit opened at the Discovery Times Square center. The exhibit features replica set pieces, as well as actual props from the films, mixed with interactive technology and information, crafted through a partnership with NASA and other scientists. Titus Welliver also provides a \"debrief\" to visitors, reprising his role as S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Felix Blake. Created by Victory Hill Exhibits, Avengers S.T.A.T.I.O.N. cost $7.5 million to create, and ran through early September 2015.\n\nThe exhibit also opened in South Korea at the War Memorial of Korea in April 2015, in Paris, France, at Esplanade de La Défense a year later, and in Las Vegas at the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in June 2016. The Las Vegas version of the exhibit featured updated character details and corresponding science to incorporate the Marvel films that have released since the original exhibit in New York. Additionally, the Las Vegas version features Cobie Smulders reprising her role as Maria Hill to \"debrief\" visitors, replacing Welliver.\n\nAn art exhibit, titled \"Marvel: Creating the Cinematic Universe\", was displayed exclusively at the Queensland Gallery of Modern Art (GOMA) from May to September 2017. The exhibit, which included \"300 plus objects, films, costumes, drawings and other ephemera\", featured content \"from the collection of Marvel Studios and Marvel Entertainment and private collections\" with \"significant focus [given] to the creative artists who translate the drawn narrative to the screen through production design and storyboarding, costume and prop design, and special effects and postproduction\". \"Marvel: Creating the Cinematic Universe\" was also extended to GOMA's Australian Cinémathèque with a retrospective of the MCU films.\n\nOn March 18, 2014, ABC aired a one-hour television special titled \"Marvel Studios: Assembling a Universe\", which documented the history of Marvel Studios and the development of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and included exclusive interviews and behind-the-scenes footage from all of the films, One-Shots and \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\", and sneak peeks of \"\", \"Captain America: The Winter Soldier\", \"Guardians of the Galaxy\", unaired episodes of \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\", and \"Ant-Man\". Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" felt the special, \"contains a pretty interesting business and creative story. While it might all make sense in hindsight, there was appreciable audacity in Marvel's plan to release five loosely connected movies from the same hero-filled world, beginning with the cinematically unproven \"Iron Man\" and culminating with superhero team \"The Avengers\". As such, this fast-moving hour qualifies as more than just a cut-and-paste job from electronic press kits, although there's an element of that, certainly.\" The special was released on September 9, 2014 on the home media for \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" season 1.\n\nIn September 2014, \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" executive producer Jeffrey Bell stated that in order to meet production demands and avoid having to air repeat episodes, ABC would likely air a Marvel special in place of a regular installment at some point during the first ten episodes of \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\"s second season. In October, the special was revealed to be \"Marvel 75 Years: From Pulp to Pop!\", which was hosted by Emily VanCamp, who portrays Agent 13 in \"Captain America: The Winter Soldier\", and aired on November 4, 2014. The special features behind the scenes footage from \"Avengers: Age of Ultron\" and \"Ant-Man\", as well as footage from the \"Agent Carter\" television series previously screened at New York Comic-Con. Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" felt an hour for the special did not \"do the topic justice\" adding, \"For anyone who has seen more than one Marvel movie but would shrug perplexedly at the mention of Jack Kirby or Steve Ditko, \"Marvel 75 Years: From Pulp To Pop!\" should probably be required viewing. Fun, fast-paced and encompassing many of the company's highlights along with a few lowlights, it's a solid primer on Marvel's history, while weaving in inevitable self-promotion and synergistic plugs.\" Eric Goldman of IGN also wished the special had been longer, adding, \"Understandably, the more you already know about Marvel, the less you'll be surprised by \"Marvel 75 Years: From Pulp to Pop!\", but it's important to remember who this special is really made for – a mainstream audience who have embraced the Marvel characters, via the hugely successful movies, in a way no one could have imagined.\"\n\nIn September 2015, Marvel announced the \"Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe\", named as a nod to the \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\". Each guidebook is compiled by Mike O'Sullivan and the \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" team, with cover art from Mike del Mundo and Pascal Campion, and features facts about the MCU films, film-to-comic comparisons, and production stills. \"Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe: Marvel's Iron Man\", \"Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe: Marvel's Incredible Hulk / Marvel's Iron Man 2\", \"Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe: Marvel's Thor\", and \"Guidebook to the Marvel Cinematic Universe: Marvel's Captain America: The First Avenger\" released each month from October 2015 to January 2016, respectively.\n\nIn November 2018, Marvel and Titan Publishing Group released \"Marvel Studios: The First Ten Years\" to celebrate the first ten years of the Marvel Cinematic Universe which featured cast interviews, in-depth sections on each film, and an Easter egg guide. In May 2019, in conjunction with the release of the fourth \"Avengers\" film, a two-volume book, also titled \"Marvel Studios: The First Ten Years\", will be released, written by Tara Bennett and Paul Terry. This collection will feature a look at the evolution of Marvel Studios, personal stories from all 22 films released at the time, and interviews with cast and crew members.\n\nIn February 2016, a commercial for Coca-Cola mini cans aired during Super Bowl 50. \"A Mini Marvel\" was created by Wieden+Kennedy for Coca-Cola through a partnership with Marvel, and was directed by the Russo brothers. In the ad, Ant-Man (voiced by Paul Rudd, reprising his role) and the Hulk first fight, and then bond, over a Coke mini can. Luma Pictures provided visual effects for the spot, having worked previously with the two characters in MCU films. For the Hulk, Luma redefined its previous muscular system and simulation process to create and render the character, while Ant-Man received new motion capture. The Super Bowl campaign extended to \"limited-edition Coke mini cans [six packs] that are emblazoned with images of Marvel characters, including Hulk, Ant-Man, Black Widow, [Falcon, Iron Man] and Captain America.\" Consumers had the opportunity to purchase the cans by finding hidden clues in the commercial, though \"if the program goes well, Coke will consider making the cans available in stores.\" The ad had the third most social media activity of all the film-related trailers that aired during the game, and was nominated for Outstanding Visual Effects in a Commercial at the 15th Visual Effects Society Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38942440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38942440", "title": "Northcote Koori Mural", "text": "Northcote Koori Mural\n\nThe Northcote Koori Mural is located in St Georges Road Thornbury, Victoria in the City of Darebin. It was designed by former Northcote High School art teacher Megan Evans in collaboration with members of the Thornbury-based Aborigines Advancement League, which owns the mural.\n\nEvans worked with Aboriginal artist and elder Lin Onus researching and designing the mural in collaboration with members of the Victorian Aboriginal Community, and it was painted in between 1983 and 1985, by trainee artists including Les Griggs, a Gunditjmara man (1962–93), Ray Thomas, Millie Yarran, Ian Johnson and Elaine Trott and many other volunteers.\n\nThe Northcote Koori Mural was originally located opposite the Northcote Town Hall on Council land in High Street. this site was later sold and the mural was moved to the Aboriginal Advancement League in St. Georges Road, Thornbury where a large, free-standing wall was erected specifically to accommodate the mural on the edge of the Sir Douglas Nicholls Sporting Complex. Megan Evans considered the artwork significant because “…it was a landmark for the Aboriginal community at that time and because Northcote Council was prepared to support a project which was politically ahead of its time.”\n\nIn the late 1990s, the local council sold the land where the mural was situated and it was relocated to nearby St George’s Road, Thornbury, close to the AAL’s current location.\n\nThe mural was proposed for includsion on the Darebin Heritage Overlay in 2011. The Mural represents Victoria's Aboriginal culture and history and contains strong political statements about the incarceration of Aboriginal people Among other elements, it depicts large-scale renderings of historical artworks by Tommy McRae and William Barak, a representation of Aboriginal men manacled in neck chains taken from a well known photograph, and the Lake Tyers land rights campaign of the 1970s.\n\nDarebin Council allocated $10,000 in its 2011-12 budget for a report on how to restore the artwork and then a further $80,000 in the 2012-13 budget for the mural's conservation and restoration, after it had become dilapidated from weather and an occasional target of graffiti vandals.\n\nThe original painted panels were removed, and a restored digital print copy was installed in December 2013.\n\n\nACMI presentations\n"}
{"id": "10562266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10562266", "title": "Property designer", "text": "Property designer\n\nA property designer or prop designer is a person who designs props for use in theatre, film, television, etc. Prop designers work in liaison with the costume designers, set designers and sound designers, under the direction of the art director or technical director.\n\nHowever, the public seems to associate the term with home designer, or an interior designer, a person who is considered a professional in the field of interior design or one who designs interiors as part of their job.\n"}
{"id": "43747005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43747005", "title": "Prospect Theatre Company", "text": "Prospect Theatre Company\n\nThe Prospect Theatre Company was an English company founded, as Prospect Productions, in 1961. Based at the Arts Theatre, Cambridge from 1964 until 1969, the company, with Toby Robertson as artistic director and Richard Cottrell as associate director, toured both nationally and internationally with a mainly classical repertoire, providing notable appearances of such actors as Ian McKellen and Timothy West. The company became closely associated with the Edinburgh Festival after its first appearance there in 1967. Separating from the Arts Theatre in 1969, the company, renamed The Prospect Theatre Company, survived without a permanent base for the next eight years under the direction of Toby Robertson, mounting productions in which Derek Jacobi and Dorothy Tutin made significant appearances. Eventually the company found a new home at London's Old Vic in 1977: two years later it became the Old Vic Theatre Company. Though noted for its exemplary ensemble playing, the company lost its Arts Council of Great Britain funding in 1980 after Timothy West's first season as Robertson's successor, leading to Prospect's demise.\n\nIain Mackintosh, Richard Cottrell and Elizabeth Sweeting formed Prospect Productions in 1961 to present a summer season of plays at the Oxford Playhouse. A successful first season led to a further season in 1962. The following year, when the Playhouse closed for renovations, Prospect became a touring company associated with the Century Theatre. Toby Robertson directed the last play of the season, Vanbrugh's \"The Provoked Wife\", with Eileen Atkins and Trevor Martin. The production opened the newly restored Georgian Theatre Royal in Richmond, North Yorkshire, then transferred to the Vaudeville Theatre, London. The success of the Oxford seasons prompted the idea that Prospect should present productions beyond the summer season each year.\n\nIn 1964, with support from the Arts Council of Great Britain and Dr. George Rylands, Prospect became a touring company based at the Arts Theatre, Cambridge, with Toby Robertson as artistic director, Richard Cottrell as associate director, and Iain Mackintosh as administrator. Between 1964 and 1966 Prospect staged 15 productions, presenting well-known plays as well as several rarely performed Classics including Vanbrugh's \"The Confederacy\", with Robert Eddison and Hy Hazell, to celebrate the third centenary of Vanbrugh's birth, and Etherege's \"The Man of Mode\", and a number of new plays. Timothy West joined the Company in 1966 to play Prospero. Later that year Prospect had its first invitation to the Edinburgh Festival.\n\nProspect's first Edinburgh Festival appearance in 1967 was with Chekhov's \"The Cherry Orchard\", Lila Kedrova playing Madam Ranyevskaya in Cottrell's production. The production transferred to London, where Kedrova won the \"Evening Standard\" Best Actress of the Year Award. 1968 saw the production of Prospect's first \"musical\" - Gay's \"Beggar's Opera\", which was also the first Prospect show to be televised, and in 1969 the Company appeared for the first time at the Assembly Hall.\n\nAt the 1969 Edinburgh festival Ian McKellen made his breakthrough performances with the company as Richard II (directed by Cottrell) and Marlowe's Edward II (directed by Robertson), the latter in the play's first professional revival for 300 years and causing a storm of protest over the enactment of the homosexual Edward's lurid death. Timothy West appeared as McKellen's sparring partner in both those productions, which subsequently toured Britain and Europe before being staged at the Mermaid Theatre in London and breaking box-office records at the Piccadilly Theatre.\n\nBetween 1967 and 1977 Prospect was invited to appear at eight Edinburgh International Festivals, and largely as a result of its close association with the Edinburgh Festival, Prospect was asked to tour abroad for the British Council, visiting the Middle East, Russia, Hong Kong, and Australia.\n\nIn 1969 the Company was asked to extend its touring to the large \"No 1\" theatres in the regions; at the same time the Cambridge Arts Theatre wanted Prospect to help in the formation of a new theatre company. As these two developments pointed in totally different directions with implications of a conflicting scale of work, Richard Cottrell left Prospect to become director of the newly formed Cambridge Theatre Company: Toby Robertson became cirector of Prospect, and its role as the UK's leading touring company was recognised, with its new name - The Prospect Theatre Company.\n\nUnder Robertson, the company pioneered a style of production in which stage designs and setting were kept to a minimum, partly from the belief that Shakespeare's plays in particular benefited from an uncluttered approach; this style also suited the company's needs when touring regional theatres, for which flexibility of staging was essential. Emphasis was placed instead on quality acting and strikingly designed costumes, complemented by lighting and incidental music. Carl Davis composed several scores for the company, including for a modern dress production of \"Love's Labours Lost\" (1971), \"Pericles\" (1973), and \"Pilgrim's Progress\" (1974/5) which led directly to the musical \"War Music\" (1977) with words by Homer and Christopher Logue and music by Donald Fraser.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1976 four major productions were created each year. As the only major company touring nationally, the choice of repertoire tended to be drawn more from the classics at the expense of new work. But alongside several Shakespeare productions the company staged such plays as Thomas Otway's \"Venice Preserv'd\", Charles Macklin's \"The Man of the World\", Turgenev's \"A Month in the Country\" (with Derek Jacobi, Timothy West and Dorothy Tutin, who won two major acting awards for her performance), Chekhov's \"Ivanov\", and Peter Shaffer's \"Royal Hunt of the Sun\". A series of chamber works were commissioned, including Jane McCulloch's \"The Grand Tour\" for the Entry into Europe celebrations - an entertainment seen in London, Edinburgh, and the 1974 Brighton Festival.\n\nThe strain of touring and meeting the increasingly high standards expected by theatre audiences throughout the country began to tell, and even with occasional London seasons either at the Round House or in the West end, it was felt increasingly desirable that Prospect should once again have a permanent and preferably metropolitan base to sustain its regional work.\n\nLooking for a suitable London base, Robertson believed that the Old Vic would best meet the company's needs and would add lustre to its reputation. For two years he sustained a campaign for the Old Vic to make Prospect its resident company. For the Old Vic, Robertson's overtures proved increasingly hard to resist in the face of poor box office returns achieved by productions staged by other companies at the theatre; against this, Prospect staged a highly successful season which opened in May 1977, including \"Hamlet\" with Derek Jacobi, \"Antony and Cleopatra\" with Alec McCowen and Dorothy Tutin; and \"Saint Joan\" with Eileen Atkins. In July the Governors of The Old Vic announced \"a marriage that was all but a merger\" between the Vic and Prospect. In September Toby Robertson, director of Prospect, was asked to take artistic control of The Old Vic, and Christopher Richards, general manager of The Old Vic, became general manager of Prospect.\n\nOne major problem, though, was the terms of Prospect's funding by the Arts Council: this was on the basis of it being a touring company, and the Council - already funding the National Theatre and the Royal Shakespeare Company in London - could not accept a case for a third major company in the capital and repeatedly refused requests to fund any London seasons staged by Prospect. Therefore any London-based productions would have to succeed financially without Arts Council support. Prospect's first season at the Old Vic recouped its costs but left no surplus to fund future productions. Further stagings by visiting companies were box office failures and stretched the theatre's finances to breaking point.\n\nYet Prospect continued to draw audiences to the Old Vic where other companies failed. The company played a five-month season from January to May 1978, adding \"Twelfth Night\" to their repertory, and a four-month season from September to December presenting \"The Rivals\", \"The Lady's Not for Burning\" with Atkins, and \"King Lear\" with Anthony Quayle in the title role. In December that year, the governors of the Old Vic agreed to a five-year contract with Prospect, announcing to the press on 23 April that henceforth they would be styled \"Prospect Productions Ltd., trading as the Old Vic Company\". Unfortunately Prospect's touring commitments kept the company out of the theatre for the first half of 1979, leaving the theatre to sink further into debt. The company returned in July with Jacobi's \"Hamlet\" (toured afterwards to Denmark, Australia and China, the first English theatre company to tour that country), followed by \"Romeo and Juliet\", and \"The Government Inspector\" with Ian Richardson. The following season, however, proved controversial: the double bill of \"The Padlock\" and \"Miss in Her Teens\", to mark the bicentenary of David Garrick's death, and a revival of \"What the Butler Saw\" were deemed by the Arts Council unsuitable for touring repertory. An internal report by Prospect now questioned \"whether Prospect can any longer satisfy the triple task of filling the Vic, of satisfying the [Arts Council] Director of Touring's requirements for product of a certain familiar sort, and of realising the vision of Toby Robertson\".\n\nRobertson was in effect fired from the post of artistic director in 1980 while he was abroad with the company in China, Timothy West replacing him. The following season, West's first as Robertson's successor, saw \"Macbeth\" with Peter O'Toole, \"The Merchant of Venice\" with West as Shylock, and a gala performance presented to the Queen Mother to celebrate her eightieth birthday. On 22 December 1980, four days after the gala performance, the Arts Council withdrew its funding from the Company, sealing its demise. In January the company left for its pre-arranged tour of Hong Kong and Australia. Appeals to the Council for funding to be reinstated were denied. The company gave a final season at the Old Vic staging \"The Merchant of Venice\", then gave a final tour of Europe, giving its last performance in Rome on 14 June before disbanding.\n"}
{"id": "54925688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54925688", "title": "Removal of Confederate monuments and memorials", "text": "Removal of Confederate monuments and memorials\n\nFor decades in the U.S., there have been isolated incidents of removal of Confederate monuments and memorials, although generally opposed in public opinion polls, and several U.S. States have passed laws over 115 years to hinder or prohibit further removals.\n\nIn the wake of the Charleston church shooting in June 2015, several municipalities in the United States removed monuments and memorials on public property dedicated to the Confederate States of America. The momentum accelerated in August 2017 after the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. The removals were driven by the belief that the monuments glorify white supremacy and memorialize a treasonous government whose founding principle was the perpetuation and expansion of slavery. Many of those who object to the removals, like President Trump, believe that the artifacts are part of the cultural heritage of the United States.\n\nThe vast majority of these Confederate monuments were built during the era of Jim Crow laws (1877–1954) and the Civil Rights Movement (1954–1968). Detractors claim that they were not built as memorials but as a means of intimidating African Americans and reaffirming white supremacy. The monuments have thus become highly politicized; according to Eleanor Harvey, a senior curator at the Smithsonian American Art Museum and a scholar of Civil War history: \"If white nationalists and neo-Nazis are now claiming this as part of their heritage, they have essentially co-opted those images and those statues beyond any capacity to neutralize them again\".\n\nIn some Southern states, state law restricts or prohibits altogether the removal or alteration of public Confederate monuments. According to Stan Deaton, senior historian at the Georgia Historical Society, \"These laws are the Old South imposing its moral and its political views on us forever more. This is what led to the Civil War, and it still divides us as a country. We have competing visions not only about the future but about the past.\"\n\nMost of the Confederate monuments concerned were built in periods of racial conflict, such as when Jim Crow laws were being introduced in the late 19th century and at the start of the 20th century or during the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s. These two periods also coincided with the 50th anniversary and the American Civil War Centennial. The peak in construction of Civil War Monuments occurred between the late 1890s up to 1920, with a second, smaller peak in the late 1950s to mid 1960s.\n\nAccording to historian Jane Dailey from University of Chicago, in many cases the purpose of the monuments was not to celebrate the past but rather to promote a \"white supremacist future\". Another historian, Karyn Cox, from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, has written that the monuments are \"a legacy of the brutally racist Jim Crow era\". A historian from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, James Leloudis, stated that \"The funders and backers of these monuments are very explicit that they are requiring a political education and a legitimacy for the Jim Crow era and the right of white men to rule.\"\n\nAdam Goodheart, Civil War author and director of the Starr Center at Washington College, stated in \"National Geographic\": \"They're 20th-century artifacts in the sense that a lot of it had to do with a vision of national unity that embraced Southerners as well as Northerners, but importantly still excluded black people.\"\n\nIn an August 2017 statement on the monuments controversy, the American Historical Association (AHA) said that to remove a monument \"is not to erase history, but rather to alter or call attention to a previous interpretation of history.\" The AHA noted that most monuments were erected \"without anything resembling a democratic process,\" and recommended that it was \"time to reconsider these decisions.\" According to the AHA, most Confederate monuments were erected during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, and this undertaking was \"part and parcel of the initiation of legally mandated segregation and widespread disenfranchisement across the South.\" According to the AHA, memorials to the Confederacy erected during this period \"were intended, in part, to obscure the terrorism required to overthrow Reconstruction, and to intimidate African Americans politically and isolate them from the mainstream of public life.\" A later wave of monument building coincided with the civil rights movement, and according to the AHA \"these symbols of white supremacy are still being invoked for similar purposes.\"\n\nAccording to historian Adam Goodheart, the statues were meant to be symbols of white supremacy and the rallying around them by white supremacists will likely hasten their demise. Elijah Anderson, a professor of sociology at Yale University, said the statues \"really impacts the psyche of black people.\" Harold Holzer, the director of the Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute at Hunter College, agreed that the statues were designed to belittle African Americans. Dell Upton, chair of the Department of Art History at the University of California, Los Angeles, wrote that \"the monuments were not intended as public art,\" but rather were installed \"as affirmations that the American polity was a white polity,\" and that because of their explicitly white supremacist intent, their removal from civic spaces was a matter \"of justice, equity, and civic values.\" In a 1993 book, author Frank McKenney argued otherwise; \"These monuments were communal efforts, public art, and social history,\" he wrote. Ex-soldiers and politicians had difficult time raising funds to erect monuments so the task mostly fell to the women, the \"mothers widows, and orphans, the bereaved fiancees and sisters\" of the soldiers who had lost their lives. Many ladies' memorial associations were formed in the decades following the end of the Civil War, most of them joining the United Daughters of the Confederacy following its inception in 1894. The women were advised to \"remember that they were buying art, not metal and stone;\" The history the monuments celebrated told only one side of the story, however—one that was \"openly pro-Confederate,\" Upton argues. Furthermore, Confederate monuments were erected without the consent or even input of Southern African-Americans, who remembered the Civil War far differently, and who had no interest in honoring those who fought to keep them enslaved. According to Civil War historian Judith Giesberg, professor of history at Villanova University, \"White supremacy is really what these statues represent.\"\n\nRobert Seigler in his study of Confederate monuments in South Carolina found that out of the over one hundred and seventy that he documented, only five monuments were found dedicated to the African Americans who had been used by the Confederacy working \"on fortifications, and had served as musicians, teamsters, cooks, servants, and in other capacities,\" four of those were to slaves and one to a musician, Henry Brown.\n\nCheryl Benard, president of the Alliance for the Restoration of Cultural Heritage, argued against the removal of Confederate war monuments in an op-ed for the National Interest, writing, \"From my vantage point, the idea that the way to deal with history is to destroy any relics that remind you of something you don't like, is highly alarming.\" Bernard compares the removal to \"historic cleansing\" in other countries, stating \"Tour the archaeological ruins of any formerly great civilization, and you will invariably encounter inscriptions that have been chiseled away, faces that have been obliterated, heads that have been struck off the rumps of their statues. Someone overthrows or assassinates a predecessor and orders his or her name and image removed. ... What could have remained is their story, and any lessons later humans might draw from it.\"\n\nEric Foner, a historian of the Civil War and biographer of Lincoln, argued that more statues of African-Americans like Nat Turner should be constructed. Alfred Brophy, a professor of law at the University of Alabama, argued the removal of the Confederate statues \"facilitates forgetting\", although these statues were \"re-inscribed images of white supremacy\". Brophy also stated that the Lee statue in Charlottesville should be removed.\n\nCivil War historian James I. Robertson Jr. referred to the current climate to dismantle or destroy Confederate monuments as an \"age of idiocy\" and motivated by \"elements hell-bent on tearing apart unity that generations of Americans have painfully constructed\" and the monuments were not a \"Jim Crow signal of defiance.\"\n\nThe removals were marked by events in Louisiana and Virginia within the span of two years. In Louisiana, after the Charleston church shooting of 2015, the city of New Orleans removed its Confederate memorials two years later. A few months later, in August 2017, a state of emergency was declared in Virginia after a Unite the Right rally against the removal of the Robert Edward Lee statue in Charlottesville turned violent.\n\nOther events followed across the United States. In Baltimore, for example, the city's Confederate statues were removed on the night of August 15–16, 2017. Mayor Catherine Pugh said that she ordered the overnight removals to preserve public safety. Similarly, in Lexington, Kentucky, Mayor Jim Gray asked the city council on August 16, 2017 to approve the relocation of two statues from a courthouse.\n\nIn the three years since the Charleston shooting, Texas has removed 31 memorials –the most removals of any state.\n\n\nIn North Carolina and Georgia, where removal of Confederate monuments is prohibited by law, frustrated protestors have destroyed three monuments as of October, 2018.\n\nIn Alabama (2017), Georgia (early 20th century), Mississippi (2004), North Carolina (2015), South Carolina (2000), Tennessee (2013, updated 2016), and Virginia (1902), state laws have been passed to impede, or in the cases of Alabama, Georgia, and North Carolina prohibit altogether the removal or alteration of public Confederate monuments. Attempts to repeal these laws have not (2018) been successful. Alabama's law, the Alabama Memorial Preservation Act, was passed in May 2017, North Carolina's law, the Cultural History Artifact Management and Patriotism Act, in 2015. Tennessee passed its Tennessee Heritage Protection Act in 2016; it requires a ⅔ majority of the Tennessee Historical Commission to rename, remove, or relocate any public statue, monument, or memorial. In response to events in Memphis (see below), a 2018 amendment prohibited municipalities from selling or transferring ownership of memorials without a waiver. (The Tennessee Historical Commission has never issued a waiver since it was established in 1919.) The amendment also \"allows any entity, group or individual with an interest in a Confederate memorial to seek an injunction to preserve the memorial in question.\"\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\", the Tennessee act shows \"an express intent to prevent municipalities in Tennessee from taking down Confederate memorials.\" The same has been said about Florida's law.\n\nThe removal of the Confederate flag from the South Carolina capitol required a 2/3 vote of both houses of the legislature, as would the removal of any other Confederate monument in South Carolina.\n\nConfederate monuments are largely located in cities, which, like other American cities, in the twentieth century became more black and more liberal politically than the remainder of the states in which they are located.\n\nIn another legal impediment to removal, the Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina prohibited for 16 years the renaming of any university memorials. This was triggered by the University's 2014 decision to rename Saunders Hall (see below).\n\nA 2017 Reuters poll found that 54% of American adults stated that the monuments should remain in all public spaces, and 27% said they should be removed, while 19% said they were unsure. The results were split along racial and political lines, with Republicans and whites preferring to keep the monuments in place, and Democrats and minorities preferring their removal. Another 2017 poll, by HuffPost/YouGov, found that 48% of respondents favored the \"remain\" option, 33% favored removal, and 18% were unsure.\n\nIn the case of many monuments, after they are removed the pedestals or plinths remain. What to do with them has been the subject of some discussion. In the case of the toppled \"Silent Sam\" monument at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, two scholars propose leaving the \"empty pedestal — shorn all original images and inscriptions — [which] eliminates the offending tribute while still preserving a record of what these communities did and where they did it... The most effective way to commemorate the rise and fall of white supremacist monument-building is to preserve unoccupied pedestals as the ruins that they are — broken tributes to a morally bankrupt cause.\"\n\nIn Baltimore, one of the four empty plinths has been used, with eventual city tolerance though not approval, for a statue of a pregnant black woman, naked from the waist up, holding a baby in a brightly-covered sling on her back, with a raised golden fist: \"Madre Luz\" (\"Mother Light\"). The statue was first placed in front of the monument before its removal, then raised to the pedestal. According to the artist Pablo Machioli, \"his original idea was to construct a statue of Harriet Tubman throwing a brick, but he rejected that as too violent and chose instead a pregnant mother as a symbol of life. 'I feel like people would understand and respect that'\". (The statue has been vandalized several times.) According to a writer discussing the removal of the Baltimore monuments, she is \"defiant... [H]er imposing presence combines maternal nurturing with power. Madre Luz is Gaia, The Triple Goddess, and The Mother’s Knot. She is the American Statue of Maternity. She is the African seed of the wawa tree. She is a black flame.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn August, 2017 meeting of the Florida League of Mayors was devoted to the topic of what to do with Civil War monuments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA state law, the Cultural History Artifact Management and Patriotism Act of 2015, prevents local governments from removing monuments on public property, and places limits on their relocation within the property. In 2017 Governor Roy Cooper asked the North Carolina Legislature to repeal the law, saying: \"I don't pretend to know what it's like for a person of color to pass by one of these monuments and consider that those memorialized in stone and metal did not value my freedom or humanity. Unlike an African-American father, I'll never have to explain to my daughters why there exists an exalted monument for those who wished to keep her and her ancestors in chains.\" \"We cannot continue to glorify a war against the United States of America fought in the defense of slavery,\" he wrote. \"These monuments should come down.\" He also has asked the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources to \"determine the cost and logistics of removing Confederate monuments from state property.\"\n\nAfter the University of North Carolina renamed Saunders Hall in 2014 (see below), its Board of Trustees prohibited for 16 years any more renamings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2016 Tennessee Heritage Protection Act puts \"the brakes on cities' and counties' ability to remove monuments or change names of streets and parks.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9391909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9391909", "title": "Romantic hero", "text": "Romantic hero\n\nThe Romantic hero is a literary archetype referring to a character that rejects established norms and conventions, has been rejected by society, and has himself (or herself) as the center of his or her own existence. The Romantic hero is often the protagonist in a literary work, and the primary focus is on the character's thoughts rather than his or her actions. \n\nLiterary critic Northrop Frye noted that the Romantic hero is often \"placed outside the structure of civilization and therefore represents the force of physical nature, amoral or ruthless, yet with a sense of power, and often leadership, that society has impoverished itself by rejecting\". Other characteristics of the Romantic hero include introspection, the triumph of the individual over the \"restraints of theological and social conventions\", wanderlust, melancholy, misanthropy, alienation, and isolation. However, another common trait of the Romantic hero is regret for his or her actions, and self-criticism, often leading to philanthropy, which stops the character from ending romantically. An example of this trait is Edmond Dantès in\" The Count of Monte Cristo.\"\n\nUsually estranged from his more grounded, realist biological family and leading a rural, solitary life, the Romantic hero may nevertheless have a long-suffering love interest, him or herself victimised by the hero's rebellious tendencies, with their fates intertwined for decades, sometimes from their youths to their deaths. (See Tatyana Larina, Elizabeth Bennet, Eugenie Grandet, et al.)\nThe Romantic hero first began appearing in literature during the Romantic period, in works by such authors as Byron, Keats, Goethe, and Pushkin, and is seen in part as a response to the French Revolution. As Napoleon, the \"living model of a hero\", became a disappointment to many, the typical notion of the hero as upholding social order began to be challenged.\n\nClassic literary examples of the Romantic hero include:\n\n"}
{"id": "42255047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42255047", "title": "Rosa Borja de Ycaza", "text": "Rosa Borja de Ycaza\n\nRosa Borja Febres-Cordero (Guayaquil, July 30, 1889 – Guayaquil, December 22, 1964) known as Rosa Borja de Ycaza was an Ecuadorian writer, essayist, dramatist, sociologist, poet, novelist, feminist and activist.\n\nRosa Borja de Ycaza was born in Guayaquil on July 30, 1889. Her father was Dr. César Borja Lavayen, a doctor, politician, French-to-Spanish translator, and Parnasian poet who wrote \"Flores tardías y joyas ajenas\". Her mother was Angela Febres-Cordero Lavayen.\n\nShe was the director of the \"Center for Literary Studies\" at the University of Guayaquil, founder and director of the magazine \"Nuevos Horizontes\", member of the Ecuadorian Academy of Language and the \"Ecuadorian Cultural Institute\", founder of the \"Journalists Circle\" of Guayas and vice president of the \"Bolivarian Society\" of Guayaquil. She was also served as Minister of Guayas province.\n\nShe wrote the plays \"Las de Judas\" and \"Nadie sabe lo que vendrá mañana\"\n\nShe left an unpublished novel \"María Rosario\" and a play \"El espíritu manda\".\n\nShe was also the author of sociological and historical essays.\n\nShe wrote songs and composed music, and in 1942 the Chamber Music Association of Buenos Aires awarded her first prize for some of her compositions with which she had competed.\n\nShe founded the \"Women's Legion of Popular Culture\", along with other feminists like Amarilis Fuentes\n\nShe was an advocate for women's rights and the rights of workers and employees, whom she indoctrinated with lectures and discussions.\n\nShe married Alberto Icaza (Ycaza) in 1916 in Guayaquil.\n"}
{"id": "49415583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49415583", "title": "Sadhna Bangla", "text": "Sadhna Bangla\n\nSadhna Bangla is an Indian spiritual television network owned and operated by Sadhna Group. Launched in February 2016 and is available on all major distribution platforms across West Bengal and India.\n\n"}
{"id": "979990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979990", "title": "Secondary color", "text": "Secondary color\n\nA secondary color is a color made by mixing of two primary colors in a given color space.\n\nFor the human eye, good primary colors of light are red, green, and blue. Combining lights of these colors produces a large range of visible colors.\n\nThat is, the primary and secondary RGB colors (with secondary colors in boldface) are: \nCombining RGB colors means adding light (thus the term \"additive color\"), and the combinations are brighter. When all three primaries are combined in equal amounts, the result is white.\n\nThe RGB secondary colors produced by the addition of light turn out to be good primary colors for pigments, the mixing of which subtracts light.\n\nPigments, such as inks and paint, display color by absorbing some wavelengths of light and reflecting the remainder. When pigments are combined, they absorb the combination of their colors, and reflect less. Thus, combining pigments results in a darker color. This is called subtractive color-mixing, as mixing pigments subtracts wavelengths from the light that is reflected.\n\nThe mixture of equal amounts of these colors produce the secondary colors red, blue, and \"lime\" green (the RGB primary colors of light), as follows:\n\nThat is, the primary and secondary CMY colors (with secondary colors in boldface) are: \nIdeally, combining three perfect primary colors in equal amounts would produce black, but this is impossible to achieve in practice. Therefore a \"key\" pigment, usually black, is added to printing to produce dark shades more efficiently. This combination is referred to as CMYK, where K stands for Key.\n\nBefore the discovery of CMY, at least as far back as Goethe, the best primary colors were thought to be red, yellow, and blue. Mixing these pigments in equal amounts produces orange, green, and purple:\n\nThat is, the primary and secondary RYB colors (with secondary colors in boldface) are:\n\n"}
{"id": "49412515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49412515", "title": "Shahnameh of Shah Tahmasp", "text": "Shahnameh of Shah Tahmasp\n\nThe Shahnameh of Shah Tahmasp () or Houghton Shahnameh is one of the most famous illustrated manuscripts of the Shahnameh, the national epic of Greater Iran, and a high point in the art of the Persian miniature. It is probably the most fully illustrated manuscript of the text ever produced. As created, it had 759 pages, 258 with a miniature. The page size is about 48 x 32 cm, and the text written in Nastaʿlīq script of the highest quality. It was broken up in the 1970s and pages are now in a number of collections.\n\nIt was created in Tabriz at the order of Shah Ismail I by the most prominent artists of Safavid Persia, either intended as a gift to Suleiman the Magnificent, sultan of the Ottoman Empire, or perhaps to celebrate the return of his son Tahmasp from a period as governor of Herat. The work began in the 1520s, before the death of Ismail I in 1524, and was probably mostly complete by the mid-1530s, in the reign of Tahmasp I. It was finally given to the then Ottoman Sultan, Selim II, in 1568, presented by a delegation. It long remained in the Topkapı Palace library in Istanbul, but appeared in the collection of Edmond James de Rothschild by 1903.\n\nThe manuscript once contained 258 miniatures, but was split up by Arthur Houghton II, who acquired it in 1959, and the miniatures sold individually. Houghton donated 78 paintings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1972, and others were sold individually. The Metropolitan's miniatures have been the subject of an exchange agreement with the National Museum of Iran. The dispersed miniatures are in several collections, including the Khalil collection.\n\nOn 6 April 2011, a page from this manuscript from the collection of the leading scholar of the manuscript, Stuart Cary Welch, was sold for 7.4 million pounds ($12 million).\n\nThe huge scale of the work would have required help from all the leading artists of the royal workshop, including Mir Sayyid Ali, Sultan Mohammad, Aqa Mirak, Mir Musavvir, Dust Muhammad, and probably Abd al-Samad, and the style of the miniatures varies considerably, though the quality is consistently high. A number of artists have been identified from their style by scholars, but are not known by name. The manuscript shows the fusion of the styles of the schools of Herat, where the Timurid royal workshops had developed a style of classical restraint and elegance, and the painters of Tabriz, whose style was more expressive and imaginative. Tabriz was the former capital of the Turkmen rulers, successively of the Kara Koyunlu and Ağ Qoyunlu, who had ruled much of Persia before Ismail I defeated them to begin the Safavid dynasty in 1501. Dust Muhammad wrote an account of Persian painting which mentions the manuscript, and is the first of many accounts to single out the \"Court of Guyumars\" (illustrated here), which he says is by Sultan Mohammad. Later scholars have called this miniature \"matchless\" and \"probably the greatest picture in Iranian art\".\n\nA famous unfinished miniature showing Rustam asleep, while his horse Rakhsh fights off a lion, was probably made for the manuscript, but was never finished and bound in, perhaps because its vigorous Tabriz style did not please Tahmasp. It appears to be by Sultan Mohammad, whose later works in the manuscript show a style adapted to the court style of Kamāl ud-Dīn Behzād. It is now in the British Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "56517069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56517069", "title": "Slackwire", "text": "Slackwire\n\nSlackwire (Slack wire) is an acrobatic circus act, that involves the balancing skills of moving along a flexible/slack thin wire suspended in the air, connected to two anchor points. \nNot to be confused with slacklining.\n\nUsually \"slack wire\" utilizes a steel wire in diameter fixed between two anchor points.\nIt can have two single stands with two extending wire pieces each to install the apparatus in an arena, \nor two \"A\" frames stands with one extending wire piece for each. It can also be mounted between two trees at an appropriate distance apart or fixed to a ceiling or any points which are strong enough to hold a performer's weight.\n\nWire walking artists usually use soft shoes made of leather.\n\nA slack rope is very similar to a slack wire. The difference between a slack rope and a slackwire is in the characteristics of rope and wire. \nA slack rope usually utilizes a rope in diameter. For both slack wire and slack rope, there are pluses and minuses to do stunts.\nFor example, it is easier and more comfortable to do \"sliding\" tricks on a wire than on a rope. On a Slack rope a performer can walk without shoes, but that is painful on a Slackwire. In addition, a Slack rope is very similar to a Cloud Swing.\n\nThe technique of balance – a performer balances or moves on the wire while needing to control the wire beneath him from moving abruptly side to side, making continual adjustments. This skill is similar to balancing a stick on one’s head or on a finger. Each Slackwire performer usually uses his/her own preferred angle of slack and length of the wire.\n\nThe slack angle is the V-shaped angle created when a performer stands in the middle of the walking part of the wire. The angle depends on how long or short the wire is relative to the distance between two anchor points. This also affects the swing amplitude of the wire side to side. Some slackwire artists change the angle of the wire during their act. See video in which a Chinese artist performs on the Slackwire, changing the angles of the wire with the help of a winch several times during the performance. Video\n\nThe degree of ease or difficulty for a performer to move the wire is dependent upon how thick the wire or rope is. The heavier the wire or rope, the more inertia is required to move it laterally, but also requires more force to contro; to movement or bring to bring it back to a place of rest.\n\nThe skills and stunts commonly performed on a slack Wire and slackrope include:\n\nBeyond standing and walking artists can also do turns, lying own, knee stands, sliding, forward and backward rolls, splits, hand stands, including cartwheels, head stands. Props such as a ladder, chair, unicycle, bicycle, and even a rola-bola are incorporated into some acts.\n\nSome more advanced Slackwire stunts are done while the wire is swinging, including standing, handstands, and walking. Slackwire balancing skills also can be combined with tricks as various kinds of juggling, balancing a stick on the performer’s head, playing a musical instrument, etc.\nSome of the same skills can be seen in Cloud Swing or Trapeze acts as well.\nJumping Rope is popular in many circus acts.\nThe skill has been performed on the ground in many variations, and on a Tightrope, on a slackline, but difficult on a slackwire because the wire moves when the performer jumps up and there is no way to control the swing and position of the wire when landing. This makes such stunts as somersaults and acrobatic tumbling virtually impossible.\n\nJumping rope on a slackwire was first accomplished in 1985. The only person to do the stunt is Sergey Pavlov (the clown LALALA)\nSergey has even been able to complete up to 7 consecutive jumps.\n\n\nSlackwire and tightrope appear to be very similar skills to walking and balancing on a thin wire/rope. But actually the technique of balance is very different between them. \n\nThe citation from Tightrope walking:\n\"Slackwire and tight wire/tightrope require different balancing techniques: tightrope performers keep their balance by shifting their weight over the rigid tight wire, while slackwire performers use a precise swinging motion to move the relaxed slackwire under their center of mass.\" Because of this, an artist who works on a tightrope cannot easily make a transition to the Slackwire. He/she needs to spend time to train himself/herself to balance in this different manner and vice versa for artists working first on a slackwire.\nSome tight-wire artists demonstrate a stunt called “the swings”. \nAn artist takes the position on the wire, then his assistant reduces the tightness/tension of the wire and the artist demonstrates “swings.” The tight wire is adjusted to a slightly less tight condition. This stunt involves multiple skills to maintain balance. After the demonstration the assistant adjusts the wire back to its original tightness/tension.\n\nvideo - Volzhansky family \"Prometheus\"/\"Прометей\", 1977\" (timer: 4:55)\n\nThe same stunt can also be demonstrated on a slackline.\n\nThere is confusion that Slackline means the same as Slackwire. They are not the same. They are different kinds of apparatuses that require different techniques of balancing.\n\nThe differences between Slackwire and Slackline:\n\nA slackwire has a loop and can be used like a swing, but a slackline has no loop. The line is stretched tight between two anchor points like a tightrope and can only swing within a very small amplitude.\n\n\nVideo -(slacklining) She Walks the Line: Braving a Thin Rope Between Mountains\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1696369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696369", "title": "St James' Church, Sydney", "text": "St James' Church, Sydney\n\nSt James' Church, commonly known as St James', King Street, is an Anglican parish church in inner city Sydney, Australia. Consecrated in February 1824 and named in honour of St James the Great, it became a parish church in 1835. Designed in the style of a Georgian town church by the transported convict architect Francis Greenway during the governorship of Lachlan Macquarie, St James' is part of the historical precinct of Macquarie Street which includes other early colonial era buildings such as the Hyde Park Barracks. The church remains historically, socially and architecturally significant. The building is the oldest one extant in Sydney's inner city region. It is listed on the Register of the National Estate, and has been described as one of the world's 80 greatest man-made treasures.\n\nThe church has maintained its special role in the city's religious, civic and musical life as well as its close associations with the city's legal and medical professions through its proximity to the law courts and Sydney Hospital. Its original ministry was to the convict population of Sydney and it has continued to serve the city's poor and needy in succeeding centuries.\n\nWorship at St James' is in a style commonly found in the High Church and moderate Anglo-Catholic traditions of Anglicanism. It maintains the traditions of Anglican church music, with a robed choir singing psalms, anthems and responses in contrast to the great majority of churches in the Anglican Diocese of Sydney where services are generally celebrated in styles associated with Low Church and Evangelical Christian practices. The teaching at St James' has a more liberal perspective than most churches in the diocese on issues of gender and the ordination of women.\n\nSt James' Church is located at 173 King Street, Sydney, in the legal and commercial district, near Hyde Park and adjoining Queen's Square. The church forms part of a group of notable colonial buildings along Macquarie Street, which runs from Queen's Square to Sydney Harbour. At the time of construction, the church and the buildings nearby were \"Sydney's most distinguished structures ... on the highest ground, and, socially speaking, in the best part of the city\".\n\nThe geographical parish of St James' is one of the 57 parishes of Cumberland County, New South Wales, and it initially shared responsibility for an area that extended as far as Sydney Heads. St James' acquired its own parish in 1835. Its boundaries have since remained essentially unchanged.\n\nThe underground St James railway station is named after the church. The precinct around the church is informally known as St James'.\n\nThe building of St James' Church was commissioned by Governor Lachlan Macquarie in 1819, designed by the convict architect Francis Greenway and constructed between 1820 and 1824 using convict labour. Governor Macquarie and Commissioner John Bigge laid the foundation stone on Thursday, 7 October 1819. The building was originally intended to serve as a courthouse as Macquarie had plans for a large cathedral to be built on the present location of St Andrew's Cathedral but they were put on hold by the intervention of Bigge who had been appointed to conduct a Royal Commission into the colonial government. Bigge initially approved of the courthouse project but by February 1820, less than four months after his arrival, he strongly recommended its conversion into a church.\n\n\"The reason for Bigge's change of mind may be found in the appointment, three years later, of his brother-in-law [and secretary], Mr TH Scott, a wine merchant, as Archdeacon\". The design of the courthouse was modified before construction with the addition of a steeple at the western end, to serve as a church, while the adjacent school buildings were put into use as a courthouse. The first service was held in the unfinished church on the Day of Epiphany, 6 January 1822, the text being from Isaiah, Chapter 60: \"Arise! Shine, for thy light has come. The glory of the Lord has risen upon thee\". It was anticipated in the \"Sydney Gazette's\" report of the event that the church, when fitted out with stalls and galleries, would hold 2,000 people. The church was consecrated by the senior chaplain, the Reverend Samuel Marsden, on 11 February 1824.\n\nBefore the building of St James', Sydney's growing population had been served by St Philip's Church, York Street. However, as St James' was able to hold more people than St Philip's and clergy meetings as well as ordinations were held there, it quickly became the centre of official church activity.\n\nThere was both official and general concern about the lack of morality within the predominantly male population, and the establishment of churches and of education was seen as a method of combatting this. The 19th-century church historian, Edward Symonds, credited a \"better moral and spiritual tone\" in the colony to \"decent churches\" and \"the advent of additional clergy, headed by the Revd William Cowper, in 1808\". The first rector of St James', the Reverend Richard Hill, was ordained specifically for colonial ministry and sent from London as assistant to William Cowper at St Philip's. Hill was energetic and a good organiser, with progressive views on education. He instigated a number of projects to aid the community, including an infants' school in the crypt of the church and a Sunday School.\n\nThe focus of the church's liturgy at the time was on preaching and the church's interior reflected this. The east end of the church had a triple-decker pulpit placed centrally, from which the service was led and the sermon preached. From this pulpit Bishops Broughton, Pattison, Selwyn, Barker and Barry preached. The parish clerk led the congregation in the responses from its lower level. Between the three windows which at that time occupied the eastern wall, there were two large panels displaying the words of the Lord's Prayer, the Apostles' Creed and the Ten Commandments. The church was full of box pews which faced each other across a central aisle. The western end had a gallery, which is still in place, for the convicts. Pews were rented to provide a source of income for the church and the whole was arranged in \"rigid social order\" with the poor occupying the free seats. Sunday services consisted of Morning and Evening Prayer, with Holy Communion taking place only occasionally as an addition to the regular service. For this reason, there was no visual emphasis on the communion table, which was a small portable one, and no reredos.\nSt James' suffered from a major scandal in the late 1820s (\"a period of personal quarrels and violent newspaper controversies\") when Commissioner Bigge's secretary and brother-in-law, Thomas Hobbes Scott, who had been made Archdeacon of New South Wales in 1825, came into conflict with a parishioner, Edward Smith Hall. Archdeacon Scott ordered that Hall should vacate the pew he rented at St James' for himself and his six daughters. As Hall continued to occupy the pew, constables attended Sunday services to prevent his occupation of the pew by boarding it up and making it secure with iron bands. Hall, critical of both the archdeacon and Governor Ralph Darling, was also a partner with Arthur Hill in the ownership of newspaper \"The Monitor\". He published an attack on the archdeacon, for which he was sued for libel. The courts fined him only £1 and placed him on a bond. Hall appealed to Reginald Heber, Bishop of Calcutta (who was the relevant ecclesiastical authority at the time) and to the law where he was awarded £25 damages. The archdeacon, who was extremely unpopular, returned to London in 1828.\n\nThe first major alteration to the church was the enclosing of the south portico to form a vestry. In 1832 John Verge constructed another vestry at the eastern end of the church, in strict conformity with the architectural style of Greenway. Growth of the congregation necessitated further changes. Galleries were added along the northern and eastern walls. As the three eastern windows had been blocked by Verge's vestry, the interior became increasingly badly lit with every change. Verge's solution was to pierce ocular windows high in the walls to light the galleries.\n\nIn 1836, the Reverend Richard Hill had a fit of apoplexy in the vestry and died. Soon after this dramatic event, and while the church was still in mourning, the Right Reverend William Grant Broughton was installed as Bishop of Australia during a service in St James' lasting five hours. Since Macquarie's plans for a new cathedral on George Street had not come to fruition, Broughton acted as if St James' were a pro-cathedral. Robert Cartwright and then Napoleon Woodd succeeded Richard Hill at St James'.\n\nIn 1839 the Reverend Robert Allwood, educated at Eton College and the University of Cambridge, arrived in Sydney and was appointed to St James' by Bishop Broughton, in which parish he served for 44 years until his retirement in 1884. Allwood was an important patron of education in Victorian Sydney. Under him, the parish school expanded and his teacher training college became a \"model school\". He was also the principal tutor at St James' College, which originally met in St James' parsonage (on the corner of King Street and Macquarie Street) until it was transferred to \"Lyndhurst\" at The Glebe.\n\nIn 1848, St James' was the venue for a full military funeral, \"attended by 150 carriages\" and in 1878 Allwood officiated at the wedding of Nora Robinson and Alexander Kirkman Finlay. As the second vice-regal wedding in the colony this ceremony was attended by many dignitaries and attracted a \"crushing\" crowd of 10,000 cheering onlookers.\n\nUnlike Hill, Allwood advocated the principles of the Oxford Movement (also known as \"Tractarianism\" after its publication of Tracts for the Times), which stressed the historical continuity of the Church of England, and placed a high importance upon the sacraments and the liturgy. \"The culmination\" of a trend towards Tractarianism in the colony was the founding in 1845, of St James' College – \"the first seminary for training local ordinands\". However, many colonial Anglicans were unhappy with Tractarian trends because Roman Catholics \"were equated with Irish\", and with \"Romanism\". \"Serious differences opinion in matters of doctrine\" began to \"escalate into public debate as the influences of the Oxford Movement began to be felt in the Australian colonies\" in the 1840s.\n\nAllwood's sermons were brief and Holy Communion was celebrated every Sunday. The organ, which had been installed in 1827, was moved to the space of the southern vestry, and the pulpit and reading desk place in front of it where they could be seen from all parts of the church. The holy table continued to be located at the eastern end of the building. Bishop Broughton supported the Tractarian views of Allwood, but his successor, Frederic Barker, who became bishop in 1855, was strongly Evangelical. The division in style between St James' and the \"low church\" ethos that predominated in the Sydney Diocese began at this time.\n\nDuring the 1880s Sydney became a prosperous city, commerce and industry flourished, and the suburbs expanded. As more churches were built and fewer people lived in the heart of the city, the congregation of St James' Church shrank. The challenge that it faced was to minister effectively to city workers, rather than dwellers, to serve the poor of the city, and to attract those whose preference was for the style of worship and intellectual, topical preaching that distinguished St James' from many of the newly created parish churches. The young Henry Latimer Jackson, from Cambridge, was appointed in 1885. He introduced weekday services and a magazine called \"The Kalendar\", one of Australia's first parish papers. He also lectured at Sydney University, addressed conferences, spoke at synod and acted as secretary to the newly established Sydney Church of England Boys' Grammar School. However, his sermons were described as \"not so much opposed, as simply not understood\". He resigned in 1895 after accepting a position in the Diocese of Ely.\nAlthough Sydney was prospering, St James' had an acute shortage of money and \"the government considered resuming the site for a city railway\". The trustees at this time leased the parsonage and, in 1894, used the money for urgent restoration to the exterior of the building. The architect Varney Parkes replaced the old spire, using copper that was pre-weathered so that there was no radical change in its appearance. He removed infilling from the north portico and designed a new portico and entrance to the tower to match that of the eastern vestry. The result was to make the north face of the building its most significant aspect.\n\nJackson's successor was William Carr Smith, a man with socialist ideals and a commitment to social reform and spiritual outreach. He preached long and engaging sermons inside the church and for a time in the open air in The Domain as well. Carr Smith had brought with him from England the \"most recent developments\" in the restoration of ancient liturgy, so he was able to help St James' play a \"notable part\" in Sydney's revival of Anglo-Catholicism, setting \"new standards of ceremonial\". To serve these purposes the architect John H. Buckeridge was employed to transform the building's interior, completing the work in 1901.\nThe most significant change was the new emphasis given to the altar, which was made the focus of attention and \"flanked by the pulpit, reading desks and lectern.\" The \"principal features\" under the Carr Smith plan were the construction of the apse, set into the eastern vestry to create a sanctuary; the raising of the chancel floor which created a platform, five steps above the nave for the choir, framed by the organ divided into two sections; the making of a new, unobtrusive entrance to the tower and western gallery; and the removal of the box pews and the eastern and northern galleries. The memorial plaques were also rearranged. The choir was ornamented with a mosaic floor and ornate brasswork which complemented the large brass eagle lectern by the English ecclesiastical suppliers, J. Wippell and Company, that commemorated Canon Robert Allwood. The floor of the pulpit was made from parts of the old three-decker one. The organ, refurbished and enlarged by Davidson of Sydney, was installed in 1903. With the removal of the organ, the south vestry was made into a side chapel. Eight large stained glass windows were installed between 1903 and 1913, along with a new pulpit, altar and retable, all of which were given as memorials. Another improvement was \"the placing of double windows on the King-street side to shut out the sound of the traffic, which hitherto has been a serious annoyance to both the officiating clergymen and the congregation\". In 1897, St James' Hall was offered to Father Dorotheos Bakalliarios, a Greek Orthodox priest from Samos for Orthodox services in Sydney. In 1904 the diocesan architect, John Burcham Clamp, was employed to design a new parish hall.\n\nIn 1900, the Governor, Earl Beauchamp, presented to the church a number of embroidered stoles made by the Warham Guild of London, along with copes and chasubles. The centenary of the laying of the foundation stone was celebrated in October 1919 with a program of events that extended over nine days. Festivities included services at which the Bishops of Armidale and Bathurst were special preachers, music, processions, a lantern lecture on \"Old Sydney\" by the municipal librarian, and social events such as a ferry outing and a luncheon at which the chief guest was the Governor Sir Walter Davidson accompanied by his wife Lady Davidson. Also scheduled was a welcome to soldiers returned from the Great War. An illustrated historical memoir was produced and sold for two shillings.\n\nThe celebrations for the centenary of the Oxford Movement occurred during the tenure of the eighth rector of St James', Philip Micklem. However, \"they were not centred on the cathedral, but on St James'\", Sydney being the only Australian diocese that \"failed officially to observe the occasion\". Micklem chaired a rally on 19 July 1933 in St James' Hall that was attended by governor Philip Game and Lady Game, \"and five bishops representing three states.\" The 180th anniversary of the Oxford Movement fell in the 21st century, and the rector of St James' preached at the commemoration.\n\nMicklem was \"a pioneer advocate of the preservation of early colonial architecture\". As the century progressed, there were a number of threats to the church's historic environment, which includes Greenway's Law Courts and Hyde Park Barracks. In spite of the threats to these colonial era buildings, they survived to form an important Sydney precinct. Both the building and the organisation continued to serve the city. During World War II, for example, the crypt was used as a \"Hostel for Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen\" and the ninth rector, Edwin John Davidson, incumbent during that period, \"gained fame\" for the church with his \"pungent sermons on current affairs\". The eleventh rector, Frank Cuttriss, had an ecumenical outlook – he was a member of a meeting of the World Council of Churches at Uppsala and an observer to the Second Vatican Council.\n\nSt James' was the locus of many notable events throughout the 20th century, including weddings and funerals of famous, significant or notorious people, visits from theologians and senior clerics, and when needed, services for the Lutheran communities. At the wedding of singer Gladys Moncrieff and Tom Moore on 20 May 1924, the crowd in the streets nearby was so large that traffic was brought to a standstill, several women fell and two were so badly hurt they were taken to hospital. At the time Moncrieff was appearing in \"The Merry Widow\" and returned to the stage on the night of her wedding. St James' was represented in the opening ceremonies of the Sydney Harbour Bridge by a float in the form of the church building. The church was \"packed to the doors\" when the seventh rector, W.F. Wentworth-Sheilds, officiated at the \"impressive funeral\" of Walter Liberty Vernon in 1914. In 1950, four thousand people were reported to have lined the streets after the State funeral at St. James' of the first Minister for Sweden in Australia, Constans Lundquist, who died suddenly at the Swedish Legation in Sydney. Controversial former Governor-General, Sir John Kerr had a private funeral and memorial service in St James' in 1991 rather than a State funeral because of his fall from favour as the result of his decision to sack the Whitlam government in 1975. Delivering the sermon at St James' during an ecumenical event on 14 October 1993, Archbishop Desmond Tutu thanked Australians for supporting the struggle against apartheid.\n\nDuring the 20th century both choral and organ musical components developed to a high standard and were integral to the liturgy at St James'. In addition, music was offered to the wider community in the form of recitals, often in ways that elucidate the liturgy and take advantage of church acoustics and sacred settings. Weekday recitals, such as the organ recitals given in 1936 of music by Bach, continued in addition to the music played on Sundays.\n\nIn the 21st century, St James' continues its work in the city centre via its ministry and engagement in the issues of the day. In the 19th century, there were controversies about tractarianism; in the 20th, there was the impact of the two world wars; in the 21st century, the church has confronted the difficult and topical issues of violence, euthanasia, refugees, marriage and sexuality. The church's relationship with government and the legal community began when the colony was under military government and the Church of England was the established church. Due to the church's history and its proximity to the convict barracks (later an immigration centre), the law courts (both the old and the new ones) as well as the New South Wales parliament, the relationship continues. It is evident in special services attended by the governor as well as the annual service to mark the opening of the law term.\n\nSt James' commitment to social justice and education began in the 19th century with efforts to serve both convicts and settlers. It continued in the 20th with support for people affected by war, for example, when the church became \"a busy centre of war-time life\". Since early in the 20th century, service to the community has included visits to those imprisoned or ill as well as practical help to the city's homeless and an annual schedule of educational seminars at the St James' Institute.\n\nOn 6 February 2012, the rector Andrew Sempell officiated at a thanksgiving for Queen Elizabeth II to mark the sixtieth anniversary of her accession to the throne in a service attended by the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Cardinal George Pell and the Governor of New South Wales, Marie Bashir and on 9 September 2015, when Queen Elizabeth II became the longest-serving British monarch and Queen of Australia, there was a special Choral Evensong service to give thanks. At the Jubilee service, the Chief Justice of New South Wales, Tom Bathurst, read the first lesson and the service concluded with the Australian National Anthem and an organ postlude of Edward Elgar's \"Pomp and Circumstance March No. 4\". On 23 March 2012, a memorial service for Margaret Whitlam, wife of former Prime Minister of Australia, Gough Whitlam, was attended by Prime Minister Julia Gillard, and several former prime ministers.\nOne of Greenway's finest works, St James' is listed on the Register of the National estate. It has been called an \"architectural gem\" and was featured by Dan Cruickshank in the BBC television series \"Around the World in 80 Treasures.\" From 1966 to 1993 the spire of St James' appeared on the Australian Australian ten-dollar note among other Greenway buildings. In 1973, the church appeared on a 50 cent postage stamp, one of four in a series illustrating Australian architecture issued to commemorate the opening of the Sydney Opera House. The Old Supreme Court Building next to the church is of the same date. Across the square is Greenway's \"masterpiece\" Hyde Park Barracks, designed to align with the church. Beside the barracks stands Sydney's oldest public building, part of the General Hospital built in 1811 and now known as the Mint Building. Separated from the Mint by the present-day Sydney Hospital is Parliament House, Sydney, of which the central section is a further part of the early hospital, and is now home to the New South Wales State Parliament.\n\nThe church was constructed between 1820 and 1824 with later additions made in 1834 by John Verge who designed the vestries at the eastern end. Apart from these vestries, which retain the established style and proportions, the church externally remains \"fine Georgian\" much as Greenway conceived it. Relying on the \"virtues of simplicity and proportion to achieve his end\", Greenway maintained the classical tradition, unaffected by the Revivalist styles that were being promoted in London at the time he arrived in the colony. He planned the church to align with his earlier Hyde Park Barracks, constructed in 1817–19. The two buildings have similar proportions, pilasters and gables and together constitute an important example of town-planning. Before the advent of high-rise buildings, the 150 foot spire used to \"serve as a guide for mariners coming up Port Jackson\".\n\nSt James' originally took the form of a simple rectangular block, without transepts or chancel, with a tower at the western end and a classical portico of the Doric order on either side. To this has been added Verge's vestry framed by two small porticos, and a similar portico as an entrance to the tower. The church is built of local brick, its walls divided by brick pilasters into a series of bays. The walls are pierced by large windows with round arched heads in a colour that separates and defines them against the walls. The roof carries over the end walls with the gable forming triangular pediments of classical proportions carrying a cornice across the eaves line. Thus the architectural treatment on the side walls is continued around the end walls.\n\nThe original interior differed greatly in layout from that of the present. There was no structural chancel, the focus of the church being a large pulpit. During the mid 19th century galleries overlooked the pulpit from three sides. Of the original galleries, only the western one of Australian Red Cedar remains in place. The coffered ceiling (an addition from 1882 replacing the original lath and plaster ceiling), the low-backed pews (from shortly after) and the predominantly classical memorials all contribute to the present interior retaining the character of a Georgian church.\n\nAt the eastern end, the communion table is set into a small apse with its semi-dome adorned with gold mosaic tiles that were added in 1960. The altar is a commemorative gift from the Lloyd family, whose son was the first server appointed at St James'. It generally has an altar frontal in the colour of the liturgical season or festival. With no structural choir area, the chancel is built out and into the body of the church as a platform enclosed within gated wrought iron and brass railings and approached by steps. The mosaic floor of the chancel is ornately with designs showing the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit (Wisdom, Understanding, Counsel, Ghostly Strength, Knowledge, Godliness and Holy Fear) along with symbols of St James the Great (the staff, scrip, palm, scallop shell and hat of the pilgrim). The chancel is framed on either side by the organ pipes.\n\nThere are five large stained glass windows on the northern and southern walls and additional windows in the stairwell to the belltower and on the western wall. Most of them are designed by Percy Bacon Brothers and the majority were donated as memorials by parishioners in the period from 1900 to 1910. The stained glass fanlight depicting James and John, the sons of Zebedee, was designed by Australian artist Norman Carter in 1930. The window behind the baptismal font, depicting Christ with the Children, was repaired and rededicated in 2004 by the fifteenth rector in the presence of the then Primate, Peter Carnley.\n\nPreviously enclosed and used as a vestry and then an organ chamber, the south porch became a chapel in 1903. In 1988, the side chapel was remodelled and dedicated as the Chapel of the Holy Spirit. The parish and the Bicentennial Council of New South Wales funded the redesign which saw the removal of the infilling from between the columns of the portico and its replacement with stained glass. The award-winning \"Creation Window\", designed by Australian artist David Wright, spreads across the three walls and represents the interaction of earth, air, fire and water, symbolic of the action of the Spirit in creation, in life and in rebirth in Christ. The new furniture for the chapel was designed by Leon Sadubin.\n\nBeneath the church is a large undercroft, built of brick and groin vaulted. It has been used for many purposes: as a residence by Revd Hill's widow and later by a verger; by Canon Allwood as a part-time bedroom; for the parish's schools; and as a shelter by Australian, American and British armed forces during the two world wars. Rector Francis Wentworth-Sheilds gave the city parish \"a big role as a drop-in centre for servicemen\" during the First World War. During the Second World War bed and bedding were provided to over 30,000 Allied servicemen.\n\nThe western bay on the south side of the crypt is the Chapel of St Mary and the Angels, better known simply as the \"Children's Chapel\". It was opened in 1929 as a chapel for younger children. A specially adapted form of Eucharist is celebrated there on the first Sunday of the month. All four walls of the chapel and its ceiling are decorated with murals designed by the writer and artist Ethel Anderson and executed by the Turramurra Wall Painters Union, a group of Modernist painters she founded in 1927. The murals underwent extensive conservation in 1992–1993.\n\nThe crypt was restored by Geoffrey Danks in 1977–78. In the 21st century, the bays on either side of the crypt's central corridor are used for a variety of purposes. At the eastern end they house a commercial kitchen. Some bays are used as offices; one (The Chapel of All Souls) contains a columbarium; another houses a lending library for parishioners.\n\nSt James' provides a record of important elements of Sydney's history in both physical and documentary form. There are over 300 memorials commemorating important members of 19th century colonial society, people who served the colony generally and parishioners from the 20th century. In addition, many of the stained glass windows and items of furniture have been donated as memorials. For example, the large stained glass window of Saint George on the northern wall is a memorial to Keith Kinnaird Mackellar, who died in the Second Boer War aged 20. He was the brother of poet Dorothea Mackellar. These memorials are the reason the church was sometimes called \"The Westminster Abbey of the South\". As early as 1876, the wall tablets were described as \"full of sad memories to the old inhabitants, interesting reminiscences to those who have studied Australian history\".\n\nThe first monument erected in the church was the memorial to Commodore Sir James Brisbane, who died in Sydney on his way to serve in South America in command of HMS Warspite. It was sculpted by Sir Francis Chantrey, sent to Sydney by Lady Brisbane and installed in the church in 1830. The Brisbane memorial began the tradition of memorial tablets to \"prominent people\". The memorial to Robert Wardell in 1834 rendered \"bushranger\" into Latin as \"\". Four other monuments were installed between 1830 and 1839. The only memorial on which an indigenous Australian appears is that of Edmund Kennedy (said to have been \"a communicant at St James’\") on whose tablet Jackey Jackey is remembered. There are memorials to the Macleay family of naturalists, Alexander and William Sharp Macleay. \n\nThe largest single memorial of the 20th century is the war memorial, to the design of Hardy Wilson, dedicated on 14 June 1922. It commemorates more than 50 men associated with St James' who were killed in the First World War, throughout which the roll of honour was regularly read during the Eucharist. In 2014, St James' was part of a series of commemorations of the bicentenary of the death of the colony's first Governor, Arthur Phillip. On 31 August, a memorial plaque, similar in form to one placed in the nave of Westminster Abbey on 9 July, was unveiled by the 37th Governor, Marie Bashir.\n\nThe church has all its baptismal and marriage registers dating from 1824 to the present day. These were originally handwritten; printed forms came into existence \"by government order\" in 1826. Since it was not compulsory to register births, deaths and marriages until after 1855, the records held by St James' are particularly valuable to historians and genealogists and copies are held in the National Library of Australia.\n\nSince its erection, the building has undergone significant repair, renovation and conservation, including work on the building fabric, the stained glass windows, the mosaic floors in the chancel and sanctuary and conservation of the Children's Chapel. Major work was done on the interior and the spire in the 1890s and on the crypt in the 1970s.\n\nThe spire was extensively restored from 2008 to 2010, including the tower masonry, the interior framing, the copper covering and the orb and cross. The spire was rededicated on 20 October 2010. The restorations were awarded the National Trust of Australia Built Heritage Award on 4 April 2011 and the AIA Greenway Award for Heritage. The jury said that the restoration work showed \"consummate care by the architect, the engineer and the builder in conserving the original structure and fabric of the building, improving its strength, performance and waterproofing\".\n\nRestoration continued with work on the church's slate roof and sandstone perimeter fence. The Spanish slates, installed in the 1970s, proved not to be durable in Sydney's climate due to their high iron content and their poor fixing had resulted in further damage. The solution to the deterioration was to replace the slates using Welsh slates. The roof project was completed after a fund-raising effort supported by the National Trust of Australia. In 2013, the interior was repainted after preparation that involved \"colour testing and selection, memorial protection and ceiling acoustic repairs\". As a heritage-listed building, the church has a program of continual conservation. Its custodians remain \"ever mindful\" of their responsibility to the wider public as well as to the congregation.\n\nSt James' offers three Eucharists on Sundays: a Said Eucharist, a Sung Eucharist and a Choral Eucharist. There is a regular Choral Evensong on Wednesdays and one Sunday each month. The Eucharist and other services are also celebrated during the week and the robed choir contributes to its \"cathedral style worship\". Festival services are popular and known for their standard of liturgy and music, particularly those services which celebrate high points of the church year such as Holy Week and Easter, the Advent carols, the Nine Lessons and Carols, the Christmas Eve Midnight Mass and the patronal festival of St James (son of Zebedee, also known as James the Great) in July. A series of orchestral Masses is held in January.\n\nSt James' continues to maintain a formal and sacramental liturgy and has weathered the storm of criticism from a diocese with increasingly \"Low church\" practices. It is one of the few Sydney Anglican churches that has upheld the norms of mainstream Anglican tradition, including the use of the stole by clergy during services, especially during sacraments such as baptisms and marriages; the Book of Common Prayer and sacred church music, including the singing of hymns from a hymnal.\n\nThe Constitution of the Anglican Church of Australia \"commit[s] Anglicans to mainstream Christian orthodoxy\", but its ruling principles direct it to that particular tradition within as \"represented by the Church of England\". The Australian church had to work out the meaning of its common heritage \"in the context of the different cultures of the separate colonies\" but \"the way in which that faith pedigree was appealed to and interpreted ... has highlighted differences.\" Peter Carnley, former primate of the Anglican Church of Australia, has described Anglicanism's \"unique or essential identity\" as having \"not so much a body of theological teaching, as a style of theological reflection\" that goes back to the Elizabethan theologian Richard Hooker. St James' conforms to this Anglican tradition, part of which is a general dislike of what used to be referred to as 'Enthusiasm': that is, a dislike of \"pious individualism and emotional exuberance\". St James' theological position in the liturgy is evidently consistent with Carnley's explanation that incarnational reality \"might be experienced with the aid of aesthetic, symbolic or sacramental aids to worship.\" Such an adherence to the importance of the sacred and the sublime in worship remains in sharp contradistinction to practice in the surrounding mostly evangelical diocese, which typically eschews beauty and holds to an \"ultra-low ecclesiastical aesthetic\" that is combined with \"ultra-conservative social values\". Teaching at St James' takes account of both the Biblical and contemporary historical context. In the Sydney diocese, St James's differing view has therefore been controversial since the 19th century as the various rectors led the church towards and away from Anglo-Catholicism. Micklem, for example, renewed Anglo-Catholic churchmanship and Davidson \"returned it firmly to a moderate position\".\n\nSt James' aims to be \"an open and inclusive Christian community\" that \"welcomes all, regardless of age, race, sexual orientation or religion\". During the long debate in the diocese about the acceptability of women as priests and also as preachers, for example, women clergy were welcome. One of the first women ordained as a priest in the Anglican Church in Australia, the Revd Susanna Pain, served as a deacon at St James' and women in leadership positions in the Anglican Church such as Bishops Kay Goldsworthy and Genieve Blackwell, have been invited to preach. The current rector contributes to the public debate about the role and responsibilities of the church in a secularised world and in response to statements about same-sex marriage from the Archbishop of Sydney, published a dissenting view.\n\nIn the beginning, convicts, soldiers, governors and civil authorities attended the church; in the 21st century, regular patronage by, and programs for, governors, politicians, the legal community and the homeless create a similarly diverse mix. In 1900, such a congregation was described by the sixth rector as representing \"many types, many classes. Here we find rich and poor, old and new, the Governor and the Domain loafer, the passing visitor, and the grandchildren of those whose memorial tablets testify to a long connection with the church.\" William Carr Smith's observation was that \"this makes the congregation a difficult one to handle.\"\n\nNevertheless, the congregation provides volunteer labour and donates funds for many of church's activities, including laundry work, library administration, flower arrangements, bell ringing, singing in the parish choir and hospitality for the Sister Freda mission. Furnishings for the chapel in the Sydney Hospital were provided by the parishioners during Carr Smith's time, when he became chaplain to the hospital.\n\nSt James' work for the poor, as well as for the city's legal and medical professions, has been continuous from the 19th century. Since early times work \"for the poor of the parish\"; the promotion of \"overseas and inland missions\"; liaison with \"the city professions in law and medicine\" and running \"devotional and discussion groups\" has been incorporated into the church's mission. In the 20th century, the ninth and tenth rectors emphasised \"the church's responsibility to society\" and encouraged St James' role in the city. In the 21st century, these activities have been supplemented by chaplaincy and professional counselling services directed at dealing with the problems associated with the stresses of city life.\n\nThe \"most direct part of St James' social welfare work\" is the Sister Freda Mission, which began in 1899. Among other things, this ministry provides weekly lunches to the needy and a full dinner at Christmas. Sister Freda (Emily Rich) was a member of the Community of the Sisters of the Church, a religious order which started the Collegiate School in Paddington in 1895. Sister Freda and other members of the order took over the organisation of its mission to the homeless in 1899. On Christmas Day in 1901 \"about 60 men were entertained at dinner at St James' parish hall, and later in the afternoon 250 unemployed men were treated to tea in the same building by the sisters of the church.\" After her death in 1936, Sister Freda's name was given to the mission and St James' took over responsibility for its organisation. Since 1954, this service has operated out of the church crypt, relying on donations, including food sourced by OzHarvest, and the efforts of volunteer parishioners.\n\nThe church's ministry to Sydney's legal fraternity is facilitated by its proximity to buildings used by the profession, including the Law Courts, which is the main building of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and houses the Sydney registry of the High Court of Australia; the College of Law and the St James Campus of the University of Sydney, which is the former home of Sydney Law School, still mainly used for legal education by the university. Phillip Street, which runs north from the church, is home to a large number of barristers' chambers as well as the Law Society of New South Wales.\n\nDue to this proximity, the church and legal profession have a longstanding relationship, anchored by an annual service to mark the beginning of the legal year which is attended by judges, solicitors and members of the Bar from the Supreme Court of New South Wales in ceremonial attire. In the 19th century, the relationship was reported in the context of delays to the law and concerns about the need for a suitable set of new courts. In the 20th, it was noted that the \"relationship of law and religion\" was one of \"two co-operating forces, approaching, from different sides, a problem which was common to them both of securing right conduct\"; and in the 21st century, the Governor still attends special services. Since 1950, there has also been an annual service for the members of the Order of St Michael and St George.\n\nIn the 19th century, religious denominations made a major contribution to education at all levels before this was taken over by the state. From its beginnings, St James' was involved in education for both children and adults. Richard Hill, the first minister, \"began Australia's first kindergarten and William Cape managed a school based on new educational principles\". Hill worked with the Benevolent Society, the Bible Society, Aboriginals, the Hospital, \"various convict establishments and a range of schools,\" including Industrial Schools. By 1823 Greenway's school building had been erected in Elizabeth Street and the principal St James' School was situated there until 1882, becoming the Anglican \"normal\" school with more than 600 students and a range of experienced teachers. In secondary education, a Sydney branch of the King's School operated briefly in the Greenway building and Bishop Broughton operated the St James' Grammar School in a building erected in Phillip Street. The Grammar School, presided over by the Revd C. Kemp was described as \"of inestimable value to the then youth of the colony\". Bishop Broughton also set up St James' College to provide tertiary education for secular students as well as to prepare students for ordination. The St James' School closed in 1882 and the government resumed the Greenway building. Tuition for the students of St Paul's College, University of Sydney was originally provided in the vestry of St James'.\n\nIn the 20th century, St James' developed its education program for children and adults and continued them in the 21st century. A Sunday school for children is held in the crypt. Educational activities for adults are offered through the St James' Institute which provides a range of programs open to all to explore the Christian faith and engage in debate about contemporary issues from a theological perspective. For example, in 2012, the Institute hosted a seminar on \"Women in the Australian Church: Untold Stories\" in conjunction with the International Women's Network and MOWatch. In 2013, there was a meeting of \"deans and ministers from Anglican churches that serve the business districts in major cities around world\" to discuss the churches' response to the Global Financial Crisis.\n\nThe Reverend Samuel Marsden delivered the first sermon on 6 July 1824. In 1836 the first (and only) Bishop of Australia, William Grant Broughton, was installed at St James' as there was still no cathedral. Broughton regularly officiated at St James' as at the first ordination of an Anglican priest in Australia (the Revd T. Sharpe) on 17 December 1836.\n\nThe rector of St James' is assisted by associate rectors (it was not until the 1890s that the title \"rector\" was used). The current (sixteenth) rector is the Reverend Andrew Sempell and the associate rector is the Reverend John Stewart.\n\nSt James' has had a strong musical and choral tradition \"integral\" to its liturgies since the 1820s and is known both for the high standard of the sacred music as well as for its regular public recitals and concerts. St James' has a choir, a fine three-manual pipe organ and a peal of bells hung for change ringing. Isaac Nathan, who \"constituted himself musical laureate to the colony\" and is considered \"Australia's first composer\", created a musical society at St James' in the 1840s.\n\nThe original organ, installed in the west gallery, was built by John Gray of London and was played for the first time on 7 October 1827. It received the following praise in the colonial newspaper \"The Australian\".\n\n\"St. James's new organ pealed its notes of praise for the first time at noon service on Sunday, to an overflowing congregation, more numerous perhaps than any congregation St. James's had ever before witnessed. The organ was not in perfect harmony, owing, in a great measure, to its yet incomplete state. Its intonations, however, in many instances, was full, rich, and harmonious, and those of the congregation were not a few who felt its tones swell on the ear like the welcome voice of a long parted friend!\"\n\nThe organ was modernised and enlarged in the 1870s by William Davidson. After a number of moves around the galleries, it was placed in what had been intended as the south porch. At the time the church's interior was reconstructed at the turn of the 20th century, it was positioned on either side of the chancel platform at the eastern end where it remains. Organ specialists Hill, Norman & Beard (Aust) Pty Ltd gave the organ a major refurbishment and reconstruction between 1970 and 1971 at a cost of $35,000.\n\nSt James' has had a choir since early colonial times. James Pearson accepted the office of choir leader in 1827 and arranged some of the music that was sung. He also offered to teach \"a few steady persons, of either sex,\" if they would volunteer to join the choir. In those early days, the choir was a \"mixed one, of male and female voices, some of them professional\", but by the end of the 19th century, the choristers were all males. Until Anthony Jennings was appointed Director of Music in 1995, the choirmaster was also the organist. Some choirmasters, such as James Furley, also composed original works for the choir. Arthur J. Mason served 1898–1907 (and was City Organist 1901–1907), was succeeded by George Faunce Allman in the role.\n\nThe current choir is composed of about a dozen semi-professional adults. They sing on Sundays at the 11.00 am Choral Eucharist, Wednesdays at the 6:15 pm Choral Evensong, monthly at the 3.00 pm Choral Evensong held on the last Sunday of the month, as well as at a number of midweek feast days held during the year. In January, during the summer holiday period, St James' presents three full orchestral Masses during which liturgical music by composers such as Mozart, Haydn and Schubert is used for its original purpose and incorporated into the service. On these occasions, the choir is joined by a small orchestra.\n\nOn occasion, the St James' choir has combined with other choirs, such as when it joined the Sydney Philharmonia Motet Choir or the choir of St Mary's Cathedral to present Monteverdi's Vespers in 2013. It has recorded CDs and premiered new works by composers such as Ann Carr-Boyd and Gordon Kerry, as well as new arrangements of traditional works. They have also performed with international touring groups such as with the Tallis Scholars' Summer School; broadcast on ABC Radio, both in their own right as well as with leading ensembles such as Australian Baroque Brass.\n\nMusical critique of the choir has appeared in the press from the beginning and continues to the present day. In 1827, one singer was criticised for her diction: \"If her pronunciation were as pleasing as her notes, she would be entitled to unqualified praise\" wrote a critic in 1827. In 1845, St James' was being described as the \"exception\" to the prevailing low standard of church music in both England and New South Wales. In 2013, singers from the combined choirs of St James' and St Mary's Cathedral were appraised as creating \"a clear, well-defined edge that swirled gloriously\".\n\n\n\nThe church's eight bells are rung by the Guild of St James' Bellringers which is affiliated with The Australian and New Zealand Association of Bellringers. The tenor bell, weighing 10 cwt, was cast in 1795 by John Rudhall and hung previously in St Paul's Church, Bristol, England. Bells 1 – 7 were cast in 2002 by John Taylor Bellfounders in Loughborough, England. The bells were dedicated on 27 July 2003 and are named after people associated with St James' Church, as follows:\n\nThere is also the service bell of 4¼ cwt, known as the Mears bell, cast by Thomas Mears II of Whitechapel Bell Foundry in 1820. It was repaired there in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3877858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3877858", "title": "Teatro dell'Opera di Roma", "text": "Teatro dell'Opera di Roma\n\nThe Teatro dell'Opera di Roma (\"Rome Opera House\") is an opera house in Rome, Italy. Originally opened in November 1880 as the 2,212 seat \"Costanzi Theatre\", it has undergone several changes of name as well modifications and improvements. The present house seats 1,600.\n\nThe Teatro dell'Opera was originally known as the \"Teatro Costanzi\" after the contractor who built it, Domenico Costanzi (1810-1898). It was financed by Costanzi, who commissioned the Milanese architect Achille Sfondrini (1836-1900), a specialist in the building and renovation of theatres. The opera house was built in eighteen months, on the site where the house of Heliogabalus stood in ancient times, and was inaugurated on 27 November 1880 with a performance of \"Semiramide\" by Gioachino Rossini.\n\nDesigning the theatre, Sfondrini paid particular attention to the acoustics, conceiving the interior structure as a \"resonance chamber\", as is evident from the horseshoe shape in particular. With a seating capacity of 2,212, the house had three tiers of boxes, an amphitheatre and two separate galleries, surmounted by a dome adorned with splendid frescoes by Annibale Brugnoli.\n\nCostanzi was obliged to manage the theater himself. Under his direction, and despite financial problems, the opera house held many world premieres of operas, including \"Cavalleria rusticana\" by Pietro Mascagni on 17 May 1890. For a brief period the theatre was managed by Costanzi's son, Enrico, who gained renown by organizing another great premiere, that of \"Tosca\" by Giacomo Puccini on 14 January 1900.\n\nIn 1907 the Teatro Costanzi was purchased by the impresario Walter Mocchi (1870-1955) on behalf of the \"Società Teatrale Internazionale e Nazionale\" (STIN). In 1912 Mocchi's wife, Emma Carelli, became the managing director of the new \"Impresa Costanzi\", as the theatre was later known, following various changes in the company structure. During the fourteen years of her tenure, major works which had not been performed before in Rome (or even in Italy) were staged. These included \"La fanciulla del West\", \"Turandot\" and \"Il trittico\" by Giacomo Puccini; \"Parsifal\" by Richard Wagner; \"Francesca da Rimini\" by Riccardo Zandonai; \"Boris Godunov\" by Modest Mussorgsky; \"Samson et Dalila\" by Camille Saint-Saëns and many others. Diaghilev's Ballets Russes also performed.\n\nIn November 1926 the Costanzi was bought by the Rome City Council and its name changed to \"Teatro Reale dell'Opera\". A partial rebuilding ensued, led by architect Marcello Piacentini and lasting fifteen months. The house re-opened on 27 February 1928 with the opera \"Nerone\" by Arrigo Boito.\n\nChief among several major changes was the relocated entrance, from the street formerly known as Via del Teatro (where the garden of the Hotel Quirinale is now) to the opposite side, where Piazza Beniamino Gigli exists today. In addition, the amphitheatre inside the theatre was replaced by a fourth tier of boxes (now the third tier) and the balcony. The interior was embellished by new stuccowork, decorations, and furnishings, including a magnificent chandelier measuring six meters in diameter and composed of 27,000 crystal drops.\n\nAbove the proscenium arch is a plaque commemorating the rebuilding: \"Vittorio Emanuele III Rege, Benito Mussolini Duce, Lodovicus Spada Potenziani, Romae Gubernator Restituit MCMXXVIII—VI”\". Confusingly the dates appear to be back to front. (The VI refers to the sixth year after the Fascist's March on Rome of 1922.)\n\nFollowing the end of monarchy, the name was simplified to \"Teatro dell'Opera\" and, in 1958, the building was again remodeled and modernized. Rome City Council again commissioned architect Marcello Piacentini, who radically altered the building's style, notably with regard to the facade, entrance and foyer, each of these taking the form we know today.\n\nThe theater's legendary acoustics still bear comparison with any other auditorium in the world. The seating capacity is about 1,600. The house was retrofitted with air-conditioning subsequent to a restoration, which provided improvements to the interior. The stucco work was completely restored, the great proscenium arch strengthened, and a parquet floor of solid oak blocks laid to replace the previous one.\n\nOn 2 January 1958 the theater was the venue for a controversial performance of \"Norma\" starring Maria Callas in the presence of the President of Italy: for health reasons, Callas abandoned the performance after the first act (the opera company had not engaged an understudy). \n\nThe post-war period saw celebrated productions, including Mozart's \"Le nozze di Figaro\" in 1964 and Verdi's \"Don Carlo\" in 1965, both conducted by Carlo Maria Giulini and directed by Luchino Visconti. \n\nFrom 2001 to 2010, the music director and chief conductor of the company was Gianluigi Gelmetti. He was due to be succeeded in these posts by Riccardo Muti, as announced in August 2009, but Muti demurred, citing in La Repubblica in October 2010 \"general difficulties that are plaguing the Italian opera houses\". Later, Muti assumed a role similar to that of music director but without title. Notable productions under Muti have included Gluck's \"Iphigénie en Aulide\" (2009), Verdi's \"Nabucco\" (2011), \"Simon Boccanegra\" (2012) and \"Ernani\" (2013).\n\nThe name \"Teatro Costanzi\" remains officially in use, to refer to the main auditorium.\n\nThe outdoor theatre at the Baths of Caracalla, with the Roman ruins as the backdrop, is the venue for the opera company's summertime presentations in Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "453942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453942", "title": "The L Word", "text": "The L Word\n\nThe L Word is an American-Canadian co-production television drama series portraying the lives of a group of lesbians and their friends, connections, family, and lovers in the trendy Greater Los Angeles, California city of West Hollywood.\n\nThe series originally ran on Showtime from January 18, 2004 to March 8, 2009, and subsequently in syndication on Logo and through on-demand services. On July 11, 2017, it was announced a sequel season was in the works with Showtime.\n\nThe show was created by executive producer Ilene Chaiken (\"Barb Wire\", \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\"). Other executive producers include Steve Golin (\"Being John Malkovich\", \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\") and Larry Kennar (\"Barbershop\"). Besides Chaiken, writers of the show have included Guinevere Turner (\"Go Fish\", \"American Psycho\"), Susan Miller (\"Anyone But Me\", \"Thirtysomething\"), Cherien Dabis (\"Amreeka\"), and Rose Troche (\"Go Fish\", \"Six Feet Under\").\n\nThe pilot episode premiered on January 18, 2004. The original five-year run ended with the series finale's airing on March 8, 2009. Outside the United States, the series is distributed by MGM Worldwide Television. \"The L Word\" was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, at Coast Mountain Films Studio, as well as on location in Los Angeles, California. The studio was once owned by and named for Dufferin Gate Productions, the sister company to Temple Street Productions, the Canadian producer of the U.S. version of \"Queer as Folk\".\n\nThe original code-name for the project was \"Earthlings\", a rarely-used slang term for lesbians.\n\nContemporary use of the phrase \"the L word\" as an alias for \"lesbian\" dates to at least the 1981 play \"My Blue Heaven\" by Jane Chambers, in which a character stammers out: \"You're really...? The L-word? Lord God, I never met one before.\"\n\nHistorical use of \"the L word\" as code language can also be found in the sentence of a letter written by Daphne du Maurier to Ellen Doubleday: \"By God and by Christ, if anyone should call that love by that unattractive word that begins with 'L', I'd tear their guts out.\" \n\nSeason 1 premiered in the United States on January 18, 2004, on Showtime and featured 13 episodes presenting several entwined story lines. Set in West Hollywood, the series first introduces Bette Porter and Tina Kennard, a couple with a seven-year relationship who want to have a child. Tina eventually becomes pregnant through artificial insemination but has a miscarriage during episode 1.09: \"Luck, next time\". Later in the series, Bette develops an affair with Candace Jewell.\n\nThe pilot introduced a coming out/love triangle storyline involving Tina and Bette’s neighbor, Tim Haspel, his new-in-town girlfriend, Jenny Schecter, and Marina Ferrer. Marina is part of Tina and Bette’s circle of friends, and owns the neighborhood café, The Planet, which serves as the group's hang-out and focal point for the show. Marina relentlessly pursues Jenny and succeeds in destroying her relationship with Tim. The season also introduces Shane McCutcheon, an androgynous, highly sexual hairstylist and serial heart-breaker; Alice Pieszecki, a girly, bisexual journalist looking for love in any way she can, and Dana Fairbanks, a professional tennis player who is still in the closet and torn between pursuing her career and finding love. In the first season, Dana falls for a sous chef named Lara Perkins whose sexuality is questioned by the group until Lara has an unexpected meeting with Dana in the locker room.\nAt the end of the season, Tina sees Bette and Candace touching hands and speaking intimately and immediately guesses about their affair. Tina and Bette break up, with Tina living at Alice's and Bette stays in their home.\n\nSeason 2 began airing on Showtime on February 20, 2005 and featured thirteen episodes. It starts by unveiling to the viewers a secret Tina is keeping from everyone: she successfully became impregnated after a second insemination. Tina and Bette are still apart. Bette doesn't deny the affair and begs Tina for forgiveness but later alienates herself from the group and continues the affair for a short while until realizing that it's Tina she wants to spend her life with not Candace and so ends their short affair. Tina begins seeing Helena, while Bette’s life is portrayed as a wreck, with alcohol abuse, problems with her job, the death of her father in episode 2.12:\"L'Chaim\", and being fired during the season finale. Tina and Bette reconcile during the final episode. The character of Marina was written out of the show, and the Planet was bought by Kit Porter.\n\nIntroduced in the second season are Carmen de la Pica Morales, a confident DJ who becomes part of a love triangle with Shane and Jenny; Helena Peabody, the daughter of a wealthy supporter of the arts who later becomes Tina's love interest; and Mark Wayland, a documentary filmmaker who moves in with Shane and Jenny. Mark makes them part of his latest documentary by setting up hidden cameras in the house to videotape them. During episode 2.09: \"Late, Later, Latent\", Jenny discovers Mark’s tapes and also discovers the truth about Carmen’s true love.\n\nSeason 2 introduces a developing affair between Alice and Dana, which becomes public in episode 2.07: \"Luminous\". It also presents insights into Jenny’s past as an abused child in episode 2.11: \"Loud and Proud\", and reveals episodes of self-harm that reach their climax in the season finale.\n\nThe television show set up contest at the website FanLib.com where fans could submit a femme slash fanfic. The winner's story was incorporated into a scene of a third-season episode.\n\nSeason 3 first aired on January 8, 2006, with 12 episodes. It begins six months after the birth of Tina and Bette's daughter, Angelica. New characters in this season include Moira Sweeney (a working class butch portrayed by Daniela Sea who is Jenny’s girlfriend for most of the season) and Angus Partridge (portrayed by Dallas Roberts), Angelica’s male nanny who later becomes Kit's lover. Sweeney starts the process of transitioning switching his name to Max. Erin Daniels' character Dana Fairbanks starts in a multi-episode storyline dealing with a breast cancer battle and culminating with her death.\n\nNotable of this season is that each episode begins with a short pre-credits vignette of two individuals meeting romantically or sexually. As the season progresses, lines from Alice's chart (\"see below\") connect one member of each vignette with a new individual in the next.\n\nHelena's character storyline was switched from being Bette's rival into a new member of the circle of friends. Her story arc for the season involves the acquisition of a movie studio in which Tina later works, and which further derives a sexual harassment lawsuit that triggers her mother to cut her off financially in the season finale. Sarah Shahi's character, Carmen, ends her appearance in the show in the finale when Shane leaves her at the altar.\n\nShowtime announced renewal of the series, in a February 2, 2006, press release:\n\nThe season premiere of the fourth season, \"Legend in the Making\", first aired on January 7, 2007. The filming of the season's twelve episodes began in Vancouver, on May 29, 2006.\n\nNew cast members for the show's fourth season included Academy-Award winner Marlee Matlin, three time Golden Globe winner Cybill Shepherd, Kristanna Loken, Rose Rollins, Jessica Capshaw and Janina Gavankar. Karina Lombard reprised her role as Marina Ferrer for two episodes. Film and television star Annabella Sciorra guest-starred in several episodes as lesbian film director Kate Arden, chosen to direct the film version of Jenny's story \"Lez Girls\".\n\nShowtime picked up a fifth season of \"The L Word\" for 12 episodes, touting the show as \"a signature franchise among our viewers\". Production began in Vancouver the summer of 2007 and ended in Los Angeles early November 2007. The fifth season premiered on January 6, 2008, with episode \"LGB Tease\".\n\nEva \"Papi\" Torres (Janina Gavankar), and Dallas Roberts' male token character Angus Patridge were both written out. Clementine Ford, reprised her role as Phyllis Kroll's daughter and began a relationship with Shane McCutcheon. Malaya Drew and Kate French were cast as guest characters for this season. Drew played Adele, a young fan of Jenny's work who gets hired as her personal assistant. French played Niki Stevens, an ambitious young actress and closeted lesbian who won the lead role of Jenny's character, Jesse, in the feature film production of 'Lez Girls'. She also began having a relationship with Jenny, who was directing the film. Elizabeth Keener joined the show as entrepreneur Dawn Denbo, who started a rival lesbian bar with her lover Cindi.\n\nShowtime confirmed a sixth and final season for \"The L Word\". Unlike the show's previous seasons, it only lasted 8 episodes to conclude the show with 71 episodes in total. Studio executives commented on the longevity of the show, with the Showtime president of entertainment Robert Greenblatt saying that \"The L Word\" has \"surpassed its niche as a gay show\". The sixth season premiered on January 18, 2009 and ended its original run on March 8 of the same year. Producers and writers of \"The L Word\" took viewers' opinions regarding the final season’s episodes. The main story of the season is related to the death of Jennifer Schecter and the rest of the season is a flashback from that point.\n\nBefore airing the show, Creator Ilene Chaiken denied reports of socialite Paris Hilton guest starring on an interview on gaydarnation.com. Ilene Chaiken said in an interview with the New York Post Magazine that she had offered DJ Samantha Ronson a guest spot in Season 6 but Ronson declined as she was busy. In July 2008, it was confirmed that Elizabeth Berkley would star as Kelly Wentworth (née Freemont) in a multi-episode arc of the final season. Mei Melançon also made guest appearances for the last season as Jamie Chen, a counselor from the L.A. Gay and Lesbian Youth Center who befriends Alice and Tasha and becomes their third-wheel crush.\n\nShortly after airing the final episode, Showtime began releasing short videos in which characters revealed secrets that weren't revealed during the course of the show. Each video showed the interrogation of one character with a new video being released each Monday after the final episode via the Showtime website. At some point in time Showtime's website ceased carrying the videos, but they can be found on YouTube. All episodes feature Lucy Lawless as Sgt. Marybeth Duffy and Sean Tyson as Det. Sean Holden who are investigating the death of Jenny Schecter.\n\nFollowing the seven interrogation tapes (featuring Bette, Tina, Alice, Max, Helena, Niki & Shane), the same URL offered an interview with series creator Ilene Chaiken in two weekly installments. Chaiken discussed several aspects of the show's history and plotlines, but would only consent to reiterating that Alice went to jail for Jenny's murder while not necessarily being guilty of the crime. Ilene Chaiken and the cast have commented on different theories about Jenny's death.\n\nOn July 11, 2017, it was announced a sequel season was in the works with Showtime. Marja-Lewis Ryan has been selected to serve as executive producer and showrunner.\n\nSeries creator Ilene Chaiken wrote and produced a 20-minute presentation for a possible spin-off centering on another lesbian group in a women's prison where Leisha Hailey's character Alice Pieszecki is detained. \"The Farm\" started shooting in December 2008, while the sixth and final season of \"The L Word\" premiered in January 2009. Famke Janssen, Melissa Leo and Laurie Metcalf were part of the cast.\n\nShowtime's CEO Matthew Blank announced plans for the new show at the Television Critics Association press tour in July 2008. It was announced in April that Showtime declined to pick up \"The Farm\" as a series, which may leave the open-ended element of the series finale as permanently unresolved.\n\nChaiken has expressed interest in producing a film based on the series in an interview aired through \"The L Word\"'s website, although according to her declarations, it probably would not emphasize any of the unresolved plot lines of the show and would simply continue the story of the characters' friendships. No official proposals or green-lighting related to an \"L Word\" film have been publicized.\n\nChaiken continued \"The L Word\" franchise with the Showtime series \"The Real L Word\", debuting June 20, 2010. The reality series followed the lives of six lesbians in Los Angeles. In an interview for the new series, Chaiken revealed Alice did not kill Jenny in the original series.\n\nAs of March 2008, \"The L Word\" has released five compilation CDs with the show's soundtrack. The music composer of the show is EZgirl. The music supervisor is Natasha Duprey.\n\nAll three of Leisha Hailey's bands have been referenced in the series. A song by The Murmurs, Hailey's first band, was used in a first-season episode and included on that season's soundtrack. During the second season, the character Shane is sometimes seen wearing a T-shirt for Gush, Hailey's second band. Songs of Hailey's most recent band, Uh Huh Her, were featured during the show's fifth and sixth seasons; the character Tasha Williams is seen wearing an Uh Huh Her T-shirt during the sixth season.\n\n\"The Chart\" is a graph of the affairs that occur among Alice's friends and acquaintances; it is an undirected labeled graph in which nodes are labeled with people's names and the lines represent affairs or hookups. \nOriginally, \"The L Word\" was to be based around a lesbian Kit Porter, and \"The Chart\" was tattooed on her back. When Kit Porter was changed into a straight character, The Chart was given to Alice instead.\n\nThe Chart is a recurrent element in the show's storylines, especially those related to its creator within the series. During Season 3, it also serves as a marginal storyline that advances through each episode and concludes in the season finale – as well as a way to track the characters and get to know how they interact within the lesbian community.\n\nThe Concept of The Chart was further exploited in Season Four. Within the series, The Chart evolves into an internet social network hosting profiles and provides the introduction for the character of Papi in Episode 4.01:\"Legend in the Making\". At the same time, a real-world parallel project OurChart.com was launched. The website, which allowed registered members to create their own profiles and also hosted several blogs on the show, was fully operational until the launch of the Sixth Season, after which Ilene Chaiken announced through an online statement that OurChart.com had merged with Showtime's website.\n\nThe show's first season was \"broadcast to critical acclaim and instant popularity\"; as an article from \"The New York Times\" pointed out:\n\nCo-creator and executive producer Ilene Chaiken had some issues with the reaction:\n\nWhile the show is seen as fulfilling lesbians' \"obvious and modest representational need\" or even the \"ferocious desire not only to be seen in some literal sense... but to be seen with all the blood and angst and magic that you possess\", the show has been criticized for various scenes which serve to \"reify heteronormativity\". The show has also been praised for its nuanced consideration (in the first season) of how and in what ways lesbians should stand up to the religious right, with the \"Provocations\" art show storyline being \"a fictionalized version of what happened when Cincinnati's Contemporary Art Center booked a controversial exhibition of Mapplethorpe photographs in 1990\".\n\nUnlike its network predecessor \"Queer as Folk\", praised critically for its ground-breaking material that was both well-written and well-acted, there have been complaints from critics regarding \"The L Word\"'s watered-down, unrealistically glamorous characters and melodrama. Some reviewers (and fans) are put off by the theme song (introduced in the second season) and the \"graceless, clunky dialogue\".\n\nSeveral shows have referenced \"The L Word\", including \"South of Nowhere\"'s first season episode \"Girls Guide to Dating\"; \"According to Jim\"; the medical drama \"House\"; the first season finale of \"Weeds\", Jon Stewart's \"The Daily Show\" (July 24, 2006); \"Chappelle's Show: The \"Lost Episodes\"\"; \"The Sopranos\" episode \"Live Free or Die\"; the US version of \"The Office\"; \"Gilmore Girls\" fourth season episode \"Scene in a Mall\"; \"The Big Gay Sketch Show\"; \"The Simpsons\" episode \"You Kent Always Say What You Want\"; and \"Family Guy\" episode \"Brian Sings and Swings\". Also, movies such as \"Puccini for Beginners\" and \"I Can't Think Straight\" have made mention of \"The L Word\" as to reference lesbians.\n\nBy the time the sixth and final season began, \"The New York Times\" was calling the show a \"Sapphic \"Playboy\" fantasia\" that has \"shown little interest in variegating portrayals of gay experience. Instead it has seemed to work almost single-mindedly to counter the notion of \"lesbian bed death\" and repeatedly remind the viewer of the \"limits and tortures of monogamy\" while \"never align[ing] itself with the traditionalist ambitions [for same-sex marriage] of a large faction of the gay rights movement\".\n\nIn 2006, Laurel Holloman won a Satellite Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama for her portrayal of Tina Kennard; the International Press Academy also nominated the show for a Satellite Award for Best Television Series – Drama. In the second season, Ossie Davis received a posthumous Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Guest Actor in a drama series in recognition of his portrayal of the father of Bette and Kit Porter. The show received multiple nominations for GLAAD Media Awards and both Pam Grier and Jennifer Beals were repeatedly nominated for NAACP Image Awards.\n\nIn 2008 \"The L Word\"'s companion website was honored at the 59th Annual Technology & Engineering Emmy Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Advanced Media Technology for Best Use of Commercial Advertising on Personal Computers.\n\n"}
{"id": "44455949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44455949", "title": "The Quarrel of Oberon and Titania", "text": "The Quarrel of Oberon and Titania\n\nThe Quarrel of Oberon and Titania is an oil on canvas painting by the Scottish artist Sir Joseph Noel Paton. Painted in 1849, it depicts the scene from William Shakespeare's comedy play \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", when the fairy queen Titania and fairy king Oberon quarrel; Oberon was considered the King of the fairies in medieval and Renaissance literature. When exhibited in Edinburgh during 1850, it was declared as the \"painting of the season\". It was acquired by the National Galleries of Scotland in 1897, having initially been bought by the Royal Association for Promoting the Fine Arts in Scotland during 1850. An earlier version of this painting was Paton's diploma picture, which was submitted to the Royal Scottish Academy in 1846; they paid £700 for it.\n\nThe overall dimensions of the oil on canvas painting are . Based on William Shakespeare's comedy play \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", it depicts a scene in which the fairy queen Titania and fairy king Oberon quarrel with each other. Oberon was considered the King of the fairies in medieval and Renaissance literature. The scene depicts Act II, scene i, put into an enchanting imaginary landscape when Oberon is arguing with Titania, just as nightfall descends. The setting is the couple's woodland home outside Athens and they are surrounded by a group of fairies. According to Lewis Carroll, the author of \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", 165 fairies are in the painting. The subject of the couple's argument is the changeling boy, who is hiding behind Titania. A lily pond is at the front of the painting and the woodland setting is made up from leaves, flowers and aged twisted trees. Titania's head is encircled by a group of fairies forming a bright crown of light. A statue of Pan with a set of pipes is placed to the right of the picture with several couples in a state of undress positioned beneath it. Goblins mingle with elves and imps that all cavort among the nude fairies; some other little, ugly figures are scattered throughout together with moths, beetles, spiders and snails.\n\nPaton's earlier work in 1847, \"The Reconciliation of Oberon and Titania\", was considered by Paton to be \"related yet self-contained\".\n\nFirst exhibited at the Royal Scottish Academy in 1850, where it was declared to be the \"painting of the season\", the picture was purchased by the Royal Association for Promoting the Fine Arts in Scotland during that year. The \"Quarrel\" was later displayed at the Paris Exhibition in 1855, being listed as \"Representative of British Art\". It passed to the ownership of the National Galleries of Scotland in 1897. An earlier study of this painting was completed in 1846 and featured as Paton's diploma picture at the Royal Scottish Academy that year. The Academy purchased the earlier work for £700.\n\nAccording to Richard Schindler, Associate Professor of Art at Allegheny College, the piece bears influences from the works of Henry Fuseli, an opinion shared by Carole Silver, a professor with a particular interest in the 19th-century fascination with fairies. Christopher Wood, an expert in Victorian art, described Paton's work as being \"some of the most remarkable fairy pictures\".\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "50279693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50279693", "title": "The Straw Hat (Lytras)", "text": "The Straw Hat (Lytras)\n\nThe straw hat is an oil painting by Nikolaos Lytras created in 1925, and is considered as one of the most daring and impressive works of early Greek Modernism. It is exhibited at the National Gallery of Greece.\n\nThe theme depicts a young girl with a straw hat in a whitened courtyard in an island landscape during a hot summer day.\n\nIt is characteristic of the work of Lystras, who was one of the most notable figures of the Art Group founded in 1917 influenced by expressionism. The artist uses strong and vivid colors, cold and blue-gray cold on the bottom, orange-yellow warm colors at the top. This painting is dominated by shades of yellow with a complementary purple that paints the figure with wide free strokes of thick paint and gestural brushwork, emphasizing the material nature of the color.\n\n"}
{"id": "42038162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42038162", "title": "Themodmin", "text": "Themodmin\n\nThemodmin is a training and software development technology company that started as an international architecture and design firm back in 2012 and shift towards architecture software consulting on the beginning of 2016 it founded by Mohammed Majdi Hamada, with its main office situated in Cyberjaya , Malaysia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38325061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38325061", "title": "Theodor Wilhelm Danzel", "text": "Theodor Wilhelm Danzel\n\nTheodor Wilhelm Danzel (4 February 1818, Hamburg – 9 May 1850, Leipzig) was a German literary historian and philosopher.\n\nHe studied as the universities of Leipzig, Halle and Berlin, obtaining his doctorate at the University of Jena with a thesis on Plato's philosophical methods (1841). As a student, he was an ardent follower of Hegelian philosophy. In 1845 he received his habilitation at Leipzig, where he subsequently worked as a lecturer.\n\nHe died in Leipzig on May 9, 1850 at the age of 32.\n\n"}
{"id": "36786225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36786225", "title": "Thomas Kershaw", "text": "Thomas Kershaw\n\nThomas Kershaw (1819–1898) was a leading British pioneer of marbleizing, the creation of imitation marble finishes.\n\nHe was born in Standish, Lancashire and from the age of 12 served his time as an apprentice to John Platt, a Bolton painter and decorator. During this time he bought graining tools with money earned from painting pictures and developed his skills in the art of wood graining. On completion of his apprenticeship he moved firstly to Manchester, then York and finally in 1845 to London. There he was employed by William Cubitt and Company, becoming their leading wood grainer.\n\nIn the mid-1840s he left Cubitts to be independent and exhibited his imitation marble panels at the Great Exhibition of 1851, which won him a prize. At the Paris Exposition Universelle of 1855 he won a gold medal, but felt obliged to carry out public demonstrations of his craft in the exhibition hall after accusations that he was using some type of fraudulent transfer technique. On his return he bought a house in Baker Street and set up his own specialist decorating company.\n\nHe was given several lucrative contracts, including one from the Royal family to marbleise the columns at Buckingham Palace and Osborne House, but turned down a request from the Russian Ambassador to marbleise the interior of the Imperial Palace in St Petersburg. In 1862 he won another gold medal at the London Exhibition and was elected a liveryman in the Painter-Stainers Company for thirty-eight years. In 1860 he was granted the Freedom of the City of London.\n\nHe died a rich man in 1898. He had married in 1857 and had a daughter.\n\n\nExamples of his work are on show in Bolton Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4862070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4862070", "title": "Unit production manager", "text": "Unit production manager\n\nA unit production manager (UPM) is the DGA–approved title for the top below-the-line staff position, responsible for the administration of a feature film or television production. Non-DGA productions might call it the production manager or production supervisor. They work closely with the line producer. Sometimes the line producer is the UPM. A senior producer may assign a UPM more than one production at a time.\n\nA UPM is usually hired by a film producer or television producer, and is responsible for managing the production and regulating the costs of delivering the expected film or television show on budget at the end of principal photography. Based on a shooting script, the UPM will create a working budget during pre-production, prior to the start of principal photography, thereby charting a recommended budgetary course. Typically, a producer will oversee all the cost-related decisions, including above-the-line expenditures (especially during pre-production). However, the UPM is responsible for the more detailed planning and execution of the below-the-line costs (primarily for physical production). The film's director will select important department heads (keys) or support personnel related to his work, including the casting director, cinematographer, costume designer, production designer, and film editor. For below-the-line matters, the UPM often negotiates deals (for location, equipment, etc.) and hires the remaining crew, typically on the recommendation of the keys and/or based on prior experience with trusted individuals.\n\nThe UPM frequently does not have any direct responsibilities with the creative direction of the film's narrative, although in some cases he will and can be consulted. Many budget decisions affect the creative direction of the project. He or she is to support the director's artistic vision on a daily physical production level.\n\nBefore principal photography begins both the producer and UPM work to secure as many of the production elements as possible, including a workable schedule and budget. Usually from a production office during pre-production, they may later divide their time between the office and the set while the film is being shot. An on-set trailer may also be used as a makeshift production office. Like nearly all members of a film crew, UPMs will typically remain on the shoot until the end of principal photography and can return if there are any reshoots. It is not atypical for a UPM to work 80-100 (or more) hours per week while a film is in production.\n\nIn the US, a union UPM is represented by The Directors Guild of America. Certain conditions must be adhered to on a union shoot in order to remain in good standing with the DGA. These include expected salary rates, working hours, overtime penalties, required meals and other related criteria.\n\nHighly experienced UPMs bring great value to a project for their strategic and creative problem-solving skills. These individuals will positively affect the film's budget as well as the final outcome and quality of the film on multiple levels.\n\nThe UPM, under the supervision of the employer, is required to coordinate, facilitate and oversee the preparation of the production unit or units (to the extent herein provided) assigned to him or her, all off-set logistics, day-to-day production decisions, locations, budget schedules and personnel. Without limitation, among the duties which the Employer must assign to the UPM or First Assistant are the supervision of or participation in the following:\n"}
{"id": "48434874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48434874", "title": "Vagina and vulva in art", "text": "Vagina and vulva in art\n\nThe vagina and vulva have been depicted in art from prehistory to the contemporary art era of the 21st century. Visual art forms representing the female genitals encompass two-dimensional (e.g. paintings) and three-dimensional (e.g. statuettes). As long ago as 35,000 years ago, people sculpted Venus figurines that exaggerated the abdomen, hips, breasts, thighs, or vulva.\n\nIn 1866, Gustave Courbet painted a picture of a nude woman which depicted the female genitals, entitled \"The Origin of the World\". In the 20th and 21st century, artists such as Niki de Saint Phalle, Jean Tinguely, Megumi Igarashi and Anish Kapoor have created artworks that depict the vagina or vulva. Sometimes these are explicitly works of feminist art: Judy Chicago created \"The Dinner Party\" to celebrate 39 women of history and myth, many of whom had fallen into obscurity. Other artists deny that their works reference the vulva or vagina, although critics view them as such; the flower paintings of Georgia O'Keeffe are a case in point.\n\nThere have long been folklore traditions, such as the \"vagina loquens\" (\"talking vagina\") and the \"vagina dentata\" (\"toothed vagina\"). Playwright Eve Ensler wrote the \"Vagina Monologues\", a popular stage work about many aspects of women's sexuality. In some cases, vagina- or vulva-themed art has attracted controversy and led to legal issues or official censorship pertaining to perceptions of obscenity.\n\nVarious perceptions of the vagina have existed throughout history, including the belief it is the center of sexual desire, a metaphor for life via birth, inferior to the penis, visually unappealing, inherently unpleasant to smell, or otherwise vulgar. The vagina has been known by many names, including the ancient vulgarism \"cunt\", euphemisms (\"lady garden\"), slang (\"pussy\"), and derogatory epithets. Some cultures view the vulva as something shameful that should be hidden. For example, the term \"pudendum\", the Latin term used in medical English for the external genitalia, literally means \"shameful thing\".\n\nPositive views of the vagina use it to represent female sexuality, spirituality, or life, e.g. as a \"powerful symbol of womanliness, openness, acceptance, and receptivity ... the inner valley spirit\". Hinduism has given the world the symbol of the \"yoni\", and this may indicate the value that Hindu society has given female sexuality and the vagina's ability to birth life. Other ancient cultures celebrated and even worshipped the vulva, for example in some ancient Middle Eastern religions and the paleolithic artworks dubbed \"Old Europe\" by archaeologist Marija Gimbutas. As an aspect of Goddess worship such reverence may be part of modern Neopagan beliefs.\n\nTwo-dimensional and three-dimensional representations of the vulva, i.e. paintings and figurines, exist from tens of millennia ago. They are some of the earliest works of prehistoric art.\n\nThe cave of Chufín located in the town of Riclones in Cantabria (Spain) has prehistoric rock art which may be a depiction of the vulva. The cave was occupied at different periods, the oldest being around 20,000 years ago. Aside from schematic engravings and paintings of animals, there are also many symbols, such as a those known as \"sticks\". There is also a large number of drawings using points (\"puntillaje\"), including one which has been interpreted as a representation of a vulva.\n\nA Venus figurine is any Upper Paleolithic statuette portraying a woman. Most have been unearthed in Europe, but others have been found as far away as Siberia, extending their distribution across much of Eurasia. Most of them date from the Gravettian period (28,000–22,000 years ago), but examples exist as early as the Venus of Hohle Fels, which dates back at least 35,000 years to the Aurignacian, and as late as the Venus of Monruz, from about 11,000 years ago in the Magdalenian.\n\nThese figurines were carved from soft stone (such as steatite, calcite or limestone), bone or ivory, or formed of clay and fired. The latter are among the oldest ceramics known. In total, over a hundred such figurines are known; virtually all of modest size, between 4 cm and 25 cm in height. Most of them have small heads, wide hips, and legs that taper to a point. Various figurines exaggerate the abdomen, hips, breasts, thighs, or vulva. In contrast, arms and feet are often absent, and the head is usually small and faceless.\n\nThe ancient Sumerians regarded the vulva as sacred and a vast number of Sumerian poems praising the vulva of the goddess Inanna have survived. In Sumerian religion, the goddess Nin-imma is the divine personification of female genitalia. Her name literally means \"lady female genitals\". She appears in one version of the myth of \"Enki and Ninsikila\" in which she is the daughter of Enki and Ninkurra. Enki rapes her and causes her to give birth to Uttu, the goddess of weaving and vegetation. Vaginal fluid is always described in Sumerian texts as tasting \"sweet\" and, in a Sumerian Bridal Hymn, a young maiden rejoices that her vulva has grown hair. Clay models of vulvae were discovered in the temple of Inanna at Ashur; these models likely served as some form of amulets, possibly to protect against impotency.\n\nSheela na gigs are 11th and 12th century figurative carvings of naked women displaying an exaggerated vulva. They are architectural grotesques found on churches, castles, and other buildings, particularly in Ireland and Great Britain, sometimes together with male figures. One of the best examples may be found in the Round Tower at Rattoo, in County Kerry, Ireland. There is a replica of the round tower sheela na gig in the county museum in Tralee town. Another well-known example may be seen at Kilpeck in Herefordshire, England.\n\nSuch carvings are said to ward off death and evil. Other grotesques, such as gargoyles and hunky punks, were frequently part of church decorations all over Europe. It is commonly said that their purpose was to keep evil spirits away through the use of apotropaic magic. They often are positioned over doors or windows, presumably to protect these openings.\n\nWeir and Jerman argue that their location on churches and the grotesque features of the figures, by medieval standards, suggests that they represented female lust as hideous and sinfully corrupting. Another theory, espoused by Joanne McMahon and Jack Roberts, is that the carvings are remnants of a pre-Christian fertility or mother goddess religion. A 2016 book by Starr Goode called the \"Sheela na gig: The Dark Goddess of Sacred Power\", traces these images throughout history and contributes a discussion of the universality of \"female sacred display\" in it meanings and functions back to the origins of culture as seen in the Paleolithic cave art through the inclusion of the image in contemporary art, particularly feminist art.\n\nThe vagina loquens, or \"talking vagina\", is a significant tradition in literature and art, dating back to ancient folklore motifs. These tales usually involve vaginas talking due to the effect of magic or charms, and often admitting to their unchastity.\n\nAnother folk tale concerns the vagina dentata (\"toothed vagina\"). The implication of these tales is that sexual intercourse might result in injury, emasculation, or castration for the man involved. These stories were frequently told as cautionary tales warning of the dangers of unknown women and to discourage rape.\n\nIn 1966, the French artist Niki de Saint Phalle collaborated with Dadaist artist Jean Tinguely and on a large sculpture installation entitled \"hon-en katedral\" (also spelled \"Hon-en-Katedrall\", which means \"she-a cathedral\") for Moderna Museet, in Stockholm, Sweden. The outer form is a giant reclining sculpture of a woman with her legs spread. Museum patrons can go inside her body by entering a door-sized vaginal opening. Saint Phalle stated that the sculpture represented a fertility goddess who was able to receive visitors into her body and then \"give birth\" to them again. Inside her body is a screen showing Greta Garbo films, a goldfish pond and a soft drink vending machine. The piece elicited immense public reaction in magazines and newspapers throughout the world.\nFrom 1974 to 1979, Judy Chicago, a feminist artist, created the vulva-themed installation artwork \"The Dinner Party\". It consists of 39 elaborate place settings arranged along a triangular table for 39 mythical and historical famous women. Virginia Woolf, Susan B. Anthony, Sojourner Truth, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and Theodora of Byzantium are among those honoured. Each plate, except the one corresponding to Sojourner Truth (a Black woman), depicts a brightly-colored, elaborately styled butterfly-vulva form. After it was produced, despite resistance from the art world, it toured to 16 venues in six countries to a viewing audience of 15 million. Since 2007, it has been on permanent exhibition in the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn Museum, New York. Chicago gave Georgia O'Keeffe a prominent place in \"The Dinner Party\", because some modern feminists believe that O'Keeffe's detailed flower paintings such as \"Black Iris III\" (1926) evoke a veiled representation of female genitalia. O'Keeffe consistently denied the validity these Freudian interpretations of her art.\n\nModern artistic representation of the vagina coincides with 18th century anatomical dissection and identification of the genitalia (i.e., William Hunter). Contemporary art, from a feminist perspective, has revisited and deconstructed the androcentric view of woman genitalia and the stereotypical identification with female subjectivity (i.e., Ana Mendieta, Enrique Chagoya, Vik Muniz, Candice Lin, etc.).\n\n\"The Vagina Monologues\", a 1996 episodic play by Eve Ensler, has contributed to making female sexuality a topic of public discourse. It is made up of a varying number of monologues read by a number of women. Initially, Ensler performed every monologue herself, with subsequent performances featuring three actresses; latter versions feature a different actress for every role. Each of the monologues deals with an aspect of the feminine experience, touching on matters such as sexual activity, love, rape, menstruation, female genital mutilation, masturbation, birth, orgasm, the various common names for the vagina, or simply as a physical aspect of the body. A recurring theme throughout the pieces is the vagina as a tool of female empowerment, and the ultimate embodiment of individuality.\n\nJamie McCartney, based in Brighton on the south coast of England, created the Great Wall of Vagina, made from dozens of models of vulvas, showing widespread variation.\n\nAidan Salahova is an Azerbaijanian artist, gallerist and public person. In an article entitled \"Vagina Art Veiled at Azerbaijan's Venice Biennale Pavilion, Causing Some to Cry Censorship\", Kate Deimling stated that in 2011, Salahova's \"Black Stone\", a \"sculpture depicting the black stone in Mecca venerated by Muslims within a vagina-like marble frame, were both covered up\". She was representing the Azerbaijan Pavilion among other national artists at the 54th Venice Biennale. Two of her artworks previously approved by the ministry of culture were ordered to be covered and eventually removed from the exhibition a day before the opening, \"because of government sensitives towards the nation's status as a secular Muslim country\". The officials said the works had been damaged during transportation. Commenting on the conflict, the pavilion curator Beral Madra stated that the concept of the removed sculptures had been misinterpreted by the government, and added that in over 25 years of curating she had not \"ever experienced this kind of conflict\".\n\nIn 2012, an image of an 1866 Gustave Courbet painting of the female genitals, entitled \"The Origin of the World\", being posted on Facebook led to a legal dispute. After a French teacher posted an image of the painting, Facebook considered the image to be pornographic and suspended his account for violating its terms of use. \"The Huffington Post\" called the painting \"a frank image of a vagina.\" Mark Stern of \"Slate\", who called the painting a stunning, brilliant \"...cornerstone of the French Realistic movement\", states that the teacher then sued the website for allegedly violating his freedom of speech. In October 2013, artist Peter Reynosa created a \"... red and white acrylic painting [that] depicts [pop singer] Madonna painted in the shape of a defiant yonic symbol that looks like a vagina or vulva.\"\n\n\"101 Vagina\" is a 2013 black-and-white photo-book by Philip Werner, with a foreword by Toni Childs. The book contains 101 close-up nude photos shot in a non-provocative way, along with an accompanying story or message written by each woman about her vagina. The book's photos and stories were exhibited five times in Australia in 2013, with a US and Canadian tour in 2014 taking in six locations. Werner was initially inspired by \"The Vagina Monologues\" and subjects were found via social media after Werner publicised his objective to create a book that had both an educational and celebratory goal. Stories accompanying the photos discuss various themes, including ageing, pregnancy, Brazilian waxing, first sexual encounter and poor body image. In Sydney the exhibition was visited by police responding to a complaint that the images were visible from the street. Images were required to be censored as part of a group exhibition at The Sydney Fringe.\n\nLena Marquise is a Russian-born, American visual and performance artist. Her work often covers the subjects of sex work and censorship, eliciting critical response for its controversial eroticism. In 2014, at Art Basel Miami, Marquise performed in an installation artwork, \"Body As Commodity\", at VECTOR Gallery. In this artwork, she charged cellphones with her vagina. Musical artist Usher visited VECTOR Gallery on December 3, 2014, and he participated by charging his cell phone inside the installation. It was the top story generated during Art Basel. VECTOR Gallery is curated and operated by JJ Brine, who is an American visual artist and gallerist. He has drawn attention and critical response for his use of controversial Satanic imagery. Brine and Lena Marquise have previously collaborated on an erotic Satanic short film \"The Visitor\" written by Brine and performed by Marquise as the Biblical Mary where she masturbates with a knife while chanting patriarchal verses as a commentary on mass genital mutilation in Egypt.\n\nIn Japan, artist Megumi Igarashi has drawn attention for her work featuring vaginas and vulvas, which she considers \"overly hidden\" in Japan compared to male genitalia. In July 2014, Igarashi was arrested by Japanese authorities for distributing 3D data of her vulva to contributors of her crowdsource campaign. She has also made vagina-themed sculptures. While police charged Igarashi for her vulva- and vagina-themed artworks, there are several phallus festivals in Japan in which participants parade with massive penis sculptures, a practice which is deemed acceptable by authorities.\n\nIn 2015 Anish Kapoor, a Turner Prize-winning artist, created controversy with his sculpture entitled \"Dirty Corner\", a \"massive steel funnel set in broken stone, placed in the garden of the...Palace of Versailles\", which he claims is a depiction of the vagina of the former Queen of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "54967339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54967339", "title": "Wading in the Water", "text": "Wading in the Water\n\nWading in the Water is a 2007 mixed media collage by artist India Cruse-Griffin located on the Eskenazi Health campus, near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is part of the Eskenazi Health Art Collection.\n\n\"Wading in the Water\" is a 2007 mixed media collage by artist India Cruse-Griffin, which depicts a young woman in a pink dress in front of a tree-lined bank, waist deep in a body of water, reaching down to grab a fish. The work, which measures 37.25\" x 49.25\", framed, is made from collaged paper gathered from magazines, upon which Cruse-Griffin then paints, often allowing the underlying magazine paper to show through. While her subjects are often clear and straightforward, this collage technique serves as a reminder of the accumulation of lived experience.\n\n\"Wading in the Water\" was acquired by Eskenazi Health as part of a re-imagining of the organization's historical art collection and to support \"the sense of optimism, vitality and energy\" of its new campus in 2013. In response to its nationwide request for proposals, Eskenazi Health received more than 500 submissions from 39 states, which were then narrowed to 54 finalists by an independent jury. Each of the 54 proposals was assigned an area of the new hospital by Eskenazi Health's art committee and publicly displayed in the existing Wishard Hospital and online for public comment; more than 3,000 public comments on the final proposals were collected and analyzed in the final selection. \"Wading in the Water\" is credited \"in honor of Greg Kelleher, Lisa E. Harris, M.D.\"\n\n\"Wading in the Water\" is currently displayed in the Robert & Gina Laikin Surgery Registration & Waiting Room on the third floor of Sidney & Lois Eskenazi Hospital.\n\nIndiana-based artist India Cruse-Griffin received her BS in Art Education from Ball State University. She has exhibited extensively, including at the Richmond Art Museum, Indiana University East, the Northern Indiana Arts Association, Indiana State Museum and the National Black Fine Art Show held annually in New York. Her work is included in the permanent collections of the Indiana State Museum, the Indiana Governor’s Residence, Indiana University, Richmond Community Schools, the Richmond Art Museum and Reid Memorial Hospital in Richmond. Cruse-Griffin teaches art at Richmond Senior High School, where she won two Teacher of the Year awards in 2010-2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40034200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40034200", "title": "Ziegler &amp; Co.", "text": "Ziegler &amp; Co.\n\nZiegler & Co. was a Manchester-based Anglo-Swiss producer and distributor of Persian carpets in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The company had workshops in Tabriz and Sultanabad (now Arak), and it supplied retailers such as Liberty & Company and Harvey Nichols. \n\nThe company's designs were modified (often substantially so) versions of more traditional Persian designs, and it used the latest dying techniques and employed the best artisans from the area. The company's carpets tended to have bolder all-over patterns and softer palettes than the livelier traditional Persian carpets. \n\n\"Ziegler carpets\" long ago became a term used to refer to this style of carpet. Modern-day Ziegler-style carpets are being produced in many countries. Original Ziegler carpets and old carpets with similar designs are often highly valued by collectors.\n\n\n"}
