{"id": "55586589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55586589", "title": "21st century Madagascar plague outbreaks", "text": "21st century Madagascar plague outbreaks\n\nMadagascar has experienced two outbreaks of bubonic and pneumonic plague in the 21st century. In 2014, 40 died, and in 2017, 221 died.\n\nAn outbreak of plague in Madagascar in 2014 started on 31 August. On that day the first case, a man from Soamahamanina village in Tsiroanomandidy, was identified. The patient died on 3 September. The outbreak is in the form of bubonic and pneumonic plague. By 16 November 2014, a total of 119 cases had been confirmed, including 40 deaths. Two percent of reported cases were of the pneumonic form. By 21 November, in the capital Antananarivo there were two confirmed cases, including one death.\n\nOn 4 November 2014, the Ministry of Health of Madagascar reported the outbreak to the World Health Organization.\n\nA more recent outbreak of plague in Madagascar began in August 2017 and expanded rapidly, with about two-thirds of cases transmitted person-to-person as pneumonic plague, the most dangerous form of the disease. The death toll of 124 by 20 October exceeded that of previous outbreaks. More than half of cases have been recorded in the capital of Antananarivo and the main port of Toamasina, the largest cities in Madagascar. Nine nearby countries were considered at high risk of a similar outbreak. The outbreak appeared to peak in Mid-October with the number of new cases declining. Typically the annual plague outbreak peaks in December and runs until April.\n\nOn 2 November, a ProMED-mail moderator expressed surprise at the considerable variation reported in numbers of cases and deaths, especially with the relatively low case-fatality rate (CFR) considering that pneumomic plague is reported to account for over 60 percent of deaths. An article from the World Health Organization reported more than 1800 cases as of late October, while nearly 500 fewer had been reported in the week previously.\n\nIn January 2018 the experts declared the outbreak over as no new cases had been reported since November 2017, although the World health organization stated that there was a \"moderate\" chance or re-occurrence. Malagasy Prime Minister Olivier Mahafaly Solonandrasana had declared the crisis over on 23 November 2017.\n\nThe outbreak began in August 2017 with the death from pneumonic plague of a 31-year-old man who had been traveling in a crowded minibus toward the capital city of Antananarivo in the central highlands. The outbreak expanded rapidly, transmitted person-to-person in the pneumonic form of the disease, which accounted for more than 60 percent of cases. Scientists discovered three new strains of \"Y. pestis\" in Madagascar in 2017. Additionally, one strain of \"Y. pestis\" was found to be resistant to antibiotic treatment. Because of plague moving from rural to urban areas, there is increased risk for transmission to other countries. Urban areas that are a major transportation hub for shipping and recreation are at high risk for transmitting plague to nearby countries.\n\nThe outbreak was initially recognized on 11 September by local authorities and confirmed by the Institut Pasteur de Madagascar. Authorities called the outbreak \"quite worrisome\" because the number of cases per day was growing rapidly, and many cases were in urban areas where there are more opportunities for contact between people. Panic was reported in the capital, with the main hospital overcrowded with cases. The death toll in this outbreak had by mid-October exceeded an outbreak in 2014. Most cases were of the pneumonic form. The bubonic form, transmitted by the bites of fleas from rodents, is more usual in the annual outbreaks in Madagascar. The government announced they had \"temporarily suspended gatherings to the general public in places where the traceability of the participants is difficult if not impossible (stadiums, sports palaces, gymnasiums …)\".\n\nBy 8 November, deaths had risen to 165 with infections totalling over 2000, however the rate of spread had slowed, raising hope that the outbreak was starting to come under control. Concerns continued to be raised that plague might still spread to neighboring countries, or mutate to a form that could be more difficult to treat. By 15 November, there had been 171 deaths and 2119 total cases of plague, however no new infections had been reported since 28 October.\n\nPlague is caused by the bacterium \"Yersinia pesti\" and is most commonly transmitted through infected fleas. There are three types of plague: bubonic, pneumonic and septicemic. Bubonic plague is the most well-known type. This type of plague results in swollen lymph nodes that are called buboes. This type of plague is treatable with antibiotics, but if not treated effectively, the infection can spread to different parts of the body. Pneumonic plague occurs when plague infects the lungs and is transmissible person to person through infected droplets. This form of plague is very deadly. Septicemic plague occurs when plague enters the blood. Skin and tissues turn black and die, and bleeding into skin and organs often occurs. This form of plague is also deadly. Pneumonic plague and septicemic plague often occur when bubonic plague goes untreated and are difficult to diagnose.\n\nPlague has endemically resided in Madagascar since it was first brought to the island from India in 1898, on the central high plateau of Madagascar, usually occurring every year as a seasonal upsurge during the rainy season. Plague resides in Madagascar similar to the way flu resides in the United States. \"Plague season\" is generally October through March, and mostly affects rural areas of Madagascar. Plague, although endemic, has been relatively dormant in Madagascar until 1990. Annually until then, there were about 20-30 cases reported a year. Recently, however, the annual number of cases has risen to typically between 800 and 1500 a year. All cases of plague must be reported to the Ministry of Health; however, cases often go underreported due to lack of quality epidemiologic resources in rural areas. Tests for plague used in these areas often have low sensitivity and are unreliable. In the past, cases of plague in Madagascar have been bubonic and not transmittable person to person. The increase in plague cases over the last 20 years have been largely due to an increase in pneumonic plague. Pneumonic plague is transmitted person to person via infected droplets. It is often difficult to diagnose and by the time it is diagnosed, cases are usually fatal. Case fatality rate of pneumonic plague in Madagascar is close to 75%.\n\nWhen an endemic disease, such as Ebola or plague, is introduced to a new geographic area that is densely populated with international shipping routes, it increases transmission rates and leads to severe outbreaks and potential pandemics. Although urban areas like Antananarvio and Mahajanga are more affluent, they are still impoverished in global comparison. Insufficient waste management, lack of clean water, and poor infrastructure are all issues that are breeding grounds for rats and fleas and therefore perpetuate plague transmission in urban areas. Furthermore, the rat-to-flea cycle of transmission has not changed since the first pandemic of plague. This type of consistency allows the organism to become more infectious.\n\nHigh rates of plague transmission have been associated with low rat abundance and high volume of flea vectors. Historically, rats who acted as hosts to the flea vector subsequently died once they were infected with plague. However, the organism evolved and scientists are now finding that rats are not dying from plague. This means that plague survives longer in the host and allows for the bacteria to live longer and potentially infect more people. Scientists discovered three new strains of \"Y. pestis\" in Madagascar in 2017. Additionally, one strain of \"Y. pestis\" was found to be resistant to antibiotic treatment. Because of plague moving from rural to urban areas, there is increased risk for transmission to other countries. Urban areas that are a major transportation hub for shipping and recreation are at high risk for transmitting plague to nearby countries. The elevation of the mountains where most of the agriculture takes place, in addition to the ideal climate that allows rats and fleas to prosper, scientists have seen plague thrive in Madagascar’s climate compared to other countries where there is endemic plague. During this plague season, rats and fleas infect the soil.\n\nScientists discovered three new strains of \"Y. pestis\" in Madagascar in 2017. Additionally, one strain of \"Y. pestis\" was found to be resistant to antibiotic treatment. Because of plague moving from rural to urban areas, there is increased risk for transmission to other countries. Urban areas that are a major transportation hub for shipping and recreation are at high risk for transmitting plague to nearby countries. This is how Ebola spread into a global pandemic.\n\nPlague in Madagascar is predominantly a rural disease related to agricultural activities. Plague \"season\" (October through April) coincides with the hot and rainy season in the agricultural highlands. Rats do not thrive in cold climate, and therefore are more prevalent during this time of year. Rice is a vital crop in Madagascar, and due to the high prevalence of fleas and rats in agricultural areas, plague bacteria often infects crops and soil. Many scientists have found that the plague bacteria \"Y. pestis\" can live in soil for months at a time.\n\nIn addition to agricultural factors that increase prevalence of plague, burial practices in Madagascar also spread disease. Famadihana is a burial practice in Madagascar that is practiced among the Malagasy people. It is commonly known as \"turning of the bones.\" Family members exhume their deceased family members from the family crypts and wrap them up in fresh cloth. Then, they dance around the crypt with the body to live music. This custom is based on a belief that the dead do not join the rest of their ancestors until their body reaches full decomposition with appropriate ceremonies. This process could take up to several years and involves direct contact with corpses. This burial practice perpetuates the spread of plague among other diseases.\n\nPlague is symptomatic of poverty. Rats and fleas thrive in rural and urban areas of Madagascar due to the impoverishment of the country. Lack of proper infrastructure, lack of sanitation and waste removal, little clean water, and scarce health facilities create a perfect breeding ground for rats and fleas to thrive. Although plague is prevalent in other countries, Madagascar has the highest fatality and accounts for 30% of all plague cases largely due poverty and lack of health resources like antibiotics and proper testing. Furthermore, outbreaks of plague have become increasingly more severe due to bubonic plague going untreated and developing into pneumonic plague. Once plague becomes pneumonic, it is significantly more contagious and is transmittable person to person.\n\nRecently, plague outbreaks have become increasingly more severe. The most recent outbreak in August 2017 is the worst to date with over 1,800 confirmed cases of plague. Of these confirmed cases, 1,100 of them were cases of pneumonic plague. 114 districts of Madagascar were affected by the plague outbreak. Usually, endemic plague only affects around 20 rural districts (WHO, 2017. This outbreak was different in nature due to the fact that the plague shifted from rural geographic location to urban geographic location. Plague was found in major shipping ports like Mahajanga and in the capital Antananarvio. The capital alone is home to 2.7 million people. Plague moving into urban areas increased transmission rates due to the high volume of people living in these areas and the amount of trade traffic that occurs on a daily basis.\n\nMadagascar proposed a National Plague Control Program, which is a surveillance program run by the government and the Ministry of Health that is based on immediate notification of every suspected case of plague. Every case reported to the National Plague Control Program is treated with antibiotics. In addition to this course of treatment, insecticide is brought to the home or work for flea control. Although the ideas and intentions of the National Plague Control Program are great and in theory could be very beneficial to treating and preventing outbreaks of plague. However, severe economic limitations make the execution of this program less than ideal. Furthermore, disparities in rural areas compared to urban areas make accessibility and testing in rural areas challenging. Economic resources need to be strengthened before this program can live up to its full potential. After the most recent, major outbreak, the WHO created a Crisis Emergency Committee to monitor the situation. They deployed epidemiologists, doctors, and risk management coordinators in order to coordinate surveillance, facilitate tracing contacts, oversee case management, administer isolation protocol, and distribute supplies. In addition to the new committee, Madagascar reallocated funds in order to help with isolation, treatment, and supplies. These solutions to the outbreak helped, as cases of plague declined and hospitalized patients decreased in volume. However, now that the major outbreaks have been handled, how do we continue to mitigate the burden of disease in these rural areas? Why is it that resources and funds are allocated only when outbreaks occur in dense, urban areas? How do we take steps to prevent against the next major outbreak? These are the questions that need to be answered and then action needs to be taken in order to reduce disparity among rural areas where plague is most prevalent.\n\nTwelve more cases of suspected plague appeared in the Seychelles days after the death of a 34-year-old male who had recently traveled to Madagascar and who was confirmed as having pneumonic plague on 10 October. Air Seychelles suspended all flights to Madagascar. More sophisticated tests later showed that the infection was not plague.\n\nA South African basketball player who contracted plague while attending a tournament in Madagascar was successfully treated and returned home. The type of plague the player had was not reported, but one of the cases in the Seychelles who died of pneumonic plague was thought to have attended the same tournament.\n\nThe World Health Organization warned that there was a high risk the disease could spread to nine other countries in Africa and the Indian Ocean (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, South Africa, Seychelles, Comoros, Reunion, and Mauritius) because of frequent trade and travel with Madagascar.\n"}
{"id": "57617210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57617210", "title": "56 Dean Street", "text": "56 Dean Street\n\n56 Dean Street, based in Dean Street in London's Soho district, is the city's largest sexual health clinic. Part of the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, it also has a second branch, Dean Street Express, at 34 Dean Street, which offers a fast-turnaround testing service. As of 2017, the clinic was the largest HIV clinic in Europe. In addition to its specialism in HIV infection and other sexually transmitted diseases, it also offers general sexual health care services, including contraception.\n\nThe clinic has made the provision of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) a priority, with the result that new HIV infection rates in London have dropped dramatically since the introduction of the new policy. \n\n, limitations on funding have substantially reduced the clinic's ability to offer its services, with significant reductions in the number of appointments available each day.\n"}
{"id": "40295277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40295277", "title": "Alternating occlusion training", "text": "Alternating occlusion training\n\nAlternating occlusion training, also referred to as electronic rapid alternate occlusion, is an approach to amblyopia and to intermittent central suppression in vision therapy, in which electronic devices such as programmable shutter glasses or goggles are used to block the field of view of one eye in rapid alternation.\n\nWhen performing alternating occlusion training, the person wears the occlusion goggles continuously for several hours while performing regular everyday activities. Wearing the device encourages or forces the alternating use of both eyes, similar to eye patching, but rapidly alternating in time. The aim is to circumvent the tendency to suppress the field of view of the weaker eye and to train the capacity for binocular vision.\n\nTraditionally, eye patches are used to block the field of view of one eye. Strabismic or amblyopic children are often required to wear an eye patch for hours or days. The use of the patch generally alternates on a daily or weekly basis between the two eyes, with a long time duration for the patching of the stronger eye and a shorter time duration, if any, for the patching of the weaker eye. In contrast to eye patching, training with occlusion goggles allows to use rapid rates of alternation.\n\nThe flicker rates at which the occlusion is alternated between the two eyes in alternating occlusion training are generally much slower than those employed by the widespread active shutter 3D glasses for viewing 3D television or cinema.\n\nTherapeutic procedures have been proposed in which the active eye is switched after a duration of many seconds (for example, with an ON (occlusion) duration of 40 seconds and an OFF state (open) duration of 20 seconds of each minute); others propose a much faster flicker rate of approximately 5 Hz.\n\nAn alternating occlusion device (the so-called \"Translid Binocular Interaction Trainer\" (TBIS) operating at a rate of 9 to 11 Hz) was introduced by Merrill Allen in 1967 to favor parallel processing of the eyes.\n\nThe flicker rate is crucial with relation to potential side effects and may possibly be relevant for the efficacy of the training. It has been suggested that the flickering sequence could be adapted to suit the depth of amblyopia, the required duration of treatment, the age of the patient, or could be adapted dynamically according to the visual function behavior of the amblyopic eye.\n\nReported results of the use of alternating occlusion devices include improved vision, as well as occasional side effects of headaches or discomfort. The purchase of such an electronic LCD may require written permission by the patient's optometrist.\n\nIt was found that the flicker rates of 9 to 11 Hz that were employed in the TBIS device are slow enough and the stimulus weak enough to avoid any risk of epileptic seizure.\n\nIt is to be noted that in principle alternating occlusion may interfere with normal visual input. Strictly speaking, alternating occlusion is a form of visual deprivation and as such may have negative effects during a critical period of development. Experiments on kittens that were published 1965 by Hubel and Wiesel showed that continuously submitting kittens at a young age to a protocol under which the eyes were alternatingly occluded on a day-by-day basis over a prolonged period of time led to changes in the visual cortex, in particular a disruption in cellular connections that would normally enable binocular vision. Experiments with rearing young kittens under rapidly alternating monocular occlusion using constantly-worn electronic goggles showed that cortical binocularity was reduced if the flicker rate was 2 Hz or lower, and that binocularity developed normally if it was 2.5 or 3 or 5 Hz.\n"}
{"id": "46588018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46588018", "title": "Asomatognosia", "text": "Asomatognosia\n\nAsomatognosia is a neurological disorder characterized as loss of recognition or awareness of part of the body. The failure to acknowledge, for example, a limb, may be expressed verbally or as a pattern of neglect. The limb may also be attributed to another person, a delusion known as somatoparaphrenia. However, they can be shown their limb and this error is temporarily corrected. Some authors have focused on the prevalence of hemispatial neglect in such patients.\n\nAsomatognosia is the inability to feel, recognize, or be conscious of one’s own specific body parts and/or bodily conditions (Whishaw, 2015). Generally, asomatognosia often arises from damage to the right parietal lobe (Whishaw, 2015). Evidence indicates that damage to the right hemisphere often results from a stroke or pre-existing hemispatial neglect, or inattention to the left visual field (Antoniello, 2016) (Keenan, 2004). Individuals who suffer from somatoparaphrenia, a specific form of asomatognosia, ignore or deny ownership of a body part contralateral to the brain lesion (Feinberg, 1990). Although this condition can affect one or both sides of the body, most patients exhibit the inability to recognize limbs/body parts (i.e. arm, leg, head, breast) on the left side of their body as their own (Keenan, 2004). While individuals with asomatognosia typically suffer large lesions across several temporoparietal sectors, those with somatoparaphrenia also suffer lesions in the right medial and orbitofrontal regions of the brain (Feinberg 2010).\n\nIn most commonly observed instances, individuals with this condition fail to recognize and sense their left arm after suffering lesions to the right hemisphere (Keenan, 2004). In one specific instance, a patient suffering from asomatognosia tried to throw her own left arm into a garbage can because she believed it was her husband’s arm repeatedly falling on her and disrupting her sleep (Keenan, 2004). Even when patients are told that the body part belongs to them, many will deny the reality and remain firm in their belief that it is not a part of them. There is an interesting case in which a patient with severe asomatognosia had the ability to use his right hand to trace his paralyzed left arm to his own left shoulder, but still failed to acknowledge that the left arm belonged to him (Keenan, 2004). Overall, there is an interesting phenomenon in which individuals will claim that the body part belongs to someone of the opposite gender within their family. For example, women with asomatognosia tend to claim that their left arm belongs to a man (i.e. their husband) while men claim their arm belongs to a woman, such as his daughter or wife. There are also exists patients that treat the arm as a child or small animal. (Keenan, 2004)\n\nIn addition to instances of asomatognosia in which patients deny ownership of a specific part, this condition is also associated with the following: anosognosia (unawareness or denial of illness), anosodiaphoria (indifference to illness), autopagnosia (inability to localize and name body parts), and asymbolia for pain (absence of typical reactions to pain). Out of these varieties of asomatognosia, autopagnosia is the only one in which an individual struggles to recognize the right side of their body due to lesions in the left parietal cortex (Whishaw, 2015).\nSee also\n\n"}
{"id": "39020016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39020016", "title": "California Homemade Food Act", "text": "California Homemade Food Act\n\nThe California Homemade Food Act is a law that legalizes the manufacture and sale of certain homemade food products. Introduced as bill\nAB1616, the California Homemade Food Act was signed by Governor Jerry Brown and became law effective January 1, 2013.\n\nPrior to the enactment of the California Homemade Food Act, entrepreneurs were subjected to the same regulations as commercial restaurants and bakeries. Food safety laws forced owners to have to rent part of a retail kitchen and prepare all of their products there. Rental costs, along with the costs of complying with other health regulations, made it difficult for small-scale homemade food businesses to turn a profit. This law allows home cooks to run enterprises, termed a Cottage Food Operation or a \"CFO\", that manufacture \"low-risk\" foods from within the individual's home. These \"low-risk\" foods must be less susceptible to bacterial growth that could cause food poisoning; they must be able to stay fresh without needing refrigeration. For this reason, Cottage Food Operations are still barred from selling dairy products and meat. The California Department of Public Health has compiled a list of \"low-risk\" foods, which are approved for a CFO to produce, prepare, package, and peddle to customers out of their \"private home\". A CFO is limited to producing and selling foods found on this list. A \"private home\" can be either owned or rented by the operator of the CFO, and thus includes both houses and apartments.\n\nThe California Homemade Food Act also relaxes many zoning restrictions for CFOs, since traditional bakeries would not be allowed to operate out of a residential area. Nevertheless, Cottage Food Operations will still have to apply for a permit from the County Department of Health and follow numerous other regulations set under the law.\n\nOn February 8, 2012, Mike Gatto, the assemblyman for the 43rd district, introduced the California Homemade Food Act on to the floor of the California State Assembly. Gatto authored the bill in response to the closure of a cottage food business of one of his constituents. Mark Stambler's homemade bread business was deemed in violation of food safety laws by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health and forced to shut down. Gatto's bill sought a state-wide standardization of food safety laws for cottage food industries while curbing regulations Gatto called \"paradoxical and nonsensical.\" \n\nThe Assembly passed the bill on May 29, 2012, by a vote of 56-19 with 5 members not voting. The Senate passed the bill along with several amendments on August 30, 2012, by the unanimous vote of the 34 senators present (6 senators did not vote). The Senate amendments required the bill to return to the Assembly, which approved the amended version on August 30 by a vote of 60-16 with 4 Assemblymen not voting. No Assembly members who supported the bill in the first vote opposed the bill in the second vote. There were two assembly members, Connie Conway and Jim Nielsen, who voted against the bill in the first vote but subsequently voted for the bill in the second vote.\n\nGovernor Jerry Brown signed the California Homemade Food Act into law on September 21, 2012. Brown praised the bill as a measure to facilitate hiring by California businesses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5883261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5883261", "title": "Chen Guangcheng", "text": "Chen Guangcheng\n\nChen Guangcheng (born 12 November 1971) is a Chinese civil rights activist who has worked on human rights issues in rural areas of the People's Republic of China. Blind from an early age and self-taught in the law, Chen is frequently described as a \"barefoot lawyer\" who advocates for women's rights, land rights, and the welfare of the poor. He is best known for accusing people of abuses in official family-planning practices, often involving claims of violence and forced abortions.\n\nIn 2005, Chen gained international recognition for organising a landmark class-action lawsuit against authorities in Linyi, Shandong province, for the excessive enforcement of the one-child policy. As a result of this lawsuit, Chen was placed under house arrest from September 2005 to March 2006, with a formal arrest in June 2006. On 24 August 2006, Chen was sentenced to four years and three months for \"damaging property and organising a mob to disturb traffic.\" He was released from prison in 2010 after serving his full sentence, but remained under house arrest or \"soft detention\" at his home in Dongshigu Village. Chen and his wife were reportedly beaten shortly after a human rights group released a video of their home under intense police surveillance in February 2011.\n\nChen's case received sustained international attention, with the U.S. State Department, the British Foreign Secretary, Human Rights Watch, and Amnesty International issuing appeals for his release; the latter group designated him a prisoner of conscience. Chen is a 2007 laureate of the Ramon Magsaysay Award and in 2006 was named to the \"Time\" 100.\n\nIn April 2012, Chen escaped his house arrest and fled to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. After negotiations with the Chinese government, he left the embassy for medical treatment in early May 2012, and it was reported that China would consider allowing him to travel to the United States to study. On 19 May 2012, Chen, his wife, and his two children were granted U.S. visas and departed Beijing for New York City. In October 2013, Chen accepted a position with the conservative research group Witherspoon Institute, and a position at the Catholic University of America.\n\nChen is the youngest of five brothers of a peasant family from the village of Dongshigu, Yinan County, Shandong Province, approximately from the city of Jinan. When Chen was about six months old, he lost his sight due to a fever that destroyed his optical nerves. In an interview for the \"New York Review of Books\", Chen said that although his family did not identify with an organized religion, his upbringing was informed by a \"traditional belief in virtue that’s present in Chinese culture—that might have some Buddhist content, but not necessarily that one believes in Buddhism.\" His village was poor, with many families living at a subsistence level. \"When I went to school I’d be happy if I just got enough to eat,\" he recalled.\n\nChen's father worked as an instructor at a Communist Party school, earning the equivalent of about $60 annually. When Chen was a child, his father would read literary works aloud to him, and reportedly helped impart to his son an appreciation of the values of democracy and freedom. In 1991, Chen's father gave him a copy of \"The Law Protecting the Disabled,\" which elaborated on the legal rights and protections in place for disabled persons in the PRC.\n\nIn 1989, at the age of 18, Chen began attending school as a grade one student at the Elementary School for the Blind in Linyi city. In 1994, he enrolled at the Qingdao High School for the Blind, where he studied until 1998. He had already begun developing an interest in law, and would often ask his brothers to read legal texts to him. He earned a position at the Nanjing University of Traditional Chinese Medicine in 1998 but because his family was poor, they had to borrow $340 to cover tuition costs. They still fell short of the required $400 and university authorities reportedly had to be pleaded with before allowing Chen to enroll. He studied in Nanjing from 1998 to 2001, specializing in acupuncture and massage—the only programs available to the blind. Chen also audited legal courses, gaining a sufficient understanding of the law to allow him to aid his fellow villagers when they sought his assistance. After graduation he returned to his home region and found a job as a masseur in the hospital of Yinan County.\n\nChen met his wife, Yuan Weijing, in 2001, after listening to a radio talk show. Yuan had called into the show to discuss her difficulties in landing a job after graduating from the foreign language department of Shandong's Chemistry Institute. Chen, who listened to the program, later contacted Yuan and relayed his own story of hardship as a blind man living on just 400 Yuan per year. Yuan was moved by the exchange, and later that year, she traveled to Chen's village to meet him. The couple eloped in 2003. Their son, Chen Kerui, was born later that year. In 2005 they had a second child—a daughter named Chen Kesi—in violation of China's one-child policy. Yuan, who had been working as an English teacher at the time of the marriage, left her job in 2003 in order to assist her husband in his legal work.\n\nChen first petitioned authorities in 1996, when he traveled to Beijing to complain about taxes that were incorrectly being levied on his family (people with disabilities, such as Chen, are supposed to be exempt from taxation and fees). The complaint was successful, and Chen began petitioning for other individuals with disabilities. With funding from a British foundation, Chen became an outspoken activist for disability rights within the China Law Society. His reputation as a disability rights advocate was solidified when agreed to advocate for an elderly blind couple whose grandchildren suffered from paralysis. The family had been paying all of the regular taxes and fees, but Chen believed that, under the law, the family should have received government assistance and exemption from taxation. When the case went to court, blind citizens from surrounding counties were in attendance as a show of solidarity. The case was successful, and the outcome became well-known.\n\nIn 1997, the leaders of Chen's village began implementing a land use plan that gave authorities control over 60 percent of land, which they then rented out at high cost to the villages. The plan, known as the \"two-field system,\" was a major source of enrichment for the local government. While studying in Nanjing the following year, however, Chen learned that the program was illegal, and he petitioned central authorities in Beijing to end the system, thereby irritating local officials.\n\nIn 2000, Chen returned from his studies in Nanjing to his village of Dongshigu in an effort to confront environmental pollution. A paper mill constructed in 1988 had been dumping toxic wastewater into the Meng river, destroying crops and harming wildlife. The chemicals also reportedly caused skin and digestive problems among villagers living downstream from the mill. Chen organized villagers in his hometown and 78 other villages to petition against the mill. The effort was successful, and resulted in the suspension of the paper mill. In addition, Chen contacted the British embassy in Beijing, informing them of the situation and requesting funding for a well to supply clean water to locals. The British government responded by providing £15,000 towards a deep water well, irrigation systems and water pipelines.\n\nIn March 2004, more than 300 residents from Chen's village of Dongshigu filed a petition to the village government demanding that they release the village accounts—which hadn't been made public for over ten years—and address the issue of illegal land requisitions. When village authorities failed to respond, villagers escalated their appeals to the township, county and municipal governments, still without response. Village authorities then began to publicly threaten villagers. In November 2004, Chen acted on behalf of villagers to file a lawsuit in the Qi'nan County Court against the local Public Security Bureau for negligence. The case was accepted, and proceedings began in early 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Chen spent several months surveying residents of Shandong Province, collecting accounts of forced, late-term abortions and forced sterilization of women who stood in violation of China’s one-child policy. His survey was based in Linyi and included surrounding rural suburbs. Chen later recalled that his survey would have been significantly larger in scope were he not limited by a lack of financial resources.\n\nThough Chinese central authorities have sought to curb the coercive enforcement of the one-child policy since 1990 by replacing measures such as forced abortions and sterilizations with a system of financial incentives and fines, Chen found that coercive practices remained widespread, and he documented numerous cases of abuse. One of the women he interviewed in Maxiagou village, 36-year-old Feng Zhongxia, said that local officials detained and beat her relatives, and indicated they would not be released until she turned herself in and submitted to a forced abortion. She said she was later subjected to forced sterilization. Chen also solicited the help of prominent legal scholar Teng Biao, who conducted his own interviews in Linyi. Teng and Chen later released a report claiming that an estimated 130,000 residents in the city had been forced into 'study sessions' for refusing abortions or violating the one-child policy; residents would be held for days or weeks in the study sessions, and were allegedly beaten.\n\nIn 2005, Chen filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of women from Linyi against the city's family planning staff. And in June, he traveled to Beijing to file the complaint and meet with foreign reporters to publicize the case. Although there had been prior instances of Chinese citizens filing complaints about abuses under the one-child policy, Chen’s initiative was the first class-action lawsuit to challenge its implementation.\n\nAlthough the suit he filed was rejected, the case garnered international media attention. Responding to questions about Chen’s allegation, a senior official with the National Population and Family Planning Commission told the \"Washington Post\" that the practice of forced abortions and sterilizations was “definitely illegal,” and indicated that the complaints were being investigated. “If the Linyi complaints are true, or even partly true, it's because local officials do not understand the new demands of the Chinese leadership regarding family planning work,” said the official. In September 2005, the Commission announced that several Linyi officials had been detained. But local authorities in Linyi retaliated against Chen, placing him under house arrest in September 2005 and embarking on a campaign to undermine his reputation; the Linyi officials portrayed him as working for \"foreign anti-China forces\", pointing out that he had received foreign funding for his advocacy on behalf of the disabled.\n\nOn 7 September 2005, while Chen was in Beijing to publicize his class action lawsuit against the Linyi city family planning staff, he was reportedly abducted by security agents from Linyi and held for 38 hours. Recounting the incident to foreign journalists, Chen said that authorities threatened to levy criminal charges against him for providing state secrets or intelligence to foreign organizations. After Chen refused negotiations with local officials to cease his activism, Linyi authorities placed him under effective house arrest beginning in September 2005. When he attempted to escape in October, he was beaten.\n\nXinhua, the news agency of the Chinese government, stated that on 5 February 2006, Chen instigated others \"to damage and smash cars belonging to the Shuanghou Police Station and the town government\" as well as attack local government officials. \"Time\" reported that witnesses to Chen's protest disputed the government's version of events, and his lawyers argued that it was unlikely he could have committed the crimes due to his constant surveillance by police. Chen was removed from his house in March 2006 and was formally detained in June 2006 by Yinan county officials. He was scheduled to stand trial on 17 July 2006 on charges of destruction of property and assembling a crowd to disrupt traffic, but this was delayed at the request of the prosecution. According to Radio Free Asia and Chinese Human Rights Defenders, the prosecution delayed the trial because a crowd of Chen supporters gathered outside the courthouse. With only a few days' notice, authorities rescheduled Chen's trial for 18 August 2006.\n\nOn the eve of his trial, all three of his lawyers, including Xu Zhiyong of the Yitong Law Firm, were detained by Yinan police; two were released after being questioned. Neither Chen's lawyers nor his wife were allowed in the courtroom for the trial. Authorities appointed their own public defender for Chen just before the trial began. The trial lasted only two hours. On 24 August 2006, Chen was sentenced to four years and three months for \"damaging property and organizing a mob to disturb traffic\".\n\nAs a result of Chen's trial, British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett selected his case for the cover of the British government's 2006 human rights report, stating concern over the handling of Chen's case and calling for the Chinese government \"to prove its commitment to building rule of law.\" A columnist for \"The Globe and Mail\" also criticized the verdict, writing that \"Even assuming [Chen] did damage 'doors and windows,' as well as cars, and interrupt traffic for three hours, it is difficult to argue a four-year prison sentence is somehow proportionate to the offence.\"\n\nOn 30 November 2006, Yinan County court upheld Chen's sentence, and on 12 January 2007, the Linyi Intermediate Court in Shandong Province rejected his final appeal. The same court had overturned his original conviction in December 2006, citing lack of evidence. However, Chen was convicted in a second trial on identical charges and given an identical sentence by the Yinan court. Following the trial, Amnesty International declared him to be a prisoner of conscience, \"jailed solely for his peaceful activities in defence of human rights\".\n\nAfter his release from prison in 2010, Chen was placed under house arrest against Chinese law, and was closely monitored by security forces. Legally, he was proclaimed by the government to be a free man, but in reality the local government offered no explanation for the hundreds of unidentified agents monitoring his house and preventing visitors or escape. The national propaganda organ, the \"Global Times\", expressed confusion over the issue, and suggested that the local government may not know how to handle it, but no disciplinary action was taken at the national level.\n\nHe and his wife attempted to communicate with the outside world via video tape and letters. Letters described beatings Chen and his wife were subjected to, seizure of documents and communication devices, cutting off of electric power to their residence, and placing of metal sheets over the windows of their house. Harassment of Chen's family continued throughout his house arrest, and extended to Chen's six-year-old daughter, who was briefly banned from attending school and had her toys confiscated by guards, and to Chen's mother, who was harassed while working in the fields. Authorities reportedly told Chen that they had spent 60 million yuan ($9.5 million) to keep him under house arrest.\n\nIn 2011, \"The New York Times\" reported that a number of supporters and admirers had attempted to penetrate the security monitoring Chen's home, but were unsuccessful. In some instances, his supporters were pummeled, beaten, or robbed by security agents. U.S. Congressman Chris Smith attempted to visit Chen in November 2011, but was not granted permission. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton described the U.S. government as \"alarmed\" by Chen's continued detention and called on China \"to embrace a different path\". Human Rights Watch described his house arrest as \"unlawful\" and called on authorities to give Chen his freedom.\n\nIn December 2011, actor Christian Bale attempted to visit Chen along with a CNN crew, but was punched, shoved, and denied access by Chinese security guards. Bale later stated that he had wanted \"to meet the man, shake his hand and say what an inspiration he is.\" Video footage also showed Bale and the CNN crew having stones thrown at them, and being pursued in their minivan for more than 40 minutes.\n\nOn 22 April 2012, Chen escaped from house arrest. Chen's fellow activist Hu Jia stated that Chen had been planning escape for a long time, and had previously attempted to dig a tunnel for escape. In the weeks leading up to his escape, Chen gave his guards the impression that he was ill in bed, and stopped appearing outside the house, which allowed him several days before any absence would be discovered. Under cover of darkness and with the help of his wife, Chen climbed over the wall around his house, breaking his foot in the process.\n\nWhen he came upon the Meng River, he found it to be guarded, but crossed anyway and was not stopped; he later stated that he believed the guards had been asleep. Though he recollected his immediate surroundings from his childhood explorations, he eventually passed into less familiar territory; he later told his supporters that he fell more than 200 times during his escape. Communicating with a network of activists via a cell phone, he reached a pre-determined rendezvous point where He Peirong, an English teacher and activist, was waiting for him. A chain of human rights activists then escorted him to Beijing. Several of the activists reported to be involved were detained or disappeared in the days following the announcement of Chen's escape.\n\nChen was given refuge at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, though the Embassy initially declined to confirm or deny reports that they were sheltering him. The Embassy later said they had accepted Chen on humanitarian grounds and offered him medical assistance. On 27 April, Chen appeared in an internet video in which he expressed his concern that the authorities would carry out \"insane retribution\" on his family and made three demands of Premier Wen Jiabao: 1) that local officials who allegedly assaulted his family be prosecuted; 2) that his family's safety be guaranteed; and 3) that the Chinese government prosecute corruption cases under the law.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described the situation as a \"diplomatic quandary\" at a time when the U.S. was seeking to improve relations with China and seeks its support with respect to crises in Iran, Sudan, Syria, and North Korea. BBC News described Chen's escape as coming at \"an unwelcome time for China's leaders,\" who were still dealing with a high-profile corruption scandal that resulted in the removal of politburo member Bo Xilai. Within twenty-four hours, Chen's name as well as the phrases \"CGC\" and \"the blind man\" had been blocked by Chinese online censors in an effort to quell Internet discussion of the case. On the day Chen announced his escape, Chinese state media did not carry \"a single line of news\" referring to it. \"The New York Times\" wrote that news of the escape \"electrified China’s rights activists\".\n\nKurt M. Campbell, an assistant secretary of state, quietly arrived in Beijing on 29 April for negotiations with representatives of China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After several days of media speculation as to his whereabouts, Chen was confirmed on 2 May to have been under U.S diplomatic protection at the Embassy. According to embassy representatives, the agreement brokered with Chinese authorities provided that Chen would be freed from soft detention, relocated, and be permitted to finish his legal education at one of several law schools in China. Chinese officials also promised to investigate \"extra-legal activities\" taken by Shandong province authorities against Chen and his family. Chen left the embassy of his own accord on 2 May, was reunited with his family, and admitted to Beijing's Chaoyang Hospital for medical treatment.\n\nDuring the initial negotiations in the U.S. embassy, Chen did not request asylum in the United States or considered leaving China, but instead demanded to remain there as a free man. However, soon after leaving the embassy, Chen feared that Chinese authorities would renege on their promises or take punitive actions against his family members. While in the hospital, Chinese security personnel barred U.S. diplomatic staff from meeting with him. Rumors emerged that Chinese officials had coerced Chen into leaving the embassy by threatening his family. U.S. negotiators stated that while in the embassy, Chen had been told by Chinese officials that if he sought asylum in the United States, his wife and daughter would likely remain under house arrest in Shandong. However, they maintained that they had not heard of the threats from local officials that his family would be beaten, and that they had not communicated such a message to Chen. On 3 May, Chen clarified to the BBC that he had become aware of the threats against his family after leaving the embassy, and at that point changed his mind about wishing to stay in China.\n\nOn 2 May, a spokesperson of China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs demanded that the U.S. apologize for the Chen incident, investigate its acts and never interfere in China's domestic matters in such a way again. In an editorial on 4 May, \"Beijing Daily\" described Chen as \"a tool and a pawn for American politicians to denigrate China\". The daily also accused US Ambassador Gary Locke of stirring up trouble by sheltering Chen, and questioned Locke's motives.\n\nOn 4 May, after Chen made clear his desire to leave China for the United States, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson indicated that, if he wished to study abroad, he could \"apply through normal channels to the relevant departments in accordance with the law, just like any other Chinese citizen.\" On the same day, Chen was offered a visiting scholar position at New York University. On 19 May, Chen, his wife, and his two children, having been granted U.S. visas, departed Beijing on a commercial flight for Newark, New Jersey.\n\nWhile Chen was living under house arrest, several of his family members also reportedly faced harassment and confinement by authorities. His elderly mother, Wang Jinxiang, recalled being continuously followed by three security agents. The BBC reported in May 2012 that she remained under house arrest. Before leaving China in the spring of 2012, Chen expressed concern that his relatives and other activists who had helped him evade capture would be punished by Chinese officials after his departure.\n\nOn 27 April 2012, soon after Chen escaped house arrest, plainclothes security agents forced entry into the home of his eldest brother, Chen Guangfu. Believing that the elder brother had information on Chen's escape, police took him to a police station for interrogation, and reportedly chained his feet, slapped him, and struck him with a belt. Police officers then allegedly returned to the family's home and proceeded to beat Guangfu's wife and son. His son, Chen Kegui, pulled a knife and slashed at three of the officers, causing minor injuries. He was taken into custody and faces criminal charges for attempted murder. On 24 May, it was reported that Chen Guangfu had escaped to Beijing from his guarded village to advocate on behalf of his son. In November 2012, Chen Kegui was sentenced to more than three years in prison.\n\nOn 4 November 2013, Chen Guangfu said he would fly to New York City with his mother two days later for a reunion with his brother Chen Guangcheng.\n\nFollowing his arrival in the U.S., Chen, his wife, and the couple's two children settled in a housing complex for students and faculty of New York University, located in Greenwich Village. He reportedly began studying English for two hours per day, in addition to having regular meetings with American legal scholars. His memoir, \"The Barefoot Lawyer\", was published in March 2015 by Henry Holt and Company.\n\nOn 29 May 2012, Chen published an editorial in the \"New York Times\" criticizing the Chinese government and the Communist Party for the \"lawless punishment inflicted on (himself) and (his) family over the past seven years.\" He said that \"those who handled my case were able to openly flout the nation’s laws in many ways for many years.\" In an April 2013 testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chen said that Chinese authorities had failed to deliver on promises to investigate allegations of mistreatment against him and his family. Chen issued a statement in June saying NYU is forcing him to leave at the end of June because of pressure from the Chinese government. This claim was denied by the university, as well as by professor Jerome A. Cohen, Chen's mentor who arranged for his placement at NYU. Chen's close association with conservative Christian and pro-life figures since coming to the United States, including representative Chris Smith, pastor Bob Fu, and media consultant Mark Corallo, has concerned old supporters like Cohen.\n\nIn October 2013, Chen accepted an offer from the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, New Jersey, which opposes abortion and gay marriage. Chen became a Distinguished Senior Fellow in Human Rights at the Witherspoon Institute, as well as a Visiting Fellow of the Institute for Policy Research and Catholic Studies at the Catholic University of America and a Senior Distinguished Advisor to the Lantos Foundation for Human Rights and Justice.\n\nOn 16 October 2013, Chen made his first public appearance in his role as a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the Witherspoon Institute. He delivered a public lecture at Princeton University entitled \"China and the World in the 21st Century: The Next Human Rights Revolution,\" which was co-sponsored by the Witherspoon Institute and the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions. The text of Chen's speech, translated into English, was then published online. In the speech, Chen called on the American people to support the Chinese people by fighting against the oppressive Communist government of China. He reminded the audience that even small actions undertaken in defense of human rights can have a large impact, because “Every person has infinite strength. Every action has an important impact. We must believe in the value of our own actions.”\n\nChen began attracting international media attention for his civil rights activism in the early 2000s. In March 2002, Newsweek magazine ran a cover story on Chen and the \"barefoot lawyer\" movement in China, detailing his advocacy on behalf of villagers and the disabled. His profile rose further in 2005 when he filed a landmark class-action suit taking on abuses of the one-child policy. In 2007, Chen Guangcheng was named one of the \"Time\" 100, \"Time\"'s annual list of \"100 men and women whose power, talent or moral example is transforming our world\". The citation stated, \"He may have lost his sight as a child, but Chen Guangcheng's legal vision has helped illuminate the plight of thousands of Chinese villagers.\"\n\nLater that year, Chen won the Ramon Magsaysay Award while still in detention. The award, often called the \"Asian Nobel Prize\", was bestowed for \"his irrepressible passion for justice in leading ordinary Chinese citizens to assert their legitimate rights under the law\". According to AIDS activist Hu Jia, Chen's wife Yuan Weijing attempted to attend the Magsaysay Award ceremony on her husband's behalf, her passport was revoked and her mobile phone was confiscated by Chinese authorities at Beijing Capital International Airport.\n\nThe National Endowment for Democracy honored Chen with the 2008 Democracy Award. Chen was one of seven Chinese lawyers and civil rights activists to be named as recipients of the award.\n\nIn 2012, Chen was chosen as the recipient of the Human Rights Award from the New York-based NGO Human Rights First. In explaining the choice, the organization's president Elisa Massimino stated, \"Mr. Chen's activism has reignited an international conversation about the need to protect human rights lawyers around the world who face great danger for their courageous work.\" In 2014 he received the Geneva Summit Courage Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "17660874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17660874", "title": "Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute", "text": "Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute\n\nChildren's Hospital Oakland Research Institute (CHORI) is a biomedical research institute affiliated with California’s pediatric medical center, UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Oakland.\n\nCHORI is based in Oakland, California, and operates a biomedical research facility that houses 300 staff members. It includes eight research centers that conduct focused research on cancer, critical care medicine, genetics, immunobiology and vaccine development, blood and marrow transplantation and cellular therapies, nutrition and metabolism, prevention of obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes, sickle cell disease and thalassemia.\n\nThe National Institutes of Health is CHORI's primary funding source.\n\n\n\nCHORI’s translational research applications include providing cures for blood diseases, developing new vaccines for infectious diseases, and discovering new treatment protocols for previously fatal or debilitating conditions such as cancers, sickle cell disease and thalassemia, diabetes, asthma, HIV/AIDS, pediatric obesity, nutritional deficiencies, birth defects, hemophilia and cystic fibrosis. CHORI is also a teaching institute with educational programs for high school, college, doctoral and post-doctoral students.\n\nCHORI is the first research institute in North America to transplant and cure a child with alpha thalassemia major, is a leading center for the use of cord blood and bone marrow transplantation in children with sickle cell anemia and thalassemia, and offers the only not-for-profit Sibling Donor Cord Blood Program in the world. The Research Institute’s recombinant DNA library contains over 20 million DNA samples that are used in research programs around the world.\n\nCHORI began in 1959 with a small group of scientists and initial financial support from Children’s Hospital Oakland and the family of Lt. Bruce Lyon. Founded as the Bruce Lyon Memorial Research Laboratory (BLMRL), it was the first research laboratory in Northern California dedicated exclusively to children’s diseases.\nBLMRL was renamed “CHORI,” the research branch of the newly named Children's Hospital & Research Center Oakland, in 1986. In 1999, CHORI moved to the former University High School campus, where it is currently located. \n\n"}
{"id": "105953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105953", "title": "Crab louse", "text": "Crab louse\n\nThe crab louse or pubic louse (\"Pthirus pubis\") is an insect that is an obligate ectoparasite of humans, feeding exclusively on blood. The crab louse usually is found in the person's pubic hair. Although the louse cannot jump, it can also live in other areas of the body that are covered with coarse hair, such as the eyelashes. It is of the order Psocodea.\n\nHumans are the only known hosts of the crab louse, although a closely related species, \"Pthirus gorillae\", infects gorilla populations. The human parasite diverged from \"Pthirus gorillae\" approximately 3.3 million years ago. It is more distantly related to the genus \"Pediculus\", which contains the human head and body lice and a louse that affects chimpanzees and bonobos.\n\nInfestation with crab lice is also called \"phthiriasis\" or \"phthiriasis pubis\". The disease (like the name of the order to which the louse belongs, Phthiraptera) is spelled with \"phth\", but the scientific name of the louse, \"Pthirus pubis\", is spelled with \"pth\", despite this being based on a misspelling that was nevertheless fixed as the official spelling in 1958.\n\nAn adult crab louse is about 1.3–2 mm long (slightly smaller than the body louse and head louse), and can be distinguished from those other species by its almost round body. Another distinguishing feature is that the rearmost two pairs of legs of a crab louse are much thicker than the front legs and have large claws.\n\nThe eggs of the crab louse are laid usually on the coarse hairs of the genital and perianal regions of the human body. Crab lice may also be found on other areas of the body that have coarse and relatively sparse coverings of hair, such as the beard, moustache, eyelashes, and underneath the arms. They do not generally occur on the finer hair of the scalp.\n\nThe female lays about three eggs a day. The eggs take 6–8 days to hatch, and there are three nymphal stages which together take 10–17 days before the adult develops, making a total life cycle from egg to adult of 16–25 days. Adults live for up to 30 days. Crab lice feed exclusively on blood, and take a blood meal 4–5 times daily. Adults are 1.5–2.0 mm long and flattened. They are much broader in comparison to head and body lice. Adults are found only on the human host and require human blood to survive. If adults are forced off the host, they will die within 24–48 hours without a blood feeding. Pubic lice are transmitted from person to person most-commonly via sexual contact, although fomites (bedding, clothing) may play a minor role in their transmission.\n\nInfestations of crab lice are known as pediculosis pubis or phthiriasis pubis (which, unlike the generic name of the louse, is spelled with a \"phth\"). Infestation of the eyelashes is referred to as pediculosis ciliaris or phthiriasis palpebrarum.\n\nThe main symptom of infestation with crab lice is itching, usually in the pubic-hair area, resulting from hypersensitivity to louse saliva, which can become stronger over two or more weeks following initial infestation. In some infestations, a characteristic grey-blue or slate coloration appears (\"maculae caeruleae\") at the feeding site, which may last for several days.\n\nCurrent worldwide prevalence has been estimated at 2% of the human population, but accurate numbers are difficult to gauge because crab lice infestations are not considered a reportable condition by many governments, and many cases are self-treated or treated discreetly by primary physicians.\n\nCrab lice usually infect a new host only by close contact between individuals, usually through sexual intercourse. Adults are more frequently infested than children. Non-sexual transmissions may occur among family and roommates through the use of shared towels, clothing, beds or closets. They can only survive a short time away from the warmth and humidity of the human body.\n\nIt has been suggested that an increasing percentage of humans removing their pubic hair has led to reduced crab louse populations in some parts of the world. Other lice that infest humans are the body louse and the head louse. The claws of these three species are adapted to attachment to specific hair diameters.\nPubic lice are not known to transmit disease. Adult pubic lice are 1.1–1.8 mm in length. The pubic hair can typically host up to a dozen on average. Pubic lice typically are found attached to hair in the pubic area but sometimes are found on coarse hair elsewhere on the body (for example, eyebrows, eyelashes, beard, mustache, chest, armpits, etc.). Crab lice attach to pubic hair that is thicker than other body hair because their claws are adapted to the specific diameter of pubic hair. Pubic lice infestations (pthiriasis) are usually spread through sexual contact. The crab louse can travel up to 10 inches on the body. Pubic lice infestation is found worldwide and occurs in all races and ethnic groups and in all economic levels. Pubic lice usually are spread through sexual contact and are most common in adults. Occasionally pubic lice may be spread by close personal contact or contact with articles such as clothing, bed linens, and towels that have been used by an infested person. Pubic lice found on the head or eyelashes of children may be an indication of sexual exposure or abuse. Pubic lice do not transmit disease; however, secondary bacterial infection can occur from scratching of the skin.They are much broader in comparison to head and body lice. Adults are found only on the human host and require human blood to survive. If adults are forced off the host, they will die within 24–48 hours without a blood feeding.\n\nSymptoms of crab louse infestation in the pubic area include itching, redness and inflammation. These symptoms cause increased blood circulation to the skin of the pubic region creating a blood-rich environment for the crab louse. Pubic lice infestation can also be diagnosed by identifying the presence of nits or eggs on the pubic hair. When clinicans find the crab louse on one family member they often request to examine other members of the family for similar symptoms of infestation. If a clinician suspects the presence of the louse, they may be able to identify the nits or eggs under magnification.\n"}
{"id": "86440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86440", "title": "Dian Cecht", "text": "Dian Cecht\n\nIn Irish mythology, Dian Cécht (Old Irish pronunciation ; also known as \"Cainte\" or \"Canta\") was the god of healing, the healer for the Tuatha Dé Danann. He was the father of Cu, Cethen and Cian. His other children were Miach, Airmed, Étan the poet and Ochtriullach. Dian Cécht is described as a son of the Dagda in the Dindsenchas. Through Cian, he is also Lugh's paternal grandfather. He appears in the mythological cycle of medieval Irish tales.\n\nLinguistic knowledge about regular sound changes in Celtic languages (McCone, 1996) and analysis of the University of Wales’ Proto-Celtic lexicon and of Julius Pokorny’s \"Indogermanisches etymologisches Wörterbuch\" permit \"*Deino-kwekwto-\" ‘swift concoction’ as a plausible Proto-Celtic reconstruction for this theonym. According to the Historical Encyclopedy of Celtic Culture, the name Dian Cecht may be a combination of the Old Irish common words \"dían\" 'swift' and \"cécht\", glossed as 'power'. However, this may only be a surface etymology or reanalysis.\n\nHe blessed a well called Slane, located to the west of Magh Tuireadh and east of Loch Arboch in a place called the Field of the Apple Tree (Achad Abla), where the Tuatha Dé could bathe when wounded; they became healed and continued fighting. It would heal any wound but decapitation.\n\nIt was Dian Cecht who once saved Ireland, and was indirectly the cause of the name of the River Barrow. The Morrígú, the heaven-god's fierce wife, had borne a son of such terrible aspect that the physician of the gods, foreseeing danger, counselled that he should be destroyed in his infancy. This was done; and Dian Cecht opened the infant's heart, and found within it three serpents, capable, when they grew to full size, of depopulating Ireland. He lost no time in destroying these serpents also, and burning them into ashes, to avoid the evil which even their dead bodies might do. More than this, he flung the ashes into the nearest river, for he feared that there might be danger even in them; and, indeed, so venomous were they that the river boiled up and slew every living creature in it, and therefore has been called the River Barrow, the ‘Boiling’ ever since.\n\nAccording to the Metrical Dindsenchas:\n<poem>\n'No motion it made\nThe ashes of Meichi the strongly smitten:\nThe stream made sodden and silent past recovery\nThe fell filth of the old serpent.\n\nThree turns the serpent made;\nIt sought the soldier to consume him;\nIt would have wasted by its doing the kine;\nThe fell filth of the old serpent.\n\nTherefore Diancecht slew it;\nThere rude reason for clean destroying it,\nFor preventing it from wasting\nWorse than any wolf pack, from consuming utterly.\n\nKnown to me is the grave where he cast it,\nA tomb without walls or roof-tree;\nIts ashes, evil without loveliness or innocence\nFound silent burial in noble Barrow.\n</poem>\n\nThis tale in the Dindsenchas indicates that the being slayed by Diancecht was a serpent named Meichi. Elsewhere the figure named as the slayer of Meichi is Mac Cecht.\n\nHe made King Nuada a silver arm which could move and function as a normal arm. Later, Dian Cecht's son, Miach, replaced the silver arm with an arm of flesh and blood, and Dian Cecht killed him out of professional envy. Miach's sister, Airmed, mourned over her brother's grave. As her tears fell, all the healing herbs of the world grew from the grave. Airmed arranged and catalogued the herbs, but then Dian Cécht again reacted with anger and jealousy and scattered the herbs, destroying his daughter's work as well as his son's. For this reason, it is said that no human now knows the healing properties of all the herbs.\n\nDian Cecht was also able to heal Mider after the latter lost an eye when struck with a twig of hazel.\n\nDian Cecht's healing powers were invoked in Ireland as late as the 8th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "21703424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21703424", "title": "Don Eladio Sauza", "text": "Don Eladio Sauza\n\nDon Eladio Sauza (June 16, 1883 – July 22, 1946) ran the Sauza Tequila business from 1909 to 1946.\n\nEladio Sauza was born June 16, 1883 in the city of Tequila, Mexico to Don Cenobio Sauza (1842 – 1909) and Doña Margarita Madrigal Navarro. His father was the founder of the famous Sauza Tequila distillery.\n\nAt age 20 Eladio moved to Tecolotlan to take charge of his father's distillery, the Hacienda La Labor. There he learned the business of producing and selling tequila. Later he moved to Mazatlán in the Northeastern part of Mexico to establish a Sauza Tequila distribution center in order to increase exporting.\n\nEladio married Doña Silveria Mora Enriquez, with whom he had two children:\n\nIn 1909 Eladio returned to Guadalajara to mourn his father's death and to take control of the Sauza Tequila business. Shortly thereafter the Mexican Revolution threatened to expropriate Eladio's business and farmland. During the Revolution Eladio rallied patriotic sentiment and helped to establish tequila as the official spirit of Mexico.\n\nEladio modernized and expanded the family business by opening branches in Monterrey and Mexico City, and a concession in Spain.\n\nEladio's interests extended beyond the production of tequila, including: \n\nDon Eladio Sauza died on July 22, 1946, at the age of 63. He left the Sauza Tequila business to his firstborn son, Francisco Javier Sauza.\n\n"}
{"id": "28980944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28980944", "title": "Edward Irving (plant collector)", "text": "Edward Irving (plant collector)\n\nEdward George Irving (1816–1855) was a Scottish surgeon who served in the Royal Navy. He was also a collector of plants, and the plant family Irvingiaceae, and genus Irvingia are named after him.\n\nHe married Lucy Elizabeth Haynes Morrell, second daughter of Arthur, a British naval officer and Elizabeth, on 25 July 1848, at Kingston, Portsmouth, Hampshire.\n\nTheir children were Edward Arthur Irving, who became an archdeacon in Canada, Minnie Irving, and John Henry Irving.\n"}
{"id": "23259981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23259981", "title": "Estimated date of delivery", "text": "Estimated date of delivery\n\nThe estimated date of delivery (EDD), also known as expected date of confinement, and estimated due date or simply due date, is a term describing the estimated delivery date for a pregnant woman. Normal pregnancies last between 37 and 42 weeks.\n\nConfinement is a traditional term referring to the period of pregnancy when an upper-class, noble, or royal woman would withdraw from society in medieval and tudor times be confined to their rooms with midwives, ladies-in-waiting and female family members only to attend them. This was believed to calm the mother and reduce the risk of premature delivery. Except in threatened pregnancies (for example, in pre-eclampsia), \"lying-in\" or bedrest is no longer a part of antenatal care.\n\nDue date estimation basically follows two steps:\n\nAccording to American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the main methods to calculate gestational age are:\n\nChildbirth on average occurs at a gestational age of 280 days (40 weeks), which is therefore often used as a standard estimation for individual pregnancies. However, alternative durations as well as more individualized methods have also been suggested. There is in any case considerable variation among individual pregnancies.\n\nGiven that these gestation lengths are only estimates of an average, it is helpful to consider gestation time as a range of dates rather than as a single \"due date\". The median is merely a guideline for the day at which half of all births occur earlier, and half of all births occur later. Births rarely occur \"on\" a due date, but they are clustered \"around\" due dates. A study of singleton live births in the US came to the result that childbirth has a standard deviation of 14 days when gestational age is estimated by first trimester ultrasound, and 16 days when estimated directly by last menstrual period.\n\n\"Naegele's rule\" is a standard way of calculating the due date for a pregnancy when assuming a gestational age of 280 days at childbirth. The rule estimates the expected date of delivery (EDD) by adding a year, subtracting three months, and adding seven days to the origin of gestational age. The result is approximately 280 days (40 weeks) from the start of the last menstrual period. Another method is by adding 9 months and 7 days to the first day of the last menstrual period.\n\nNaegele's rule is named after Franz Karl Naegele (1778–1851), the German obstetrician who devised the rule. Naegele was born July 12, 1778, in Düsseldorf, Germany. In 1806, Naegele became ordinary professor and director of the lying-in hospital in Heidelberg. His \"Lehrbuch der Geburtshilfe\", published in 1830 for midwives, enjoyed a successful 14 editions.\n\n\"Example:\"<br>\nLMP = 8 May 2009\n\n280 days past the start of the last menstrual period is found by checking the day of the week of the LMP and adjusting the calculated date to land on the same day of the week. Using the example above, 8 May 2009 is a Friday. The calculated date (15 February) is a Monday; adjusting to the closest Friday produces 12 February, which is exactly 280 days past 8 May. The calculation method does not always result in 280 days because not all calendar months are the same length; it does not account for leap years.\n\nMobile apps essentially always give consistent estimations compared to each other and correct for leap year, while pregnancy wheels made of paper can differ from each other by 7 days and generally do not correct for leap year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31304600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31304600", "title": "Foodshed", "text": "Foodshed\n\nA foodshed is the geographic region that produces the food for a particular population. The term is used to describe a region of food flows, from the area where it is produced, to the place where it is consumed, including: the land it grows on, the route it travels, the markets it passes through, and the tables it ends up on. \"Foodshed\" is described as a \"socio-geographic space: human activity embedded in the natural integument of a particular place.\" A foodshed is analogous to a watershed in that foodsheds outline the flow of food feeding a particular population, whereas watersheds outline the flow of water draining to a particular location. Through drawing from the conceptual ideas of the watershed, foodsheds are perceived as hybrid social and natural constructs.\n\nIt can pertain to the area from which an individual or population receives a particular type of food, or the collective area from which an individual or population receives all of their food. The size of the foodshed can vary depending on the availability of year round foods and the variety of foods grown and processed. Variables such as micro-weather patterns, soil types, water availability, slope conditions, etc. play a role in determining the potential and risk of agriculture).\n\nThe modern United States foodshed, as an example, spans the entire world as the foods available in the typical supermarket have traveled from all over the globe, often long distances from where they were produced.\n\nThe term was coined in 1929 in the book \"How Great Cities Are Fed\" by W.P. Hedden, who was at the time Chief of the Bureau of Commerce for the Port of New York Authority. Hedden described a ‘foodshed’ in 1929 as the ‘dikes and dams’ guiding the flow of food from the producer to consumer. Hedden contrasts foodsheds with watersheds by noting that “the barriers which deflect raindrops into one river basin rather than into another are natural land elevations, while the barriers which guide and control movements of foodstuffs are more often economic than physical.” Hedden describes the economic forces that influence where foods are produced and how they are transported to the cities in which they are consumed. The term has more recently been reintroduced by permaculturist Arthur Getz, in his 1991 article “Urban Foodsheds” in “Permaculture Activist\", to provide an image that helps people to understand how food systems work and that suggests food comes from a source that must be protected.\n\nEating within a local foodshed was once the only way in which families gained access to food. In the seventeenth or eighteenth century, most ingredients were drawn from an area of less than fifty acres. There was an interdependence of farming and what was cooked in the kitchen. Farmers gained a sensibility about the land—improved and well-tended land could yield a cornucopian spread and was regarded as a source of food and a sign of wealth. Envisioning and knowing a landscape as one's fount of food is different from what most of us know and experience when driving past fields in the countryside today. People ate food that was in season, when available, or that was preserved. Very few items came from afar, and if they did they came in small amounts, such as cinnamon and nutmeg. Growing, cooking, and eating food connected most people in preindustrial America to the land.\n\nThe “farm-to-table” movement is focused on producing food locally within a foodshed, and delivering it to local consumers. Direct farm-to-table in the United States tends to comprise only a very minor segment of the food distribution system in terms of size and importance, but is growing in popularity.\n\n\nNearly 5 percent of all farmers engage in some form of direct food marketing. Estimates of all farm-to-table sales within a foodshed range from roughly $550 million to $2 billion. Many local farms are family-run farms that are successful and do survive through poor economic conditions. Ecologists consider to be more adaptive and more likely to “reproduce” in highly variable and uncertain environments.\n\nThe internet can be used to locate foodshed maps of almost any area. Some maps are interactive, where sources in an area can be found for organic produce, microbreweries, farmers markets, orchards, cheese makers, or other specific categories within a 100-mile radius. A 100- mile radius is considered \"local food\" because it is large enough to reach beyond a big city, and small enough to feel truly local.\n\nBuying local food within a foodshed can be seen as a means to combat the modern food system, and the effects it has on the environment. It has been described as “a banner under which people attempt to counteract trends of economic concentration, social disempowerment and environmental degradation in the food and agricultural landscape.” Choosing to buy local produce improves the environmental stewardship of producers by reducing the amount of energy used in the transport of foods, as well as greenhouse gas emissions. Agriculture production alone contributes to 14% of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. The food system’s contribution of greenhouse gases contributes to the global issue of Climate change. More attention is being paid to possibilities for reducing emissions through more efficient transport and different patterns of consumption, specifically increased reliance on local foodsheds.\n\nOne common measure of \"eating within a foodshed\" is whether produce has traveled under 100 “food miles.” Food miles are a measure of how far food travels from the farm where it is produced to the table where it is consumed. In the United States, on average, food travels about 1,500 miles before it gets to a plate. Sale of locally grown food can pave the way for reduction of food miles, and increase in agricultural sustainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1325445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325445", "title": "Genetic Savings &amp; Clone", "text": "Genetic Savings &amp; Clone\n\nGenetic Savings & Clone, Inc. was a company headquartered in Sausalito, California that offered commercial pet gene banking and cloning services, between 2004 and 2006.\n\nThe company was founded as a result of the efforts to clone Lou Hawthorne's favorite family dog, Missy. The Missyplicity project generated enough interest that Lou Hawthorne decided to build a company devoted to dog and cat cloning.\n\nThe company opened for business in February 2000, funded production of the first cloned cat, CC, in 2001, and launched its pet cloning service in February 2004, operating a \"petbank\", to which pet owners could send tissue samples for later use in cloning. The company delivered the world's first commercially cloned cat, Little Nicky, in December 2004. Little Nicky was sold to a Texas woman for a reported US$50,000. He is a genetic twin of \"Nicky,\" a 17-year-old Maine Coon cat that had been kept as a pet. Musician Liam Lynch's cat was cloned after its death, presumably making him the only celebrity to own a cloned pet. \n\nAs well as their success in cloning cats, the company also made significant advances in dog cloning research, although the technology was not mature enough to sustain the business. The company closed in 2006. Letters to this effect were sent out to clients at the end of September 2006, informing them of this decision and offering to transfer any genetic material to another facility.\n\nThe company spurred widespread debate regarding the ethics and morality of pet cloning especially in light of the fact that animals are euthanized by their owners every day. Though the topic lost currency with the closure of the company, divergent arguments about these issues can still be found on some web sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "4750655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750655", "title": "Grainger challenge", "text": "Grainger challenge\n\nThe Grainger challenge is a scientific competition to find an economical way to remove arsenic from arsenic-contaminated groundwater. This competition is being funded by the United States National Academy of Engineering and the Grainger Foundation and is meant to help provide safe drinking water to countries such as Bangladesh, India, and Cambodia.\n\nIn 2007, the winner of the Gold Award ($1,000,000) was Abul Hussam, for his invention of the Sono arsenic filter. The Silver Award ($200,000) was awarded to Arup K Sengupta for his invention and implementation of ArsenX hybrid anion exchange (HAIX) resin. The Children's Safe Drinking Water Program at Procter & Gamble (P&G), Cincinnati, received the Bronze Award of US$ 100,000 for the PUR™ Purifier of Water coagulation and flocculation water treatment system.\n\n"}
{"id": "8442043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8442043", "title": "Hannah Mills (Quaker)", "text": "Hannah Mills (Quaker)\n\nHannah Mills was a Quaker from Leeds, England, whose treatment and death in 1790 while confined in the York Asylum (now Bootham Park Hospital) is recognised as having led to the development of the York Retreat, which pioneered the moral treatment of mental illness that became a model for progressive practices worldwide.\n\nMills was admitted as a young widow to the York Asylum on 15 March 1790, suffering from 'melancholy' (what might now be termed clinical depression). At the request of her relatives, local York Quakers tried to visit her but were refused permission on the grounds that she was in private treatment. Mills died there on 29 April 1790. These events shocked the Quakers. William Tuke was enlisted to help develop a more humane alternative and the York Retreat was opened in 1796.\n"}
{"id": "42371079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371079", "title": "Healthcare Research &amp; Analytics", "text": "Healthcare Research &amp; Analytics\n\nHealthcare Research & Analytics (HRA) is a consultative market research practice, based in Parsippany, New Jersey. HRA offers market research services to the healthcare sector. The company offers quantitative, qualitative, custom, and syndicated market research services to pharmaceutical, biotech, pharmacy, and medical device businesses.\n\nHRA was founded in 1974 as Hospital Research Associates. The company was acquired in 2004 by MJH Healthcare Holdings LLC and was renamed to Healthcare Research & Analytics in 2011. The company has 27 employees.\n\nSince 1997, HRA has worked with \"Pharmacy Times\" to conduct an annual survey of pharmacists over-the-counter recommendations. The results are published as a resource for pharmacists and consumers in Pharmacy Times’ OTC Guide and through \"U.S. News & World Report\"’s Health Products website.\n\nIn February 2014, Procter & Gamble used HRA to survey doctors about patients’ sleep struggles, stating that 57 percent of doctors polled reported one of patients’ biggest hindrances to falling asleep is engaging in electronics too close to bedtime.\n"}
{"id": "147020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147020", "title": "Hygiene", "text": "Hygiene\n\nHygiene is a set of practices performed to preserve health.\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), \"Hygiene refers to conditions and practices that help to maintain health and prevent the spread of diseases.\" Personal hygiene refers to maintaining the body's cleanliness.\n\nMany people equate hygiene with 'cleanliness,' but hygiene is a broad term. It includes such personal habit choices as how frequently to bathe, wash hands, trim fingernails, and change clothing. It also includes attention to keeping surfaces in the home and workplace, including bathroom facilities, clean and pathogen-free. \n\nSome regular hygiene practices may be considered good habits by a society, while the neglect of hygiene can be considered disgusting, disrespectful, or threatening. \n\nFirst attested in English in 1677s, the word \"hygiene\" comes from the French \"hygiène\", the latinisation of the Greek ὑγιεινή (τέχνη) \"hugieinē technē\", meaning \"(art) of health\", from ὑγιεινός \"hugieinos\", \"good for the health, healthy\", in turn from ὑγιής (\"hugiēs\"), \"healthful, sound, salutary, wholesome\". In ancient Greek religion, Hygeia (Ὑγίεια) was the personification of health, cleanliness, and hygiene.\n\nHygiene is a concept related to cleanliness, health and medicine. It is as well related to personal and professional care practices. In medicine and everyday life settings, hygiene practices are employed as preventative measures to reduce the incidence and spreading of disease.\n\nHygiene practices vary, and what is considered acceptable in one culture might not be acceptable in another.\n\nIn the manufacturing of food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic and other products, good hygiene is a critical component of quality assurance.\n\nThe terms cleanliness and hygiene are often used interchangeably, which can cause confusion. In general, hygiene refers to practices that prevent spread of disease-causing organisms. Cleaning processes (e.g., handwashing) remove infectious microbes as well as dirt and soil, and are thus often the means to achieve hygiene.\n\nOther uses of the term appear in phrases including \"body hygiene, personal hygiene, sleep hygiene, mental hygiene, dental hygiene,\" and \"occupational hygiene\", used in connection with public health. \"Hygiene\" is also the name of a branch of science that deals with the promotion and preservation of health.\n\nMedical hygiene pertains to the hygiene practices related to the administration of medicine and medical care that prevents or minimizes the spread of disease.\n\nMedical hygiene practices include:\n\n\nMost of these practices were developed in the 19th century and were well established by the mid-20th century. Some procedures (such as disposal of medical waste) were refined in response to late-20th century disease outbreaks, notably AIDS and Ebola.\n\nHome hygiene pertains to the hygiene practices that prevent or minimize the spread of disease at home and other everyday settings such as social settings, public transport, the workplace, public places, etc.\n\nHygiene in a variety of settings plays an important role in preventing the spread of infectious diseases. It includes procedures used in a variety of domestic situations such as hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, food and water hygiene, general home hygiene (hygiene of environmental sites and surfaces), care of domestic animals, and home health care (the care of those who are at greater risk of infection).\n\nAt present, these components of hygiene tend to be regarded as separate issues, although based on the same underlying microbiological principles. Preventing the spread of diseases means breaking the chain of infection transmission. Simply put, if the chain of infection is broken, infection cannot spread. In response to the need for effective codes of hygiene in home and everyday life settings the International Scientific Forum on Home Hygiene has developed a risk-based approach based on Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP), also referred to as \"targeted hygiene.\" Targeted hygiene is based on identifying the routes of pathogen spread in the home and introducing hygiene practices at critical times to break the chain of infection.\n\nThe main sources of infection in the home are people (who are carriers or are infected), foods (particularly raw foods) and water, and domestic animals (in the U.S. more than 50% of homes have one or more pets). Sites that accumulate stagnant water—such as sinks, toilets, waste pipes, cleaning tools, face cloths, etc. readily support microbial growth and can become secondary reservoirs of infection, though species are mostly those that threaten \"at risk\" groups. Pathogens (potentially infectious bacteria, viruses etc.—colloquially called \"germs\") are constantly shed from these sources via mucous membranes, feces, vomit, skin scales, etc. Thus, when circumstances combine, people are exposed, either directly or via food or water, and can develop an infection. \n\nThe main \"highways\" for the spread of pathogens in the home are the hands, hand and food contact surfaces, and cleaning cloths and utensils. Pathogens can also be spread via clothing and household linens, such as towels. Utilities such as toilets and wash basins, for example, were invented for dealing safely with human waste but still have risks associated with them. Safe disposal of human waste is a fundamental need; poor sanitation is a primary cause of diarrhea disease in low income communities. Respiratory viruses and fungal spores are spread via the air.\n\nGood home hygiene means engaging in hygiene practices at critical points to break the chain of infection. Because the \"infectious dose\" for some pathogens can be very small (10-100 viable units or even less for some viruses), and infection can result from direct transfer of pathogens from surfaces via hands or food to the mouth, nasal mucous or the eye, 'hygienic cleaning' procedures should be sufficient to eliminate pathogens from critical surfaces.\n\nHygienic cleaning can be done through:\n\nHand hygiene is defined as handwashing or washing hands and nails with soap and water or using a waterless hand sanitizer. Hand hygiene is central to preventing spread of infectious diseases in home and everyday life settings.\n\nIn situations where handwashing with soap is not an option (e.g., when in a public place with no access to wash facilities), a waterless hand sanitizer such as an alcohol hand gel can be used. They can be used in addition to handwashing to minimize risks when caring for \"at risk\" groups. To be effective, alcohol hand gels should contain not less than 60%v/v alcohol. \n\nThe World Health Organization recommends handwashing with ash if soap is not available in emergencies, schools without access to soap and other difficult situations like post-emergencies where use of (clean) sand is recommended, too. Use of ash is common in rural areas of developing countries and has in experiments been shown at least as effective as soap for removing pathogens.\n\nCorrect respiratory and hand hygiene when coughing and sneezing reduces the spread of pathogens particularly during the cold and flu season.\n\nFood hygiene is concerned with the hygiene practices that prevent food poisoning. The five key principles of food hygiene, according to WHO, are:\n\nRoutine cleaning of (hand, food, drinking water) sites and surfaces (such as toilet seats and flush handles, door and tap handles, work surfaces, bath and basin surfaces) in the kitchen, bathroom and toilet reduces the risk of spread of pathogens. The infection risk from flush toilets is not high, provided they are properly maintained, although some splashing and aerosol formation can occur during flushing, particularly when someone has diarrhea. Pathogens can survive in the scum or scale left behind on baths and wash basins after washing and bathing.\n\nWater left stagnant in the pipes of showers can be contaminated with pathogens that become airborne when the shower is turned on. If a shower has not been used for some time, it should be left to run at a hot temperature for a few minutes before use.\n\nThorough cleaning is important in preventing the spread of fungal infections. Molds can live on wall and floor tiles and on shower curtains. Mold can be responsible for infections, cause allergic responses, deteriorate/damage surfaces and cause unpleasant odors. Primary sites of fungal growth are inanimate surfaces, including carpets and soft furnishings. Air-borne fungi are usually associated with damp conditions, poor ventilation or closed air systems.\n\nLaundry hygiene involves practices that prevent disease and its spread via soiled clothing and household linens such as towels. Items most likely to be contaminated with pathogens are those that come into direct contact with the body, e.g., underwear, personal towels, facecloths, nappies. Cloths or other fabric items used during food preparation, or for cleaning the toilet or cleaning up material such as feces or vomit are a particular risk.\n\nMicrobiological and epidemiological data indicates that clothing and household linens etc. are a risk factor for infection transmission in home and everyday life settings as well as institutional settings. The lack of quantitative data linking contaminated clothing to infection in the domestic setting makes it difficult to assess the extent of this risk. It also indicates that risks from clothing and household linens are somewhat less than those associated with hands, hand contact and food contact surfaces, and cleaning cloths, but even so these risks needs to be managed through effective laundering practices. In the home, this routine should be carried out as part of a multibarrier approach to hygiene which includes hand, food, respiratory and other hygiene practices.\n\nInfectious diseases risks from contaminated clothing etc. can increase significantly under certain conditions, e.g., in healthcare situations in hospitals, care homes and the domestic setting where someone has diarrhoea, vomiting, or a skin or wound infection. It increases in circumstances where someone has reduced immunity to infection.\n\nHygiene measures, including laundry hygiene, are an important part of reducing spread of antibiotic resistant strains. In the community, otherwise healthy people can become persistent skin carriers of MRSA, or faecal carriers of enterobacteria strains which can carry multi-antibiotic resistance factors (e.g. NDM-1 or ESBL-producing strains). The risks are not apparent until, for example, they are admitted to hospital, when they can become \"self infected\" with their own resistant organisms following a surgical procedure. As persistent nasal, skin or bowel carriage in the healthy population spreads \"silently\" across the world, the risks from resistant strains in both hospitals and the community increases. In particular the data indicates that clothing and household linens are a risk factor for spread of S. aureus (including MRSA and PVL-producing MRSA strains), and that effectiveness of laundry processes may be an important factor in defining the rate of community spread of these strains. Experience in the United States suggests that these strains are transmissible within families and in community settings such as prisons, schools and sport teams. Skin-to-skin contact (including unabraded skin) and indirect contact with contaminated objects such as towels, sheets and sports equipment seem to represent the mode of transmission.\n\nDuring laundering, temperature and detergent work to reduce microbial contamination levels on fabrics. Soil and microbes from fabrics are severed and suspended in the wash water. These are then \"washed away\" during the rinse and spin cycles. In addition to physical removal, micro-organisms can be killed by thermal inactivation which increases as the temperature is increased. Chemical inactivation of microbes by the surfactants and activated oxygen-based bleach used in detergents contributes to the hygiene effectiveness of laundering. Adding hypochlorite bleach in the washing process achieves inactivation of microbes. A number of other factors can contribute including drying and ironing.\n\nLaundry detergents contain a mix of ingredients including surfactants, builders, optical brighteners, etc. Cleaning action arises primarily from the action of the surfactants and other ingredients, which are designed to maximise release and suspension of dirt and microbes into the wash liquid, together with enzymes and/or an activated oxygen-based bleach which digest and remove stains. Although activated oxygen bleach is included in many powder detergents to digest and remove stains, it produces some chemical inactivation of bacteria, fungi and viruses. As a rule of thumb, powders and tablets normally contain an activated oxygen bleach, but liquids and all products (liquid or powder) used for \"coloureds\" do not. Surfactants also exert some chemical inactivation action against certain species although the extent of their action is not known.\n\nIn 2013 the International Scientific Forum on Home Hygiene (IFH) reviewed some 30 studies of the hygiene effectiveness of laundering at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 70 °C, under varying conditions. A key finding was the lack of standardisation and control within studies, and the variability in test conditions between studies such as wash cycle time, number of rinses, etc. The consequent variability in the data (i.e., the reduction in contamination on fabrics) obtained, in turn makes it extremely difficult to propose guidelines for laundering with any confidence, based on currently available data. As a result, there is significant variability in the recommendations for hygienic laundering of clothing etc. given by different agencies.\n\nOf concern is recent data suggesting that, in reality, modern domestic washing machines do not reach the temperature specified on the machine controls.\n\nMedical hygiene pertains to the hygiene practices that prevents or minimizes disease and the spreading of disease in relation to administering medical care to those who are infected or who are more \"at risk\" of infection in the home. Across the world, governments are increasingly under pressure to fund the level of healthcare that people expect. Care of increasing numbers of patients in the community, including at home is one answer, but can be fatally undermined by inadequate infection control in the home. Increasingly, all of these \"at-risk\" groups are cared for at home by a carer who may be a household member who thus requires a good knowledge of hygiene. People with reduced immunity to infection, who are looked after at home, make up an increasing proportion of the population (currently up to 20%). The largest proportion are the elderly who have co-morbidities, which reduce their immunity to infection. It also includes the very young, patients discharged from hospital, taking immuno-suppressive drugs or using invasive systems, etc. For patients discharged from hospital, or being treated at home special \"medical hygiene\" (see above) procedures may need to be performed for them e.g. catheter or dressing replacement, which puts them at higher risk of infection.\n\nAntiseptics may be applied to cuts, wounds abrasions of the skin to prevent the entry of harmful bacteria that can cause sepsis. Day-to-day hygiene practices, other than special medical hygiene procedures are no different for those at increased risk of infection than for other family members. The difference is that, if hygiene practices are not correctly carried out, the risk of infection is much greater.\n\nChemical disinfectants are products that kill pathogens. If the product is a disinfectant, the label on the product should say \"disinfectant\" or \"kills\" pathogens. Some commercial products, e.g. bleaches, even though they are technically disinfectants, say that they \"kill pathogens\" but are not actually labelled as \"disinfectants\". Not all disinfectants kill all types of pathogens. All disinfectants kill bacteria (called bactericidal). Some also kill fungi (fungicidal), bacterial spores (sporicidal) or viruses (virucidal).\n\nAn antibacterial product is a product that acts against bacteria in some unspecified way. Some products labelled \"antibacterial\" kill bacteria while others may contain a concentration of active ingredient that only prevent them multiplying. It is, therefore, important to check whether the product label states that it \"kills\" bacteria.\" An antibacterial is not necessarily anti-fungal or anti-viral unless this is stated on the label.\n\nThe term sanitizer has been used to define substances that both clean and disinfect. More recently this term has been applied to alcohol-based products that disinfect the hands (alcohol hand sanitizers). Alcohol hand sanitizers however are not considered to be effective on soiled hands.\n\nThe term biocide is a broad term for a substance that kills, inactivates or otherwise controls living organisms. It includes antiseptics and disinfectants, which combat micro-organisms, and pesticides.\n\nIn developing countries, universal access to water and sanitation has been seen as the essential step in reducing the preventable infectious diseases burden, but it is now clear that this is best achieved by programs that integrate hygiene promotion with improvements in water quality and availability, and sanitation. This approach has been integrated into the Sustainable Development Goal Number 6 whose second target states: \"By 2030, achieve access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open defecation, paying special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations\". Due to their close linkages, water, sanitation, hygiene are together abbreviated and funded under the term WASH in development cooperation.\n\nAbout 2 million people die every year due to diarrheal diseases, most of them are children less than 5 years of age. The most affected are the populations in developing countries, living in extreme conditions of poverty, normally peri-urban dwellers or rural inhabitants. Providing access to sufficient quantities of safe water, the provision of facilities for a sanitary disposal of excreta, and introducing sound hygiene behaviors are of capital importance to reduce the burden of disease caused by these risk factors.\n\nResearch shows that, if widely practiced, hand washing with soap could reduce diarrhea by almost fifty percent and respiratory infections by nearly twenty-five percent Hand washing with soap also reduces the incidence of skin diseases, eye infections like trachoma and intestinal worms, especially ascariasis and trichuriasis.\n\nOther hygiene practices, such as safe disposal of waste, surface hygiene, and care of domestic animals, are important in low income communities to break the chain of infection transmission.\n\nCleaning of toilets and hand wash facilities is important to prevent odors and make them socially acceptable. Social acceptance is an important part of encouraging people to use toilets and wash their hands, in situations where open defecation is still seen as a possible alternative, e.g. in rural areas of some developing countries.\n\nHousehold water treatment and safe storage ensure drinking water is safe for consumption. These interventions are part of the approach of self-supply of water for households. Drinking water quality remains a significant problem in developing and in developed countries; even in the European region it is estimated that 120 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Point-of-use water quality interventions can reduce diarrheal disease in communities where water quality is poor or in emergency situations where there is a breakdown in water supply.\nSince water can become contaminated during storage at home (e.g. by contact with contaminated hands or using dirty storage vessels), safe storage of water in the home is important.\n\nMethods for treatment of drinking water, include:\n\nPersonal hygiene involves those practices performed by an individual to care for one's bodily health and well being, through cleanliness. Motivations for personal hygiene practice include reduction of personal illness, healing from personal illness, optimal health and sense of well being, social acceptance and prevention of spread of illness to others. What is considered proper personal hygiene can be cultural-specific and may change over time. \n\nOther practices that are generally considered proper hygiene include bathing regularly, washing hands regularly and especially before handling food, washing scalp hair, keeping hair short or removing hair, wearing clean clothing, brushing teeth, cutting finger nails, besides other practices. Some practices are gender-specific, such as by a woman during her menstruation. Toiletry bags holds body hygiene and toiletry supplies. \n\nAnal hygiene is the practice that a person performs on the anal area of themselves after defecation. The anus and buttocks may be either washed with liquids or wiped with toilet paper or adding gel wipe to toilet tissue as an alternative to wet wipes or other solid materials in order to remove remnants of feces. \n\nPeople tend to develop a routine for attending to their personal hygiene needs. Other personal hygienic practices would include covering one's mouth when coughing, disposal of soiled tissues appropriately, making sure toilets are clean, and making sure food handling areas are clean, besides other practices. Some cultures do not kiss or shake hands to reduce transmission of bacteria by contact.\n\nPersonal grooming extends personal hygiene as it pertains to the maintenance of a good personal and public appearance, which need not necessarily be hygienic. It may involve, for example, using deodorants or perfume, shaving, or combing, besides other practices.\n\nExcessive body hygiene is one example of obsessive compulsive disorder.\n\nThe hygiene hypothesis was first formulated in 1989 by Strachan who observed that there was an inverse relationship between family size and development of atopic allergic disorders – the more children in a family, the less likely they were to develop these allergies. From this, he hypothesized that a lack of exposure to \"infections\" in early childhood transmitted by contact with older siblings could be a cause of the rapid rise in atopic disorders over the last 30 to 40 years. Strachan further proposed that the reason why this exposure no longer occurs is not only because of the trend towards smaller families, but also \"improved household amenities and higher standards of personal cleanliness\".\n\nAlthough there is substantial evidence that some microbial exposures in early childhood can in some way protect against allergies, there is no evidence that humans need exposure to harmful microbes (infection) or that it is necessary to suffer a clinical infection. Nor is there evidence that hygiene measures such as hand washing, food hygiene etc. are linked to increased susceptibility to atopic disease. If this is the case, there is no conflict between the goals of preventing infection and minimising allergies. A consensus is now developing among experts that the answer lies in more fundamental changes in lifestyle etc. that have led to decreased exposure to certain microbial or other species, such as helminths, that are important for development of immuno-regulatory mechanisms. There is still much uncertainty as to which lifestyle factors are involved.\n\nAlthough media coverage of the hygiene hypothesis has declined, a strong ‘collective mindset’ has become established that dirt is ‘healthy’ and hygiene somehow ‘unnatural’. This has caused concern among health professionals that everyday life hygiene behaviours, which are the foundation of public health, are being undermined. In response to the need for effective hygiene in home and everyday life settings, the International Scientific Forum on Home Hygiene has developed a \"risk-based\" or targeted approach to home hygiene that seeks to ensure that hygiene measures are focussed on the places, and at the times most critical for infection transmission. Whilst targeted hygiene was originally developed as an effective approach to hygiene practice, it also seeks, as far as possible, to sustain \"normal\" levels of exposure to the microbial flora of our environment to the extent that is important to build a balanced immune system.\n\nExcessive body hygiene of the ear canals can result in infection or irritation. The ear canals require less body hygiene care than other parts of the body, because they are sensitive, and the body adequately cares for them. Most of the time the ear canals are self-cleaning; that is, there is a slow and orderly migration of the skin lining the ear canal from the eardrum to the outer opening of the ear. Old earwax is constantly being transported from the deeper areas of the ear canal out to the opening where it usually dries, flakes, and falls out. Attempts to clean the ear canals through the removal of earwax can reduce ear canal cleanliness by pushing debris and foreign material into the ear that the natural movement of ear wax out of the ear would have removed.\n\nExcessive application of soaps, creams, and ointments can adversely affect certain of the natural processes of the skin. For examples, soaps and ointments can deplete the skin of natural protective oils and fat-soluble content such as cholecalciferol (vitamin D3), and external substances can be absorbed, to disturb natural hormonal balances.\n\nIt is recommended that all healthy adults brush twice a day, softly, with the correct technique, replacing their toothbrush every few months (~3) or after a bout of illness.\n\nThere are a number of common oral hygiene misconceptions. It is not correct to rinse the mouth with water after brushing. It is also not recommended to brush immediately after drinking acidic substances, including sparkling water. It is also recommended to floss once a day, with a different piece of floss at each flossing session. The Effectiveness of Tooth Mousse is in debate. Visits to a dentist for a checkup every year at least are recommended.\n\nCulinary hygiene pertains to the practices related to food management and cooking to prevent food contamination, prevent food poisoning and minimize the transmission of disease to other foods, humans or animals. Culinary hygiene practices specify safe ways to handle, store, prepare, serve and eat food.\n\nCulinary practices include:\n\n\nPersonal service hygiene pertains to the practices related to the care and use of instruments used in the administration of personal care services to people:\n\nPersonal hygiene practices include:\n\nSleep hygiene is the recommended behavioral and environmental practice that is intended to promote better quality sleep. This recommendation was developed in the late 1970s as a method to help people with mild to moderate insomnia, but, , the evidence for effectiveness of individual recommendations is \"limited and inconclusive\". Clinicians assess the sleep hygiene of people who present with insomnia and other conditions, such as depression, and offer recommendations based on the assessment. Sleep hygiene recommendations include establishing a regular sleep schedule, using naps with care, not exercising physically or mentally too close to bedtime, limiting worry, limiting exposure to light in the hours before sleep, getting out of bed if sleep does not come, not using bed for anything but sleep and avoiding alcohol as well as nicotine, caffeine, and other stimulants in the hours before bedtime, and having a peaceful, comfortable and dark sleep environment.\n\nThe earliest written account of Elaborate codes of hygiene can be found in several Hindu texts, such as the Manusmriti and the Vishnu Purana. Bathing is one of the five Nitya karmas (daily duties) in Hinduism, and not performing it leads to sin, according to some scriptures.\n\nRegular bathing was a hallmark of Roman civilization. Elaborate baths were constructed in urban areas to serve the public, who typically demanded the infrastructure to maintain personal cleanliness. The complexes usually consisted of large, swimming pool-like baths, smaller cold and hot pools, saunas, and spa-like facilities where individuals could be depilated, oiled, and massaged. Water was constantly changed by an aqueduct-fed flow. Bathing outside of urban centers involved smaller, less elaborate bathing facilities, or simply the use of clean bodies of water. Roman cities also had large sewers, such as Rome's Cloaca Maxima, into which public and private latrines drained. Romans didn't have demand-flush toilets but did have some toilets with a continuous flow of water under them.\n\nUntil the late 19th Century, only the elite in Western cities typically possessed indoor facilities for relieving bodily functions. The poorer majority used communal facilities built above cesspools in backyards and courtyards. This changed after Dr. John Snow discovered that cholera was transmitted by the fecal contamination of water. Though it took decades for his findings to gain wide acceptance, governments and sanitary reformers were eventually convinced of the health benefits of using sewers to keep human waste from contaminating water. This encouraged the widespread adoption of both the flush toilet and the moral imperative that bathrooms should be indoors and as private as possible.\n\nChristianity has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene. Despite the denunciation of the mixed bathing style of Roman pools by early Christian clergy, as well as the pagan custom of women naked bathing in front of men, this did not stop the Church from urging its followers to go to public baths for bathing, which contributed to hygiene and good health according to the Church Father, Clement of Alexandria. The Church built public bathing facilities that were separate for both sexes near monasteries and pilgrimage sites; also, the popes situated baths within church basilicas and monasteries since the early Middle Ages. Pope Gregory the Great urged his followers on value of bathing as a bodily need.\n\nContrary to popular belief and although the Early Christian leaders, such as Boniface I, condemned bathing as unspiritual, bathing and sanitation were not lost in Europe with the collapse of the Roman Empire. Soapmaking first became an established trade during the so-called \"Dark Ages\". The Romans used scented oils (mostly from Egypt), among other alternatives.\n\nNorthern Europeans were not in the habit of bathing: in the ninth century Notker the Stammerer, a Frankish monk of St Gall, related a disapproving anecdote that attributed ill results of personal hygiene to an Italian fashion:\n\nThere was a certain deacon who followed the habits of the Italians in that he was perpetually trying to resist nature. He used to take baths, he had his head very closely shaved, he polished his skin, he cleaned his nail, he had his hair cut as short as if it were turned on a lathe, and he wore linen underclothes and a snow-white shirt.\nSecular medieval texts constantly refer to the washing of hands before and after meals, but Sone de Nansay, hero of a 13th-century romance, discovers to his chagrin that the Norwegians do not wash up after eating. In the 11th and 12th centuries, bathing was essential to the Western European upper class: the Cluniac monasteries to which they resorted or retired were always provided with bathhouses, and even the monks were required to take full immersion baths twice a year, at the two Christian festivals of renewal, though exhorted not to uncover themselves from under their bathing sheets. In 14th century Tuscany, the newlywed couple's bath together was such a firm convention one such couple, in a large coopered tub, is illustrated in fresco in the town hall of San Gimignano.\n\nBathing had fallen out of fashion in Northern Europe long before the Renaissance, when the communal public baths of German cities were in their turn a wonder to Italian visitors. Bathing was replaced by the heavy use of sweat-bathing and perfume, as it was thought in Europe that water could carry disease into the body through the skin. Bathing encouraged an erotic atmosphere that was played upon by the writers of romances intended for the upper class; in the tale of Melusine the bath was a crucial element of the plot. \"Bathing and grooming were regarded with suspicion by moralists, however, because they unveiled the attractiveness of the body. Bathing was said to be a prelude to sin, and in the penitential of Burchard of Worms we find a full catalogue of the sins that ensued when men and women bathed together.\" Medieval church authorities believed that public bathing created an environment open to immorality and disease; the 26 public baths of Paris in the late 13th century were strictly overseen by the civil authorities. At a later date Roman Catholic Church officials even banned public bathing in an unsuccessful effort to halt syphilis epidemics from sweeping Europe.\n\nModern sanitation was not widely adopted until the 19th and 20th centuries. According to medieval historian Lynn Thorndike, people in Medieval Europe probably bathed more than people did in the 19th century. Some time after Louis Pasteur's experiments proved the germ theory of disease and Joseph Lister and others put them into practice in sanitation, hygienic practices came to be regarded as synonymous with health, as they are in modern times.\n\nSince the 7th century, Islam has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene. Other than the need to be ritually clean in time for the daily prayer (Arabic: \"Salat\") through Wuzu and Ghusl, there are a large number of other hygiene-related rules governing the lives of Muslims. Other issues include the Islamic dietary laws. In general, the Qur'an advises Muslims to uphold high standards of physical hygiene and to be ritually clean whenever possible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4298302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4298302", "title": "IPLEDGE program", "text": "IPLEDGE program\n\nThe iPLEDGE program is a mandatory distribution program in the United States for isotretinoin (sold under the trade name Accutane, among others). It is intended to prevent the use of the medication during pregnancy due to the high risk of birth defects (\"see Teratogenicity of isoretinoin\"). As of March 1, 2006, patients, their doctors and their pharmacists are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to register and use a web site in order to receive this medication. The program has reduced exposure of pregnant women to the drug, and has also been criticized for being overly complicated.\n\nThe iPLEDGE Program website and automated phone system are part of the iPLEDGE Program, which is an FDA-mandated risk evaluation and mitigation strategy program designed to mitigate the risks associated with taking isotretinoin.\n\nThe goals of the isotretinoin risk evaluation and mitigation strategy are: \n\nOnce a doctor decides a patient is a candidate for isotretinoin, they will counsel the patient to ensure the patient understands the drug and the potential side effects. Once the patient signs the necessary paperwork, their doctor will give them a patient ID number and ID card, as well as other program educational materials. After they have been registered in iPLEDGE by their doctor, they will receive their password in the mail after 5–10 business days. Patients are classified either as females of child-bearing potential (FCBPs), females not of child-bearing potential (FnCBPs), or males.\n\nFCBPs are required to pick and use two birth control methods (abstinence included), and must take doctor-administered pregnancy tests in two consecutive months. After the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy test, the FCBP must also take an online comprehension test to ensure she understands the requirements of the Program. Once those two items are complete, the FCBP is authorized to receive drug at an authorized pharmacy. From the date of the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy test, an FCBP has seven days to pick up her prescription. FCBPs must see their doctor and take a pregnancy test in each subsequent month in order to get another prescription for the next 30 days.\n\nMales and FnCBPs must see their doctor every month, but don't have to take the pregnancy or comprehension tests. They have 30 days from the date of their office visit to pick up their prescriptions. After that point they have to see their doctor for another 30-day prescription.\n\nBefore dispensing isotretinoin, the pharmacist must check the iPLEDGE Program website to ensure the patient is authorized to receive the drug. Isotretinoin may only be dispensed at authorized US pharmacies that are registered with the iPLEDGE Program, and FDA has taken action against Canadian and internet pharmacies which dispense isotretinoin outside of the iPLEDGE Program. Patients who acquire and consume isotretinoin without the care of a prescriber are putting themselves in jeopardy.\n\nThe typical course of isotretinoin treatment will last 4–5 months, and is generally considered to be an option when nothing else has worked.\n\nSome dermatologists have praised isotretinoin for its ability to treat severe acne, with current research calling it \"a drug of choice\" with \"immense promise … in reducing dermal irritation and increasing the therapeutic performance, thus resulting in an efficacious and patient-compliant formulation\". However, there have also been many reports and studies criticizing the negative side effects of isotretinoin have been published over the years. The author of a 2002 paper from Harvard Law School wrote: \"Accutane also has the potential to destroy lives. Accutane is an extremely dangerous teratogen: It can cause severe birth defects when taken during pregnancy. About one quarter of babies born who have been exposed to Accutane during gestation have major congenital deformities. Those babies born without major malformations frequently develop severe learning disabilities. A whole segment of Accutane babies do not even survive pregnancy: 40% are spontaneously miscarried.\" The author goes on to compare Accutane to Thalidomide.\n\nThe iPLEDGE Program was instituted as a replacement for the failed SMART program (System to Manage Accutane Related Teratogenicity). Instituted in April 2002, SMART aimed to eliminate isotretinoin-induced birth defects by preventing pregnant women from being prescribed or exposed to the drug. The program mandated two consecutive negative pregnancy tests, birth defect risk counseling and a pledge to use two forms of contraception when engaging in intercourse for all women of childbearing age seeking an isotretinoin prescription. A voluntary registration program called The Accutane Survey was also established. However, no effort was made to verify the compliance of doctors and pharmacists, only a small percentage of women registered in the survey, and isotretinoin's reputation as an acne wonder drug continued to fuel demand for new prescriptions, an increasing number of which were being written and dispensed for relatively minor cases of acne vulgaris without proper screening, supervision or evidence that less risky medications had first been attempted.\n\nIn 2003, a first-year review of SMART compliance conducted by the pharmaceutical industry revealed that the number of pregnant women prescribed isotretinoin actually \"increased\" by hundreds of documented cases over the previous year, before the program was instituted. Of these cases, the majority of women underwent abortions—either spontaneous or elective—with a handful of children reported to be born with typical isotretinoin-induced birth defects. When surveyed, many pregnant women reported that their physicians had attempted to downplay the risks of isotretinoin or violated the standards in other ways, such as failing to inform women they needed to use two forms of birth control or allowing them to substitute a single, less-accurate urine pregnancy test conducted in the doctor's office for the two laboratory-conducted blood pregnancy tests mandated by SMART. The FDA also concluded that, considering the voluntary nature of the reporting program and lack of mandatory record-keeping, the actual number of pregnant women affected was likely far higher than the reported number.\n\nThe report led to SMART being dismissed as \"a total failure\", with the FDA quickly moving to halt the downward slide with a stricter mandatory registry system to document and verify all isotretinoin prescriptions written or dispensed to childbearing-age women in the United States. This was a feature originally included in the plan for SMART recommended by the original FDA advisory panel and wholeheartedly endorsed by the pharmaceutical manufacturers, but removed due to concerns that political opposition from lobbying groups would delay the program's implementation. Although eventually resolved, the older concerns proved valid in 2003 when the launch of iPLEDGE was held up for three years while objections from women's rights, patient's rights, physician's rights and pro-choice lobbyists were debated in committee.\n\nThe iPLEDGE program was put into place a group formed by the companies that manufactured the drug at the time – Roche, Mylan, Barr, and Ranbaxy – called the Isotretinoin Products Manufacturing Group (IPMG); they are responsible for iPLEDGE and they hired Covance to manage it. The program launched on March 1, 2006, at the beginning of the annual meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology.\n\nIn the U.S., around 2000 women became pregnant while taking the drug between 1982 and 2000, with most pregnancies ending in abortion or miscarriage. About 160 babies with birth defects were born. After the FDA put the more strict iPLEDGE program in place for the companies marketing the drug in the US, in 2011, 155 pregnancies occurred among 129,544 women of childbearing potential taking isotrentinoin (0.12%).\n\nCriticisms of the iPLEDGE program include the following:\n\nDue to the nature of restricted distribution programs in general, and ETASU REMS programs specifically, stakeholder burden has always been balanced against control and compliance.\n\nWhen the Program launched in March 2006, there were many complaints about how difficult it was to use the system. Launch and pre-launch difficulties were common with the system jointly built by the drug manufacturers with the assistance of Covance, Inc, and approved by the FDA. Glitches with the website and long hold times were rampant at the time, and became a focus of physician and patient ire. Physicians have continued to be concerned that this very effective drug is made difficult to obtain due to a relatively small proportion of potential birth defects.\n\nThough prescriber and pharmacy populations have become more familiar with the requirements of the iPLEDGE Program over the years, and some of the initial issues with the system have subsided, the nature of the restrictive distribution program continues to cause inconvenience, added expenses, and interruptions in the course of treatment. For example, if there is a problem with the data a patient or prescriber enters, the patient may be locked out of the system, unable to obtain the drug, for that 30-day cycle. Additionally, if a patient misses her 7-day prescription pick-up window, the patient must return to the prescriber for another pregnancy test before being able to get the drug again. This return visit to the doctor, of course, can be inconvenient and costly. To minimize the number of necessary visits to the doctor, a patient would want to schedule their appointment near the end of a 30-day period, but then must pick up the medicine quickly to avoid being blocked out of the system and running out of the medication. In 2008, dermatologist Robert Greenburg said \"For a program to be so inflexible that it doesn't take into consideration the holiday or a patient's extenuating circumstances is such an impediment. It happens often that the 30-day window runs into the weekend when offices are closed. This [iPLEDGE] isn't the way things are done in the real world.\" \"Why is iPLEDGE so complicated? Clearly, it's for political reasons,\" said Greenberg, citing political opposition to abortion and his impression that morality has guided the policy development more than medical science and evidence of effectiveness.\n\nSome patients feel that the requirements to take monthly pregnancy tests and enter information about contraceptive choices constitute an unreasonable instrusion, and feel that's too high a price to pay to gain access to this drug. Additionally, maintenance of a pregnancy registry is part of the Program, though participation in the registry is voluntary for those patients who might've become pregnant.\n\nRequirements of the program also mandate, per FDA requirements, monthly pregnancy tests for women who may become pregnant.\n\nThe website does include a privacy statement, which discusses what information is collected, how it is used, and where questions can be directed.\n\nThe iPLEDGE Program requires the participation of both males and FnCBPs, and this has been a subject of criticism over the course of the program's lifetime. Dermatologist Ned Ryan said \"They [the FDA and drug manufacturers] want a wide net, understandably. But this is completely over the top.\"\n\nParticipation is required to ensure that these two groups understand the basic requirements, as sharing of medication with women who can get pregnant is a real concern.\n\nThough they must be part of the iPLEDGE Program, requirements for males and FnCBPs are more lenient than those for FCBPs. Males and FnCBPs do not need to take either pregnancy or comprehension tests on a monthly basis, and their prescription window is 30 days from the date of the office visit, rather than seven days as it is with FCBPs.\n\nSome criticisms of the iPLEDGE website include that the website does not clearly identify who administers the site, despite being a mandatory program that requires the submission of private information about medical patients. The terms of use and legal disclaimer section of the site do not clearly identify the legal entity running the program or describe how the private information of the patients is secured. The terms of use for the site is phrased as a contract between \"you\" and \"the sponsors of the Site\" (which it defines as synonymous with \"iPLEDGE\"), without clearly saying who \"the sponsors of the Site\" includes.\n\nThe program was mandated by the FDA despite criticism from practicing medical doctors that its cumbersome nature and strict deadlines can make the drug unavailable to deserving patients. In practice, the website has presented many problems to physicians; once information is entered, it can be difficult or impossible to change or correct it. If there is an error, the patient can be locked out for 30 days without being able to receive the medication. Problems are common and take days to correct. Technical assistance by phone is available via a toll free number, but trying to correct problems using the phone system can be difficult and time-consuming. Cathy Boeck, a past president of the Dermatology Nurses Association, said \"Nurses are having the same frustrations as doctors regarding difficulties of getting the drug to patients and patients' complaints. It has a huge impact on resources if someone is waiting on hold with iPLEDGE and is also taking calls from patients who are upset and frustrated. That’s what we’ve heard from members.\"\n\nAlthough the goal of the program is to prevent pregnancies of women who take the drug, male patients must also participate in anti-pregnancy restrictions, primarily due to fears that male isotretinoin users might share their prescriptions with females without their physicians' knowledge. There has been no link to birth defects from Accutane associated with males using the drug, though male sexual dysfunction has been suggested by one study. As this has not been conclusively proven, this is not acknowledged as a side effect in the official literature accompanying the medication.\n\n"}
{"id": "31207599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31207599", "title": "Ignace Deen Hospital", "text": "Ignace Deen Hospital\n\nThe Ignace Deen Hospital (Hôpital Ignace Deen) is a hospital in Conakry, Guinea built during the colonial era. The hospital is situated next to the National Museum.\n\nA report in 2011 described the conditions as squalid, with poor quality of care.\n\nA travel guide describes the hospital as \"not very reliable\".\nA February 2011 report said the hospital had dilapidated infrastructure, poor sanitation, stifling heat, stench, lack of water and electricity, lack of drugs and maintenance. A bribe was required to gain admittance. There were few doctors. Wards were crowded, infested by bed bugs and mosquitoes. The toilets were clogged and there was an acute shortage of drinking water, which relatives of the patients were expected to supply.\n\nAfter a serious traffic accident killed two people and seriously injured three others in April 2008, the wounded were rushed to the hospital. There they waited for more than two hours without care, since the nursing staff had not been paid. This is common practice in Guinea, and many patients die due to non-payment before they receive emergency care.\n\nMaternal mortality is high in Guinea due to lack of primary health care, poorly equipped obstetric wards in referral hospitals, untrained personnel and lack of health education.\nA 1991 study at the hospitals in Guinea found that the main causes of maternal death were abortion complications, which were linked with hypertension, and postpartum bleeding.\n\nA 1995 study at Ignace Deen found that anemia accounted for 65% of all maternal mortality.\nA study at the hospital showed high rates of sexually transmitted diseases among pregnant women including Candidosis (28.76%), Vaginal Trichomoniasis (13.88%), Chlamydia trachomatis (3.37%), HIV (2.38%), Syphilis (0.99%) and Gonococcus (0.40%).\n\nOver a five-year period, 41 cases of chronic pulmonary heart disease were observed at the hospital, representing 7.14% of hospitalized patients. The condition ranked 4th after hypertension, various myocardiopathies and valvulopathies.\n\nThe Ignace Deen Hospital, originally called the Hôpital Ballay, was built during the colonial era in the old town.\n\nThe original name honored doctor Nöel Ballay, the first governor of Guinea in 1890 after it became separate from Senegal.\nThe hospital was renamed following independence after a director in the Sékou Touré era, Ignace Deen.\nThe Touré regime was ruthless in suppressing dissent. After the discovery of a coup attempt was announced in 1969, the 42-year-old surgeon-general of the hospital, Dr. Maréga Bocar, was condemned to a lifetime of forced labor.\n\nBetween 1986 and 1988, a European project coordinated by the University of Liège rehabilitated the Ignace Deen Hospital.\nWithout European funding, it could never have been rebuilt and re-equipped. \nIt is one of the two National Hospitals with a reference laboratory, the other being Donka Hospital.\nIgnace Deen is also a university hospital (Centre Hospitalo Universitaire, or CHU), as is Donka, the only two in the country.\n\nThe hospital must periodically deal with the aftermath of political violence.\nA demonstration on Independence Day on 28 September 1993 was violently suppressed by troops. Official accounts said 18 people died and 198 were injured. Hospital records show 31 deaths, 21 at the Donka hospital and 10 at Ignace Deen, and 225 wounded.\n\nOn Independence Day 2009, several thousand people staged a demonstration against the military rule of Captain Moussa Dadis Camara outside the Conakry Grand Mosque. It was reported that demonstrators were \"trapped, brutalised, humiliated, beaten up, raped, stabbed and killed by drugged squads of the army\". Authorities gave a death toll of 56, but human rights groups reported over 150. \nThe bodies were taken to the morgue in the Ignace Deen Hospital, which was placed under military guard.\nAn International Commission of Inquiry was established to investigate the violence, taking evidence from doctors at Ignace Deen who had given first aid and had heard the firsthand accounts of the victims.\n\nIn October 2010, several supporters of the presidential candidate Alpha Condé were admitted to Ignace Deen hospital complaining that they had been poisoned by Fulani.\nCondé's wife, Mme Djene Kaba Condé, and other female leaders made a public visit to the victims, who appeared to be in considerable pain.\n\nThe news caused violence in Upper Guinea, with people from Middle Guinea being killed or expelled and their property vandalized.\nWhen the hospital director Mme Hadja Fatoumata Binta Diallo said the Condé supporters were in no danger and no deaths had occurred, Prime Minister Jean Marie Doré suspended her for making speculative statements before a full medical analysis had been completed.\n\nAfter two weeks, the victims were visited by a team of traditional healers from Upper Guinea who performed gestures and incantations that caused them to immediately return to health.\nBinta Diallo was reinstated by the President later that month.\nFollowing Condé's election, in January 2011 Dr. Mohamed Awad was appointed director-general of the hospital.\nHe replaced Dr Fatoumata Binta Diallo.\n\n"}
{"id": "27347921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27347921", "title": "International Society for Augmentative and Alternative Communication", "text": "International Society for Augmentative and Alternative Communication\n\nThe International Society for Augmentative and Alternative Communication (ISAAC) was founded in May 1983 in East Lansing, Michigan, United States. Its stated purpose is to improve the communication abilities and quality of life of individuals with complex communication needs who use augmentative and alternative communication (AAC). ISAAC provides information about AAC services, policies and activities around the world thorough various publications and their website. The society publishes a journal and various other publications, organizes biennial conferences, promotes research on AAC use and AAC development as well as implements various projects.\n\nISAAC works to promote augmentative and alternative communication as a known and valued way of communicating worldwide. The society’s vision \"is that AAC will be recognized, valued and used throughout the world\" and the society's mission \"is to promote the best possible communication for people with complex needs\". The society encourages research and scholarship as well as works to improve service delivery.\n\nISAAC has more than 3700 members from over 60 different countries. Members include professionals, AAC users and their families and friends. The society is recognized as a nongovernmental organization in consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.\n\nNational chapters of ISAAC are located in many different countries. Chapters exist in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, French-speaking countries and regions, German-speaking countries and regions, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands and Flanders, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States of America. Each chapter has a wide variety of members. For example, members of the Communication Matters, UK chapter, include: AAC users, families of AAC users, professionals working with AAC users, researchers and academics.\n\n ISAAC has publications including the Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC), which is the society’s official journal. The society also has affiliated publications such as AGOSCI in Focus (formerly known as Australian Group of Severe Communication Impairment).\n\nISAAC organizes biennial conferences. Each conference includes the sharing of breakthroughs and scientific papers, demonstrations of AAC devices, AAC users' experiences, and social activities. A variety of people attend including professionals and therapists as well as children and adults with complex communication needs and their families. Other conferences and courses are also organized by the society.\n\nISAAC has implemented 3 projects to help support the organization’s vision and meet the society’s mission. These projects are the BUILD, LEAD and READ projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "48871140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48871140", "title": "James Henderson (surgeon)", "text": "James Henderson (surgeon)\n\nJames Henderson, M.D. (1829–1865) was a British physician, surgeon, and author. After attending a meeting of the Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society (EMMS International) on 18 December 1856, he decided to become a medical missionary. In these early years of his medical missionary work training, Henderson evidently displayed his religious values by emphasizing the importance for students who were studying medicine at the time to become Christians and medical missionaries. During his time in Edinburgh Medical School, he was described as being a “uniformly regular, punctual, and diligent; conscientious, zealous, and laborious; kind to the poor, and self-denying [student].” Starting his notable medical missionary work in the mid-nineteenth century, Henderson worked in the London Missionary Society, where he took charge of the Chinese Hospital, which is called Renji Hospital. Henderson played a critical role in educating about surgical techniques, sanitation, and chloroform as well as making overall improvements in the hospital and surrounding environment.\n\nJames Henderson was born to the Henderson family in a small cottage on a moor in northern Scotland. He was the youngest of three children, including an older brother and sister, two and four years respectively. When he was just three years old, his father passed away after serious complications from a rupture in a blood vessel in a lung. Two years after his father’s death, the family migrated to his mother’s father’s house where Henderson was brought up in a neighborhood filled with superstition, ominous feelings, and witchcraft. At thirteen years old, Henderson became an orphan and thrown into a world of uncertainty, independence, and sorrow as his mother and grandfather, his two biggest idols, passed away.\n\nHenderson’s sudden independence forced him to seek out random jobs. His first boss was a farmer who paid him less than a shilling a week, which was upsetting since he worked too hard. Then, he worked for another farmer until he was sixteen years old. His third job was being a servant to the surgeon of the district, which most certainly was when his interest in medicine spurred. Then, he was an underbutler. In 1859, he became a Director of the London Missionary Society. His most notable profession was running the Renji hospital. Meantime, he subsequently attained the position as Vice-President of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.\n\nOverall, Henderson endured a childhood of monotony, and was able to find happiness in the few opportunities he received to be educated after the age of sixteen years. He looked up to his mother and credited her for his actions: “I had the greatest love and reverence for my mother; whatever she said I most firmly believed was right, and whatever she intimated I ought to do, I was only too glad to do it. Nothing could give me greater pain than to think she was displeased with me; nor can I recall to this day one single act of disobedience to her, thank God!” The other minor impact was his maternal grandfather who gave him plentiful advice. Perhaps, the greatest influence came from the poor class, who inspired Henderson with their feelings of gratitude even in times of great suffering. Hence, he was motivated to seek opportunities in the “large field of usefulness.”\n\nJames Henderson was a very religious man whose strong Christian faith was sometimes the only reason he was able to define his existence in the poverty-stricken society. Daily, his pious, widowed mother made it a deal to make sure all the kids were well-versed in Scripture, Scotch paraphrases, and Shorter Catechism. Around the time of his mother’s death, he dedicated his life to service of Christ. One of his premature desires was to become the minister of the Free Church, which he later abandoned.\n\nAt an early age, Henderson was literate, but neither wrote nor knew basic math. His all-time wish was to study in a university, which was tough since he was of low status and older. He believed in the whole “Where there is a will, there is a way” ideology; his prayers were soon answered. Between 1855 and 1858, he was a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Finally, he obtained a diploma as a physician from the University of St Andrews in 1859. One of the directors of the London Missionary Society perfectly summed up his astonishment of Henderson’s journey through life with respect to education: \n“I could hardly believe that he had never seen the inside of a school, even of the humblest character, and that, twenty years before, he had been a bare-footed lad, herding sheep on the muir of Rhynie; that, some thirteen years ago, he could not have written his own name, and nevertheless he had forced his way to the University of Edinburgh, had taken prizes in classes of two hundred medical students, received the diploma of the College of Surgeons, and won for himself the respect and friendship of men of the highest Christian character and professional distinction.” \n\nOn 18 December 1856 Henderson attended a meeting of the Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society (EMMS) and decided to become a medical missionary. By this time, the society unanimously adopted twenty-eight year-old Henderson.\n\nHenderson yearned to be a popular physician, specifically, a surgeon beyond his native land. In August 1858, there was no opening abroad and he settled for private practice in the native country in Rhynie, Aberdeenshire for seven months. Much to his dismay, he was unsatisfied even though his business was very successful. In 1859, under the supervision of Reverend G.D. Cullen, he applied to the Directors of London Missionary Society. A fellow director expressed his gratitude for Dr. James Henderson to join their team: \n“His self-possessed manner, gentlemanly bearing, and frank answers to all the questions put to him in turn by the several members of the committee, excited special interest in him as a man; while his evident simple-hearted devotedness to the great work of Christian missions, his anxiety to consecrate his talents and attainments to the service of Christ among the Chinese as a missionary physician, and his manifest intelligence and proved energy of character, secured the suffrages of the whole board, and he was unanimously accepted.”\nAfter joining this society, Henderson was assigned by Dr. Elijah Coleman Bridgman to take over the Chinese Hospital in Shanghai, formerly run by Mr. William Lockhart (surgeon) and Dr. Benjamin Hobson.\n\nOn 22 October 1859 Henderson boarded Heroes of Alma at Gravesend with six other missionaries. After arriving in Shanghai, Henderson took over the Renji hospital, founded fifteen years earlier. In the hospital, the daily routine consisted of religious services in the morning, examining cases, giving out prescriptions, and culminated with performing surgeries. The unique thing about Henderson’s practice was the method in which patients were examined- ten women, then ten men, followed by same pattern until finished. Perhaps, his deep gratitude for women came from his mother, which is why he considered the female gender to be superior to the male gender. Using the help of Chin Foo, a local loyal apothecary and house surgeon, Henderson was able to treat around twenty thousand patients within the first few months. One of the most common cases were opium smokers who wanted to quit. Another frequent miracle performed by the foreign doctor was giving sight to the blind. A hospital associate described the success and variety of his work: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them.\"\nPerhaps, the one thing that made Henderson widely noticed was his usage of chloroform, which he used as anesthesia to deal with sleeping sickness. Having gained the trust of the locals, the Chinese patients were under the spell of Henderson and his magic. Since he integrated himself into the local community, he felt the importance for natives to obtain translated reports of incidents that occurred in the hospital. He participated in bi-monthly conferences, where he read his original papers about medical missions. One time at a Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland meeting, he got and read his research notes on the physical causes that modify climate. Besides leaving a piece of him in his writings, his dedication towards helping nearby missions and helping future doctors was a critical characteristic about him. Fortunately, on top of his busy schedule, Henderson managed to examine dead bodies and thus, provide crucial information for researchers in the future. On 10 January 1862 Henderson abruptly left to England, where he married a woman he met when he departed for Shanghai and soon, had a baby girl. He greatly desired to go back, which he did in May. James Henderson dedicated his life to medical missionary work for three years until his unfortunate death by unknown reasons.\n\nJames Henderson was most known for making substantial improvements to the existing Renji Hospital; the most significant was spreading his knowledge about better surgical techniques He resolved dominant issues such as crowding and sanitation, both of which were major problems that worsened the chance for eliminating disease. This also spurred interest, on behalf of his action, of a general hospital and a sanatorium for foreigners. In addition, he educated people about general cleanliness, hygiene, and importance of sleeping. Furthermore, his knack for practicality resulted in his decision to move the surgeon’s new house closer to the hospital, which allowed for efficiency between procedures. Apart from his medical career, he successfully exerted his Protestantism and strong faith on his patients and prayed earnestly for victims until god let them die beautifully in his hands. In regards to sustainability, he wrote publications and collaborated with local organizations to make an impact. Two of his most famous pieces, “Shanghai Hygiene” and “Hints for Preservation of Health in Shanghai” were noticed by the government and his missions were undertaken by various local medical missionaries.\n\nReverend Canon Vaughan characterized James Henderson with the following quote: \"Cannot be called great men, greatness lies entirely in direction of goodness, which is solely dependent on their character, personality, and motivation as well as willingness to sacrifice time and effort.\" Since James Henderson was an independent, quiet man, sometimes the accuracy of the details of his life is questioned especially since much of his life was narrated through his widow.\n"}
{"id": "57591225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57591225", "title": "James Robinson Scott", "text": "James Robinson Scott\n\nJames Robinson Scott RN FRSE FLS PRMS (d.1821) was an 18th/19th century Scottish naval surgeon and noted amateur botanist. He served as Senior President of the Royal Medical Society 1818/19.\n\nHe was born in Edinburgh around 1763.\n\nHe studied Medicine at Edinburgh University and later lectured in Botany there. He became a full Surgeon in the Royal Navy, serving throughout the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nHe reappears in Edinburgh in 1818 living at 18 St Patrick Square.\n\nIn 1819 he joined the Wernerian Natural History Society in Edinburgh alongside his colleague Dr Walter Oudney and luminaries such as Dr Henry Dewar, Robert Kaye Greville and Prof George Dunbar.\n\nIn 1820 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Prof George Dunbar, Robert Jameson and Patrick Neill.\nHe lived his final years at 24 Clerk Street in Edinburgh's South Side, but died in London on 29/30 August 1821.\n\nHis wife Margaret died in Hertford in 1857, aged 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "336981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336981", "title": "Lake Nasser", "text": "Lake Nasser\n\nLake Nasser ( \"\", ) is a vast reservoir in southern Egypt and northern Sudan. It is one of the largest man-made lakes in the world. Before construction, Sudan was against the building of Lake Nasser because it would encroach on land in the North, where the Nubian people lived. They would have to be resettled. In the end Sudan's land near the area of Lake Nasser was mostly flooded by the lake.\n\nStrictly, \"Lake Nasser\" refers only to the much larger portion of the lake that is in Egyptian territory (83% of the total), with the Sudanese preferring to call their smaller body of water Lake Nubia ( \"\", ). \nThe lake is some long and across at its widest point, which is near the Tropic of Cancer. It covers a total surface area of and has a storage capacity of some of water.\n\nThe lake was created as a result of the construction of the Aswan High Dam across the waters of the Nile between 1958 and 1970. The lake is named after Gamal Abdel Nasser, one of the leaders of the Egyptian Revolution of 1952, and the second President of Egypt, who initiated the High Dam project. It was President Anwar Sadat who inaugurated the lake and dam in 1970.\n\nEgypt lacks the water it needs for agriculture. The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, currently being constructed in Ethiopia will most likely adversely affect Lake Nasser. While the Renaissance Dam will benefit Sudan and Ethiopia, it has caused tensions between Egypt and Sudan and Ethiopia. Egypt is worried that the new dam will stop the Nile River from adequately filling Lake Nasser. The water supply of Lake Nasser produces electricity, and there is concern that diminishing water flowing into Lake Nasser will adversely affect Aswan Dam's ability to generate electricity. There are pumping stations that control the water going into Lake Nasser, and currently this project generates 10 billion kilowatt-hours of hydroelectric power each year to Egyptians.\n\nA fish enclosure was built in Lake Nasser. Fishing among tourists, especially for Nile perch, has become increasingly popular, both on the shore and from boats. Although the Abu Simbel and other temples were physically moved to a higher ground and to different sites to spare their destruction by the new lake, other ancient Egyptian sites like the massive fortress of Buhen were flooded and are now at the bottom of the lake. The statue of Ramses II and others, at Abu Simbel Temple, look out over Lake Nasser and tourists can enjoy the view from their cruise ship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10429786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10429786", "title": "MEDACT", "text": "MEDACT\n\nMedact is a non-profit organisation and registered charity for and of health professionals. Its current director is Dr David McCoy, a public health physician and academic.\n\nMedact was formed in 1992 following the merger of Medical Association for the Prevention of War (MAPW) and the Medical Campaign Against Nuclear Weapons (MCANW). Following the merger of these not-for-profit medical peace organisations, Medact broadened its mission to include the health threats posed by climate change and economic inequality.\n\nTheir areas of work are spread across four main areas: War And Weapons, Climate and Ecology, Economic Justice and Health and Human Rights. Medact is affiliated to International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War.\n\nMedact has been tracking the health impact of the war in Iraq. They have issued a three reports and two shorter 'updates', have defended the Lancet surveys of casualties of the Iraq War and, as part of the Count the Casualties campaign have called for an independent investigation into increased mortality in Iraq.\n\nMedact has produced reports documenting the phenomenon of health worker migration from less economically developed nations to rich countries, which they describe as a \"perverse subsidy\".\n\nMedact also work on the health of refugees in the UK, in particular documenting and challenging barriers to healthcare.\n\nMedact have been involved in the Global Health Watch, a civil society project aiming to produce alternative versions of the World Health Organization's annual World Health Report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24553942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24553942", "title": "Madhouse: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine", "text": "Madhouse: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine\n\nMadhouse: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine is a 2005 book by the psychiatric sociologist Andrew Scull which discusses the work of controversial psychiatrist Henry Cotton at Trenton State Hospital in New Jersey in the 1920s.\n\nCotton became convinced that insanity was fundamentally a toxic disorder and he surgically removed body parts to try to improve mental health. This often began with the removal of teeth and tonsils:\nAn 18 year-old girl with agitated depression successively had her upper and lower molars extracted, a tonsillectomy, sinus drainage, treatment for an infected cervix, removal of intestinal adhesions—all without effecting improvement in her psychiatric condition. Then the remainder of her teeth were removed and she was sent home, pronounced cured.\nScull argues that Cotton's obsession with focal sepsis as the root cause of mental illness \"persisted in spite of all evidence to the contrary and the frightening incidence of death and harm from the operations he initiated\". Cotton's approach attracted some detractors, but the medical establishment of the day did not effectively renounce or discipline him.\n\nOne reviewer called \"Madhouse\" \"a fine piece of historical research with a modern relevance\", and added that \"it makes compelling reading\".\n\nThe book was reviewed in \"Psychiatric Services\", \"The Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\", \"History of Psychiatry\", \"BMJ\", \"The Journal of the American Medical Association\", \"Canadian Medical Association Journal\", \"The New England Journal of Medicine\", \"Bulletin of the History of Medicine\", \"Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences\", \"Journal of Social History\", \"Journal of American History\", \"London Review of Books\", \"The Times Literary Supplement\", \"The New York Times\", and other publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "4362093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362093", "title": "Maximum Weight Convention, 1967", "text": "Maximum Weight Convention, 1967\n\nMaximum Weight Convention, 1967 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1967, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to maximum permissible weight to be carried by one worker...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention was ratified by 29 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "7072682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7072682", "title": "Mediation (statistics)", "text": "Mediation (statistics)\n\nIn statistics, a mediation model is one that seeks to identify and explain the mechanism or process that underlies an observed relationship between an independent variable and a dependent variable via the inclusion of a third hypothetical variable, known as a mediator variable (also a mediating variable, intermediary variable, or intervening variable). Rather than a direct causal relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable, a mediation model proposes that the independent variable influences the (non-observable) mediator variable, which in turn influences the dependent variable. Thus, the mediator variable serves to clarify the nature of the relationship between the independent and dependent variables.\n\nMediation analyses are employed to understand a known relationship by exploring the underlying mechanism or process by which one variable influences another variable through a mediator variable. Mediation analysis facilitates a better understanding of the relationship between the independent and dependent variables when the variables appear to not have a definite connection. They are studied by means of operational definitions and have no existence apart.\n\nBaron and Kenny (1986) laid out several requirements that must be met to form a true mediation relationship. They are outlined below using a real-world example. See the diagram above for a visual representation of the overall mediating relationship to be explained.\n\nStep 1:\n\nIndependent variable formula_1 dependent variable\n\nStep 2:\n\nIndependent variable formula_1 mediator\n\nStep 3:\n\n\nExample\n\nThe following example, drawn from Howell (2009), explains each step of Baron and Kenny’s requirements to understand further how a mediation effect is characterized. Step 1 and step 2 use simple regression analysis, whereas step 3 uses multiple regression analysis.\n\nStep 1:\n\nHow you were parented formula_1 confidence in own parenting abilities.\n\nStep 2:\n\nHow you were parented formula_1 Feelings of competence and self-esteem.\n\nStep 3:\n\nSuch findings would lead to the conclusion implying that your feelings of competence and self-esteem mediate the relationship between how you were parented and how confident you feel about parenting your own children.\n\nNote: If step 1 does not yield a significant result, one may still have grounds to move to step 2. Sometimes there is actually a significant relationship between independent and dependent variables but because of small sample sizes, or other extraneous factors, there could not be enough power to predict the effect that actually exists (See Shrout & Bolger, 2002 for more info).\n\nIn the diagram shown above, the indirect effect is the product of path coefficients \"A\" and \"B\". The direct effect is the coefficient \" C' \". \nThe direct effect measures the extent to which the dependent variable changes when the independent variable increases by one unit and the mediator variable remains unaltered. In contrast, the indirect effect measures the extent to which the dependent variable changes when the independent variable is held fixed and the mediator variable changes by the amount it would have changed had the independent variable increased by one unit.\nIn linear systems, the total effect is equal to the sum of the direct and indirect effects (\"C' + AB\" in the model above). In nonlinear models, the total effect is not generally equal to the sum of the direct and indirect effects, but to a modified combination of the two.\n\nA mediator variable can either account for all or some of the observed relationship between two variables.\n\nFull mediation\n\nMaximum evidence for mediation, also called full mediation, would occur if inclusion of the mediation variable drops the relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable (see pathway \"c\" in diagram above) to zero. This rarely, if ever, occurs. The most likely event is that \"c\" becomes a weaker, yet still significant path with the inclusion of the mediation effect.\n\nPartial mediation\n\nPartial mediation maintains that the mediating variable accounts for some, but not all, of the relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable. Partial mediation implies that there is not only a significant relationship between the mediator and the dependent variable, but also some direct relationship between the independent and dependent variable.\n\nIn order for either full or partial mediation to be established, the reduction in variance explained by the independent variable must be significant as determined by one of several tests, such as the Sobel test. The effect of an independent variable on the dependent variable can become nonsignificant when the mediator is introduced simply because a trivial amount of variance is explained (i.e., not true mediation). Thus, it is imperative to show a significant reduction in variance explained by the independent variable before asserting either full or partial mediation.\nIt is possible to have statistically significant indirect effects in the absence of a total effect. This can be explained by the presence of several mediating paths that cancel each other out, and become noticeable when one of the cancelling mediators is controlled for. This implies that the terms 'partial' and 'full' mediation should always be interpreted relative to the set of variables that are present in the model.\nIn all cases, the operation of \"fixing a variable\" must be distinguished from that of \"controlling for a variable,\" which has been inappropriately used in the literature. The former stands for physically fixing, while the latter stands for conditioning on, adjusting for, or adding to the regression model. The two notions coincide only when all error terms (not shown in the diagram) are statistically uncorrelated. When errors are correlated, adjustments must be made to neutralize those correlations before embarking on mediation analysis (see Bayesian Networks).\n\nAs mentioned above, Sobel’s test is performed to determine if the relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable has been significantly reduced after inclusion of the mediator variable. In other words, this test assesses whether a mediation effect is significant. It examines the relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable compared to the relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable including the mediation factor.\n\nThe Sobel test is more accurate than the Baron and Kenny steps explained above; however, it does have low statistical power. As such, large sample sizes are required in order to have sufficient power to detect significant effects. This is because the key assumption of Sobel’s test is the assumption of normality. Because Sobel’s test evaluates a given sample on the normal distribution, small sample sizes and skewness of the sampling distribution can be problematic (see Normal distribution for more details). Thus, the rule of thumb as suggested by MacKinnon et al., (2002) is that a sample size of 1000 is required to detect a small effect, a sample size of 100 is sufficient in detecting a medium effect, and a sample size of 50 is required to detect a large effect.\n\nThe bootstrapping method provides some advantages to the Sobel’s test, primarily an increase in power. The Preacher and Hayes Bootstrapping method is a non-parametric test (See Non-parametric statistics for a discussion on non parametric tests and their power). As such, the bootstrap method does not violate assumptions of normality and is therefore recommended for small sample sizes. \nBootstrapping involves repeatedly randomly sampling observations with replacement from the data set to compute the desired statistic in each resample. Computing over hundreds, or thousands, of bootstrap resamples provide an approximation of the sampling distribution of the statistic of interest. Hayes offers a macro <http://www.afhayes.com/> that calculates bootstrapping directly within SPSS, a computer program used for statistical analyses. This method provides point estimates and confidence intervals by which one can assess the significance or nonsignificance of a mediation effect. Point estimates reveal the mean over the number of bootstrapped samples and if zero does not fall between the resulting confidence intervals of the bootstrapping method, one can confidently conclude that there is a significant mediation effect to report.\n\nAs outlined above, there are a few different options one can choose from to evaluate a mediation model.\n\nBootstrapping is becoming the most popular method of testing mediation because it does not require the normality assumption to be met, and because it can be effectively utilized with smaller sample sizes (\"N\" < 25). However, mediation continues to be most frequently determined using the logic of Baron and Kenny or the Sobel test. It is becoming increasingly more difficult to publish tests of mediation based purely on the Baron and Kenny method or tests that make distributional assumptions such as the Sobel test. Thus, it is important to consider your options when choosing which test to conduct.\n\nWhile the concept of mediation as defined within psychology is theoretically appealing, the methods used to study mediation empirically have been challenged by statisticians and epidemiologists and interpreted formally.\n\n(1) Experimental-causal-chain design\n\nAn experimental-causal-chain design is used when the proposed mediator is experimentally manipulated. Such a design implies that one manipulates some controlled third variable that they have reason to believe could be the underlying mechanism of a given relationship.\n\n(2) Measurement-of-mediation design\n\nA measurement-of-mediation design can be conceptualized as a statistical approach. Such a design implies that one measures the proposed intervening variable and then uses statistical analyses to establish mediation. This approach does not involve manipulation of the hypothesized mediating variable, but only involves measurement. \n\nExperimental approaches to mediation must be carried out with caution. First, it is important to have strong theoretical support for the exploratory investigation of a potential mediating variable. \nA criticism of a mediation approach rests on the ability to manipulate and measure a mediating variable. Thus, one must be able to manipulate the proposed mediator in an acceptable and ethical fashion. As such, one must be able to measure the intervening process without interfering with the outcome. The mediator must also be able to establish construct validity of manipulation. \nOne of the most common criticisms of the measurement-of-mediation approach is that it is ultimately a correlational design. Consequently, it is possible that some other third variable, independent from the proposed mediator, could be responsible for the proposed effect. However, researchers have worked hard to provide counter evidence to this disparagement. Specifically, the following counter arguments have been put forward:\n\n(1) Temporal precedence. For example, if the independent variable precedes the dependent variable in time, this would provide evidence suggesting a directional, and potentially causal, link from the independent variable to the dependent variable.\n\n(2) Nonspuriousness and/or no confounds. For example, should one identify other third variables and prove that they do not alter the relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable he/she would have a stronger argument for their mediation effect. See other 3rd variables below.\n\nMediation can be an extremely useful and powerful statistical test, however it must be used properly. It is important that the measures used to assess the mediator and the dependent variable are theoretically distinct and that the independent variable and mediator cannot interact. Should there be an interaction between the independent variable and the mediator one would have grounds to investigate moderation.\n\n(1) Confounding:\n\nIn experimental studies, there is a special concern about aspects of the experimental manipulation or setting that may account for study effects, rather than the motivating theoretical factor. Any of these problems may produce spurious relationships between the independent and dependent variables as measured. Ignoring a confounding variable may bias empirical estimates of the causal effect of the independent variable.\n\n(2) Suppression:\n\nIn general, the omission of suppressors or confounders will lead to either an underestimation or an overestimation of the effect of \"A\" on \"X\", thereby either reducing or artificially inflating the magnitude of a relationship between two variables.\n\n(3) Moderators:\n\nMediation and moderation can co-occur in statistical models. It is possible to mediate moderation and moderate mediation.\n\nModerated mediation is when the effect of the treatment \"A\" on the mediator and/or the partial effect \"B\" on the dependent variable depend in turn on levels of another variable (moderator). Essentially, in moderated mediation, mediation is first established, and then one investigates if the mediation effect that describes the relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable is moderated by different levels of another variable (i.e., a moderator). This definition has been outlined by Muller, Judd, and Yzerbyt (2005) and Preacher, Rucker, and Hayes (2007).\n\nThere are five possible models of moderated mediation, as illustrated in the diagrams below.\n\n\nMediated moderation is a variant of both moderation and mediation. This is where there is initially overall moderation and the direct effect of the moderator variable on the outcome is mediated. The main difference between mediated moderation and moderated mediation is that for the former there is initial (overall) moderation and this effect is mediated and for the latter there is no moderation but the effect of either the treatment on the mediator (path \"A\") is moderated or the effect of the mediator on the outcome (path \"B\") is moderated.\n\nIn order to establish mediated moderation, one must first establish moderation, meaning that the direction and/or the strength of the relationship between the independent and dependent variables (path \"C\") differs depending on the level of a third variable (the moderator variable). Researchers next look for the presence of mediated moderation when they have a theoretical reason to believe that there is a fourth variable that acts as the mechanism or process that causes the relationship between the independent variable and the moderator (path \"A\") or between the moderator and the dependent variable (path \"C\").\n\nExample\n\nThe following is a published example of mediated moderation in psychological research. \nParticipants were presented with an initial stimulus (a prime) that made them think of morality or made them think of might. They then participated in the Prisoner’s Dilemma Game (PDG), in which participants pretend that they and their partner in crime have been arrested, and they must decide whether to remain loyal to their partner or to compete with their partner and cooperate with the authorities. The researchers found that prosocial individuals were affected by the morality and might primes, whereas proself individuals were not. Thus, social value orientation (proself vs. prosocial) moderated the relationship between the prime (independent variable: morality vs. might) and the behaviour chosen in the PDG (dependent variable: competitive vs. cooperative).\n\nThe researchers next looked for the presence of a mediated moderation effect. Regression analyses revealed that the type of prime (morality vs. might) mediated the moderating relationship of participants’ social value orientation on PDG behaviour. Prosocial participants who experienced the morality prime expected their partner to cooperate with them, so they chose to cooperate themselves. Prosocial participants who experienced the might prime expected their partner to compete with them, which made them more likely to compete with their partner and cooperate with the authorities. In contrast, participants with a pro-self social value orientation always acted competitively.\n\nMuller, Judd, and Yzerbyt (2005) outline three fundamental models that underlie both moderated mediation and mediated moderation. \"Mo\" represents the moderator variable(s), \"Me\" represents the mediator variable(s), and \"ε\" represents the measurement error of each regression equation.\n\nStep 1: Moderation of the relationship between the independent variable (X) and the dependent variable (Y), also called the overall treatment effect (path \"C\" in the diagram).\n\nStep 2: Moderation of the relationship between the independent variable and the mediator (path \"A\").\n\nStep 3: Moderation of both the relationship between the independent and dependent variables (path \"A\") and the relationship between the mediator and the dependent variable (path \"B\").\n\nMediation analysis quantifies the \nextent to which a variable participates in the transmittance\nof change from a cause to its effect. It is inherently a causal\nnotion, hence it cannot be defined in statistical terms. Traditionally,\nhowever, the bulk of mediation analysis has been conducted\nwithin the confines of linear regression, with statistical \nterminology masking the causal character of the\nrelationships involved. This led to difficulties,\nbiases, and limitations that have been alleviated by\nmodern methods of causal analysis, based on causal diagrams\nand counterfactual logic.\n\nThe source of these difficulties lies in defining mediation\nin terms of changes induced by adding a third variables into \na regression equation. Such statistical changes are\nepiphenomena which sometimes accompany mediation but, \nin general, fail to capture the causal relationships that\nmediation analysis aims to quantify.\n\nThe basic premise of the causal approach is that it is\nnot always appropriate to \"control\" for the mediator \"M\"\nwhen we seek to estimate the direct effect of \"X\" on \"Y\"\n(see the Figure above).\nThe classical rationale for \"controlling\" for \"M\"\" \nis that, if we succeed in preventing \"M\" from changing, then \nwhatever changes we measure in Y are attributable solely \nto variations in \"X\" and we are justified then in proclaiming the \neffect observed as \"direct effect of \"X\" on \"Y\".\" Unfortunately,\n\"controlling for \"M\"\" does not physically prevent \"M\" from changing;\nit merely narrows the analyst's attention to cases\nof equal \"M\" values. Moreover, the language of probability \ntheory does not possess the notation to express the idea \nof \"preventing \"M\" from changing\" or \"physically holding \"M\" constant\".\nThe only operator probability provides is \"Conditioning\"\nwhich is what we do when we \"control\" for \"M\", \nor add \"M\" as a regressor in the equation for \"Y\". \nThe result is that, instead of physically holding \"M\" constant \n(say at \"M\" = \"m\") and comparing \"Y\" for units under \"X\" = 1' to those under \n\"X\" = 0, we allow \"M\" to vary but ignore all units except those in \nwhich \"M\" achieves the value \"M\" = \"m\". These two operations are \nfundamentally different, and yield different results, except in the case of no omitted variables.\n\nTo illustrate, assume that the error terms of \"M\" and \"Y\"\nare correlated. Under such conditions, the\nstructural coefficient \"B\" and \"A\" (between \"M\" and \"Y\" and between \"Y\" and \"X\")\ncan no longer be estimated by regressing \"Y\" on \"X\" and \"M\".\nIn fact, the regression slopes may both be nonzero\neven when \"C\" is zero. This has two \nconsequences. First, new strategies must be devised for \nestimating the structural coefficients \"A,B\" and \"C\". Second, \nthe basic definitions of direct and indirect effects \nmust go beyond regression analysis, and should\ninvoke an operation that mimics \"fixing \"M\"\", \nrather than \"conditioning on \"M\".\"\n\nSuch an operator, denoted do(\"M\" = \"m\"), was defined in Pearl (1994) and it operates by removing the equation of \"M\" and replacing it by a constant \"m\". For example, if the basic mediation model consists of the equations:\n\nthen after applying the operator do(\"M\" = \"m\") the model becomes:\n\nand after applying the operator do(\"X\" = \"x\") the model becomes:\n\nwhere the functions \"f\" and \"g\", as well as the\ndistributions of the error terms ε and ε remain\nunaltered. If we further rename the variables \"M\" and \"Y\" resulting from do(\"X\" = \"x\")\nas \"M\"(\"x\") and \"Y\"(\"x\"), respectively, we obtain what \ncame to be known as \"potential\noutcomes\" or \"structural counterfactuals\".\nThese new variables provide convenient notation\nfor defining direct and indirect effects. In particular,\nfour types of effects have been defined for the\ntransition from \"X\" = 0 to \"X\" = 1:\n\n(a) Total effect – \n(b) Controlled direct effect -\n(c) Natural direct effect -\n(d) Natural indirect effect\nWhere \"E\"[ ] stands for expectation taken over the error terms.\n\nThese effects have the following interpretations:\n\nA controlled version of the indirect effect does not\nexist because there is no way of disabling the \ndirect effect by fixing a variable to a constant.\n\nAccording to these definitions the total effect can be decomposed as a sum\nwhere \"NIE\" stands for the reverse transition, from\n\"X\" = 1 to \"X\" = 0; it becomes additive in linear systems,\nwhere reversal of transitions entails sign reversal.\n\nThe power of these definitions lies in their generality; they are applicable to models with arbitrary nonlinear interactions, arbitrary dependencies among the disturbances, and both continuous and categorical variables.\n\nIn linear analysis, all effects are determined by sums\nof products of structural coefficients, giving\nTherefore, all effects are estimable whenever the model\nis identified. In non-linear systems, more stringent\nconditions are needed for estimating the\ndirect and indirect effects \nFor example, if no confounding exists, \n(i.e., ε, ε, and ε are mutually independent) the\nfollowing formulas can be derived:\n\nThe last two equations are called \"Mediation Formulas\" \nand have become the target of estimation in many studies of mediation. They give\ndistribution-free expressions for direct and indirect\neffects and demonstrate that, despite the arbitrary nature of\nthe error distributions and the functions \"f\", \"g\", and \"h\", \nmediated effects can nevertheless be estimated from data using \nregression. \nThe analyses of \"moderated mediation\"\nand \"mediating moderators\" fall as special cases of the causal mediation\nanalysis, and the mediation formulas identify how various interactions coefficients contribute to the necessary and sufficient components of mediation.\n\nAssume the model takes the form\nwhere the parameter formula_22 quantifies the degree to which \"M\" modifies the effect of \"X\" on \"Y\". Even when all parameters are estimated from data, it is still not obvious what combinations of parameters measure the direct and indirect effect of \"X\" on \"Y\", or, more practically, how to assess the fraction of the total effect formula_23 that is \"explained\" by mediation and the fraction of formula_23 that is \"owed\" to mediation. In linear analysis, the former fraction is captured by the product formula_25, the latter by the difference formula_26, and the two quantities coincide. In the presence of interaction, however, each fraction demands a separate analysis, as dictated by the Mediation Formula, which yields:\n\nThus, the fraction of output response for which mediation would be \"sufficient\" is\n\nwhile the fraction for which mediation would be \"necessary\" is\n\nThese fractions involve non-obvious combinations\nof the model's parameters, and can be constructed\nmechanically with the help of the Mediation Formula. Significantly, due to interaction, a direct effect can be sustained even when the parameter formula_30 vanishes and, moreover, a total effect can be sustained even when both the direct and indirect effects vanish. This illustrates that estimating parameters in isolation tells us little about the effect of mediation and, more generally, mediation and moderation are intertwined and cannot be assessed separately.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5082809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5082809", "title": "Mutual standardisation", "text": "Mutual standardisation\n\nMutual Standardisation is a term used within spatial epidemiology to refer to when ecological bias results as a consequence of adjusting disease rates for confounding at the area level but leaving the exposure unadjusted and vice versa. This bias is prevented by adjusting in the same way both the exposure and disease rates. This adjustment is rarely possible as it requires data on within-area distribution of the exposure and confounder variables. (Elliot, 2001)\n\n"}
{"id": "39983022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39983022", "title": "Native Tobacco Board", "text": "Native Tobacco Board\n\nThe Native Tobacco Board, or NTB, (later renamed the African Tobacco Board) was formed in Nyasaland in 1926 as a Government-sponsored body with the primary aim of controlling the production of tobacco by African smallholders and generating revenues for the government, and the secondary aim of increasing the volume and quality of tobacco exports. At the time of its formation, much of Nyasaland's tobacco was produced in European-owned estates, whose owners demanded protection against African competition and against the possibility that profitable smallholder farming would draw cheap African labour away from their estates. From around 1940, the aim of the NTB was less about restricting African tobacco production and more about generating governmental revenues, supposedly for development but still involving the diversion of resources from smallholder farming. In 1956, the activities, powers and duties of what had by then been renamed the African Tobacco Board were transferred to the Agricultural Production and Marketing Board which had powers to buy smallholder surpluses of tobacco, maize, cotton and other crops, but producer prices continued to be biased against peasant producers.\n\nNyasaland’s African farmers had long grown local varieties of tobacco but the cultivation of Virginia (or Brightleaf) varieties by Europeans began at the end of the 19th century, and it became a favoured crop on European estates in the Shire Highlands from the second decade of the 20th century. The areas farmed rose from 4,507 acres in 1911 to 14,218 acres in 1920. Before 1920, only about 5% of the crop marketed was dark-fired tobacco produced by African farmers, but this rose to 14% by 1923. The First World War boosted the production of European-farmed Virginia leaf, but much of Virginia tobacco produced by Nyasaland’s estates was of low grade and suffered from post-war competition from United States. The decline in flue-cured tobacco intensified throughout the 1920s. Europeans produced 86% of Nyasaland’s tobacco in 1924, 57% in 1927, 28% in 1933, but only 16% in 1936. Total tobacco production fell from 15.5 million to just 10.3 million pounds between 1924 and 1929 and the number of white tobacco farmers fell from 229 to 82 between 1919 and 1935.\n\nBy 1930, African smallholders had become the main producers of tobacco, growing mostly fire-cured (or dark-fired) tobacco on Crown Land (also called Native Trust Land). Estate owners began to demand the regulation of peasant tobacco production. In part, this was because it competed with the dark-fired tobacco grown by tenants on their estates, which made up around a quarter of the dark-fired tobacco crop in 1936, and which was used to pay rent in kind to those owners, but also because of fears that profitable smallholder farming would limit cheap African labour on the estates. Regulations introduced for Tobacco in 1926 required the registration of African peasant growers and created a Native Tobacco Board (NTB - later renamed the African Tobacco Board). This Board operated to protect settler tobacco interests, and its members included several significant estate owners and tobacco producers as well as successive Directors of Agriculture as chairmen.\n\nThe declared objectives of this legislation were to increase the quantity and improve the quality of the crops and to stabilise the income of farmers through periods of price fluctuation. However, restrictions were imposed on the number of growers and their output to match production to demand. Growers were registered, producer prices fixed and exporters licensed by the Board, which had exclusive responsibility for crop production and marketing. The use of marketing controls allowed the Nyasaland government to increase its revenues. By offering smallholders prices that were lower than the world market prices, the colonial state indirectly taxed the smallholders, extracting a significant part of their profits.\n\nThe formation of the Native Tobacco Board stimulated African production in the Central Region, but registered growers paid heavily for it. At first, the Board charged a levy of thirty pence a hundred pounds of tobacco, 10% of the price it paid growers. In 1930, this was raised to a penny a pound in 1930, one third of the price paid to meet increased costs. In the Second World War and after the Board recovered more than its costs by underpaying growers, retaining between 25% and 35% of the auction prices it obtained to meet costs equal to only 15% to 20% of those prices.\n\nAt first, the Native Tobacco Board legislation was unpopular with European estate owners, as it failed to protect them from competition and resulted in the production of much low-grade tobacco. Some also suggested that Board members were using their position to promote their own interests to the prejudice of other buyers. Estate owners, including those operating leasehold estate in the Central Region, were able to restrict the number of NTB markets. In 1928, only eight markets were established to serve the whole of Nyasaland, and in 1933 and 1934, five markets were closed as part of a process to restrict peasant cultivation and increase production by African tenants on European-owned estate (who were outside NTB control). By 1935, much of the Central Region was too far from an NTB market for smallholder tobacco production to be viable. In addition, the African growers registered with the NTB were limited to growing half an acre of tobacco. These restrictions remained until 1946.\n\nAs the amount of tobacco grown on estates by direct labour decreased in the late 1920s, the demand for labour on the estates also declined as the owners had insufficient work for their labour tenants to meet their rent obligations. The estates were saved from financial collapse when, instead of the owners themselves growing crops using direct labour, they introduced schemes for tenants to grow tobacco and to sell this to the estate owners at fixed, but low, prices. This system was formalised in legislation, the Natives on Private Estates Ordinance 1928, which allowed rents to be paid in cash, by delivering a fixed quantity of acceptable crops or by direct labour. The estates now acted largely as brokers for their tenants’ produce. Tobacco grown by African tenants on estates was outside the Native Tobacco Board scheme.\n\nBy 1935, 70% of the national tobacco crop was grown by Africans in the Central Region. In 1930-1931, the Native Tobacco Board had 29,515 registered growers in the Central Region, where it purchased 4.9 million pounds of tobacco. At first, these farmed Crown land, but later leasehold estates were formed, which gave contracts, usually for a single growing season, to sharecropping “Visiting Tenants”. The number of growers varied with demand until the Second World War when it expanded markedly. The Nyasaland administration did not encourage independent peasant tobacco production in the Southern Region where most settler estates were located. The Board had 10,708 growers in this Region in 1930-31, but only 5,767 in 1931-32 partly because of European growers’ opposition. The Board purchased around 200 pounds of tobacco a year from each registered grower, the crop from less than one acre.\n\nThe Native Tobacco Board was generally disliked by African growers in the 1930s, as it provided poor advice on tobacco growing and underpaid them for their crop. However, from 1940, the growth in demand for tobacco changed the Board’s attitude from one of restricting smallholder production in favour of tobacco grown by African tenants on estates to realising that the growing market could absorb increased smallholder production. In 1946, African members were first appointed to the Board.\n\nDemand for tobacco increased during the Second World War and the immediate post-war years and the sales price of tobacco rose dramatically. In 1944, the Native Tobacco Board paid about 5 pence a pound for tobacco, slightly more in the Central Region than in the South, and sold it for around 8 pence. In 1946, the Board paid 8 pence a pound for average grades of tobacco, which it auctioned at 12 to 18 pence a pound. The main growth in demand was for a light-coloured, mild-flavoured flue-cured leaf suitable for cigarettes, which was difficult to produce in areas of Malawi such as the Shire Highlands with high rainfall. Areas suitable for producing this leaf were in the Central Region. There were over 104,500 growers registered with the Native Tobacco Board in 1950, when they planted 132,000 acres and grew 21 million pounds of tobacco. Numbers declined later, but there were still 70,000 in 1965 registered with the successor of the NTB, and they produced 24 million pounds of tobacco.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, some smallholders circumvented the NTB and sold their tobacco to estate owners for better prices than the Board offered. However, in 1948 a strict NTB purchasing monopoly was re-imposed, and the gap between the prices at which the Board bought and sold tobacco was widened to create a fund to employ more European agricultural advisers, with the aim of improving tobacco yields and quality.\n\nIn 1956, the activities, powers and duties of the Maize Control, African Tobacco and Cotton Control boards were transferred to the Agricultural Production and Marketing Board. It had powers to buy smallholder surpluses, but its producer prices were biased against peasant producers and did not reflect the rise in living costs: they were so unsatisfactory that even settlers on the Legislative Council called for the revision of the Board’s pricing policy. In 1961, the Agricultural Production and Marketing Board was replaced by the Farmers Marketing Board, which was given wide powers to buy, sell and process farm products, promote price stability and subsidise seed and fertilizer sales. In 1971, the Farmers Marketing Board was replaced by the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), which developed a policy of growing Burley tobacco on estates formed from land taken from peasant smallholders. Smallholders supported the high operating costs of these bodies, much of whose profits came from underpaying farmers, and which re-invested little of their funds in smallholder farming.\n\n"}
{"id": "55979173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55979173", "title": "Nepal wine", "text": "Nepal wine\n\nNepal wine is produced at the world's highest altitude vineyard (2,750m/9,000ft), although vintners in the Andes near Salta, Argentina claim even higher altitudes.\nIt is located at Jomsom (Nepali: जोमसोम), Anapurna. Initially, 2 hectares were planted in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "54346388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54346388", "title": "Network for Public Policy Studies", "text": "Network for Public Policy Studies\n\nThe Network for Public Policy Studies (NPPS) or Shams is an academic peer-reviewed website, under the supervision of Center for Strategic Studies, dedicated to the study of public policies with an emphasis on Iranian Government's policies. The NPPS publishes articles in Persian and English, covering topics including environmental policy, economic policy, foreign policy, science policy, technology policy, health policy, social policy and cultural policy. Mohammad Fazeli is the general editor of the website.\n\n"}
{"id": "22279700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22279700", "title": "Painful bruising syndrome", "text": "Painful bruising syndrome\n\nPainful bruising syndrome (also known as \"autoerythrocyte sensitization\", \"Gardner–Diamond syndrome\", and \"psychogenic purpura\") is an idiopathic trauma-induced condition seen in young to middle-aged women who sometimes manifest personality disorders. It is characterized by a distinctive localized purpuric reaction occurring primarily on the legs, face and trunk, with recurring painful ecchymoses variably accompanied by syncope, nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal and intracranial bleeding.\n\nPatients with this condition can suffer frequent painful bruising around joints and muscles. Because of the rarity of the disorder, there are few methods of support in place for patients.\n\nMany patients are labelled with the stigma of having a psychological condition without this having a specifically proven link. There have been cases of painful bruising syndrome reported where there are no additional psychological disorders. This has been known to be put into remission with chemotherapy. It was characterized in 1955 by Frank Gardner and Louis Diamond.\n\nPatient may present with a history of intermittent purpura mostly precipitated by stress.\n\n"}
{"id": "35939323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35939323", "title": "Peter L. Benson", "text": "Peter L. Benson\n\nPeter Lorimer Benson (1946–2011) was a psychologist and CEO/President of Search Institute. He pioneered the developmental assets framework, which became the predominant approach to research on positive facets of youth development. According to the \"American Psychologist\",\n\n"}
{"id": "43793051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43793051", "title": "PfSPZ Vaccine", "text": "PfSPZ Vaccine\n\nPfSPZ Vaccine is a candidate malaria vaccine made of non-replicating irradiated whole sporozoites and developed by Sanaria. PfSPZ is the acronym of words: \"Plasmodium falciparum\" (Pf) and sporozoites (SPZ). Clinical trials have been promising, but it has been subject to some criticism regarding its ultimate feasibility with regard to large-scale production and delivery in Africa, since it must be stored in super-cold liquid nitrogen.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century there were first attempts to protect people from malaria. At the beginning Pasteur´s approach of developing bacterial vaccines was used as a big hope in eradication of this fatal disease. But inactivated malaria sporozoites (by formalin) were ineffective in inducing the protection.\n\nIn 1948 inactivated merozoites with an adjuvant were used for preventing lethal malaria to kill a group of monkeys. But the strong toxicity of the adjuvant and inability to obtain sufficient count of parasites from human blood stopped further efforts in this way.\n\nIn 1967 irradiated malaria sporozoites (extracted from salivary glands of infected mosquitos) induced immune response in mice without the need of the adjuvant and similar evidence obtained in human volunteer trials. The mice were exposed to irradiated mosquitos infected by malaria parasites. Mice and volunteers did not acquire malaria because mosquitos and the sporozoites were irradiated and their immune cells triggered response that could protect them from following infection. Yet this approach was not further developed during problems with obtaining sufficient number of sporozoites and with the harvesting of parasites.\n\nLater, modern adjuvants and the possibility of preparing of single parasite proteins started another way to obtain malaria vaccine. Today, a vaccine called RTS,S based on coat protein of sporozoites of the \"Plasmodium falciparum\" is the most advanced subunit vaccine and is in the phase III clinical trials. It protects about 50% of subjects infected by controlled human malaria infection (CHMI) after 2 – 3 weeks and about 23% at 5 months after last immunization. In large III phase trial in Africa RTS,S/AS01 reduced acquired malaria over a 12 months period by 31,3% and 36,6%.\n\nIn 2003 Sanaria ran trials in which \"falciparum\" sporozoites were manually dissected from salivary glands of mosquitos, irradiated and preserved before inoculation with one goal: to develop and commercialize a non-replicating, metabolically active PfSPZ vaccine.\n\nIn human volunteer trials PfSPZ was applied subcutaneously (SC) or intradermally (ID) and such as it showed only modest immune response. When PfSPZ Vaccine was injected intravenously (IV) to nonhuman primates or mice it finally triggers CD8+ T-cells producing IFNγ. These T cells are believed to be the main immunologic mechanism to fight malaria in liver.\n\nThe PfSPZ Vaccine candidate has granted fast track designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in September 2016.\n\nCD8+ T cells play a key role in killing \"Plasmodium\" developing in liver. Mice or monkeys which received monoclonal antibody to the CD8 lost protection by this type of vaccine. Once the antibody application was stopped, the protection was returned.\n\"Plasmodium\" is injected by infected mosquito into the bloodstream of the host in the form of sporozoites, which travel to the liver and invade liver cells, where sporozoites divide and produce tens of thousands merozoites per one cell. RTS,S is prepared to stop malaria in phase after the injection. PfSPZ Vaccine is made of attenuated sporozites, which are active and travel to liver cells, where CD8+ T cells producing IFNγ are activated.\nFrequencies of PfSPZ-specific CD3+CD4+, CD3+CD8+, CD3+γδ T cells are dose-dependent. PfSPZ-specific CD3+CD8+ T cells were found in 7 of 12 protected subjects in the human volunteer trial. These cells are required for protection in most individuals and are primarily situated in the liver because of the persistence of parasite antigens and retained as tissue memory cells.\n\nTwo first clinical trials of IV administration of PfSPZ were conducted. Previous ID or IC clinical trials didn´t trigger adequate immune response. Series of clinical trials of the PfSPZ Vaccine administered with IV injection are planned in 2014 in Africa, Europe, and the United States to expand critical data on the vaccine for clinical development as a method to prevent malaria. The trial involved 57 people and demonstrated complete protection against malaria in all six patients that received the highest dose. As of 2014, Sanaria planned to test the vaccine in larger trials in Mali, Tanzania, Equatorial Guinea, the U.S. and Germany. Optimally, it could be filed with regulators by 2017.\n\nSanaria is preparing development of a robot that can dissect salivary glands of mosquitos. This step should make preparation and further development of vaccine much faster and easier.\n\nIn 2016, another article with further results from the trials was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "18973242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973242", "title": "School health education", "text": "School health education\n\nSchool Health Education see also: Health Promotion is the process of transferring health knowledge during a student's school years (K-12). Its uses are in general classified as Public Health Education and School Health Education.\n\nWith the myriads of powerful theories and ideas surrounding the words school, health, and education; it is imperative first to define school health education, its targets and general practice. The definition of school health education has evolved much throughout the 21st century. In general, it ᾂis regarded as teaching on the subject of health/hygiene in a K-12 school. The major trend regarding changing definitions of school health education surrounds the eᾙver increasing notion that school education influences adult behavior. In the 70’s health education was viewed mostly as a means of communicating healthy medical practices to those who should be practicing them; “Health education attempts to close the gap between what is known about optimum health practice and that which is actually practiced.” In the 80’s definitions began to incorporate the understanding that education is a means of empowerment for the individual, allowing the individual to make educated health decisions. Health education then became “the process of assisting individuals… to make informed decisions about matters affecting their personal health and the health of others.” This definition also spawned during the year of the first national-scale investigation of health education in schools, which eventually led to a much more aggressive approach to educating the nation’s youth on matters of health. In the late 1990's the World Health Organization, launched a Global Health Initiative which aimed at developing \"health-promoting schools,\" which would enhance school health programs at all levels including: local, regional, national, and global level. Today school health education is seen as a ‘comprehensive health curricula.’ It is a blend of community, schools, and patient care practice; “Health education covers the continuum from disease prevention and promotion of optimal health to the detection of illness to treatment, rehabilitation, and long-term care.” This concept is recently prescribed in current scientific literature as ‘health promotion’, a phrase that is used interchangeably with health education, although health promotion is broader in focus.\n"}
{"id": "48546576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48546576", "title": "Scottish School of Primary Care", "text": "Scottish School of Primary Care\n\nThe Scottish School of Primary Care (SSPC) is an organisation that co-ordinates a programme of research and training of primary care in Scotland. The School was launched in 2000. By 2007 there were 1700 people involved in this virtual organisation, including Scottish academics with an interest in primary care research and clinicians who have an involvement with research alongside their normal clinical work.\n\nA programme of work at the school led to the publication of landmark paper on multimorbidity in 2012.\n\nIn 2007, Frank Sullivan was appointed Director. In September 2015, John Gillies took up the position of Depute Director.\n"}
{"id": "11804171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11804171", "title": "Skallagrigg", "text": "Skallagrigg\n\nSkallagrigg is a 1987 novel written by William Horwood and influenced by Horwood's relationship with his own daughter Rachel, who has cerebral palsy. It is notable in that it foresaw the importance of adaptive computer technology in the lives of future generations of disabled people. It is also an early example of discourse on disability politics, treatment of the disabled throughout history, and hit-or-miss relations and perceptions between the disabled and able-bodied communities.\n\nArthur Lane is a young boy with profound cerebral palsy, who is unable to walk, talk, feed himself, or sit unsupported. He is abandoned in a grim hospital in the north of England in 1921, at the age of seven. His family believe they are sending him to a specialised facility for the good of all, where they will have the equipment and expertise to give him a better life. In reality he is subject to extreme cruelty and neglect. Through his decades-long ordeal, his faith in the 'Skallagrigg' – a special being with a keen empathy for people with his disabilities – sustains him, and stories grow up about Arthur and the Skallagrigg.\n\nHalf a century later comes Esther – a keenly intelligent teenager who also has cerebral palsy, but whose talents are recognised in a more enlightened age. Her mother died at her birth due to a fatal car accident, and as a result, Esther was delivered prematurely by caesarian section – which is implied to have possibly contributed to her condition. Since her father, Richard, is unable to cope with her condition and the loss of her mother, Esther is bounced between multiple foster parents – who struggle to cope with her profoundly demanding and unique medical needs – before winding up at a home for disabled children called the Dale Centre. There she meets Peter Rowne – an even more disabled, even more intelligent boy slightly older than her, Karen – a severely learning-disabled 'frienemy', and Tom – a docile and courageous, though sometimes invasive young boy with Down syndrome, who becomes her lifelong ally and protector. \n\nAt the age of eleven, Esther takes up residence with her father, and finally manages to communicate her intelligence to him with Tom's help (specialists had emphatically cautioned her father and able-bodied carers not to see intelligence that wasn't there). She is subsequently sent off to Netherton – an adapted school for highly gifted disabled students. Having squandered her first term, the death of Peter Rowne from pneumonia, and her recently reconnected Grandmother's firm words, inspire a reformation in her, and she does exceptionally well. There she ponders the life questions every teenager does – love, marriage, sex, friendships, jobs, future living, but with the added fear and uncertainty of her disability. She also learns about the terrible conditions disabled people have had to endure, both in the past and in her lifetime. Through all of this she grows up with the myth of the Skallagrigg, and the secret stories told among the disabled community through non-verbal language. She eventually realises that these stories are real, told by a real person and describing a real place. Piecing them together with the help of her friends and family, she eventually discovers Arthur, the true identity of the Skallagrigg, the characters in the story, and the fact that Arthur has an estranged son and grandson, reuniting Arthur with his beloved Skallagrigg.\n\nFollowing this, Esther becomes interested in writing computer games, and carries on written conversation with Daniel, an American computer graphics genius. Together they develop first a friendship, then, when he comes to England, a relationship which develops into a marriage. Meanwhile, Esther obsessively works on writing a computer game based on her experiences finding the Skallagrigg, her sense that Arthur's grandson should have the chance to discover his family (despite Arthur's belief that it would be better for him not to know what his grandfather was), and her own anguish at not being able to do more for Daniel, and for their infant child, due to her severe disabilities. The work, giving birth, and the relentless frustration and upset, take a heavy toll on her mental and physical health, which is exacerbated by frailty caused by her cerebral palsy – but she remains surrounded by love and purpose throughout.\n\nThe story ends with Arthur's son and grandson, Esther's granddaughter, father, husband and son, and Tom, all reuniting and reconciling – having been torn apart by Esther's death and by Richard's marriage to Kate and subsequent emigration to Australia.\n\n\"Skallagrigg\" was shown on BBC2's Screen Two in 1994 with screenplay by Nigel Williams and won a BAFTA for Best Single Drama in 1995. It starred John McArdle, Richard Briers, Nick Brimble, Kerry Noble and Ian Dury. Its screenplay and plot are a dramatically abridged version of the original book, and all the characters suffer from far milder disabilities than those in the book. A teenage Esther has been living in the Dale Centre where Tom and Peter also reside. Her estranged father has been failing to sell sports equipment overseas. Esther, meanwhile, has been trying to discover the identity of Arthur and the Skallagrigg, and enlists her father's help. At first her father is quite clueless as to how to cope with her disability, and she is upset with him for having abandoned her in favour of an easier, less restricted life. However, as their search takes them across the country, their bond grows and they become closer and more protective of each other. The story ends with him carrying her upstairs to bed, whereas he had left her to crawl up on her own at the start. The plot threads concerning Daniel, Arthur's family, the computer game, and Esther's extended family, are all left out.\n\n"}
{"id": "789839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789839", "title": "Standard of living in India", "text": "Standard of living in India\n\nStandard of living in India varies from state to state. With one of the fastest growing economies in the world, clocked at a growth rate of 7.6% in 2015, India is on its way to becoming a large and globally important consumer economy. According to Deutsche Bank Research, there are between 30 million and 300 million middle-class people in India. If current trends continue, India's share of world GDP will significantly increase from 7.3 in 2016 to 8.5 percent of the world share by 2020. In 2011, less than 22 percent of Indians lived under the global poverty line, nearly an 8 percent reduction from 29.8 percent just two years prior in 2009.\n\nAccording to NCAER, India's middle class population would be 267 million in 2016. Further ahead, by 2025-26 the number of middle class households in India is likely to more than double from the 2015-16 levels to 113.8 million households or 547 million individuals. Another estimate put the Indian middle class as numbering 475 million people by 2030. It is estimated that average real wages will quadruple between 2013 and 2030.\n\nThe standard of living in India shows large disparity. For example, there is widespread poverty in rural areas of India, where medical care tends to be very basic or unavailable, while cities boast of world class medical establishments. Similarly, the very latest machinery may be used in some construction projects, but many construction workers work without mechanisation in most projects. However, a rural middle class is now emerging in India, with some rural areas seeing increasing prosperity.\n\nIn 2010, the per capita PPP-adjusted GDP for India was US$3,608.\n\n24.3% of the population earned less than US$1 (PPP, around US$0.25 in nominal terms) a day in 2005, down from 42.1% in 1981. 41.6% of its population (540 million people approx.) is living below the new international poverty line of $1.25 (PPP) per day, down from 59.8% in 1981. The World Bank further estimates that a third of the global poor now reside in India.\n\nOn the other hand, the Planning Commission of India uses its own criteria and has estimated that 27.5% of the population was living below the poverty line in 2004–2005, down from 51.3% in 1977–1978, and 36% in 1993-1994. The source for this was the 61st round of the National Sample Survey (NSS) and the criterion used was monthly per capita consumption expenditure below  356.35 for rural areas and  538.60 for urban areas. 75% of the poor are in rural areas, most of them are daily wagers, self-employed householders and landless labourers.\n\nAlthough Indian economy has grown steadily over the last two decades, its growth has been uneven when comparing different social groups, economic groups, geographic regions, and rural and urban areas. For the year 2015-16, the GSDP growth rates of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh was higher than Maharashtra, Odisha or Punjab.\n\nSince the early 1950s, successive governments have implemented various schemes, under planning, to alleviate poverty, that have met with partial success. Programmes like \"Food for work\" and \"National Rural Employment Programme\" have attempted to use the unemployed to generate productive assets and build rural infrastructure. In August 2005, the Indian parliament passed the \"Rural Employment Guarantee Bill\", the largest programme of this type, in terms of cost and coverage, which promises 100 days of minimum wage employment to every rural household in 200 of India's 600 districts. The Indian government is planning to bring in more economic reforms which can help farmers and unskilled labourers transition into industrialised sectors.\n\nSince independence, India has allocated nearly half of the total outlay of the five-year plans for infrastructural development. Much of the total outlay was spent on large projects in the area of irrigation, energy, transport, communications and social overheads. Development of infrastructure was completely in the hands of the public sector and was plagued by corruption, bureaucratic inefficiencies, urban-bias and an inability to scale investment.\nCalcutta city was the first city in India to boast of a metro-system. \nIndia's low spending on power, construction, transportation, telecommunications and real estate, at $31 billion or 6% of GDP in 2002 has prevented India from sustaining a growth rate of around 8%. This has prompted the government to partially open up infrastructure to the private sector allowing foreign investment. India holds second position in the world in roadways' construction.\n\nAs of 31 December 2005, there were an estimated 835,000 broadband lines in India. Low tele-density is the major hurdle for slow pick-up in broadband services. Over 76% of the broadband lines were via DSL and the rest via cable modems.\n\nA 2007 study by the Asian Development Bank showed that in 20 cities the average duration of water supply was only 4.3 hours per day. No city had a continuous water supply. The longest duration of supply was 12 hours per day in Chandigarh, and the lowest was 0.3 hours per day in Rajkot.\n\nA study by WaterAid estimated as many as 157 million Indian or 41 percent of Indians living in urban areas, live without adequate sanitation. India comes top for having the greatest number of\nurbanites living without sanitation. India tops urban sanitation crisis, has the largest amount of urban dwellers without sanitation and the most open defecators over 41 million people.\n\nOne of the critical problems facing India's economy is the sharp and growing regional variations among India's different states and territories in terms of per capita income, poverty, availability of infrastructure and socio-economic development. For instance, the difference in growth rate between the forward and backward states was 0.3% (5.2% & 4.9%) during 1980–81 to 1990–91, but had grown to 3.3% (6.3% & 3.0%) during 1990–91 to 1997–98.\n\nThe five-year plans have attempted to reduce regional disparities by encouraging industrial development in the interior regions, but industries still tend to concentrate around urban areas and port cities. Even the industrial townships in the interiors, Bhilai for instance, resulted in very little development in the surrounding areas. After liberalisation, the disparities have grown despite the efforts of the union government in reducing them. Part of the reason being that manufacturing and services and not agriculture are the engines of growth. The more advanced states are better placed to benefit from them, with infrastructure like well developed ports, urbanisation and an educated and skilled workforce which attract manufacturing and service sectors. The union and state governments of backward regions are trying to reduce the disparities by offering tax holidays, cheap land, etc., and focusing more on sectors like tourism, which although being geographically and historically determined, can become a source of growth and is faster to develop than other sectors.\n"}
{"id": "21991984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21991984", "title": "Subcortical dementia", "text": "Subcortical dementia\n\nSubcortical dementia is a type of dementia characterised by slowness of mental processing, forgetfulness, impaired cognition, apathy, and depression.\n\nDisorders, such as CADASIL, that result in subcortical dementia have changes that involve primarily the thalamus, basal ganglia, and related brain-stem nuclei with relative sparing of the cerebral cortex. It affects arousal, attention, mood, motivation, language, memory, abstraction, and visuospatial skills. Subcortical dementia differs from other dementia such as Alzheimer's where prominent cerebral cortical involvement produces aphasia, amnesia, agnosia, and apraxia. \n\nIn most kinds of dementia there is widespread degeneration in the cerebral cortex – such as the plaques and tangles which are the hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. In other kinds of dementia, there is targeted damage to regions lying under the cortex, giving rise to the category known as \"subcortical dementias\". \n\nAs a general rule the earliest symptoms in \"cortical\" dementia include difficulty with high-level behaviors such as memory, language, problem-solving and reasoning – functions associated with the cerebral cortex.\n\nHowever in \"subcortical\" dementia these high-level behaviours are less affected.\n"}
{"id": "35278187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35278187", "title": "Thida Thavornseth", "text": "Thida Thavornseth\n\nThida Thavornseth (, , ; born January 25, 1944) is a Thai assistant professor, microbiologist, pharmacist, and political activist. She is a retired university lecturer. Since 2010 she has been the chairperson of the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD), colloquially known as the \"Red Shirts\".\n\nThida Thavornseth was born in Surat Thani in Southern Thailand. She graduated from the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University and is married to the physician Dr.Weng Tojirakarn, who shares her political activism. Thida participated in the pro-democracy uprising of October 1973, ending the military dictatorship, and the later leftist students protests in October 1976 that led to the Thammasat University massacre and a return to military rule. Both Thida and Weng then joined the illegal Communist Party of Thailand and fled to its camps in the jungle, hiding there for more than six years. In May 1992, she took part in the protests against the military-installed Prime Minister Suchinda Kraprayoon, which are now known as the Black May.\n\nOnce a critic of ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, she joined the UDD, a political pressure group close to Thaksin, campaigning against the influence of the military and \"royalist circles\" following the 2006 coup d'état, against perceived injustice, and for a fundamental change of power structures in the Thai society. After the fierce \"Red Shirts\" protests from March to May 2010, which ultimately led to the bloody military crackdowns in April and May and the arrests of the most important UDD leaders including her husband, Thida became chairwoman of the \"United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship\" that December. Thida is considered a moderate, generally rejecting violence in favour of political action.\n\n"}
{"id": "50166890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50166890", "title": "Timeline of global health", "text": "Timeline of global health\n\nThis page is a timeline of global health, including major conferences, interventions, cures, and crises.\n\nDuring this pre-WWII era, there are three big trends that operate separately, but sometimes affect each other in development and outcomes.\n\nFirst, a trend of urbanization (fueled by the Industrial Revolution) as well as greater global trade and migration leads to new challenges, including those in urban sanitation and infectious diseases/pandemics. Six global cholera pandemics happen in this period because of increased commerce and migration.\n\nSecond, there is a lot of development on the underlying theory of disease, advancements in vaccine and antibiotic development, and a variety of experimental large-scale eradication and control programs. One big example: the germ theory of diseases begins to become accepted and popularized starting around 1850. Another big example is the development of the smallpox vaccine by Edward Jenner in 1796. Systematic eradication and control efforts include the Rockefeller Sanitary Commission and efforts to eradicate smallpox. Antitoxins and vaccines for numerous diseases including cholera and tuberculosis are developed during this period, building on a trend of greater understanding of and control over microorganisms.\n\nA third theme during this era is the formation of various preliminary international alliances and conferences, including the International Sanitary Conferences, Pan American Health Organization, Office International d'Hygiène Publique, and the League of Nations Health Committee. This is closely intertwined with the other two trends. For instance, the cholera pandemics mentioned above, as well as the growing scientific understanding of the germ theory of disease, are both key impetuses for the International Sanitary Conferences.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, the first batch of big organizations, both international and national (with international cooperation), including the United Nations and World Health Organization (WHO), form. Beginning with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration for relief of victims of war in 1943, there is a big push to begin creating large scale health initiatives, non-governmental organizations, and worldwide global health programs by the United Nations to improve quality of life around the world. UNICEF, the World Health Organization, as well as the UNRRA are all part of United Nations efforts to benefit global health beginning with developing countries. These various programs aim to aid in economic endeavors by providing loans, direct disease prevention programs, health education, etc.\n\nAfter wrapping up complications caused by the end of the war, there is an international energy put in into eradication, beginning with the complete smallpox eradication in 1979. There is greater dissatisfaction with WHO for its focus on disease/infection control at the expense of trying to improve general living conditions, as well as disappointment at its low budget and staffing. This atmosphere spurs other organizations to provide their own forms of aid. The Alma Ata Declaration and selective primary healthcare are created to express urgent action by all governments and citizens to protect and promote the health of all people equally. More organizations form following these new active attitudes toward global health, including the International Agency for Research on Cancer and the Doctors Without Borders organization. Publications like the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines highlight basic medicines required by most adults and children to survive, and set priorities for healthcare fund allocation in developing countries. Generally, there is more buy-in for the idea that direct, targeted efforts to address healthcare could be worthwhile and benefit many countries.\n\nCertain specific efforts increase in efficiency and productivity, including improvement in maternal and child health and a focus on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria (the 'Big Three') in developing countries. During this time period, the child survival revolution (CSR), which helps reduce child mortality in the developing world, and GOBI-FFF are both advocated by James P. Grant. The World Summit for Children also takes place, becoming one of the largest ever gathering of heads of states and government to commit a set of goals to improve the well-being of children. Finally, HIV/AIDS becomes the focus of many governmental and non-governmental organizations, leading to the formation of the Global Programme on AIDS (GPA) by efforts of the World Health Organization. However, these health organizations also make significant advancements to tuberculosis treatments, including the DOTS strategy and the formation of the Stop TB Partnership.\n\nUN's Millennium Development Goals establishes health care as an important goal (not just combating infectious diseases). Later in 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals build on the MDGs to outline the objectives that will transform our world by ending poverty, helping the environment, and improving health and education. More specific disease-targeting organizations are created primarily to fund healthcare plans in developing countries, including the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. These organizations (especially the WHO) adopt new strategies and initiatives, including the 3 by 5 Initiative to widen the access to antiretroviral treatment, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, etc. Private large donors such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation begin to play an important role in shaping the funding landscape and direction of efforts in global health.\n\nThe following events are selected for inclusion in the timeline:\n\n\nWe do \"not\" include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "336997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336997", "title": "Tobacco Protest", "text": "Tobacco Protest\n\nThe Persian Tobacco Protest (Persian: نهضت تنباکو \"nehzat-e tanbāku\"), was a Shi'a revolt in Iran against an 1890 tobacco concession granted by Nasir al-Din Shah of Persia to Great Britain, granting British control over growth, sale and export of tobacco. The protest was held by Tehran merchants in solidarity with the clerics. It climaxed in a widely obeyed December 1891 fatwa against tobacco use supposedly issued by Grand Ayatollah Mirza Hassan Shirazi.\n\nBeginning in the 19th century, the Qajar dynasty found itself in a precarious situation due to an increasing foreign presence within Iran. Reeling from devastating losses against the Russian Empire in 1813 and 1828 as well as the British Empire in 1857, not only was the Qajar government forced to grant countless concessions to these foreign powers, but Iranian bazaaris (merchants) were left in a highly vulnerable position as they couldn't compete with the numerous economic advantages gained by merchants from Europe. According to the accounts of foreigners living in Iran at the time, the Qajar dynasty was highly unpopular among the populace and was perceived as having little concern for the welfare of its residents. Later accounts by British eyewitnesses suggest that the reason why the dynasty had not been overthrown sooner in the face of widespread discontent was due to British and Russian intervention that essentially propped up the shah.\n\nIn 1872, Nasir al-Din Shah negotiated a concession with Baron Julius de Reuter, a British citizen, granting him control over Persian roads, telegraphs, mills, factories, extraction of resources, and other public works in exchange for a stipulated sum for five years and 60% of all the net revenue for 20 years. The Reuter concession was met with not only domestic outrage in the form of local protests, but also opposition from the Russian government. Under immense pressure, Nasir al-Din Shah consequently canceled the agreement despite his deteriorating financial situation. While the concession lasted for approximately a year, the debacle set the foundation for the revolts against the tobacco concession in 1890 as it demonstrated that any attempt by a foreign power to infringe upon Iranian sovereignty would infuriate the local population as well as rival European power.\n\nOn March 20, 1890, Nasir al-Din Shah granted a concession to Major G. F. Talbot for a full monopoly over the production, sale, and export of tobacco for fifty years. In exchange, Talbot paid the shah an annual sum of £15,000 (present-day £1.845 million; $2.35 million) in addition to a quarter of the yearly profits after the payment of all expenses and a dividend of 5 percent on the capital. By the fall of 1890 the concession had been sold to the Imperial Tobacco Corporation of Persia, a company that some have speculated was essentially Talbot himself as he heavily promoted shares in the corporation. At the time of the concession, the tobacco crop was valuable not only because of the domestic market but because Iranians cultivated a variety of tobacco \"much prized in foreign markets\" that was not grown elsewhere. A Tobacco Régie (monopoly) was subsequently established and all the producers and owners of tobacco in Persia were forced to sell their goods to agents of the Régie, who would then resell the purchased tobacco at a price that was mutually agreed upon by the company and the sellers with disputes settled by compulsory arbitration.\n\nAt the time the Persian tobacco industry employed over 200,000 people and therefore the concession represented a major blow to Persian farmers and bazaaris whose livelihoods were largely dependent on the lucrative tobacco business. Now they were forced to seek permits from the Tobacco Régie as well as required to inform the concessionaires of the amount of tobacco produced. In essence the concession not only violated the long-established relationship between Persian tobacco producers and tobacco sellers, but it also threatened the job security of a significant portion of the population.\n\nIn September 1890 the first resounding protest against the concession manifested, however it did not emerge from the Persian merchant class or ulema but rather from the Russian government who stated that the Tobacco Régie violated freedom of trade in the region as stipulated by the Treaty of Turkmanchai. Despite disapproval from the Russian Empire concerning the monopoly, Nasir al-Din Shah was intent on continuing on with the concession. In February 1891 Major G. F. Talbot traveled to Iran to install the Tobacco Régie and soon thereafter the shah made news of the concession public for the first time, sparking immediate disapproval throughout the country. Despite the rising tensions, director of the Tobacco Régie Julius Ornstein arrived in Tehran in April and was assured by Prime Minister Amin al-Sultan that the concession had the full support of the Qajar dynasty. In the meantime, anonymous letters were being sent to high members of the Qajar government while placards were circulating in cities such as Tehran and Tabriz, both displaying public anger towards the granting of concessions to foreigners.\n\nDuring the spring of 1891 mass protests against the Régie began to emerge in major Iranian cities. Initially it was the bazaaris who led the opposition under the conviction that it was their income and livelihood which were at stake. Affluent merchants such as Hajj Mohammad Malek al-Tojjar played a vital role in the tobacco movement by organizing bazaari protests as well as appealing to well known mujtahids for their support in opposing the Régie. The ulema proved to be a highly valuable ally of the bazaari as key religious leaders sought to protect national interests from foreign domination. For centuries the ulema played a paramount role in Iranian society—they ran religious schools, maintained the charity of endowments, acted as arbiters and judges, and were seen as the intermediaries between God and Shia Muslims in the country. Hence if such exorbitant concessions were given to non-Muslim foreigners, the ulema believed that the national-religious community under their supervision would be severely threatened. Furthermore, the ulema had ties with various merchant families and guilds while holding an economic interest in tobacco that was grown on waqf land. Finally, as the clergy pointed out, the concession directly contradicted Islamic law because individuals were not allowed to purchase or sell tobacco under their own free will and were unable to go elsewhere for business. Later during the tobacco harvest season of 1891, tobacco cultivator Mahmud Zaim of the Kashan region coordinated with Iran's two other major tobacco cultivators a burning of their entire stock.\n\nThe cities of Shiraz, Tehran, and Tabriz would subsequently develop into the most prominent centers of opposition to the tobacco concession. In May 1891 Sayyed Ali Akbar, a prominent molla of Shiraz was removed from the city by orders of Nasir al-Din Shah due to his preaching against the concession. During his departure from Iran, Sayyed Ali Akbar met with prominent pan-Islamist activist Jamal al-Din al-Afghani, and at Akbar's request Afghani wrote a letter to the leading Shia cleric Mirza Hasan Shirazi asking the mujtahid to \"save and defend [the] country\" from \"this criminal who has offered the provinces of the land of Iran to auction amongst the Great Powers.\" Though Shirazi would later send a personal telegram to the shah warning the leader about the pitfalls of giving concessions to foreigners, this personal appeal did nothing to put an end to the Régie.\n\nGovernment intervention may have helped in mitigating the hostilities in Shiraz following Akbar's removal however other regions of Iran still saw a proliferation in protests. Bazaaris in Tehran were among the first groups of people to protest against the concession by writing letters of disapproval to the shah even before the concession was publicly announced. It has been argued that this initial opposition stemmed from a Russian attempt to stir up frustration within the merchant community of Tehran. Although Azarbaijan, the north western region of Iran, was not a tobacco-growing area, it saw tremendous opposition to the concession due to the large concentration of local merchants and retail traders in the region. In Isfahan a boycott of the consumption of tobacco was implemented even prior to Shirazi's fatwa (discussed below) while in the city of Tabriz, the bazaar closed down and the ulema stopped teaching in the madrasas. The cities of Mashhad and Kirman also experienced demonstrations in opposition to the concession yet historian Mansoor Moaddel argues that these latter movements were relatively ineffective. Other cities around the country such as Qazvin, Yazd, and Kermanshah were also involved in opposing the shah and the Tobacco Régie.\n\nIn December 1891 a fatwa was issued by the most important religious authority in Iran, marja'-i taqlid Mirza Hasan Shirazi, declaring the use of tobacco to be tantamount to war against the Hidden Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi. The reference to the Hidden Imam, a critical person in Shia Islam, meant that Shirazi was using the strongest possible language to oppose the Régie. Initially there was skepticism over the legitimacy of the fatwa; however, Shirazi would later confirm the declaration.\n\nIranians in the capital of Tehran refused to smoke tobacco and this collective response spread to neighboring provinces. In a show of solidarity, Iranian merchants responded by shutting down the main bazaars throughout the country. As the tobacco boycott grew larger, Nasir al-Din Shah and Prime Minister Amin al-Sultan found themselves powerless to stop the popular movement fearing Russian intervention in case a civil war materialized.\n\nPrior to the fatwa, tobacco consumption had been so prevalent in Iran that it was smoked everywhere, including inside mosques. European observers noted that \"most Iranians would rather forego bread than tobacco, and the first thing they would do at the breaking of the fast during the month of Ramadan was to light their pipes.\" Despite the popularity of tobacco, the religious ban was so successful that it was said that women in the shah's harem quit smoking and his servants refused to prepare his water pipe.\n\nBy January 1892, when the shah saw that the British government \"was waffling in its support for the Imperial Tobacco Company,\" he canceled the concession. By January 26 Shirazi issued another fatwa repealing the first and permitting tobacco use, \"and Iranians began smoking again.\" The fatwa has been called a \"stunning\" demonstration of the power of the marja'-i taqlid, and the protest itself has been cited as one of the issues that led to the Constitutional Revolution a few years later.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of the concession, there were still difficulties between the Qajar government and the Imperial Tobacco Corporation of Persia in terms of negotiating the amount of compensation that would be paid to the company. Eventually, it was decided that the sum was to be £500,000 (£61,000,000 inflation-corrected to 2018 value, corresponds to $77,600,000). While Iranians basked in the glory of impeding foreign influence into their country, the tobacco movement had far greater implications than they would even realize. Historian Nikki Keddie notes that the movement was significant because \"Iranians saw for the first time that it was possible to win out against the Shah and foreign interests… there is a direct line from the coalition which participated in the tobacco movement… culminating in the Constitutional Revolution\" and arguably the 1979 Iranian Revolution as well.\n\nFor Nasir Al-Din Shah, the protest left him both financially handicapped and publicly humiliated. Iran was forced to contract a loan from Russia and became a debtor state. At the end of his rule, Nasir Al-Din became much more hostile towards the West, preventing any form of European education or travel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3973092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3973092", "title": "VaxGen", "text": "VaxGen\n\nVaxGen was a biopharmaceutical company based in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nFounded in 1995 and based in South San Francisco, California, the company was engaged in the development of vaccines that immunize against infectious disease, notably AIDS. On July 28, 2010, VaxGen Inc. was acquired by diaDexus, Inc., in a reverse merger transaction.; diaDexus filed for bankruptcy in 2016. VaxGen, Inc. does not have significant operations.\n\nIn the 1990s VaxGen developed, and began trials of, an AIDS vaccine called AIDSVAX. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) worked with Vaxgen when Vaxgen was developing its AIDS vaccine. Specifically, NIAID and Vaxgen worked together on research projects related to the body's immune response to the vaccine. As of 1998, according to NIAID, \"The three-year study [of AIDSVAX] is the first large-scale trial of an HIV preventive vaccine and will involve 5,000 volunteers at about 40 clinical sites in North America.\"\n\nHowever, in 2003 it was announced that the preliminary trials of the vaccine, conducted in Thailand and North America had been unsuccessful.. The company's analysis of its results, which resulted in some potentially positive outcomes among patient subgroups, was criticized by statisticians as inappropriate.\n\nVaxgen had focused its recent efforts on a new form of Anthrax Vaccine, for which it was awarded a $877 million contract to provide the vaccine under the Project Bioshield Act. In December 2006, HHS unilaterally withdrew the $877 million contract, sending the stock tumbling as low as $1.20 per share.\n\nHistorically was http://www.VaxGen.com. This URL is no longer for the Vaxgen, Inc. in this article.\n"}
{"id": "4441182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4441182", "title": "Weighted clothing", "text": "Weighted clothing\n\nWeighted clothing is clothing that adds weight to various parts of the body, usually as part of resistance training. The effect is achieved through attaching weighted pieces to the body (or to other garments) which leave the hands free to grasp objects. Unlike with held weights or machines, weighted clothing can leave users more able to do a variety of movements and manual labour. In some cases certain weighted clothing can be worn under normal clothing, to disguise its use to allow exercise in casual environments.\n\nThe use of weighted clothing is a form of resistance training, generally a kind of weight training. In addition to the greater effect of gravity on the person, it also adds resistance during ballistic movements, due to more force needed to overcome the inertia of heavier masses, as well as a greater momentum that needs deceleration at the end of the movement to avoid injury. The method may increase muscle mass or lose weight; however, there have been concerns about the safety of some uses of weights, such as wrist and ankle weights. It is normally done in the form of small weights, attached to increase endurance when performed in long repetitive events, such as running, swimming, punching, kicking or jumping. Heavier weighted clothing can also be used for slow, controlled movements, and as a way to add resistance to body-weight exercises.\n\nSometimes, weights are draped over or tied to the neck. As weighted vests often have weight placed here, they effectively have the same benefits. Advantages to neck weights and more upper-body-centric weighted vests is that they allow easier spinal flexion (contracting abdominals or stretching extensor spinae) and extension (contracting extensor spinae, stretching abdominals). This makes them prime for adding resistance to these movements, and takes out the requirement of using the arms to anchor weight to the upper body to add resistance.\n\nThe purpose of using a weight vest is to add extra weight for body-weight exercises and to create an overload effect for walking, distance running or speed, agility and quickness (SAQ) drills. Research demonstrates that using an overload during sprinting or speed drills requires lower-body muscles to generate more force against the ground which could lead to gains in strength and power and ultimately faster acceleration during running. Weight vests are used by athletes to increase strength and efficiency during speed, power and agility drills; producing a unique training effect that is unavailable with traditional free weight training equipment. They can also be used by casual walkers or runners.\n\nWeight vests are becoming a very popular form of adding weight around the entire core to, for the most part, simulate the fat storage areas of the human body. It is very useful for adding weight to limb-centric movements, and for handling great weights. Due to the large area available, it can also handle more weight. If well-affixed, it is the safest most natural means of mimicking added body mass without unbalancing the body's muscles. They can be used to add resistance to almost any whole-body movement. A study has shown that using a weighted vest can increase the metabolic costs, relative exercise intensity, and loading of the skeletal system during walking.\n\nOne problem with some weighted vests is that due to tightness in the shoulder girdle, in movements like pull-ups or high range of motion pushups, the vest can be shearing, either damaging the person or in some cases, the vest itself being slowly torn away. This can also be seen as an advantage, however, in those who wish to limit their range of motion due to lack of strength or flexibility, to avoid injury. The limitations of front and back bending of the core is for example, contrasted by ergonomic construction to encourage good posture in modern weighted vests such as the x-vest, hyper vest or game-breakers pro suit. Another problem with some weighted vests is the constriction of breathing and overheating due to the use of heavy, non-breathing materials such as nylon and neoprene. The latest developments in weighted vest products offer comfortable weight vests with cool wicking fabric that allow full range and direction of movement, chest expansion for breathing, open sides connected with lacing, and low profile design allowing a vest to be worn under clothing or football pads, unlike traditional vests made of nylon or neoprene.\n\nUsing weighted backpacks is a very common form of weight. It is like clothing when properly affixed, although some backpacks require tension in the pectorals or being held on the arms to keep from sliding off if not properly affixed.\n\nSimpler to put on and remove than weighted vests, it simulates how humans carry things, like young or injured comrades or camping supplies, rather than the storage of body fat. For most exercises, like pull-ups or pushups, it is just as effective as a weighted vest in adding resistance from gravity. Limitations in flexibility forward or backward or to the side in arms may or may not be present depending on the pack as they vary greatly.\n\nA standard form of military and fire fighter training is not only be able to carry a backpack, but to march and run with one loaded down with a concrete \"marble\". Part of SWAT training is to be able to do pull-ups wearing a heavy pack.\n\nHip drags are not so much useful due to their weight, but are small attachments which add drag during many movements in swimming by making the swimmer less streamlined. This added resistance allows the swimmer to build up more force, and swim faster when they are later removed.\n\nDifferent from dip belts, weighted belts are affixed to the body and do not use suspended weights or swing. They are useful, like weighted vests, in having weight close to the core and mimic very well the additional weight one might have from body fat stored in the abdomen and lower back. The advantage over other core weights is the flexibility that is freed up by not constraining the upper body, the disadvantage being limited core flexion. There tends to be some overlap in certain larger weighted vests and the region covered by certain larger weighted belts near the upper abdominal muscles.\n\nDip belts are a very commonly used form of weight training. They are named for the dip exercise, one of the few and best known methods of adding resistance to it. It is also commonly used to add resistant to pull-ups and knee/leg raises in hanging from a pull-up bar. Unlike most weighted clothing, dip belts are not affixed to the body, but rather the weight suspends semi-secured to the usually leather belt, suspending from the back and generally kept up by resting on the gluteus.\n\nAs such, it is only useful in strength training movements, and not for dynamic movements, making it only pseudo-clothing. Dip belts are also used for added weight in squatting exercises, for people who want to work their quadriceps muscles with more weight without compressing their spine or straining their back muscles or hands. Due to the dangling length, these belt squats are usually done elevated, where the suspended weight will dip much lower than the feet, allowing a sufficient range of motion. How far below the feet it goes can determine the range of motion of the exercise, similar to limitations like squatting in a power rack for working heavy resistance near the top of the movement.\n\nUpper arm weights are another method of adding weight close to the core beyond that of a weighted vest, or to add resistance to the shoulders with less danger to the elbows than wrist weights or the added biceps/triceps strain. A problem with these is similar to thigh weights in that those with large biceps, triceps, or fat around the region may experience tightness, and the tightness required can be straining in exercises that involve elbow extension, making it more suitable for leg and core movements.\n\nWrist weights are used in place of holding dumbbells (or to supplement them) or other hand-held weights as a way of adding leveraged resistance to the movement of the arms. Like ankle weights, practicing explosive movements is not advised, and if done, should be approached gradually, with acceleration before full extension, and also reduced gradually, to avoid over-extension injuries. Wrist weights are advantageous in that they do not require a strong grip or wrist extension for added arm resistance like held hand weights do. A disadvantage is that the tightness required to stop movements could possibly increase the damages in those with carpal tunnel syndrome.\n\nWeighted gloves serve a similar purpose to wrist weights. Generally, they are worn to prepare for boxing in some fashion. Their advantage, beyond a slight increase in distance for leverage, is the lack of strain on the wrist from having weight isolated there, and better simulating sparring gloves. They are generally not very heavy, and since they limit the grip anyway, unless being used to practice specific striking fists, light dumbbells are more common.\n\nThigh weights are the most reasonable form of resistance. The location of the mass more readily duplicates the natural fat-storage mechanism of the human body and being closer to the core. In leg raise exercises, it allows more activation of the hip flexors (and abdominals) without putting more strain on the quadriceps muscles for extension, making it good for sports-specific training on movements like knees and jumping. The greater area and safe location allow it to handle much more weight. For those with wide thighs, such as bodybuilders with large quadriceps, or people with large amounts of fat stores on the inner thigh, it may cause chafing. If worn on both legs, however, the chafing would be between the weights and only damage them, possibly only chafing with a lack of tightness.\n\nThigh weights are not ideal for movements involving quadriceps use, as they require tightness which may limit the use of the muscle and blood flow to the legs. For such movements, weights worn higher on the body or free weights are more ideal.\n\nAnkle weights are a commonly found weight used in many activities. Further from the core, fixated above the ankle around the lower shin and Achilles tendon, due to leverage much less weight is needed to increase the forces on the body.\n\nAs they are attached to a region with a far smaller diameter than the thigh, there is not room for much weight without greatly changing the effective width of the lower leg. An advantage over thigh weights is that they are not attached to any major muscle or fat storage region, so tightness is not a factor and it can be used in almost any exercise.\n\nBeing above the ankle, movements incorporating the calf muscles such as calf raises can benefit from ankle weights.\n\nAnkle weights are useful in adding weight to pull-ups and dips, especially when incorporating leg raises into the movements. They are also useful in slow kicking katas, and static-active stretching of the legs when balancing on one leg, or suspended in the air.\n\nLight ankle weights have a history of use resistance for kicking in swimming, and of forward flexion in kicking, walking, jogging, and sprinting exercises. Concern has been expressed regarding this type of training. It may put too much stress on the joints, similar to the shearing forces found in leg extension and leg curl exercises.\n\nPracticing weighted movements at high speeds also causes the nervous system to fire at larger intensities. If an individual loses the weight without being trained to adapt to the transition, he may overexert himself without checking at the end of the movement and overextend a tendon. This is more of a risk when people fully extend their limbs in such movements and do not come to a controlled stop at the end, limiting muscle flexion. Generally, the muscle being extended is more at risk, not one held statically. For example, the quadriceps muscle could overexert in a snap kick trained with ankle weights, but in a rising kick, it is the hip flexor muscle more likely to overextend. In either case, the hamstring and associated ligaments would be at risk for a tear.\n\nOne major advantage to ankle weights, unlike wrist weights, is that it adds a whole new component to exercises that wrist weights do not, since we can't grip dumbbells with our feet like we can with our hands. It is a major advantage in training rotational hip stabilizers, to work on turnout for martial arts and dance postures. To do this, the leg is bent 90 degrees at the knee, and then rotated inwards and outwards to bring the foot upwards. This is commonly seen in footbag kicks and holds.\n\nOne potential disadvantage to ankle weights is they may add stress to ligaments in ankle or knee. For this reason, some expert physicians discourage running while wearing them.\n\nWeighted footwear, such as \"iron\" boots, sandals, and shoes, are generally very similar to ankle weights. The main difference is that being below the ankle, the calf muscle is not activated at all in wearing them. Muscles in both legs only become stimulated when the leg is raised in the air (calf flexion for the rooted leg, hip/knee/ankle for the raised leg, or the entire body if suspended from pull-up bar). For straight-leg flexion (front and back) the slight increase in distance does increase leverage somewhat. In regard to the flexion muscles of the ankle, weighted footwear provides unique methods of working them that ankle weights do not. Leverage is best when the weight is near the tip of the foot, either above the toes or (more often) below the ball of the foot. Flexed to the front, it works the muscle opposite the calf, which is very useful as it is not a commonly activated muscle for movement, generally only a stabilizer to the calf muscle. It is very useful in retaining flexibility. The calf muscle can also be activated, but the leg must be raised behind the body as to make gravity resisting the flexion. At the front of the body, it would only assist calf flexion.\n\nAn advantage to weighted footwear is that they can be inconspicuous, depending upon the weight and the form of the footwear in question. This mainly applies to those with a fixed weight, adjustable weighted footwear is more obvious, and may not even be used as normal footwear at all inherent to their design, an example being weighted boots with a pole for the weight stack extending directly from the sole of the foot. For footwear which can be worn normally, an advantage to wearing them beyond additional training stimulus, is their additional mass, which creates far more downward force than one would otherwise have, with foot-dropping attacks such as axe kicks and stomps. To gain this energy, more initial energy must be expended in hip flexion (and possibly knee extension) to raise the foot from the ground.\n\nSensory integration therapy, a popular therapy for children with autism and other developmental disabilities, often employs weighted vests, weighted belts and weighted blankets, under the theory that behavioral problems such as inattentiveness and stereotypy are due to over- or under-sensitivity to sensory input, and that weighted belts and weighted blankets provide proprioceptive feedback that has a calming effect. Only a limited amount of scientific research is available on this treatment, but it suggests no significant improvement with weighted vests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22378921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22378921", "title": "West Pharmaceutical Services", "text": "West Pharmaceutical Services\n\nWest Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is a designer and manufacturer of pharmaceutical packaging and delivery systems. Founded in 1923 by Herman O. West and J.R. Wike of Philadelphia, the company is headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania. In its early years of development, West produced rubber components for packaging injectable drugs, providing a sterile environment for the producers of penicillin and insulin.\n\nWest manufactures components and systems for injectable drug delivery and plastic packaging, and delivery system components for the healthcare and consumer products markets.\n\nWest has been ranked a 'Top Workplace' in the Greater-Philadelphia area by Philly.com in 2010, 2011, and 2012.\n\nOn January 29, 2003, an accumulation of combustible polyethelene powder caused an explosion at a West rubber-manufacturing plant in Kinston, North Carolina.\n\nIn 2005, West acquired The Tech Group, Scottsdale, Ariz. and Medimop Medical Projects Ltd., Ra’anana, Israel.\n\nChina, Qingpu\nJapan, Tokyo\nSingapore, Jurong\nIndia, SriCity\n\nDenmark, Horsens\nDenmark, Roskilde\nEngland, Bodmin\nEngland, St. Austell\nFrance, Le Nouvion\nFrance, Normandy\nGermany, Eschweiler\nGermany, Stolberg\nIreland, Dublin\nWaterford, Ireland\nIsrael, Ra'anana\nSerbia, Kovin\n\nArizona, Phoenix\nArizona, Scottsdale\nArizona, Tempe\nFlorida, Clearwater\nFlorida, St. Petersburg\nIndiana, Frankfort\nMéxico, Cuernavaca\nMichigan, Walker\nNebraska, Kearney\nNew Jersey, Washington\nNorth Carolina, Kinston\nPennsylvania, Jersey Shore\nPennsylvania, Lititz\nPennsylvania, Upper Darby\nPennsylvania, Williamsport\nPuerto Rico, Cayey\nTexas, Athens\n\nBrazil, São Paulo\n"}
{"id": "42747181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747181", "title": "Women's reproductive health in Russia", "text": "Women's reproductive health in Russia\n\nWomen's reproductive health in Russia refers to the set of physical, mental, and social health issues and services available to women in Russia. It includes the rights, laws, and problems experienced by women and their families regarding proper reproductive health. Women account for over half of the Russian population and are considered a vulnerable population due to political and social problems from inequalities in gender, age, socioeconomic status, and geographical location that affect access to comprehensive health care. As Russia struggles with a decreasing birthrate and increase in STIs, HIV, and poor reproductive health care, the need for government financed services and international programs is essential to successfully reach this vulnerable population. Currently, women in Russia access care through government funded free services, private insurance, and NGO programs.\n\nBreast cancer is one of the most common causes of death for women in Russia, particularly among the 45- to 55-year-old age group. As of 2003, there were approximately 50,000 reported cases per year. Though Russia has over 2,150 mammogram machines, there is no national screening program and poor education for women regarding early detection, treatment, and counseling. Much of this comes from a lack of social and psychological assistance from the medical sphere, family, and Russian society.\n\nGynecologic Cancers (including, but not limited to breast, cervical, uterine, and ovarian) – Of screening services, cervical screenings are common in Russia, though a woman must be referred by a gynecologist. The Center for Reproductive Rights reports that 91.7% of women in Russia have had at least one appointment in their lives, but this is often insufficient to ensure early detection. Like breast cancer, there are no national screening programs.\n\nThe prevalence of STIs, particularly among young women, has been steadily increasing since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. STIs have increased from increased promiscuity and lack of knowledge about prophylactics and treatment, especially among teens. Lack of treatment in youth has led to reproductive issues later in life.\n\nHIV/AIDS in Russia drastically increased through intravenous drug use and sexual promiscuity that flourished in the post-Soviet era; the incidence of HIV has steadily increased over the years. Women are particularly vulnerable to the disease, contracting it through partners, prostitution, incest, rape, and sex trafficking. There is also a significant problem of Russian mothers abandoning HIV-positive babies. The government has rolled out a series of programs since the 1990s, but women encounter problems with access to protection and care due to gender discrimination and family rejection.\n\nIn Russia, there is a social norm that women are responsible for contraception. This increases vulnerability as many women have not received any formal sex education and do not know where to acquire contraception (or that it is necessary). Under the Soviet Union, federal programs provided condoms, IUDs and estrogen pills, and allowed abortion as a form of contraception. Additionally, communist health care had family planning services and maternal child care manuals available. Currently, women rely on a combination of traditional and modern contraceptive methods and lack some of the services once provided by the Soviet Union. Sterilization is legal for women only if they are over age 35, have had two or more children, or if there is medical need (such as cancer). This policy is due to Russia’s need to increase the population following sharps declines after 1991. See Russian Cross\n\nAbortion in Russia is legal up to the 12th week of pregnancy. As a pronatalist country, legislation as of 2003 forbids abortion after week 12 except in cases of rape, imprisonment, death or disability of husband, and loss of “parental rights”. Russia is still struggling to change the social norm of abortion as a primary form of contraception, and abortion remains one of the biggest challenges to women’s reproductive health because of post-abortion mental and physical health problems and lack of proper care.\n\nThese free services are available through the Ministry of Health. There are strong incentives for women in Russia to have multiple children due to depopulation, so the government provides health care to ensure healthy babies are born. However, women report loneliness, depression, and dissatisfaction with their maternal health care providers. Over 75.2% of women see a provider less than 3 times during the course of a pregnancy. After giving birth, many women report a lack of psychological and practical help.\n\nThe Russian Federation is considered a developing country by the World Bank. Maternal and infant mortality rates account for some of this categorization. As of 2011, the maternal mortality rate was 24 per 100,000 births, with an infant mortality rate of 9 per 1000 births.\n\nMental health services for reproductive health involve psychological counseling and services for issues including abortion, postpartum depression, abandoned and unwanted babies, spousal abuse, and suicide. Russian women cite psychological issues from the transition out of a communist system and the challenges of identifying their new role in society. Lack of programming has led to untreated mental health problems that extend to physical reproductive health and well-being.\n\nMuch of the vulnerability of Russian women in accessing reproductive health care stems from social issues.\n\nSex education is not compulsory in Russian schools and under 5% of Russian teens have been educated on proper contraception and family planning. The “Children of Russia” federal program has created family planning programs and voluntary sex education programs at health clinics for those under 17. However, there is social stigma attached to the utilization of clinics and most young women remain uneducated. Often, young women do not know how to protect themselves, leading to high rates of pregnancy and abortion.\n\nMany Russian women are unaware of where to access care. Additionally, issues of reproductive health care in rural areas is a huge concern for Russian women. Much of the population is clustered in cities, but for the millions of Russian women living in rural areas, reproductive health care is extremely limited. On average there are 38 physicians and 95 nurses per 10,000 inhabitants, but these numbers can halve in rural areas. Additionally, specialty clinics, including maternity and gynecologic clinics have declined in number in the post-Soviet era.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church emphasizes the need for an increase in the birth rate and is openly opposed to abortion. Some of the problems with access to reproductive health care stem from Church-State ties, that hinder support and funding for contraceptive and abortion services.\n\nDomestic violence in Russia fosters the vulnerability of women. Often out of fear, women fail to seek contraception or abortion. In some families, women accept domestic violence as a norm and are unaware of the services available to them. Especially among poor and rural populations, lack of education and socioeconomic status lead to failures to seek reproductive healthcare if the husband forbids it.\n\nWomen's Reproductive Health Care is protected by the \"Fundamentals of Legislation on Public Health Care\", part of the Constitution of Russia. The Ministry of Health (Russia) oversees women’s reproductive health care services, which are provided through a combination of free care packages and compulsory private insurance. Insurance costs have created a burden for poor women and lead to inequality in services. These discrepancies have left women vulnerable and increased health care failures in the issues for free care, health services suffer from an uneven distribution of providers, convoluted regulations regarding patient rights and privacy, and difficulty transferring providers.\n\nThe Russian Criminal Code outlines laws against sexual crimes, but these issues are commonly underreported among Russian women. As few as 5-10% of rape survivors report their rape, and many women do not tell their families. This leads to complications in seeking mental and physical care, as well as access to abortion. Human trafficking in Russia has increased the vulnerability of women through increases in underage forced prostitution and sexual violence. Over two-thirds of trafficked girls are under age 25, and have no access to care. The government has increased efforts to crack down on trafficking, but there is also documentation of tacit complicity with the practice.\n\nA number of NGOs have begun to administer programs for women in reproductive health service areas, including:\n\nWHEP – Administered by Susan G. Komen, “Women’s Health Empowerment Program” serves as a psychosocial support service for Russian women and their families. The program focuses on public education in early detection as well as peer support, educational talks and materials, and training of healthcare professionals.\n\nWomen’s Wellness Centers – USAID and AIHA developed centers in the Soviet Union in 1992 that provide primary care and educational outreach programs. They have been very important for improving women’s reproductive health, especially in St. Petersburg, due to their “women friendly” environment.\n\nWHO – The World Health Organization has put a large focus on improving maternal healthcare in Russia including education, training healthcare professionals, and strengthening trust and security in doctors. The program has been met with varied success, as issues of forcing democratic ideals, cultural differences, and lack of involvement by actual patients have gotten in the way of effective changes.\n\nOther social and health issues that should be considered in developing successful health policy for women’s reproductive health in Russia include:\n\n"}
{"id": "21010996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21010996", "title": "Workplace safety in healthcare settings", "text": "Workplace safety in healthcare settings\n\nWorkplace safety in healthcare settings usually involves patients being aggressive or violent towards healthcare professionals, or staff members being aggressive against patients. Patient-on-professional aggression commonly involves direct verbal abuse, although deliberate and severe physical violence has been documented. Staff-on-staff aggression may be passive, such as a failure to return a telephone call from a disliked colleague, or indirect, such as engaging in backbiting and gossip. However, most documented cases of \"healthcare aggression\" have been by \"caregivers\" against patients. \n\nAggression was, in 1968, described by Moyer as \"a behaviour that causes or leads to harm, damage or destruction of another organism\" (Weinshenker and Siegel 2002). Human aggression has more recently been defined as \"any behaviour directed toward another individual that is carried out with the proximate intent to cause harm\" (Anderson and Bushman 2002).\n\nThe definition can be extended to include the fact that aggression can be physical, verbal, active or passive and be directly or indirectly focussed at the victim–with or without the use of a weapon, and possibly incorporating psychological or emotional tactics (Rippon 2000). It requires the perpetrator to have intent, and the victim to attempt evasion of the actions. Hence harm that is accidental cannot be considered aggressive as it does not incorporate intent, nor can harm implicated with intent to help (for example the pain experienced by a patient during dental treatment) be classed as aggression as there is no motivation to evade the action (Anderson and Bushman 2002). A description of workplace violence by Wynne, Clarkin, Cox, & Griffiths (1997), explains it to involve incidents resulting in abuse, assault or threats directed towards staff with regard to work–including an explicit or implicit challenge to their safety, well-being or health (Oostrom and Mierlo 2008).\n\nProfessions within the healthcare industry are becoming increasingly violent places in which to work–with healthcare professionals being common targets for violent and aggressive behaviour (Rippon 2000).\n\nAggression and violence negatively impact both the workplace and its employees. For the organisation, greater financial costs can be incurred due increased absences, early retirement and reduced quality of care (Arnetz and Arnetz 2000; Hoel, Sparks, Cooper, 2001). For the healthcare worker however, psychological damage such as post-traumatic stress can result (Rippon 2000), in addition to a decrease in job motivation (Arnetz and Arnetz 2000). Aggression also harms patient care. Rude remarks from patients or their family members can distract healthcare professionals and cause them to make mistakes during a medical procedure (Klass 2017).\n\n\nA survey from the British National Audit Office (2003) stated that violence and aggression accounted for 40% of reported health and safety incidents amongst healthcare workers (Oostrom and Mierlo 2008). Another survey looking into the violence and abuse experienced in 3078 general dental practices over a period of three years found that 80% of practice personnel had experienced violence or abuse within the workplace, which included verbal abuse and physical assault (Pemberton, Atherton, Thornhill, 2000). It was reported that, over 12 months in Australian hospitals, 95% of staff had experienced verbal aggression (O'Connell et al. 2000). Moreover, in the UK over 50% of nurses had experienced violence or aggression over a 12-month period (Badger and Mullan 2004). In the United States, the annual rate of nonfatal, job-related violent crime against mental healthcare workers was 68.2 per 1,000 workers compared to 12.6 per 1,000 workers in all other occupations (Anderson and West 2011).\n\nWhen dealing with aggression and violence in the workplace, training and education are the primary strategy for resolution (Beech and Leather 2006). There are a number or personal factors that can help reduce aggression within the healthcare setting, which include improved interpersonal skills, with an awareness of patient aggression and knowledge regarding dealing with emotional patients (Oostrom and Mierlo 2008). Although assertiveness is crucial when it comes to the interpersonal skills possessed by healthcare workers, it has been shown by numerous studies that nurses tend not to be very assertive (Oostrom and Mierlo 2008). Training is therefore usually offered by organizations with regard to assertiveness, and deals mainly with improving self-esteem, self-confidence and interpersonal communication (Lin et al. 2004).\n\nThe Health Services Advisory Committee (HSAC) recommends a three-dimensional foundation by which to deal with violence in the workplace. It involves \"“researching the problem and assessing the risk, reducing the risk and checking what has been done”\" (Beech and Leather 2006).\n\nIn 1997, HSAC provided the following guidelines as to what good training involves (Beech and Leather 2006):\n\n\nAlthough many studies looking at the effectiveness of training have provided inconclusive results (Oostrom and Mierlo 2008), a study by Lin et al. (2004) positively correlated the improvement of assertiveness and self-esteem with an assertiveness training programme (Lin et al. 2004). The programme targets difficult interactions that we may face in day-to-day life and includes both, behavioural and cognitive techniques (Lin et al. 2004). The effectiveness of training is measured using the Assertive Scale, Esteem Scale, and Interpersonal Communication Satisfaction Inventory (Lin et al. 2004).\n\nIt remains that training is not universally or consistently offered to healthcare workers (Beech and Leather 2006). Beale et al. (1998) found that the levels of training offered ranged from nothing to high-level restraint/self-defense training. A report by the National Audit Office (NAO) in 2003 found that, within mental health trusts, a reactionary approach tends to prioritise over prevention. Although criticised by many; restraint, seclusion and medication are used (Wright 1999, Gudjonsson et al. 2004) (Duxbury and Whittington 2005). Breakaway techniques, restraint, rapid tranquilisation or isolation tend to be recommended when violence is instigated with a failure to prevent aggression (Duxbury and Whittington 2005). This correlates to the level of training offered, which dominates in these areas, however lacks in situation risk assessment and customer care (Beech and Leather 2006)–methods that are vital in a preventative approach to prevent escalation of the situation, causing for reactionary measures to be brought into play.\n\nThe study by Beale et al. (1998) therefore provides the following advice as to good practice (Beech and Leather 2006):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22223050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22223050", "title": "World Parkinson Congress", "text": "World Parkinson Congress\n\nThe World Parkinson Congress, often referred to as the WPC, is a non-religious, non-political, and non-profit making organization concerned with the health and welfare of people living with Parkinson's disease (PD) and their families and caregivers. Founded in 2004, the WPC aims to bring the Parkinson's community together, under one roof, to allow for cross-pollination of community leaders to create opportunities to generate more robust ideas around the science and care of Parkinson's. The WPC Inc. has nearly 170 Organizational Partners from around the world \n\nThere is no other International meeting focussed just on Parkinson's disease, nor is there an international format that looks at Parkinson's science and care that also invites people with Parkinson's to have a seat at the table. \n\nEach World Parkinson Congress provides a unique forum for partnership between international patient and neurological organizations, the pharmaceutical industry. The 1st World Parkinson Congress - WPC 2006, attracted more than 3,150 delegates from nearly 60 countries; the WPC 2010 had more than 3,000; WPC 2013 had more than 3,300 delegates. Those delegates included a unique mix of : health professionals and researchers; 1100 people with Parkinson's, care partners and guests; and members of press. WPC 2013 had more than 3,300 delegates and the WPC 2016 in Portland, Oregon had over 4,550 delegates from 65 countries. \n\nWPC launched the WPC Blog in April 2017. An inclusive site with posts from a wide range of experts across the globe who research, treat, and live with Parkinson's disease. http://www.WorldPDCongress.org \n\n"}
